( story corrects third paragraph to show mosul fell in july , not june , after nine , not eight , months of urban warfare in august 29th instance . )
by ahmed rasheed baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi forces battling to retake the small town of al- ayadiya where militants fleeing tal afar have entrenched themselves , saying on tuesday the fighting is multiple times worse than the battle for mosul s old city .
hundreds of battle-hardened fighters were positioned inside most houses and high buildings inside the town , making it difficult for government forces to make any progress , army officers told reuters .
iraqi government troops captured the town of mosul from islamic state in july , but only after nine months of grinding urban warfare .
but one iraqi officer , colonel kareem al-lami , described breaching the militants first line of defense in al- ayadiya as like opening the gates of hell .
iraqi forces have in recent days recaptured almost all of the northwestern city of tal afar , long a stronghold of islamic state .
they have been waiting to take al- ayadiya , just 11 km ( 7 miles ) northwest of the city , before declaring complete victory .
tough resistance from the militants in al- ayadiya has forced the iraqi forces to increase the number of air strikes , as well as bring in reinforcements from the federal police to boost units from the army , air force , federal police , the elite u.s.-trained counter-terrorism service ( cts ) and some units from the shi ite popular mobilization forces ( pmf ) .
up to 2,000 battle-hardened militants were believed to be defending tal afar against around 50,000 government troops last week .
military intelligence indicated that many militants fled tal afar to mount a staunch defense in al- ayadiya .
many motorcycles carrying the islamic state insignia were seen abandoned at the side of the road outside al- ayadiya .
though the exact numbers of militants on the ground in al- ayadiya was still unclear , al-lami , the iraqi army colonel , estimated they were in their hundreds .
daesh ( islamic state ) fighters in their hundreds are taking positions inside almost every single house in the town , he said .
sniper shots , mortars , heavy machine guns and anti-armored projectiles were fired from every single house , he added .
we thought the battle for mosul s old city was tough , but this one proved to be multiple times worst , al-lami said .
we are facing tough fighters who have nothing to lose and are ready to die .
two army officers told reuters that no significant advances had yet been made in al- ayadiya .
they said they were waiting for artillery and air strikes to undermine the militants power .
the extra federal police troops that were called in said late on tuesday that they had controlled 50 percent of the town , deploying snipers on the high buildings and intensified shelling the militants headquarters with rockets , a federal police spokesman said in a statement .
tal afar became the next target of the u.s.-backed war on the jihadist group following the recapture of mosul , where it had declared its caliphate over parts of iraq and syria in 2014 .