panchkula , india ( reuters ) - violent protests erupted in india s haryana state on friday , killing at least 29 people , after a court convicted a self-styled godman of raping two women , angering thousands of his supporters who said he was innocent , the state chief minister said .
gurmeet ram rahim singh , the head of a social welfare and spiritual group , was found guilty of raping two followers in a case dating back to 2002 at the headquarters of his dera sacha sauda group in the northern town of sirsa .
supporters rampaged in response , attacking railway stations , petrol stations and television vans in towns across the northern states of punjab and haryana , witnesses said .
at least 29 people were killed in panchkula town where the court returned its verdict on singh and more than 200 people were injured in haryana state .
we tried to prevent the unrest in every possible way , but the protesters were totally out of control , haryana chief minister manohar lal told reuters .
all the injured are getting the best treatment in government hospitals , he said .
dozens of cars were burning in panchkula town while a bloodied body lay in the middle of a road .
about 500 army soldiers were deployed to restore order .
the situation is coming under control , federal home secretary rajiv mehrishi said in new delhi .
television footage showed frantic scenes outside a hospital in panchkula , with medical staff hurriedly transferring injured patients from ambulances on to wheelchairs and stretchers .
smoke could be seen rising in another part of town .
singh commands a following that he claims is in the millions , many of them elderly men and women in the countryside , drawn by his social welfare programs such as medical camps and disaster relief .
the court , which held him guilty of rape , set his sentencing for monday when there could be more protests .
he faces a minimum of seven years in prison .
singh , a burly , bearded man who has scripted and starred in his own films , had denied the charges .
he had called on his followers through a video message to remain peaceful .
a.k .
dhir , one of his lawyers , said singh was innocent and his followers had every right to express their outrage .
protests also erupted in punjab , new delhi and the neighboring state of rajasthan .
supporters of singh set fire to some buses and two empty train coaches in the capital .
nearly 1,000 members of his sacha sauda group were detained .
a close aide of prime minister narendra modi said federal and state officials had been instructed to work round the clock to restore law and order .
the instances of violence today are deeply distressing .
i strongly condemn the violence & urge everyone to maintain peace , modi said on twitter .
some indian holy men can summon thousands of supporters onto the streets .
their systems of patronage and sermons are hugely popular with people who consider the government has failed them .
in 2014 , the attempted arrest of another guru on murder charges ended with his followers attacking police with clubs and stones .
television channels showed motorcycles , cars and buses in flames in panchkula as hundreds of police personnel in riot gear watched helplessly .
the mob also toppled a tv outdoor broadcasting van , while several news channels said their journalists were targeted .
besides the rape charges , singh is also under investigation over allegations that he convinced 400 of his male followers to undergo castration , allegations he denies .
a variety of reasons have been given for why the men agreed to castration , including promises of becoming closer to god .
singh s two films , messenger of god and its sequel , include sequences in which he fights off villains and tosses burning motorbikes into the air .
in his spiritual avatar , singh dresses in plain white traditional clothes , giving sermons or planting trees .
in the movies he dons bejewelled costumes , rides motorbikes and sends bad guys flying .