raf fairford , england ( reuters ) - the u.s. department of defense and lockheed martin corp are in the final stages of negotiations about two contracts for 160 fighter jets , tandem deals valued at more than $ 14 billion , the pentagon ’ s f-35 program manager said on saturday .
“ we ’ re in the end game , ” air force lieutenant general chris bogdan said in an interview at the royal international air tattoo the world ’ s largest military airshow , where six f-35 lightning ii jets are flying this week .
bogdan said an agreement could be finalised soon , but declined to predict if it could be announced at the farnborough international airshow next week .
he said all the major issues had been resolved and the fate of the deal was largely in lockheed ’ s hands at the moment .
lockheed ’ s f-35 program manager jeff babione had told reporters on thursday that he expected to reach an agreement soon about contracts for the ninth and 10th production contracts for the new warplane .
sources familiar with the two contracts said they would likely be valued between $ 14 billion and $ 15 billion .
babione said the price of the f-35a conventional takeoff and landing version of the jet would drop to under $ 100 million per plane in the 10th low-rate production batch , including an engine built by pratt & whitney , a unit of united technologies corp. bogdan said he was continuing to work on a block buy deal for international partners on the $ 379 billion warplane project , the largest arms program in the world , as part of a larger effort to drive down the jets ’ cost .
buying larger numbers of jets at a time — starting with the 12th production batch of jets — could generate savings of $ 2 billion to $ 2.8 billion , even if the u.s. military was not able to join in until it got congressional approval , he said .
the u.s. military services would likely join in starting with the 13th and 14th production lots , which would reduce the initially anticipated savings by “ hundreds of millions of dollars , ” he said .
bogdan told reporters the program office was carefully assessing any potential impact on trade and tariffs stemming from britain ’ s vote to leave the european union , but the initial expectation was that it would not have much impact .
a drop in the value of the british pound could help lower some costs , since 15 percent of the jet is built by uk firms .