washington ( reuters ) - hillary clinton has distanced herself from president barack obama on a number of high-profile issues since starting her bid for the white house .
now , under pressure from left-leaning challenger bernie sanders , she is embracing him and his legacy with fervor .
that strategy could pose problems for clinton in the long run as republicans look for fodder to portray her as representing obama ’ s third term should she win the democratic nomination .
as she faces an unexpected challenge from sanders in the early voting states , clinton ’ s move to portray herself as an heir to obama ’ s policies is aimed at courting young voters and progressives who are part of the president ’ s political base .
but she could be setting herself up for difficulties with a general electorate weary of the status quo .
over and over again during a tense democratic presidential debate on sunday , clinton , who served as obama ’ s secretary of state for four years , played up her ties to the president and accused sanders of undermining him .
gone were her mentions of differences with the president over syria , trade , and immigration .
instead , clinton praised the affordable care act , obama ’ s signature healthcare law .
she highlighted her connection to the administration ’ s iran nuclear deal and lauded the white house for sending staff to silicon valley to discuss cybersecurity .
clinton , who ran against obama for the 2008 democratic nomination and then joined his administration , said she could accept sanders ’ criticism of her campaign donations - one of the vermont senator ’ s favorite critiques - but wouldn ’ t tolerate similar criticism targeted at her former boss .
“ the comments that senator sanders has made ... don ’ t just affect me , i can take that , but he ’ s criticized president obama for taking donations from wall street .
and president obama has led our country out of the great recession , ” she said .
“ i ’ m going to defend president obama for taking on wall street , taking on the financial industry , and getting results. ” clinton played up her service as his top diplomat , emphasized her hours advising him in the situation room , and accused sanders of wanting to throw out obamacare , all while debating in south carolina , a state in which obama is well liked .
republicans welcomed the opening clinton provided for them to cast her white house run as a bid for a third obama term .
“ when you have a president who is so unpopular as president barack obama ... and his chief diplomat is embracing those policies and running as his third term , it ’ s going to be next to impossible , ” said ric grenell , a former u.s. spokesman at the united nations under republican president george w. bush .
dissatisfaction with obama and the agenda in washington have helped propel two candidates outside the republican establishment - businessman donald trump and senator ted cruz of texas - to the top of the party ’ s crowded presidential field .
trump appeared to reference clinton ’ s comments about the president ’ s policies in a speech at liberty university on monday , saying the country can not afford another four years of the same thing .
“ we can ’ t have another four years of barack obama , ” he said .
“ we can ’ t have another four years of hillary clinton. ” perhaps foreshadowing future ads , the republican national committee noted that democrats at sunday ’ s debate had backed the current occupant of the white house .
“ not content with barack obama ’ s legacy of a toxic iran deal and the rise of isis in the middle east , democrats doubled down on the extreme and failed policies of the current administration , ” the rnc said in a statement .
democrats said clinton was embracing obama because he is popular with the party ’ s base , including in iowa , which holds the first nominating contest , called a caucus , on feb. 1 .
“ it just makes sense to highlight where you agree with a president who is popular among caucus goers , and secretary clinton found ways to get that done , ” said brent colburn , a former obama administration official who served as communications director for his 2012 campaign .
democratic strategist richard socarides , a clinton supporter , said republicans were bound to portray her potential presidency as a third obama term anyway .
“ she deserves a lot of credit for putting the country first and going to work for him , ” socarides said .
“ after iowa and new hampshire especially , that will matter to a lot of democratic primary voters .
and she is right to point out that bernie has not always been there .
she has. ” ( additional reporting by alana wise and sarah n. lynch ; editing by caren bohan , mary milliken and marguerita choy ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .