us congressman joe wilson was right !
obama is a liar his reckless and amateur decisions have made america more unsafe than we have ever been .
now he s asking americans to vote for hillary to ensure his lawless legacy lives on the obama administration secretly organized an airlift of $ 400 million worth of cash to iran that coincided with the january release of four americans detained in tehran , according to u.s. and european officials and congressional staff briefed on the operation afterward.wooden pallets stacked with euros , swiss francs and other currencies were flown into iran on an unmarked cargo plane , according to these officials .
the u.s. procured the money from the central banks of the netherlands and switzerland , they said.the money represented the first installment of a $ 1.7 billion settlement the obama administration reached with iran to resolve a decades-old dispute over a failed arms deal signed just before the 1979 fall of iran s last monarch , shah mohammad reza pahlavi.the settlement , which resolved claims before an international tribunal in the hague , also coincided with the formal implementation that same weekend of the landmark nuclear agreement reached between tehran , the u.s. and other global powers the summer before .
with the nuclear deal done , prisoners released , the time was right to resolve this dispute as well , president barack obama said at the white house on jan. 17 without disclosing the $ 400 million cash payment.senior u.s. officials denied any link between the payment and the prisoner exchange .
they say the way the various strands came together simultaneously was coincidental , not the result of any quid pro quo .
as we ve made clear , the negotiations over the settlement of an outstanding claim were completely separate from the discussions about returning our american citizens home , state department spokesman john kirby said .
not only were the two negotiations separate , they were conducted by different teams on each side , including , in the case of the hague claims , by technical experts involved in these negotiations for many years .
but u.s. officials also acknowledge that iranian negotiators on the prisoner exchange said they wanted the cash to show they had gained something tangible.sen .
tom cotton , a republican from arkansas and a fierce foe of the iran nuclear deal , accused president barack obama of paying a $ 1.7 billion ransom to the ayatollahs for u.s. hostages .
this break with longstanding u.s. policy put a price on the head of americans , and has led iran to continue its illegal seizures of americans , he said.since the cash shipment , the intelligence arm of the revolutionary guard has arrested two more iranian-americans .
tehran has also detained dual-nationals from france , canada and the u.k. in recent months.at the time of the prisoner release , secretary of state john kerry and the white house portrayed it as a diplomatic breakthrough .
mr. kerry cited the importance of the relationships forged and the diplomatic channels unlocked over the course of the nuclear talks .
for entire story : wall street journalas a bonus , here is rep. joe wilson calling out barack obama on one of his many lies :