there hasn t been a time in decades when the left has been so concerned about a presidential election .
sure , there have been times when the election has been close , but a strong get out the vote effort , a scheme to prevent our overseas military s vote from counting , coupled with a unparalled voter fraud network has always kept the democrat contender in the race .
with november only eight months away , is there going to be enough time to cast enough dead , illegal and mulitple votes from single voters to make up the difference in the massive number of voters donald trump will bring to the polls ? the left is panicking and the paid protesters who threatened trump supporters and rioted in chicago are proof they re losing their grip on the election .
donald trump has them running scared , and that can only be a good thing , as america has never been in more trouble than we are today .
electing a candidate from the party who has intentionally divided and pitted americans against each other for eight long years is no longer an option for anyone who loves our country.here s a sample of what s happening today in florida : # floridaprimary # supertuesday # vote @ realdonaldtrump # queestadosunidosseagrandeotravez # trumptrain # miami pic.twitter.com/cgki6hqjvn lady # maga~bethany ( @ thetimewasthen ) march 14 , 2016donald trump s supporters aren t fazed by his decision to cancel an appearance at a chicago rally over the weekend in fact , they are more likely to vote for him to be the republican nominee because of it.that s according to a new poll of likely republican voters conducted by monmouth university .
it confirms something i ve long suspected ( and have argued in previous articles ) : the antics of left-wing agitators are driving ordinary people into the arms of trump.the poll noted that pro-trump and anti-trump forces clashed in chicago last friday , which prompted trump to cancel the event .
it then asked respondents whether this fact made them more or less likely to support trump .
just 11 percent said they were less likely to support trump because of this decision .
another 22 percent said they were actually more likely to back trump , and 66 percent said their views were unchanged.leftist protesters who vehemently oppose trump would do well to remember that in a free society , even contemptible speakers are permitted to be heard .
as new york magazine s jonathan chait wrote in a recent piece : but the whole premise of democracy is that rules need to be applied in every case without regard to the merit of the underlying cause to which it is attached .
if you defend the morality of a tactic against trump , then you should be prepared to defend its morality against any candidate .
now imagine that right-wing protesters had set out to disrupt barack obama s speeches in 2008 .
if you re not okay with that scenario , you should not be okay with protesters doing it to trump.indeed .
but the monmouth poll is good evidence that letting trump speak is not merely the morally correct , philosophically consistent course of action : it s the tactically sound one as well .
when the left stops trump from speaking , trump wins .
he gets to tell his people that the forces of far-left activism and political correctness are trying to silence him .
implicitly , he is suggesting to his followers that when he becomes president , the tides will turn : see his promise to make it easier to sue newspapers for criticizing him .
trump supporters adore this shtick .
stop giving them ammunition.via : reason