geneva ( reuters ) - the top u.n. human rights official has said he would not be surprised if a court one day ruled that acts of genocide had been committed against the rohingya muslim minority in myanmar , according to a television interview to be shown on monday .
u.n. high commissioner for human rights zeid ra ad al-hussein told the bbc that attacks on the rohingya had been well thought out and planned and he had asked myanmar s leader aung san suu kyi to do more to stop the military action .
zeid has already called the campaign a textbook example of ethnic cleansing and asked rhetorically if anyone could rule out elements of genocide , but his latest remarks put the case plainly , toughening his stance .
the elements suggest you can not rule out the possibility that acts of genocide have been committed , he said , according to excerpts of his interview provided in advance by the bbc .
it s very hard to establish because the thresholds are high , he said .
but it wouldn t surprise me in the future if the court were to make such a finding on the basis of what we see .
myanmar denies committing atrocities against the rohingya and has previously rejected u.n. criticism for its politicization and partiality .
the myanmar military says the crackdown is a legitimate counter-insurgency operation .
zeid said myanmar s flippant response to the serious concerns of the international community made him fear the current crisis could just be the opening phases of something much worse .
he told the bbc he feared jihadi groups could form in the huge refugee camps in bangladesh and even launch attacks in myanmar , perhaps targeting buddhist temples there .
he did not say , in the excerpts provided , which court could prosecute suspected atrocities .
myanmar is not a member of the international criminal court , so referral to that court could be done only by the u.n. security council .
but myanmar s ally china could veto such a referral .
the united nations defines genocide as acts meant to destroy a national , ethnic , racial or religious group in whole or in part .
such a designation is rare under international law , but has been used in contexts including bosnia , sudan and an islamic state campaign against the yazidi communities in iraq and syria .
almost 870,000 rohingya have fled to bangladesh , including about 660,000 who arrived after aug. 25 , when rohingya militants attacked security posts and the myanmar army launched a counter-offensive .
u.n. investigators have heard rohingya testimony of a consistent , methodical pattern of killings , torture , rape and arson .
zeid said he had phoned suu kyi in january , asking her in vain to stop the military operation .
nobel peace laureate suu kyi s less than two-year old civilian government has faced heavy international criticism for its response to the crisis , though it has no control over the generals it has to share power with under myanmar s transition after decades of military rule .