berlin ( reuters ) - some senior members of chancellor angela merkel s conservative bloc and potential coalition partners have backed the idea of an immigration law as a possible way to help solve germany s migrant policy jigsaw .
merkel , who won a fourth term in a sept. 24 election albeit with heavy losses to the anti-immigrant far right , is considering a three-way coalition with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmentalist greens - a tie-up as yet untested at the national level in germany .
among their various differences , migration is shaping up as a major sticking point due to the insistence of the conservatives bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , on a refugee cap after almost one million migrants poured into the country in 2015 , with tens of thousands more since .
a formal cap is rejected by the other parties - as well as merkel .
president frank-walter steinmeier brought the issue to the fore on tuesday , saying in a speech that german policy must be able to differentiate between political refugees and economic migrants so as to define legal access to germany .
greens co-leader cem ozdemir , who has long argued for an immigration law , welcomed the intervention of the president , a center-left social democrat .
that would be a wise step , ozdemir told deutschlandfunk radio on wednesday , saying that implementing the idea would be an urgent priority for the next government .
steinmeier s foray into domestic politics was unusual for the presidency , a largely ceremonial post though with sometimes strong moral influence , but at least generated some convergence on the immigrant issue among potential coalition allies .
armin laschet , the christian democratic premier of north rhine-westphalia , germany s most populous state , told the handelsblatt daily that a cdu/csu-fdp-greens coalition would create an immigration law that covers the scale of immigration .
in remarks to die zeit weekly , bavarian economy minister ilse aigner stuck to the csu demand for an annual cap of 200,000 immigrants , preventing any recurrence of the 2015 crisis , so that no backdoors stay open and so there is no lack of clarity .
the other parties argue that a cap would breach the constitution , which guarantees asylum to people persecuted on political grounds .
concerns about immigration run especially high in bavaria , the main entry point for refugees in 2015 when close to 1 million - many fleeing war and poverty in the middle east and africa - cascaded into the country .
the idea of an immigration law is not new .
several parties have argued for it in the past and many experts argue it could help germany s economy as targeted , legally controlled migration could plug gaps in the labor market .
the devil would be in the detail but the fdp is keen on a points system and has cited the canadian model .
there are variants in other countries , such as new zealand and australia .
it is unclear whether an immigration law will be enough for the csu , who risk heavy losses in a state election next year .
senior csu figures are still digging in their heels .
transport minister alexander dobrindt told the augsburger allgemeine that an upper limit is necessary and is a lot more than a matter of semantics .