tokyo ( reuters ) - japan s government approved a record military budget on friday but did not earmark enough extra money to stop a splurge on u.s.-made ballistic missile defense kit from putting a squeeze on funding for an ambitious domestic jet fighter project .
japan s defense outlays for the year starting april 1 will rise for a sixth straight year , increasing by 1.3 percent to 5.19 trillion yen ( $ 45.76 billion ) , according to a budget breakdown published by the government .
the biggest ticket item is 137 billion yen to reinforce defenses against a possible north korean ballistic missile attack .
that includes purchases of a new longer range interceptor , the sm-3 block iia , designed to strike ballistic missiles in space , upgrades for the patriot missile batteries that are the last line of defense against incoming warheads and preparations for the construction of two ground-based aegis radar stations .
japan will also spend 2.2 billion yen to begin acquiring medium-range air-launched cruise missiles able to strike sites in north korea in a bid to deter any potential attack by pyongyang , which continues to test ballistic missiles .
it is essential that we have the latest , most capable equipment to bolster our defenses , japanese minister of defence intsunori onodera said after he and other cabinet members approved the new spending plan .
the latest rocket launched by the north on nov. 29 reached an altitude of more than 4,000 km ( 2,485 miles ) before plunging into the sea of japan .
a spending spree on mostly u.s.-made equipment means japan s defense planners are being forced to curtail domestic programs that would help local defense contractors such as mitsubishi heavy industries and kawasaki heavy industries maintain their military industrial base .
that may force japan to curtail its long-held ambition to build an advanced stealth fighter , dubbed the f-3 .
in november , u.s. president donald trump called on prime minister shinzo abe to buy more u.s.-made weapons as his administration pushes washington s allies to contribute more to their joint defense .
japan plans to allocate 279 billion yen of its next budget to buy defense equipment through the u.s. government s foreign military sales system , 15 percent more than the current budget and more than double the amount spent in year that ended march 31 , 2015 .
people who spoke to reuters in november said japan will delay a decision to develop the f-3 , which is meant to counter military technology advances by china , putting on hold a project estimated to be worth more than $ 40 billion .
the latest defense spending plans provide the first concrete public indication that pause is underway .
a budget request submitted in august earmarked 7.4 billion yen for a new large jet engine test facility that japan s defense ministry will need to test a prototype f-3 engine .
that item was not included in the budget approved on friday .
a proposed 2.4 billion for other f-3 research was also trimmed to 1.6 billion yen .
money is being spent in other areas and this is a sign that the government sees the f-3 as a low priority , a japanese defense ministry official said .
he asked not to be identified because he is not authorized to talk to the media .