what the heck was he thinking ?
at 7:44 pm est , cnn anchor jake tapper tweeted about the horrible wildfires that are ravaging 3 huge counties in california .
tapper s tweet talked about the number of deaths so far that are related to the fires .
cnn : there are 10 total fire-related deaths in california at this hour : 7 in sonoma county , 2 in napa county , 1 in mendocino county .
cnn : there are 10 total fire-related deaths in california at this hour : 7 in sonoma county , 2 in napa county , 1 in mendocino county .
jake tapper ( @ jaketapper ) october 9 , 2017the ca wildfires are very serious , as this video footage by abc s greg lee confirms : at the end of our live shot , flames made their way all the way across the canyon , up this ridge .
moving to safety .
@ abc7 # canyonfire2 pic.twitter.com/hgihola8vu greg lee ( @ abc7greg ) october 9 , 2017apparently , tapper thought it would be a great idea to post this adorable little photo taken in disneyland , only 10 minutes after he tweeted about the 10 deaths caused by the wildfires .
tapper tweeted , wildfires in anaheim hills turning the sky orange to match the pumpkins at disneyland wildfires in anaheim hills turning the sky orange to match the pumpkins at disneyland https : //t.co/rscmrkma63 pic.twitter.com/zr2jxy6jbt jake tapper ( @ jaketapper ) october 9 , 2017sorry jake , but there s nothing cute about that image when real people are suffering the loss of lives and their homes as we speak .
the orange sky is not just a cute backdrop for carved pumpkins in disneyland .
maybe this visual will put things in perspective for you : # canyonfire2 has burned 2,000 acres , is 0 % percent contained ; more residents urged to get ready to evacuate https : //t.co/rhevjigdyq pic.twitter.com/vvdgfrmhau ktla ( @ ktla ) october 9 , 2017twitter users , some of whom are california residents , immediately went after tapper for his insensitive remarks : here s our reply to tapper s tweet : apparently , tapper didn t care for our reply to his tweet , as he promptly blocked us :