vienna ( reuters ) - founded by former nazis six decades ago , austria s far-right freedom party ( fpo ) long ago left the political fringes to establish itself as a mainstream party that could now return to power following a strong showing in sunday s election .
the anti-immigration and anti-islam party is often associated abroad with its former firebrand leader joerg haider , who praised hitler s employment policies .
but the fpo under heinz-christian strache - its leader since the ousting of haider in 2005 - has broad support in austria .
it led opinion polls for months before sebastian kurz seized control of the conservative people s party in may and rode it to victory in sunday s parliamentary election .
kurz has not yet named his preferred coalition partner , but the fpo could well emerge as kingmaker .
the fpo , which helps govern in two provincial and several local governments , says kurz hijacked its hardline stance on immigration and curtailing social benefits for foreigners .
one thing is clear : nearly 60 percent of the austrian population voted for the fpo program , strache said after winning more than a quarter of the vote to the conservatives nearly 32 percent , according to projections .
the fpo s performance has worried leftist and liberal austrians , some of the country s european union partners - including german chancellor angela merkel - and the world jewish congress , though the party today denies being anti-semitic or anti-eu .
the fpo today is much more radical than it was when it last entered government with the ( people s party ) ovp in 2000 , but as society as a whole has shifted to the right it is not that obvious , said andreas peham , analyst at the documentation center of austrian resistance that researches the far-right .
in 2000 , the eu imposed sanctions on austria over the fpo s joining the government .
such a step seems unlikely today , given populist movements in europe that drove britain from the eu and put a far-right party , the alternative for germany ( afd ) , into the german parliament .
on monday afd leader joerg meuthen hailed the fpo s result , saying : among european parties the fpo is certainly the one closest to us .
anti-immigrant like the afd in germany s sept 24 election , the fpo benefited from public unease about a large influx of mostly muslim migrants and asylum seekers into europe .
austria took in about 1 percent of its population in asylum seekers in 2015 , boosting support for the fpo even among long-time immigrants .
the fpo is focusing on asylum policy , not on foreigners , said margarethe schramek , a 51-year-old nurse who said many of her friends from poland and ex-yugoslavia also voted for the far right in sunday s election .
you can not ignore the people .
you are not a nazi just because you vote for the fpo , said schramek .
strache has worked for years to sharpen the party s focus from broadly anti-foreigner to fiercely anti-islam .
not every muslim is a terrorist , but nearly every terrorist in europe in years past was a radical islamist , he has said .
strache insists that anti-semites have no place in today s fpo , which routinely has to expel members who step over the line .
he has visited the yad vashem holocaust memorial in jerusalem and has called anti-semitism a crime .
the fpo portrays itself as the only alternative to austria s entrenched duopoly of the social democrats and conservatives , denouncing them as elitists unwilling to impose reforms .
the fpo , savvy with social media , nearly got its candidate elected as austria s president last year , but has lost some of its appeal since 31-year-old kurz took control of the ovp .
fpo supporters , until 1986 largely rural , have changed significantly , polls suggest .
like other populist parties in europe , it has managed to mobilize less well-educated younger voters who feel left behind by globalization .
the fpo s position towards the european union has changed often .
its lawmakers voted against joining the eu in a 1994 referendum and suggested holding a referendum on austria s continued membership after britain s vote to leave last year .
but it has since curbed its anti-eu rhetoric and now professes to be pro-europe but wants brussels to hand back more power to member states .
it ( the fpo ) has no interest in an anti-eu policy in the medium term , said political analyst peter filzmaier .
they know they wouldn t get any support for it in austria , and they have no interest in being demonised internationally .