the hate for the trump family by the defeated liberal press is visceral msnbc political analyst joan walsh , a self-proclaimed feminist , questioned what message ivanka trump was trying to send at the g20 summit by wearing a pink girly dress with bows.walsh suggested that the dress trump chose when sitting in for her father at the summit made her look like property and undermined her own value .
i don t mean to sound sexist , it can be dangerous to comment on what women wear , but the fact that she sat in for her father in a dress that was so incredibly ornamental was such a contradiction , walsh said .
in patriarchal , authoritarian societies , daughters have great value .
they are property .
i think it s really pretty frightening , she continued .
it s a pink dress with big bows on the elbows that s not a dress that s made for work .
msnbc host thomas roberts pushed back and asked if walsh was suggesting that women can not dress in a feminine manner and be taken seriously .
you can be a feminist and be girly , we all have our girly days , but showing up , taking your father s seat in a pink dress with big bows on the sleeves is a really interesting message , walsh argued .
daily caller ivanka trump-kushner can be seen wearing the beautiful pink dress in the tweet below , that msnbc host joan walsh criticized .
pictured from left to right : japanese prime minister shinzo abe , world bank president jim yong kim , president donald trump , ivanka trump , german chancellor angela merkel and prime minister justin trudeau at the g20 summit in hamburg , germany.msnbc 's `` diva of snark '' joan walsh trashed ivanka 's 'girly dress ' , huh ?
any wonder msnbc ranks 13th in its time slot ?
pic.twitter.com/c57210hhwp cap ( @ cap741776 ) july 16 , 2017conservative actor james woods didn t waste any time responding to the idiocy of the remarks made by the feminazi msnbc host .
wood s killed two birds with one stone , as he mocked the msnbc host while also mocking the always masculine style of open-borders german chancellor angela merkel.i mean , you only notice it because she 's surrounded by a bunch of guys https : //t.co/1r8bb2wohm james woods ( @ realjameswoods ) july 17 , 2017