washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama can not select the most liberal possible candidate for the u.s. supreme court and should seek a “ consensus ” pick who could attract republican support , vice president joe biden said on thursday .
a fierce political fight is brewing as the democratic president prepares to name a successor to conservative justice antonin scalia , who died on saturday .
obama ’ s nominee could change the court ’ s balance of power .
scalia ’ s death left it with four conservative and four liberal justices .
senate democratic leader harry reid told msnbc in an interview that he spoke with obama on thursday about the nomination and expected the president to name his choice in “ a little over three weeks. ” many republicans , led by senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , have said the seat should remain vacant until obama ’ s successor takes office next january so voters can have a say in the selection when they choose a new president in the nov. 8 election .
“ the senate gets to have a say , ” biden , a former senator , told minnesota public radio in an interview broadcast on thursday .
“ in order to get this done , the president is not going to be able to go out , nor would it be his instinct anyway , to pick the most liberal jurist in the nation and put them on the court. ” the senate , whose republican majority would be unlikely to embrace any selection seen as particularly liberal , must confirm nominees picked for lifetime appointments to the nation ’ s highest court .
“ there are plenty of judges who are on high courts already who have had unanimous support of the republicans .
this should be someone who , in fact , is a consensus and whereby we can generate enough support to get a person passed , ” biden said .
in a separate interview broadcast on msnbc , biden said he would be deeply involved in advising obama but that he had no desire himself to be named to the high court .
biden told msnbc the president had sought his advice but they had yet to discuss potential candidates .
white house spokesman josh earnest told reporters obama would draw on biden ’ s perspective , noting the vice president had served as senate judiciary committee chairman and presided over confirmation hearings for past supreme court nominees .
those included the contentious 1991 hearings for justice clarence thomas .
separately , retired supreme court justice sandra day o ’ connor , the first woman to serve on the court and a nominee of republican president ronald reagan , took issue with republicans who are demanding that obama ’ s successor pick the person to fill scalia ’ s vacancy .
“ i don ’ t agree , ” o ’ connor , 85 , told an arizona television station .
“ we need somebody in there to do the job - and just get on with it. ” some republican senators have urged their leaders at least to allow the customary judiciary committee confirmation hearings to proceed on any obama nominee .
“ i do believe that the nominee should get a hearing , ” senator lisa murkowski told reporters in her home state of alaska on wednesday .
she added : “ that doesn ’ t necessarily mean that ends up in a vote ” by the senate to confirm the nominee .
senators dean heller of nevada and thom tillis of north carolina this week also indicated support for allowing the senate to consider obama ’ s nominee .
obama will not attend scalia ’ s funeral on saturday , a decision that provoked criticism from some conservatives .
earnest rebuked critics who he said “ want to use the funeral of the supreme court justice as some sort of political cudgel. ” earnest noted obama would pay his respects by going to the supreme court building on friday when scalia ’ s body will be lying in repose , and biden would represent the obama administration at the funeral .
obama ’ s presence at public events requires a massive retinue of secret service agents and security measures , while biden ’ s “ security footprint ” is a little bit lighter , earnest said , noting the white house had sought a “ respectful arrangement. ” a cbs news poll and a wall street journal/nbc news poll showed americans closely split along partisan lines on whether obama should name scalia ’ s successor .