it was obvious this was going to happen , but if you were holding out hope that david cay johnston could release donald trump s tax returns without facing harassment from his supporters , you will be sad to know that trump fans are just as horrible as ever .
ever since he broke the story , johnston says that cowardly trump supporters have been threatening his wife and one of his children .
trump fans call & harass my wife & 1 of my children after i break story white house confirmed .
sad !
johnston wrote on twitter .
let s have open debate , not threats .
trump fans call & harass my wife & 1 of my children after i break story white house confirmed .
sad !
let 's have open debate , not threats .
david cay johnston ( @ davidcayj ) march 15 , 2017johnston added that he is not intimidated by trump fiends attempts to intimidate him , but that the calls to family are out of bounds , a disturbing sign of how trump damages civil debate .
to be clear , folks , i do n't intimidate .
but calls to family are out of bounds , a disturbing sign of how trump damages civil debate .
david cay johnston ( @ davidcayj ) march 15 , 2017on top of that , he says , trump and his less-stupid-than-eric-but-still-stupid son have been lying to the american people about the exact taxes the donald has paid.trump wh confirms my report , but fakes numbers .
trump paid $ 36.5m income tax , not $ 38 & not $ 40m don jr. claims .
false wh statements .
sad !
david cay johnston ( @ davidcayj ) march 15 , 2017the release of trump s taxes did not , ultimately , reveal much ( in fact , the very fact that the donald paid any taxes at all was a positive for him ) , but one thing is very telling : trump s attempt to do away with the alternative minimum tax is definitely centered around saving himself money : but for amt , which trump wants to scrap , he 'd have paid a lower tax rate than the poorest of americans under 3.5 % on $ 152.7 million david cay johnston ( @ davidcayj ) march 15 , 2017it s unclear why trump s followers would go after johnston and his family over this , but once again it is the norm for the sort of person who would still support trump.featured image via twitter/getty images ( pool ) /screengrab