algiers ( reuters ) - a small christmas market has opened in algeria s capital , catering to a rising number of christian african migrants as well as diplomats and locals in the overwhelmingly muslim country .
around 99 percent of algeria s population is sunni muslim but the number of christians has been rising due to an influx of migrants from sub-saharan countries such as mali , niger and burkina faso .
the market , organized by the caritas charity , is also a sign of stable security in a country that has rebounded from a decade of islamist militant violence during which 200,000 people died .
diplomats used to hunker down in fortified embassies , rarely venturing out , but now live alongside algerians in residential quarters .
no militant attack has been reported in algiers for more than 10 years .
caritas staged a similar christmas market last year but kept it low profile .
this year it advertised the market in advance , calling for a living together between christians and muslims .
no official figure is available for the number of african migrants , but some estimates put it at around 100,000 .
it is not about making money , but rather about using the money to help the most vulnerable , whether algerians , african migrants or syrians , caritas algeria director maurice pilloud said .
veiled muslim women mix with foreigners at the market in algiers el biar district , where honey , chocolate , cakes , jewelry and trinkets are sold .
many donations came from muslims , said pilloud .
the market offers the chance for young people to make a contribution to society in a political system where the ruling party has dominated all aspects of the oil-producing north african state since independence in 1962 .
charitable work remains most attractive for a majority of young algerians who shun political action because it doesn t bring change , said cherif lounes , 47 , who was visiting the market along with his mother .
we need 50 caritas associations in algeria to help the vulnerable , whether algerians or migrants , added saida , his 79-year-old mother .