this is so over the top it s not funny .
i m a huge advocate of parents being there for the kids but a felony charge ?
held overnight in jail ?
does anyone out there have anything new to add to this or is it a case of our ever overreaching government getting into our business ? if this doesn t convince lawmakers that they had better start revising the child neglect laws and convince politicians that supporting free-range legislation would be a great , vote-getting platform i m not sure what will .
i got this letter a week ago and was waiting for the mom s permission to run it .
got it .
boldface mine : my children are not free range children .
the younger one has always had a baby sitter .
the older one who just turned 11 a couple of weeks ago always had a baby sitter as well .
this school year that changed .
the eleven year old comes home and is met by his dad who lets him in the house .
in the event dad isn t here on time , his instructions are to wait in the backyard until i come home about 20 minutes later.on this particular day , a little more than a month ago , both dad and i were both running late due bad traffic and rain .
we were about and hour and a half late .
when we arrived the police had been anonymously called and we were arrested for child neglect.we still do not have our children , we are fighting for our own freedom and due to the nature of my employment i am no longer employed .
my son was in his own yard playing basketball , not in the street or at the park .
the authorities claim he had no access to water or shelter .
we have an open shed in the back yard and 2 working sinks and 2 hoses .
they said he had no food .
he ate his snacks already .
he had no bathroom , but the responding officer found our yard good enough to relieve himself in while our son sat in a police car alone .
in his own yard , in a state , florida , that has no minimum age for children to be alone .
if you have any advice for what i should do i will accept it.the advice i gave was to contact the national association of parents , which fights for the rights of parents ( including the meitivs ) to raise their kids without government interference , except in cases of clear and convincing evidence of actual or imminent harm .
that threshhold is a far cry from whatever horrors are visited upon tweens playing basketball while waiting for their parents to get home .
( to support the association of parents with a donation , go here .
) then on friday , the mom wrote back : i just wanted to give you an update .
our sons were returned to us on tuesday/wednesday in the children s court/dcf with adjudication withheld .
however the criminal prosecutor is not dropping the charges as of today .
we have to appear in the criminal court on june 11th to put in our plea .
i would love to speak to someone however due to my job ( which is still on the line ) i don t know if it will make it better or worse .
i am a state and county employee with the school system and i was made to sign a paper stating i would not speak with teachers parents or students regarding the matter.that being said , it is possible this mom will never talk publicly about this case .
even so , we should talk about it .
it is time to rein in the power of the state to turn parents into criminals simply because they are imperfect.perfection is impossible in this world , and if the government is allowed to hound a family whose plans got mildly screwed up , it can hound every single one of us.via : free range kids