new york/washington ( reuters ) - the des moines register , the largest newspaper in the state that will cast the first votes for u.s. presidential nominees in nine days , gave its coveted endorsement on saturday to republican marco rubio and democrat hillary clinton , it announced on saturday .
the newspaper ’ s board said it was impressed by clinton ’ s “ knowledge and experience ” and that it had picked rubio because the florida senator represented the republican party ’ s “ best hope ” in the november 2016 presidential race .
while the endorsements from the newspaper have the potential to boost a candidate , they often do not predict success in iowa ’ s distinctive , time-consuming caucus system of picking nominees , which involves voters meeting in public places to discuss their preferences .
since beginning the practice in 1988 , only three of the nine candidates the newspaper has endorsed have left the state with the most votes .
“ it ’ s certainly not a prediction , ” amalie nash , the paper ’ s executive editor , said in an interview before the announcement .
“ we normally we do talk about viability , but it ’ s certainly not a major factor. ” nash and the board ’ s five other members had all the leading democratic and republican candidates in for interviews except for the current republican front-runners , senator ted cruz and the businessman donald trump , who declined their invitations , the paper said .
the board put emphasis on whether the candidates had the potential to heal the partisan divide that has become a hallmark of washington politics and their plans for defusing the threat to americans from the militant islamist group islamic state , nash said .
rubio , the paper said , held the “ potential to chart a new direction for the party , and perhaps the nation , with his message of restoring the american dream. ” noting the presidency is “ not an entry-level position , ” the register praised clinton as an “ outstanding candidate ” deserving of the democratic nomination .
“ no other candidate can match the depth or breadth of her knowledge and experience , ” it said .
the register previously endorsed clinton during her 2008 presidential run , saying she was distinguished by her “ readiness to lead. ” barack obama ultimately won the iowa caucus and clinton finished third behind john edwards .
the paper endorsed senator john mccain on the republican side that year .
he came in fourth in iowa but went on to become the party ’ s nominee before losing the general election to obama .
an endorsement for trump had seemed unlikely after the paper published a withering editorial last july calling on him to end his “ bloviating side show ” and drop out of the election .
winners of the iowa caucuses , due to be held on feb. 1 this year , do not always go on to become their party ’ s standard bearer in the november general election .
“ iowa ’ s role isn ’ t to pick the eventual nominee , ” nash , the register ’ s executive editor , said .
“ it ’ s to winnow the field. ” ( reporting by jonathan allen and dustin volz ; editing by sandra maler ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .