taipei ( reuters ) - taiwan hopes to find a natural way to exchange views with chinese president xi jinping at a summit of asia-pacific leaders that starts in vietnam this week , the self-ruled island s envoy to the meeting said on monday .
relations between beijing and taipei have nosedived since president tsai ing-wen was elected last year .
china believes she wants formal independence for taiwan , a red line for beijing .
for her part , tsai says she wants to maintain peace with china but will defend taiwan s democracy and security .
china regards taiwan as its sovereign territory .
china has suspended a regular dialogue mechanism with taiwan , stepped up military drills around the island and boosted diplomatic pressure by siphoning off its remaining diplomatic allies .
speaking to reporters before leaving for vietnam , taiwan s apec envoy james soong said tsai had both pointed out to him and said publicly that taiwan was willing to engage with china .
moreover , we also need to say that both sides of the taiwan strait should have some constructive dialogue , soong said .
president tsai has clearly said to us to use a natural way with xi jinping at this apec meeting to have the opportunity to exchange views , he added , without elaborating on how the two might meet .
at the last apec summit in the peruvian capital of lima , xi and soong chatted briefly on the sidelines , but had no formal bilateral meeting .
the china-born soong heads the china-friendly people first party , has met xi twice before and has visited china .
he referred to his past meetings with xi and also tsai s recent reiteration that peace and sincerity should mark engagement by both sides .
i will have the opportunity to express this view again to the other side , soong said .
china has not said if xi plans to meet soong .
asked last week about the possibility of a xi-soong meeting , chinese vice foreign minister li baodong would say only that china hoped taiwan s activities at apec would accord with the grouping s rules and not affect the summit .
despite taiwan s lack of diplomatic recognition from the vast majority of countries , apec allows the island to participate as a separate economic , rather than political , entity .
in 2013 , xi told taiwan s envoy at an apec summit in indonesia that a political solution for taiwan could not wait forever .