outgoing army chief of staff gen. ray odierno also said the rise of isis could have been stopped if obama didn t pull out troops from iraqodierno said in an interview with fox news published wednesday that it s very hard to watch iraq implode at the hands of isis after the gains that were made during the iraq war .
it s frustrating to watch it , odierno said .
i go back to the work we did in 2007 , 2008 , 2009 , and 2010 and we got it to a place that was really good .
violence was low , the economy was growing , politics looked like it was heading in the right direction .
he contends that if the united states had left more troops in the region , isis would not have been able to capture large portions of that country or neighboring syria .
if we had stayed a little more engaged , i think maybe it might have been prevented , odierno told fox news .
i ve always believed the united states played the role of honest broker between all the groups and when we pulled ourselves out , we lost that role .
the outgoing army chief says that he wanted the united states to keep 30,000-35,000 troops in iraq , but that his recommendation was not followed .
i think it would have been good for us to stay , he said.after mosul fell to isis last year , odierno says that the white house did not contact him for input , even though he had commanded troops for a longer time there than anyone else .
all my work was given to [ joint chiefs ] chairman [ martin ] dempsey , odiernio told fox news .
i never talked directly to the president about it at that time , but i talked to the secretary of defense and i m sure he relayed all of my thoughts .
he said that he is also concerned about the cuts being made to the number of army troops .
in 2010 , the army had 570,000 soldiers and today there are 490,000 .
in my mind , we don t have the ability to deter .
the reason we have a military is to deter conflict and prevent wars .
and if people believe we are not big enough to respond , they miscalculate , odierno said.troop levels in the army are to fall even further , down to 450,000 , based on a decision made two years ago .
that number will put the army at the fighting level it had before the attacks on sept. 11 , 2001 .
i believed at the time we could do that , the outgoing army chief told fox news .
but i said we were on the razor s edge that we could actually do our mission at 450 .
according to odierno , two years ago , we didn t think we had a problem in europe .
[ now ] russia is reasserting themselves .
we didn t think we d have a problem again in iraq and isis has emerged .
so , with russia becoming more of a threat , with isis becoming more of a threat , in my mind , we are on a dangerous balancing act right now with capability .
when we go to 450 , we are going to have to stop doing something , he added.odierno contends that the military cuts are making u.s. enemies more brazen .
i believe they question whether we will be able to respond , and so they re willing to take maybe a bit more risk than they might have just a few years ago .
odierno said in a separate interview with reporters that he thinks it will take 10 to 20 years to defeat isis .
via : newsmaxhere s a video isis made to mock the us military and warn of their defeat after obama announced his withdrawal of us troops from iraq :