because we don t have enough crime in our country already we need to import it from mexico and south america.to hell with america it s all about the votes the man suspected of gunning down a young woman at random at a popular san francisco tourist spot on wednesday has been deported to mexico several times , according to a report by the local abc news affiliate .
the woman , 32-year-old kathryn steinle ( kate ) , was struck in the chest with a bullet while visiting pier 14 on the embarcadero with her family .
she was rushed to a nearby hospital but doctors were unable to save her , as she died in her parents arms a few hours later.the suspect , francisco sanchez , was identified as being in his mid-40s and on probation from texas due to previous , undisclosed crimes .
he was arrested after tips from passers-by .
officials said that the killing appeared to be random .
police believe they have recovered the murder weapon from the waters of the san francisco bay near the pier , where the suspect allegedly tossed it.on thursday , two news crews filming live at pier 14 were mugged at the scene , and one cameraman was pistol-whipped.the san francisco chronicle described steinle s last moments in heartbreaking detail : she fought for her life , [ liz ] sullivan said , adding that her daughter s heart had stopped two times , and was restarted , in the ambulance .
it was a battle , but she just didn t make it , she said .
it was horrific , but we knew the minute they came to talk to us , it wasn t good .
but it was so nice to go in and be with her .
sullivan said that in their final moments together , she softly touched her daughter s face a face she used to paint when the young woman was a little girl .
we have deep faith , jim steinle said , adding , our faith isn t to the point where we re ready to forgive .
via : breitbart newsobama s solution to illegal crime in america : washington post the obama administration has begun a profound shift in its enforcement of the nation s immigration laws , aiming to hasten the integration of long-term illegal immigrants into society rather than targeting them for deportation , according to documents and federal officials.in recent months , the department of homeland security has taken steps to ensure that the majority of the united states 11.3 million undocumented immigrants can stay in this country , with agents narrowing enforcement efforts to three groups of illegal migrants : convicted criminals , terrorism threats or those who recently crossed the border.while public attention has been focused on the court fight over president obama s highly publicized executive action on immigration , dhs has with little fanfare been training thousands of immigration agents nationwide to carry out new policies on everyday enforcement .