berlin ( reuters ) - weakened by the worst result for her party since 1949 and facing a more fractious political landscape at home , germany s angela merkel could be forced to rein in plans to re-shape europe together with france s emmanuel macron .
merkel s conservatives garnered more support than any other party in the german election on sunday , projections showed , ensuring that she will return for a fourth term as chancellor .
but her party appeared on track for its poorest performance since the first german election after world war two and its only path to power may be through an unwieldy , untested three-way coalition with the ecologist greens and liberal free democrats ( fdp ) , fierce critics of macron s ideas for europe .
over the next four years , merkel will also have to cope with a more confrontational opposition force in the alternative for germany ( afd ) , a eurosceptic , anti-immigration party that rode a wave of public anger after her decision to open germany s borders to hundreds of thousands of migrants in 2015 .
the afd was on track to win over 13 percent , above what polls had predicted .
they will become the first far-right party to enter the german parliament since the 1950s .
this will be a new world for merkel , who has grown accustomed to cozy coalitions and toothless bundestag opposition during her 12 years in power .
in my mind , reform of the euro zone is the single most important foreign policy issue that the new government has in front of it , said thomas kleine-brockhoff , who runs the berlin office of the german marshall fund .
but he predicted a so-called jamaica coalition between merkel s conservatives , the fdp and the greens - whose combined party colors of black , yellow and green are like those the jamaican national flag - would struggle to deliver .
whereas the greens said on sunday night that a stronger europe was a priority for the party , the fdp is averse to further steps to integrate policies at european level .
it would be the party of no , the party of yes and an incrementalist chancellor .
those are not ideal conditions for a franco-german grand bargain , he said .
macron ran for the french presidency on a pledge to relaunch europe , in tandem with germany , after years of economic and financial crisis and the new shock dealt by britain s vote last year to leave the bloc .
he is due to flesh out his ideas in a speech at the sorbonne university in paris on tuesday .
macron has called for a finance minister and budget for the single currency bloc , ideas that merkel has tentatively supported even though scepticism in her own party runs high .
but with the fdp as a partner and the afd pushing back loudly in parliament , the prospect of selling deeper european integration to her new coalition and the wider public looks far more challenging .
in its election program , the fdp called for a phasing out of europe s esm bailout fund and changes to eu treaties that would allow countries to leave the euro zone .
its young leader christian lindner openly called for greece to return to the drachma during the campaign .
on europe , the fdp is not so far from the afd on some issues .
if all of their ideas were implemented we would be plunged back into a euro zone crisis , franziska brantner , a greens lawmaker , told reuters .
the fdp would not be the only difficult ally in merkel s coalition .
the afd s strong performance could push her bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) already a thorn in her side during the refugee crisis further to the right ahead of an election next year in its home state .
winning back voters who fled to the afd could become one of the main priorities for merkel s conservative bloc over the coming four years .
that would mean tougher stances on migration and on europe .
even before the election , officials close to merkel were playing down the urgency of a reform of the euro zone , describing efforts to secure europe s borders and agree a fair distribution of refugees across the bloc as higher priorities .
a second refugee crisis would be more devastating to europe than a second euro zone crisis , a senior german official told reuters last month .
these officials point to the strengthening of the european economy and suggest that macron was elected despite rather than because of his grand plans for the euro zone .
a bertelsmann foundation survey last year showed just 41 percent of french believe europe needs more political and economic integration , 10 points below the eu average .
the survey also showed that germans and french are the most skeptical toward macron s ideas for a european finance minister and dedicated euro zone budget .
only 31 percent of french and 39 percent of germans thought a euro zone budget should be used to support economically weaker states , as macron suggests .