tunis ( reuters ) - saif al-islam gaddafi , the most prominent son of the former libyan leader , is in good health and is following the political situation in libya from his base inside the country , a gaddafi family lawyer said on tuesday .
khaled al-zaidi said he was in personal contact with saif , but refused to say where in libya saif was , or whether he had ever left zintan , the western town where he was detained after the 2011 revolt in which his father was toppled and killed .
he s working on politics from his base in libya , with the tribes , with the cities , with the decision makers , zaidi told reporters in tunis .
he s in a good health ... in top condition .
his medical and psychological condition are good .
saif was seen by some as a potential reformist successor to his father in the years before 2011 and remains a key figure for gaddafi loyalists .
seeking to rebuild their influence , they present saif as someone who can help reconcile the country s rival factions , though he is sought for alleged war crimes both in his home country and by the international criminal court .
the aim is to achieve peace in libya , said zaidi .
he follows libyan affairs closely every day .
in june , zaidi said saif had been freed in zintan under an amnesty law passed two years ago by a parliament based in eastern libya .
earlier reports that saif had been liberated turned out to be false , and uncertainty about his whereabouts and status have long fueled rumors .
those included speculation during the summer that he was about to re-emerge with a speech or public statement .
no physical evidence of saif s whereabouts has been offered .
he was last seen by an independent international observer in june 2014 .
a tripoli court sentenced saif to death in absentia in 2015 for war crimes , including killing protesters during the revolution .
the international criminal court , based in the netherlands , is also seeking his arrest and said in june it was trying to verify the reports of saif s release .