this mayor s involvement in potential illegal activity will get little attention this story will be a full blown case of racial injustice in 5 4 3 2 1 betty mccray , newly-elected mayor of kinloch , missouri , showed up at city hall this week to get to work .
but when she arrived , the police wouldn t let her in the door.the reason why ?
those non-existent illegal voters who cast ballots for the candidate.the election , which was held april 7 , was hotly contested and the results have been questioned by mccray s opponents .
however , the st. louis county board of elections certified the results and swore mccray in after city officials refused to.the st. louis post-dispatch reports that deputies met her in the parking lot , and she was served with articles of impeachment by city attorney james robinson .
robinson also told her that she was suspended.after being blocked from entering the building , mccray held a press conference in the parking lot : i won .
the people spoke , mccray told the press after she had been served papers and told she could not enter the building .
i was sworn in by the st. louis county .
today i take office .
i want them out , i want the keys .
it was rumored that mccray was going to fire multiple city employees , once in office.kinloch , which is located near lambert-st. louis international airport , once thrived with more than 10,000 residents .
but airport development has led to homes being purchased by the airport authority and demolished.today , kinloch , which has fewer than 300 residents , is marked by pilfered coffers , shady land deals and increasingly bitter fights over the last remnants of political power.during the past five years , the city has seen the imprisonment of a former mayor on federal fraud and theft charges , the hiring of a convicted felon as city manager , the selling of a previous city hall building to an alleged drug dealer and the unseating of at least two aldermen .
mccray won the mayoral contest by garnering 38 votes compared to her opponent , the incumbent mayor s , 18.prior to the election , the city alerted the county board of elections said that they believed there were 27 voters registered illegally .
mccray s camp alleges that these voters were living in city-owned housing and evicted because they supported her.the bad blood goes back further .
mccray is a former alderman , who served under a mayor who has since been convicted of federal fraud charges .
members of the current administration accuse her of benefiting financially from land deals under that mayor , keith conway.mccray told fox2 she was going to file an injunction in the st. louis county courts , and then attempt to enter city hall again.via : ijreview