well , that didn t take long nancy pelosi went on a unhinged angry rant at republicans for blaming yesterday s shooting on left-wing rhetoric .
while she doesn t say it s appropriate to talk about she goes on to rant at republicans for any comment blaming democrats : somewhere in the 90 s the republicans went on the politics of personal destruction here s the second part of pelosi s ridiculous response : the gunman who shot steve scalise was a strong political supporter of bernie sanders .
he had a facebook page and twitter account full of hate for republicans and president trump .
anyone with half a brain would know this man committed this heinous crime for political reasons .
nancy pelosi acts innocent in all this hate and political terrorism when she was just recorded laughing at the california dnc chair flipping off president trump and saying , f * ck trump !
: a reporter asked : can you comment on the possibility that this incident could be used against democrats or the democratic party politically because the assailant was apparently motivated by some kind of anti-republican sentiment and we have heard comments from republicans , including congress , about vitriol rhetoric from the left being in some way to blame ?
pelosi responded with the most idiotic comment : the comments made by my republican colleagues are outrageous .
beneath of the dignity of the job they hold , beneath the dignity of the respect we would like congress to command .
how dare they say such a thing .
how dare they pelosi went on to point out the past rhetoric that came from republicans , including president donald trump .
probably as we sit here , they re running caricatures of me and georgia once again of over $ 100 million , of vitriolic things they say that resulted in calls to my home constantly , threats in front of my grandchildren really predicated on their comments and their paid ads , pelosi said .
so this sick individual does something despicable , and it was horrible what he did , hateful , but for them to all of a sudden be sanctimonious as if they ve never seen such a thing before and i don t even want to go into the president of the united states .
but in terms of some of the language that he has used so , again , let s go there another day .
this woman needs to retire pronto !