just a week after a prince from qatar was in hot water for racing his ferrari down the streets of la , a saudi prince is arrested for sexual assault .
this case will be one to watch since the prince doesn t have diplomatic immunity in this case.a bleeding woman screaming for help was seen attempting to scale an 8-foot-high wall before a saudi prince was arrested this week on suspicion of trying to force a worker to perform a sex act on him at his hillside compound near beverly hills.police were called to the gated property in the beverly glen area , within a gated community on wallingford drive , after a caretaker at the home reported a disturbance , officials said .
after officers interviewed people inside , a 28-year-old man identified as saudi prince majed abdulaziz al-saud was arrested on suspicion of forced oral copulation of an adult.neighbor tennyson collins said a resident reported seeing a bleeding woman scream for help as she tried to scale the property s wall wednesday afternoon.when collins drove home from work after 1:30 p.m. , police followed his car through the gates and onto the property , which he described as a compound .
the website zillow valued the 22,000-square-foot property at $ 37 million.officers escorted about 20 people out of the house , many of them staff , collins said.police said al-saud was renting the home .
collins said various foreign nationals have been renting out the property for weeks at a time over the last year but that the biggest incident up to wednesday had been a raucous party or two .
one person who rented out the home stationed armed guards at the gates , he said .
obviously neighbors aren t happy about it , but it is what it is , collins said of the international visitors.al-saud was booked and freed on $ 300,000 bail thursday afternoon , jail records show .
he could not immediately be reached for comment.lapd officer drake madison said al-saud was booked after 4 p.m.the lapd has a consul liaison division that checks with foreign nations consulates regarding diplomatic immunity , said capt .
tina nieto .
police determined al-saud does not have immunity in this case , she said.some foreign royalty do have diplomatic immunity , but it depends on the dignitary s status in his home country s government and the level of the offense he commits in the u.s. , she said.jail records show al-saud is scheduled to appear in court oct. 19.attempts to reach the state department and the saudi embassy in los angeles were not successful thursday afternoon.via : hollywood reporter