21st century wire says as 21wire predicted in its new year s look ahead , we have a new hostage crisis underway.today , iranian military forces report that two small riverine u.s. navy boats were seized in iranian waters , and are currently being held on iran s farsi island in the persian gulf .
a total of 10 u.s. navy personnel , nine men and one woman , have been detained by iranian authorities .
navy strayed : u.s. navy patrol boat in the persian gulf ( image source : usni ) according to the pentagon , the initial narrative is as follows : the sailors were on a training mission around noon et when their boat experienced mechanical difficulty and drifted into iranian-claimed waters and were detained by the iranian coast guard , officials added .
the story has since been slightly revised by white house spokesman josh earnest to follow this narrative : the 2 boats were traveling en route from kuwait to bahrain , when they were stopped and detained by the iranians.according to usni , search and rescue teams from the harry s. truman strike group were scrambled to aid the crew but stopped short after the crew was taken by the iranians .
we have been in contact with iran and have received assurances that the crew and the vessels will be returned promptly , pentagon spokesman peter cook told ap .
according to persian gulf tv : farsi island is one of the iranian islands in the persian gulf , bushehr province of iran .
there is an irgc navy base on this island .
the island has an area of about 0.25 km and is completely restricted to public , due to top secret governmental activities .
according to nbc news , u.s. state department is in touch with tehran officials and the iranians recognize that the u.s. navy straying off course was a mistake , and that the sailors will be released within hours .
war inc : cnn s wolf blitzer wasted no time in ramping-up talk of military tension with israeli-financed neocon senator tom cotton.neocon stuntalready , the u.s. media , including cnn and fox , are running with the talking point that , this could not have come at a worse time for president obama right before tonight s state of union speech , when he s trying to prove to the american people that iran is a country that can be trusted to implement the historic nuclear deal .
this latest naval controversy also comes days before the implementation phase of the iran nuclear deal .
to say this is a coincidence might be naive.that said , could gop and israel-aligned members of the pentagon or intelligence establishment have helped to engineer today s bizarre mini-crisis in order to help weaken u.s.-iran relations , and by extension , obama s controversial iranian nuclear deal ? this looks likely to be the case , as evidenced by the quick appearance of the israel lobby-sponsored , pro-war u.s .
senator tom cotton ( r ) , placed by cnn to direct aggressive u.s. military talking points live on air as the story broke today .
cotton ( photo , left ) immediately called the event hostile and blamed iran for the u.s. boat drifting into iranian waters , and then blamed the crisis on president obama , who he claims , has emboldened the iranian aggression .
cotton then goes on to tell a giant lie , on which his media handler , cnn s wolf blitzer , does not even blink , much less challenge cotton s imaginary statement : the iranians , who are largely responsible for killing our ( american ) soldiers in iraq and afghanistan .
cotton then went on to threaten iran , saying that : these sailors and both vessels need to be immediately released .
if they are not released , then the iran ( nuclear ) deal should not go forward , and military force will be on the table to retaliate for this act of aggression .
cotton then proceeded to give a veiled ( nuclear ? )
threat to iran , saying that , all ( military ) options should be on the table .
would washington s top operatives go so far as to engineer or exacerbate an international crisis such as this by dispatching the boats off course , knowing full-well that iran would not harm u.s. personnel , but using the incident to injure a lame duck ?
the answer is yes , and they ve done it before in 1979 , 52 american diplomats and citizens were held hostage for 444 days in what became known as the iranian hostage crisis , which just happened to take place during a us presidential election cycle , with then president jimmy carter ( d ) running for reelection against challenger ronald reagan ( r ) .
the crisis , including a horrific failed rescue attempt , was used against carter in the media .
according to reports at the time reagan campaign operatives had managed to do a backdoor deal with the elements of the new iranian regime to hold-off releasing the hostages until after the election .
in the end , reagan won and took credit for that victory .not surprisingly , at the end of his prearranged cnn segment , cotton invoked the feckless foreign policy of jimmy carter which caused the 1979 iran hostage crisis , and compared that to president obama s current policy.of all the u.s. officials cnn could have brought in on short notice , they chose senator tom cotton , the most hawkish and closest aligned to israel .
clearly , this looks like a neocon stunt.stay tuned for more updates.read more iran news at : 21st century wire iran files