washington ( reuters ) - christian groups asking the u.s. supreme court to exempt them from the requirement to provide insurance covering contraception under president barack obama ’ s healthcare law face an uphill battle following justice antonin scalia ’ s death last month .
the remaining eight justices will consider seven related cases on whether nonprofit groups that oppose the requirement on religious grounds can object under a u.s. law called the religious freedom restoration act to a compromise version of the requirement offered by the obama administration .
among those mounting objections are the little sisters of the poor , an order of roman catholic nuns that runs care homes for the elderly .
the court , divided 4-4 between liberal and conservative justices without the conservative scalia , is set to hear the case on wednesday .
scalia was considered a reliable vote for the religious groups .
in 2014 , he was in the majority when the court ruled 5-4 that family-owned companies run on religious principles , including craft retailer hobby lobby stores inc , could object to the provision for religious reasons .
if the four conservatives who sided with scalia in that case remain unified , the best result the challengers could get would be a 4-4 split .
that would leave in place lower-court rulings that favored the obama administration .
“ unless the court ’ s four justices in the dissent in hobby lobby dramatically change their minds , the likely worst outcome for the government would be a 4-4 split , ” said gregory lipper , a lawyer with americans united for separation of church and state , which filed a brief backing the obama administration .
lawyers for the challengers forecast that they can win , citing among other things the fact that women can obtain alternative coverage via obamacare ’ s online marketplace .
“ the idea that the government doesn ’ t have some other way to do this is really a pretty silly argument , ” said mark rienzi , a lawyer with the becket fund for religious liberty , which represents the little sisters .
the christian groups object to a compromise first offered by the federal government in 2013 .
it allows groups opposed to providing insurance covering contraception on religious grounds to comply with the law without actually paying for the coverage required by the 2010 affordable care act , widely known as obamacare .
groups can certify they are opting out by signing a form , which they submit to the government .
the government then asks insurers to pick up the tab .
the groups contend the accommodation infringes on their religious rights because it forces them to authorize the coverage for their employees , even if they are not paying for it .
a ruling is due by the end of june .