lima ( reuters ) - the government of peru s president pedro pablo kuczynski told opposition lawmakers on wednesday that they would have to dismiss the entire cabinet - and move closer to facing removal themselves - if they try to oust a second education minister .
kuczynski accused the opposition-ruled congress of trying to sabotage his education reforms as the right-wing popular force party prepared a motion to censure education minister marilu martens over her handling of a teachers strike that dragged on for two months .
the president said ousting martens would be completely unfair .
it would be the second education minister censured and purely over political preferences , kuczynski said .
by turning the censure vote on martens into a vote of confidence on his whole cabinet , kuczynski hopes to check popular force s ability to threaten his ministers .
the president can dissolve congress if it dismisses the cabinet twice .
congress has already forced kuczynski s former education and finance ministers to resign , while his ex-transportation minister quit to avoid a censure vote .
popular force lawmakers said they would study the request for a vote of confidence on the cabinet and noted they had not yet formally presented the censure motion for martens - a sign they might back off .
they re putting the governability of the country at risk over one minister ?
said luz salgado , an influential lawmaker with popular force , which controls congress .
it s completely irresponsible .
the gamble could force kuczynski , a former wall street banker , to appoint 19 new ministers as he tries to revive the economy and his slipping popularity in opinion polls .
however , it might also give him a freer hand to govern during the remaining four years of his term .
a prime minister has not challenged congress to renew its confidence in a cabinet in decades , said political analyst fernando tuesta , underscoring how rapidly relations between the executive branch and congress have deteriorated in kuczynski s year-old government .
kuczynski took office last year after narrowly beating long-time favorite keiko fujimori , the eldest daughter of jailed former leader alberto fujimori .
kuczynski s party won less than 15 percent of congressional seats while fujimori s party , popular force , won an absolute majority .