riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabia s air defense forces intercepted a ballistic missile fired from warring yemen over the capital riyadh on saturday , state news agencies reported .
the missile was brought down near king khaled airport on the northern outskirts of the city and did not cause any casualties , said saudi state-owned al ekhbariya tv .
rocket fragments fell near the airport grounds , but air traffic carried on normally , the saudi civil aviation authority said on its official twitter account .
saudi arabia is part of a coalition carrying out bombings of the iran-allied armed houthi movement in yemen which has taken over the capital sanaa and other parts of the country during its civil war .
saudi arabia , which supports the internationally-recognized yemeni government based in aden , has frequently intercepted missiles fired from its neighbor .
residents of northern riyadh reported hearing a single deafening explosion that rattled windows around 20:20 local time , followed by rumbling and other sounds .
we heard an enormous loud boom and went outside , then heard a low rumbling noise like thunder and six to 12 smaller explosions , one resident told reuters .
the missile was fired into saudi territory from yemen at 20:00 local time , the spokesman of a saudi-led military coalition said in a statement carried by state news agency spa .
saba news , which is run by the houthi rebels , reported that the missile was a burkan h2 and that the airport had been the target .
u.s. president donald trump commented on the missile interception during comments on u.s. military hardware on sunday .
a shot was just taken by iran , in my opinion , at saudi arabia ... and our system knocked the missile out of the air .
nobody makes what we make , and now we re seeing it all over the world , he told reporters on air force one en route to tokyo .
saudi arabia and its allies , which receive logistical and intelligence help from the united states , accuse the houthis of being a proxy of iran .
the saudi-led coalition has launched thousands of air strikes against the houthis .
on wednesday , witnesses said one such strike killed 26 people at a hotel and adjoining market in northern yemen , although the coalition said on saturday it had hit a legitimate target .
the houthi and allied forces loyal to former yemeni president ali abdullah saleh have fired dozens of missiles into saudi territory over the course of a 2-1/2 year war , including a ballistic missile shot down near mecca in july .
the conflict has led to one of the world s worst humanitarian crises and killed at least 10,000 people .