zurich ( reuters ) - investigators in zurich , ranked among the world s cleanest cities , are probing alleged grubby dealings within the municipal garbage and recycling department .
while trash services in the united states and italy have sometimes been linked with illicit dealings , the swiss financial center appears an unlikely source of muck .
rubbish bins are ubiquitous , and a fleet of motorized street sweepers keeps boulevards nearly spotless .
but so far zurich has unearthed irregular accounting surrounding some $ 15 million in cost overruns on one of its marquee projects , possible nepotism and an alleged off-the-books slush fund , according to a series of reports released last week .
the garbage and recycling department in zurich developed into a state within a state , filippo leutenegger , a city council member who has overseen the sanitation and recycling office since 2014 , told state broadcaster srf .
we can not allow that to happen , he added , rejecting criticism he failed to act quickly enough to halt the problems .
the department s chief , urs pauli , was fired in june after revelations he was driving a taxpayer-funded bmw sedan worth more than $ 100,000 and after a so-called secret stash of 215,000 swiss francs ( $ 226,500 ) was uncovered in his offices .
the city prosecutor s office seized the cash , which swiss newspaper tages-anzeiger has reported resulted from selling used department vehicles and was used to reward employees for good performance .
sweeping cover-up according to the city s reports , the garbage department hid 15 million swiss francs in cost overruns on a logistics center , including by booking them to unrelated accounts in a sweeping cover-up .
a whistleblower alerted authorities in 2015 , accusing pauli s department of neglecting proper documentation as well as irregularities on no-bid construction contracts involving firms with close ties to trash department officials .
awarding contracts without seeking bids or ensuring transparency can prompt questions about compliance when the same contractors are always chosen , according to the city reports .
it creates fertile ground for accusations of favoritism .
earlier this year , leutenegger filed a criminal complaint with city prosecutors , alleging pauli , who had led the department since 2008 , had broken the law by bypassing formal approval for his bmw .
zurich prosecutors did not immediately respond to questions on tuesday about their investigation s status .
nobody has been charged .
pauli , who has denied wrongdoing , declined to comment this week through his attorney .