( reuters ) - former republican presidential candidate bob dole , 94 , has been hospitalized since last week due to low blood pressure , his spokeswoman said on friday .
the former senate majority leader was admitted to the walter reed national medical center in bethesda , maryland , on sept. 13 , said his spokeswoman , marion watkins .
“ after a routine check-up it was determined that he had low blood pressure which they ’ re correcting with medication , ” watkins said .
“ right now they hope to release him within a matter of days. ” watkins added that medical staff were hopeful for his recovery and that dole , who is a special counsel at the alston & bird law firm in washington , appreciated all the warm wishes he had received .
“ thank you all for your prayers and well wishes , ” dole said on twitter early on friday , responding to a tweet from his wife elizabeth dole ’ s foundation .
“ i hope to be home sipping a cosmo in a few days. ” his wife had tweeted from the dole foundation account saying she was “ sorry to miss # invictusgames2017 , ” a sports event that begins on saturday in toronto for wounded , injured or sick armed services personnel and other veterans .
dole , a decorated world war two combat veteran , was seriously injured during the war .
“ i ’ m with my husband , @ senatordole , at the hospital .
please pray for his speedy recovery , ” she wrote online .
after serving in the kansas legislature , dole was elected to the u.s house of representatives in 1960 and then the senate in 1968 , where he was re-elected four times .
dole twice served as senate republican leader and earned a reputation as an effective legislator who was well liked among democrats as well as republicans for his ability to build coalitions .
dole was also part of four unsuccessful presidential campaigns .
in 1976 , he was president gerald ford ’ s vice presidential choice , but that ticket lost to jimmy carter and walter mondale .
dole ran for president in 1980 but lost the republican nomination to ronald reagan and eight years later republicans chose george h.w .
bush over him .
dole won the republican nomination in 1996 but was defeated by incumbent democrat bill clinton .