( reuters ) - the tennessee house passed a bill on wednesday allowing mental health counselors to refuse service to patients on religious grounds , the latest in a list of u.s. state measures that gay rights activists have criticized as discriminating against the lgbt community .
a vote by the state house of representatives protects therapists and counselors from civil lawsuits and criminal action if they deny services to clients whose religious beliefs conflict with their own .
the bill passed by a 68-22 vote and sent to gov .
bill haslam for his signature .
the state senate passed the bill earlier this year .
supporters of the bill say it protects the rights of counselors who object on religious grounds to the adopted code of ethics of the american counseling association .
but opponents say it is an attempt to deny service to lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender ( lgbt ) people , a vulnerable population often in need of counseling services .
the house bill , which was sponsored by republican rep. dan howell , is one of many that are being challenged by human rights organizations claiming the legislation is anti-lgbt .
howell was unavailable for comment wednesday afternoon .
the tennessee equality project , which supports gay rights , condemned the house passage of the bill even though it does not specifically refer to the lgbt issue .
the group called on the governor to veto the legislation .
haslam told nashville public radio he has not decided whether to sign or veto the counseling legislation , but he was considering the impact it may have on the state and its citizens .
“ they ( state lawmakers ) need to obviously always vote their conscience , ” he told the radio station .
“ one of the things , though , that we should be mindful of is , is there a broader impact ? ” on tuesday , paypal holdings inc canceled plans to open a global operations center in charlotte , north carolina and invest $ 3.6 million in the area after the state passed a law requiring people to use bathrooms or locker rooms in schools and other public facilities that match the gender on their birth certificate rather than their gender identity .
tennessee is considering similar legislation related to school bathrooms , and civil rights groups are watching a missouri measure seen as discriminatory .
last week , the governors of georgia and virginia vetoed “ religious liberty ” bills .
mississippi governor phil bryant on tuesday signed a far-reaching law allowing people with religious objections to deny wedding services to same-sex couples and protecting other actions considered discriminatory by gay rights activists .