in nbc s attempt to discredit trump , they ve shined a bright light on their own journalistic malpractice when it comes to the clintons.but wait does nbc really want us to believe that florida congressman mark foley , who allegedly sent suggestive emails and messages to congressional pages , was somehow the equivalent of having the muslim father of a radical muslim son who only months ago committed a horrific act of mass murder in orlando in the name of allah , in vip seats behind hillary at a recent rally ? from the nbc story : sunrise , florida donald trump on wednesday night admonished hillary clinton for having the father of the orlando shooter seated behind her at a recent campaign rally .
wasn t it terrible ?
trump asked , that seddique mateen was sitting with a big smile on his face right behind hillary clinton when you get those seats , you sort of know the campaign .
but as he said those words , disgraced former congressman mark foley smiled up at him from behind the stage.foley , a republican who represented southern florida , was forced to resign his seat in september 2006 in the wake of allegations that he sent sent suggestive emails and instant messages to congressional pages .
the former congressman shared trump s camera shot , with a smile , for the entirety of the hour-long rally .
nbc newsdo you really expect any reasonable voter to believe that former congressman mark foley s presence behind trump at his sunrise , fl rally was the equivalent of a taliban supporting father of a radical muslim mass murderer ? more importantly , in their rush to make trump look bad , nbc apparently forgot about former president bill clinton s oral sex act with a young intern in the oval office while he was married to hillary .
maybe nbc missed the stories about bill s numerous trips to pedophile island with fellow pervert and billionaire donor jeffrey epstein ? hey nbc bill was on the stage several times during the dnc coronation of crooked hillary .
why didn t you call him out ?
how about the multiple allegations of rape and sexual assault by woman after woman at the hands of bill clinton ?
you know the disgraced president bill clinton the guy who was impeached for lying to a grand jury about monica lewinsky .
he s the same guy who stood behind hillary on the stage at the dnc , yet you never mentioned a word about him and his sordid history of alleged and proven sexual assault .
he s the same guy who you re rooting for to move back into our white house .
and you re worried about a fl congressman who allegedly sent suggestive messages to congressional pages sitting behind trump at a rally ?
really ? ahhh but it s teflon bill and hillary clinton , so what difference does it make right ?