prague ( reuters ) - czech prime minister andrej babis , a billionaire businessman who ran on an anti-establishment ticket , took office with his cabinet on wednesday , but it was unclear whether his tenure will survive a confidence vote next month .
babis , who built a business empire in food , farming , chemicals and media before entering politics in 2011 , will have one month to gain confidence under the constitution for his minority government .
he said after being formally appointed by czech president milos zeman , that the confidence vote should take place on jan. 10 .
running on pledges to fight immigration and make the state more efficient , babis s ano party won 29.6 percent of the vote in an october national election that saw the rise of other parties preaching against the establishment .
as finance minister over the past three years , babis saw the central state budget swing to a surplus and has vowed to further cut public debt ratio to gdp , currently at a half of the european union average .
his problem is that ano holds just 78 seats in the 200-seat lower house and does not have the firm backing of any of the other eight parties .
the far-right , anti-eu spd party and the far-left communists have lent ano support in initial parliamentary votes in return for committee posts , but no deal has been announced on their backing for the cabinet .
babis will need a few parties to either support the cabinet or leave before the confidence vote to lower the threshold the government needs to pass .
babis s government includes non-partisan ministers , in line with his pledge to bring more managerial style to governance .
his first tack will be representing the country at the european union summit on thursday and friday , where he will push for strengthening eu borders and stopping illegal migration .
if babis loses the confidence vote , his government will stay in power until an alternative is formed .
zeman reiterated on wednesday his willingness to give babis a second try if the first attempt fails , and signaled this may be the way forward .
( i have ) the impression that several ( parties ) wanted to be coaxed , but in order not to lose their dignity or prestige , they will want to be coaxed only in the second round , zeman said .
most parties have called for babis himself to stay out of the government due to a police case looking at whether he illegally hid ownership of a farm and conference center a decade ago to get a 2 million euro ( $ 2.35 million ) eu subsidy meant for small businesses .
babis has denied any wrongdoing .
some parties also criticize babis for conflicts of interest as an owner of two national newspapers and a businessman whose firms have numerous contracts with the state and benefit from public aid .
he placed his firms into a trust fund earlier this year , overseen by his close collaborators and his wife .
daily hospodarske noviny reported on wednesday that the outgoing ruling party , the leftist social democrats , could support a babis-led government in a second round of talks , if his first cabinet fails .
it cited unnamed sources within that party .
the other member of the outgoing coalition , the christian democrats , have also said they could negotiate with ano .