( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court on monday heard arguments in a challenge by 26 states to president barack obama ’ s executive action to defer deportation of certain immigrant children and parents who are in the country illegally .
here is a chronology of the case , united states v. texas : june 15 , 2012 - the obama administration , through the department of homeland security , initiates the deferred action for childhood arrivals ( daca ) program , which suspends deportation for two years for people who entered the country illegally at least five years earlier , before they were age 16 , and who were under age 31 as of june 15 , 2012 .
nov. 20 , 2014 - obama , through unilateral executive action , initiates a new deferred-deportation and work-authorization policy for immigrants whose children are u.s. citizens or lawful permanent residents and who have been living illegally in the united states since jan. 1 , 2010 .
these people must pass certain background checks for possible past criminal convictions .
the program is called deferred action for parents of americans and lawful permanent residents ( dapa ) .
the obama administration also expands the earlier daca program by eliminating the age-31 cap and increasing deferred deportation from two to three years .
dec. 3 , 2014 - texas and other republican-governed states sue the democratic obama administration in u.s. district court in texas .
they assert that obama ’ s nov. 20 executive actions , which bypassed the republican-led congress , violated the administrative procedure act ( apa ) notice-and-comment requirements for new federal agency rules and violated the u.s. constitution ’ s dictate that a president “ take care ” that laws are “ faithfully executed. ” in all , 26 of the 50 u.s. states eventually sign on to the lawsuit : alabama , arizona , arkansas , florida , georgia , idaho , indiana , kansas , louisiana , maine , michigan , mississippi , montana , nebraska , nevada , north carolina , north dakota , ohio , oklahoma , south carolina , south dakota , tennessee , texas , utah , west virginia and wisconsin .
feb. 16 , 2015 - u.s. district court judge andrew hanen in the border city of brownsville , texas issues an injunction blocking enforcement of the programs nationwide .
the judge says the obama administration had failed to offer notice and seek comments under the administrative procedure act .
administration lawyers counter that the actions did not arise from official rule-making but rather from homeland security department discretion on deportation priorities .
may 26 , 2015 - after the administration appeals the judge ’ s decision , the u.s. court of appeals for the 5th circuit , based in new orleans , upholds hanen ’ s injunction , pending an appeal on the merits of the case .
nov. 9 , 2015 - the u.s. court of appeals for the 5th circuit rules for texas and the other states , throwing out obama ’ s dapa and expanded daca actions because , the court says , they were subject to notice-and-comment requirements under the administrative procedure act .
jan. 19 , 2016 - the supreme court agrees to hear the administration ’ s appeal .
the justices say they will review the administrative procedure act issue as well as whether the program violates the “ take care ” mandate .
a key question before the justices is whether texas and the other states even have legal standing to bring the case based on a claim that obama ’ s action would cost the states financially in certain public services such as the cost of issuing driver ’ s licenses to illegal immigrants .
feb. 13 , 2016 - justice antonin scalia dies , leaving the supreme court with only eight members - four liberals and four conservatives - and the possibility of a 4-4 deadlock .
such a split ruling would be a defeat for obama because it would leave in place the 5th circuit decision disallowing his executive action .
april 18 , 2016 - the supreme court hears oral arguments in the case united states v. texas .
the justices seem divided along ideological grounds , with liberal justices sounding supportive of obama ’ s action and the conservatives sounding skeptical , underscoring the possibility of a 4-4 split .
a ruling is expected by the end of june .