while london police are wasting resources to track down people who may or may not have offended muslims , actual tweets promoting threats of violence towards non-believers can be found on twitter round-the-clock .
we found this tweet only 2 days ago following the brussels terror attack : a man who tweeted about stopping a muslim woman in the street yesterday , challenging her to explain brussels , and lambasted on twitter for his comments , has responded to the criticism today , insisting he is not some far right merchant .matthew doyle , partner at a south london-based talent & pr agency , posted a tweet on wednesday morning saying : i confronted a muslim woman in croydon yesterday .
i asked her to explain brussels .
she said nothing to do with me .
a mealy mouthed reply .
he was later arrested.a metropolitan police spokeman said : a 46-year-old man was this evening arrested at his home in croydon on suspicion of inciting racial hatred on social media .
he has been taken to a south london police station and enquiries continue .
his tweet referred to yesterday s bomb attacks on the belgian capital s main airport and metro system that left at least 34 people dead and 198 injured .
his comment went viral , being retweeted hundreds of times before he eventually deleted it .
mr doyle told the telegraph he had no idea his tweet would be the hand grenade it has proven to be and that twitter s 140 character limit made the encounter sound vastly different to how he thought it went .
what everyone s got wrong about this is i didn t confront the woman , he said .
i just said : excuse me , can i ask what you thought about the incident in brussels ? '
she was white , and british , wearing a hijab and she told me it was nothing to do with her .
i said thank you for explaining that and her little boy said goodbye to me as we went out separate ways .
on wednesday afternoon , he says , someone who s been outraged by his comments turned up at my door , gave me a load of abuse and tried to throw a punch at me .
as for his more inflammatory tweets , mr doyle claims they re intended as a joke , which people who know him would understand as that s absolutely not who i am .
i m not some far-right merchant , i m not a mouthpiece for any kind of racism or radicalism , he says .
if i was xenophobic i wouldn t live in london .
i have a muslim neighbour who got burgled , and i was one of the first people to go around to help .
however , he says he does believe muslims aren t doing enough to speak out against terrorism .
the horror that happened in brussels could happen here , he adds , and your naive if you think london isn t on some terror shortlist .
via : telegraph