one-third of precincts in wayne county could be disqualified from an unprecedented statewide recount of presidential election results because of problems with ballots.michigan s largest county voted overwhelmingly for democratic candidate hillary clinton , but officials couldn t reconcile vote totals for 610 of 1,680 precincts during a countywide canvass of vote results late last month.most of those are in heavily democratic detroit , where the number of ballots in precinct poll books did not match those of voting machine printout reports in 59 percent of precincts , 392 of 662.according to state law , precincts whose poll books don t match with ballots can t be recounted .
if that happens , original election results stand .
it s not good , conceded daniel baxter , elections director for the city of detroit.he blamed the discrepancies on the city s decade-old voting machines , saying 87 optical scanners broke on election day .
many jammed when voters fed ballots into scanners , which can result in erroneous vote counts if ballots are inserted multiple times .
poll workers are supposed to adjust counters to reflect a single vote but in many cases failed to do so , causing the discrepancies , baxter said.even so , baxter said it s unlikely all 392 of the city s precincts with mismatched numbers will be disqualified from a recount .
the city is in contact with elections officials at the state of michigan and baxter predicted the numbers will match when the ballot boxes are re-opened for the recount , which starts tuesday in wayne county at cobo center .
it s a challenge , but we re confident the ballots will match , baxter said .
i don t think it s going to be 100 percent , but it never is with a recount .
county reports obtained by the detroit news , though , indicate canvassers were provided no explanation for why the numbers didn t add up in those precincts .
they certified the results of the election anyway.u.s .
district judge mark goldsmith ordered the hand recount of 4.8 million ballots just after midnight monday , granting a motion in favor of green party presidential candidate jill stein .
it began monday in oakland and ingham counties and continues at 9 a.m. tuesday in kalamazoo , kent , macomb , ottawa , washtenaw and wayne counties.the recount will begin throughout the rest of michigan s 83 counties in phases this week.republican president-elect donald trump won michigan by a razor-thin margin , 10,704 votes .
presumably , clinton s best opportunity to eliminate that margin rested in finding uncounted ballots in wayne county , which she carried by a 2-1 ratio.besides wayne , clinton carried oakland , washtenaw , genesee , ingham , kalamazoo , marquette and muskegon counties.none had nearly as many problems as wayne .
but at least 13 of 222 precincts in genesee county are not balanced .
more than half of those were in heavily democratic flint , according to county canvassing reports .
the election was still certified by its board of canvassers .
the trouble is there s too much leniency with the board of canvassers , said john gleason , genesee county s clerk .
they re not as stringent as need to be because they think it won t affect the outcome of the election .
gleason , who estimated the recount will cost the cash-strapped county $ 100,000 , said he expects the numbers to reconcile when workers begin the county recount on wednesday .
it s impossible to tell at this point how many will and how many won t be re-countable , added joseph rozell , elections director for oakland county.in the first six hours of ingham county s recount monday , six of 30 precincts from lansing could not be recounted .
one of the ballot containers had a hole in it , making it susceptible to tampering and not recountable , county clerk barb byrum said.two tries to match numbersstate law spells out a prescribed criteria for determining whether a precinct can be recounted .
workers first check to make sure the number of ballots on the seal of the container matches the ballots recorded by workers on election day .
if the seal number matches , then we know it s not been tampered with , rozell said.if numbers don t match , then workers can count all of the ballots in the precinct twice to see if there was an error made by workers on election night .
if it does not match after the second count , then it s not recountable , rozell said.entire precincts can be set aside in a recount if the ballots are stored in an unapproved container or if it isn t properly sealed.at ingham county s recount operation monday at the county s fairgrounds in mason , ballots were stored in suitcase-like containers that were sealed with plastic zip-ties that had to be cut for workers to take out the ballots.byrum plans to have the ballot bags guarded each night during the recount by a sheriff s deputy .
detroit news