protesters who take to the streets in north dakota might want to look both ways for changes in the rules of the road.a bill sponsored by state rep. keith kempenich , r-bowman , would protect drivers from legal consequences if they inadvertently hit , injure or kill pedestrians who are obstructing traffic.the legislation is a direct response to the massive protests around the standing rock indian reservation , kempenich said .
the ongoing protests have shut down a nearby highway for months and stalled construction of a pipeline that would carry crude from the north dakota oil patch .
if you stay off the roadway , this would never be an issue , kempenich said .
those motorists are going about the lawful , legal exercise of their right to drive down the road .
those people didn t ask to be in this .
the legislation has drawn withering criticism from standing rock supporters , who worry that it could be open season for protesters on north dakota roads.kempenich said he wants to shift the blame for a crash from drivers to the people who choose to protest in traffic .
the legislation , he said , would not protect someone who deliberately tries to run down a protester , and it would not let drivers off the hook if they hit a jaywalker or a child chasing a ball into the street .
this bill puts the onus on somebody who s made a conscious decision to put themselves in harm s way , he said .
you can protest all you want , but you can t protest up on a roadway .
it s dangerous for everybody .
star tribunehighways shouldn t be used as staging areas for protests , kempenich said .
they re intentionally putting themselves in danger , he said , adding that accidents could result.blocking roads or highways has also been a tactic adopted on occasion by protesters in other movements , such as black lives matter.a spokeswoman for the pipeline protests said she is concerned the bill , if passed , would give careless drivers a free pass to kill or maim people who are exercising their free speech rights .
it is basically giving permission for vehicular homicide , and that is wrong , said joye braun , an organizer for the indigenous environmental network .
nobody has the right to take the life of another person .
the network is an activist group that opposes the pipeline , which would carry bakken crude oil across the missouri river just north of the standing rock sioux reservation .
protesters say the pipeline s path crosses sacred land and could endanger the tribe s source of drinking water.braun said she once was struck by a woman who objected to her video-recording a protest outside a fast-food restaurant in mandan , and she worries the bill would embolden people to harm pipeline protesters .
i believe there is a small element who may use this as an excuse to attack people , braun said.the proposal has attracted some national attention .
robert reich , a former u.s. labor secretary and liberal commentator , has criticized the bill.-inforum