brussels ( reuters ) - the european union wants a transition period after brexit to end no later than dec. 31 , 2020 , according to the european commission s negotiating directives agreed on wednesday .
the transitional arrangements should apply as from the date of entry into force of the withdrawal agreement and should not last beyond 31 december 2020 , the published text showed .
coinciding with the end of the eu s current seven-year budget period , the end of 2020 , 21 months after brexit at the end of march 2019 , had long been expected as the target end date of the transition but this was the first official confirmation that this is the official goal of the union negotiators .
british prime minister theresa may had formally asked for a transition to last around two years .
the four pages of new directives for eu chief negotiator michel barnier were in line with guidelines issued by eu leaders at a summit on friday and will form the basis of talks on the transition which barnier hopes to start next month .
they spell out that britain will be effectively still a member of eu institutions , bound by all their rules including new ones , while not having a say in their making .
the eu will also offer britain a non-voting place at some meetings where decisions may affect specific issues and will set up special arrangements for a uk role in setting annual eu fishing quotas .
the directives also spell out more clearly that eu treaties with other countries and international organizations will no longer apply to britain during the transition period .
however , the document adds : where it is in the interest of the union , the union may consider whether and how arrangements can be agreed that would maintain the effects of the agreements as regards the united kingdom during the transition period .
this has been important to britain since it could mean that it no longer benefits automatically from free trade agreements which the eu has with , say , canada or south korea , while , as the directives underline , it would still have to apply eu trade policy for example collecting eu customs duty at uk ports .
among elements spelled out more in the transition directives than in the leaders guidelines last week was a repetition of a previously agreed eu position that everything applying to brexit for britain would also apply to other british territories .
brussels has previously said the spanish government must agree any future arrangements with britain that affect the british territory of gibraltar on spain s southern coast .