i will close my business before i will make any compromises that could jeopardize the safety and security of the members who shoot here .
you can be certain the feds are more concerned about those peaceful muslims in america who want to kill me than they are about anything i might say or do that hurts the feelings of islamic ( sic ) terrorists .
-jan morganon saturday , breitbart.com s awr hawkins said the department of justice is monitoring jan morgan , the owner of gun cave indoor firing range in hot springs , arkansas , who banned muslims from her business in 2014 , citing safety concerns .
but morgan isn t backing down and told examiner.com saturday she would close her business before putting her clients safety at risk.the washington post said the monitoring is the result of demands by the council on american-islamic relations and the arkansas chapter of the american civil liberties union .
both groups demanded a federal investigation after morgan declared her range to be a muslim-free zone .
cair and the aclu argue that morgan s muslim-free policy violates the public accommodation provision of the federal civil rights act of 1964 , the times said .
but morgan disagrees , saying her range is a private club with dues-paying members.the doj confirmed it was monitoring morgan , the times added .
the agency , however , did not say if it has plans to launch an investigation .
cair said it was pleased with the action .
we welcome this positive development and hope it leads to a thorough investigation of clear violations of the civil rights of american muslims and those perceived to be muslim by the gun range owner , said cair s civil rights litigation director jenifer wicks .
but morgan told examiner there is a huge difference between monitoring and investigating.in fact , she said at her website , she has been under the watchful eyes of federal law enforcement authorities for a long time as a result of years of death threats from muslims .
the threats , she added , began long before she owned the range .
now , she lives her daily life under a federal microscope .
i have nothing to hide , she said .
i have no secrets from the federal government .
last year , she added , fbi counter-terrorism agents met with her and said isis is in arkansas .
the agency feared i was going to be a target of opportunity , and i was directed to take every security pre-caution necessary to protect my life and the lives of all people in my presence at all times , she wrote.morgan said that like the french cartoonists at charlie hebdo , she has had her life threatened many times over her articles .
she also acted upon the directive of the atf to all ffl holders to err on the side of caution and not engage in any firearm transactions with anyone we suspect might use that firearm in the commission of a crime .
so , cair and the aclu , do you really think the idea of more monitoring of my daily life is somehow new or a threat to me in any way ?
she asked on facebook .
of course the feds are monitoring me , she added .
you can be certain the feds are more concerned about those peaceful muslims in america who want to kill me than they are about anything i might say or do that hurts the feelings of islamic ( sic ) terrorists .
morgan told examiner she is prepared to deal with a federal investigation should one be launched against her .
i was prepared to fight this from day one , she said.the bottom line , she added , is this : i will close my business before i will make any compromises that could jeopardize the safety and security of the members who shoot here .
on her site , morgan said she will continue to follow the advise of two agencies within the doj to protect and defend my own life , as well as the lives of innocent american citizens in my presence , from any and all threats of violence connected to , and or associated with any and all terrorist organizations .
anything less , she added , would be irresponsible , reckless , and life threatening .
via : joe newby , the examiner