obama s goal of making gun control a reality in the united states of america is one step closer , thanks to this radical judge a connecticut judge ruled thursday that a lawsuit against the manufacturer of the gun used in the sandy hook shootings , and other companies , can move forward.a connecticut superior court judge denied a motion to dismiss the lawsuit against the companies involved in the manufacturing , distribution and sale of the rifle used in the deadly 2012 shootings.adam lanza used a bushmaster ar-15 rifle in the sandy hook elementary school shootings on dec. 14 , 2012 to kill 26 people in less than five minutes .
the families of the victims , which included 20 children , have sued the maker , distributor and seller of the rifle , arguing that the military-style gun should have never been available for civilians to purchase.connecticut state judge barbara bellis rejected the gun companies argument that a 2005 federal law can protect gun businesses from civil lawsuits.remington arms co. , the manufacturer of the rifle , is named in the suit .
also named is camfour inc. , a distributor of firearms , and the now-defunct riverview gun sales , a dealer in east windsor , conn. , that sold the rifle to the lanza s mother in 2010 .
via : washington examinernolan finley , the detroit news the lawsuit , filed by nine victim families , claims remington is liable for making and selling to the public a rifle unfit for civilian use.the claim plays right into the anti-gun lobby s latest end-around of the constitution .
it follows the strategy laid out in last week s democratic debate by hillary clinton , who wants to open up both gun manufacturers and gun retailers to product liability lawsuits.while clinton chortles derisively whenever it s pointed out that the threat of such litigation would become an effective ban on gun sales , and ultimately on gun ownership , that is precisely the desired outcome.clinton s charge that gunmakers enjoy unique protection from liability isn t true .
all manufacturers of defect-free , legal goods enjoy a broad shield against damage resulting from the intentional misuse of their products.still , gun opponents compare firearm manufacturers with automakers , who are routinely sued when their cars and trucks are involved in a fatal accident .
but those suits center around product malfunctions or design flaws .
if someone gets drunk and plows an automobile into a group of children at a bus stop , the automaker is only liable if something was defective on the vehicle that contributed to the carnage.the weapons used by lanza were not defective .
the were misused .
neither the manufacturer nor the retailer , who is also being sued , sold them to lanza .
the emotionally troubled teen took them without permission from his mother s home .
a negligence case could be made against the mother .
she should not have allowed her deranged son access to her extensive arsenal ; i m all for holding gun owners responsible for properly securing their firearms.unfortunately , his mother was lanza s first victim.judge barbara bellis permitted the suit against remington to proceed based on her gross misunderstanding of firearms.she agreed with the plaintiff s attorneys depiction of the bushmaster ar-15 semi-automatic rifle as a military weapon not intended for civilian use.that s just wrong .
the difference between the bushmaster and a common hunting rifle is cosmetic .
it looks more lethal , but it operates the same way , firing one bullet with each pull of the trigger .
it s not a machine gun ; it doesn t fire rounds in bursts.if the military were to arm its soldiers with bushmasters , it would lose every battle.lanza used legal weapons that were sold within the strict confines of connecticut s gun laws , but taken without the owner s permission.if that becomes the flimsy standard for manufacturer and retailer liability , as both this lawsuit and hillary clinton hope , it will be the end of gunmaking and sales in this country .
and that s just what backers of this strategy want .