( reuters ) - the trial of a mexican man accused of murdering a woman while illegally in the united states began in san francisco on monday , a case that president donald trump has cited as an example of the dangers posed by lax border security .
juan francisco lopez-sanchez , also known as jose ines garcia zarate , has said he shot kate steinle by accident on a pier in the california city on july 1 , 2015 .
he has pleaded not guilty to second-degree murder , a charge that can bring between 15 years to life in prison .
court officials confirmed the trial had started but did not offer further details of the proceedings .
he did not know the object in his hand was a gun , matt gonzalez , an attorney for the defendant , was quoted as saying by nbc bay area before he headed into the courtroom .
he does not bear criminal responsibility .
assistant district attorney diana garcia declined to comment on the case .
prosecutors have accused the defendant of recklessly pointing a stolen gun at people on the pier .
prosecutors and defense attorneys were in court and not immediately available for comment .
garcia zarate had been deported to mexico five times since first entering the united states as a juvenile , the san francisco chronicle and other local media reported .
steinle has been frequently invoked by name by trump as part of his signature pledges to halt illegal immigration and crack down on so-called sanctuary cities that refuse to comply with certain federal immigration laws .
in june , the u.s. house of representatives voted 228-195 to pass the no sanctuary for criminals act , which would withhold some federal grants to sanctuary cities .
by a vote of 257-167 , the chamber also passed kate s law , named for kate steinle , to increase penalties for illegal immigrants who return to the united states .
under the laws , immigrants in the country illegally would face mandatory detention for past convictions of an expanded number of offenses .
san francisco , like other sanctuary jurisdictions , has defended its approach as making the city safer , saying its practice of not inquiring about immigration status makes immigrants , including those in the country illegally , more willing to report crimes .