new york ( reuters ) - connecticut lawmakers narrowly approved a new labor contract with public employees on monday that is expected to save the state at least $ 1.2 billion - largely through pension concessions - and could clear the way for lawmakers to agree on a past due budget .
the total savings are combined over five years , from fiscal 2017 through 2021 , according to a report from the legislature ’ s office of fiscal analysis on monday .
the house approved the deal last week .
on monday evening lieutenant governor nancy wyman , a democrat who acts as president of the connecticut senate , broke a tie so the measure could pass 19 to 18 .
the state missed its july 1 deadline to pass a biennial budget for the current and next fiscal year , leading governor dannel malloy , a democrat , to take over state spending and slash costs .
the labor pact is “ a key piece toward adopting a budget for our state , ” malloy said in a statement after the vote .
“ i am urging legislative leaders on both sides of the aisle to work with our administration on finding a solution on this as possible so that the most vulnerable populations do not suffer long-term consequences. ” pension and healthcare provisions were also extended until 2027 in the deal , which malloy said would ultimately save $ 24 billion over 20 years .
labor costs have been one sticking point in budget talks as lawmakers differed with each other and malloy over how to close a $ 5.1 billion shortfall over two years .
through the state employee bargaining agent coalition ( sebac ) , which covers about 42,000 members in 15 different unions , public employees ratified the deal on july 17 .
they negotiated with malloy , who said the agreement would shave $ 1.6 billion off of the current deficit .
this fiscal year alone contains the biggest savings of any other year at $ 371.8 million , the legislative analysis said .
the largest concessions come from changes to public pensions and retiree healthcare .
employees will contribute more towards their pensions , and annual cost of living adjustments will be tied to the consumer price index .
wages will also be frozen for the three years ending fiscal 2019 but will be raised 3.5 percent in each of the following two years .
republican critics said that concessions did not go far enough , that taxes would have to rise to pay for it and that the deal squandered an opportunity for a broader restructuring of public pensions and benefits .