it is difficult to exaggerate the significance of fox news sacking of bill o reilly.not only was he the single most dominant public figure in america s vast conservative media environment , his removal signals the growing power of james and lachlan murdoch in the world s most powerful media empire , their father rupert murdoch s 21st century fox.o reilly was dismissed overnight following allegations of sexual harassment by at least six women .
it has been reported that lachlan s wife sarah murdoch helped influence the decision .
last year the former fox news creator , roger ailes , was sacked in similar circumstances , going on to advise donald trump s presidential campaign.o reilly has been a towering figure in american politics and culture since murdoch and ailes began to build the conservative fox news channel and its identity around him in 1996 .
his evening talk program , the o reilly factor , was combative and trenchantly conservative , setting the tone for the entire channel , which soon came to dominate cable news and , in turn , the entire american news landscape .
in january 2014 , fox news marked its 145th consecutive month as the no.1 rated cable news channel in the us .
sydney morning heraldjames murdoch s wife works for the clinton climate initiative .
she is an outspoken hater of president trump on twitter and much of her hate is directed at his refusal to accept that man-made climate warming cooling change is settled science .
here are a few examples of the hate she spews for donald trump on twitter : clean energy jobs for many americans or dirty energy money for a few polluters- this should n't be a hard choice .
https : //t.co/pdx6cpeyjm kathryn murdoch ( @ kathrynamurdoch ) april 19 , 2017enough of president bannon .
president jarvanka preferable .
kathryn murdoch ( @ kathrynamurdoch ) april 5 , 2017 '' an angry reflex in search of an idea '' sums up a lot https : //t.co/sof1zb4paw kathryn murdoch ( @ kathrynamurdoch ) march 28 , 2017bill o reilly spent a considerable amount of time on his top rated show debunking phony man-made climate-change .
hmmm could there be a connection the # 1 host on fox news who had the ability to influence millions of people and his firing ? new york magazine s gabriel sherman , who has broken a string of stories about the changing of the guard inside fox , wrote that , as allegations mounted against o reilly , rupert murdoch wanted to stand by the host , while lachlan and james wanted to sack him.the murdochs decision to dump o reilly shocked many fox news staffers i ve spoken to in recent days .
late last week , the feeling inside the company was that rupert murdoch would prevail over his son james , who lobbied to jettison the embattled host .
it s still unclear exactly how the tide turned .
according to one source , lachlan murdoch s wife helped convince her husband that o reilly needed to go , which moved lachlan into james s corner .
the source added that senior executives at other divisions within the murdoch empire have complained that if o reilly s allegations had happened to anyone else at their companies , that person would be gone already.has it actually been proven that bill o reilly is guilty or is america to believe that just because rupert murdoch s liberal sons ( and/or their wives ) want o reilly gone that he is indeed guilty ? hollywood reporter last july , after gretchen carlson sued the murdoch-controlled 21st century fox and roger ailes , the then-head of fox news channel , for sexual harassment , rupert murdoch told his sons , both ailes enemies , that paying off carlson without a fight would mean more lawsuits .
easy-money settlements always bring more claims .
james and lachlan murdoch , however , were eager to get rid of their nemesis , and the most direct way to do that was to accept carlson s claims after a quickie investigation and then use a big payoff $ 20 million to end the dispute and calm the storm.nine months later , the chickens coming home to roost , fox has continued to collect a string of look-alike claims against ailes and against ratings giant bill o reilly , with a firestorm of recent press attention on what the new york times is calling the o reilly revelations .
what has been revealed is not evidence nor an admission of guilt but details of payments settling complaints against o reilly not a small distinction .
you can assume maximal guilt , which the times and other fox haters do , or you can assume , as many lawyers do , that when there is money to be had , plaintiffs come out of the woodwork .
( coming out of the woodwork is a virtual term of art in big settlement tort cases ) .murdoch senior is said to be saying , i told you so .
james , ceo of 21st century fox , is blaming it on the fox news culture and has hired paul weiss , the same law firm that performed a two-week investigation of ailes , to probe o reilly ( there is , too , a department of justice investigation of how settlement payments were made , which rupert dismisses as doj liberal politics and which his sons see as indicating more fox news dark arts ) .
this is a reflection of greater family and company interests and conflicts .
for 86-year-old rupert , fox news is a key part of his legacy , as well as the family company s health : the most profitable news outlet ever ( $ 1.5 billion in profits this year ) and among the most influential .
for james , 44 , and lachlan , 45 , the hope is to reshape this legacy , to move fox away from what they see as its retro , trump-style views toward , well , something nicer ( and to do this profitably , they hope , somehow ) .it s a particular sort of irony that fox , which , to the delight of its audience , built itself on rejecting liberal assumptions , might now be brought down by such a signature liberal assumption : where there are charges of sexual harassment , there is sexual harassment .
it s a kind of zeitgeist power play .
after president trump went out of his way to support o reilly on april 5 , the new york times , which left little doubt that it accepted the truth of the allegations , noted the president has a particular rapport with mr. o reilly , whose hectoring braggadocio and no-apologies nostalgia for a bygone american era mirror mr. trump s own .
this is a curious view considering trump won the presidency , and o reilly is the highest-rated cable news host and , to boot , one of the best-selling authors in the country .
so , more accurately , it may only be a bygone era for the new york times and the liberal order that so furiously opposes and links trump and fox .
but the cultural upper hand is a mighty one and sexual harassment has become an issue so fraught , it largely precludes debate .
hence , advertisers are now fleeing o reilly seeming to make a moral judgment , but , practically speaking , just avoiding controversy ( few , if any , have left the network entirely ) .your narrative is your fate .
it doesn t matter if o reilly or ailes did or didn t do the things they are accused of no trial has occurred , no evidence has been released , no investigators conclusions shared their real guilt is that people believe they could have.confusing matters , the murdoch sons also see o reilly and ailes as part of a bygone era their father s. pay no attention that it was precisely this sensibility that has been such a powerful audience draw at fox .
( of note , to the lasting outrage and confusion of liberals , trump , despite the bygone era suggested by his billy bush pussygate tape , was elected anyway . )
the murdoch sons , while in important ways financially supported by the profitable , culturally backward views at fox , see their job as taking the company into a new era.the sons plan was to make fox the network of megyn kelly rather than of ailes and o reilly .
that plan foundered on widespread resentment at the network toward kelly for her part in ailes ouster and on the election of trump .
suddenly , fox s when america was great and men were men appeal was even stronger.murdoch senior has remained largely remote from this dispute , but he reportedly has been paying attention again .
he is said to be worried that his sons are moving toward a radical break re-imagining fox , is what james is said to call it and hastening the end of an era that , in television terms , so far has been more popular and unyielding than any cozier new one .