did you see the testimony from fbi director comey yesterday ?
the two words that stand out are the words mildly nauseous : fbi director james comey said he s mildly nauseous about the possibility that his announcement about reopening an investigation into hillary clinton s emails influenced the outcome of the election tessa berenson , time ( time.com ) , 3 may 2017tucker carlson interviewed us attorney joe digenova : does the fbi director have too much power ? https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=wzdgkmo3-a8digenova was on fire during this interview : i got mildly nauseous listening to his testimony one more time , digenova said , referring to comey s own feelings about possibly affecting the outcome of the 2016 presidential election .
james comey is a danger to the country , digenova said .
he surrounds himself with his own cult of personality .
he believes that he is the last righteous man left standing .
when comey held a news conference july 5 , 2016 where he accused hillary clinton and then exonerated her , digenova said , he violated every rule and regulation of the department of justice .
he should have been fired that day .
president donald trump should not have kept him after his inauguration , he added .
he should be fired for the testimony that he has given over the last few months , digenova added .
that july 5 news conference was the original sin .
from it , everything else followed .
in answer to comey s question to his critics of what they would have done differently , digenova said , mr. director , i would have done nothing , because i never would have held the july 5 news conference , which forced you to send two letters to congress .
comey , as fbi director , is a cop , he said , but instead took on the role of a prosecutor , stealing the job of the justice department .
but the justice department , headed then by attorney general loretta lynch , was left unable to respond because of lynch s private meeting with clinton s husband , former president bill clinton , in clinton s plane at the phoenix airport .
the entire department of justice was so frightened of jim comey because of the way they had politically mishandled the hillary clinton email server investigation , that they were afraid to contradict him , he said .
that is what you call a disaster in a government of accountability .
he stole the work of the department of justice in a single day , and they sat there and watched it .
a pox on all of their houses .
both sides of the aisle are angry with comey he s got 7 more years with the fbi.should trump fire him now or keep him for another 7 years ? via : newsmax