sydney ( reuters ) - the 11 countries committed to the trans-pacific partnership are considering amendments to the trade deal , three sources said on tuesday , as officials meet in sydney for talks to re-energize the stalled agreement .
among the areas being discussed , vietnam has raised the prospect of changes to labor rights and intellectual property ( ip ) provisions in the original pact , one source familiar with the talks told reuters .
vietnam had been one of the countries expected to enjoy the biggest economic benefits from tpp through greater access to u.s. markets .
however , the original 12-member tpp , which aims to cut trade barriers in some of asia s fastest-growing economies , was thrown into limbo in january when u.s. president trump withdrew from the agreement .
trump s move fulfilled a campaign pledge to put america first - a policy that aimed to bring manufacturing jobs back to the united states .
although the remaining members have publicly said they remain committed to the deal , implementation of the agreement linking 11 countries with a combined gdp of $ 12.4 trillion has stalled - raising fears that other countries will follow the u.s. lead and withdraw .
eager to keep all members onboard , representatives from the remaining countries are considering changes to the original tpp deal , three sources familiar with the talks said .
we re all open to evaluating what we can do and what viable alternatives there may be , edgar vasquez , peru s deputy trade minister , told reuters .
while no agreement is expected at the end of the three-day meeting , vietnam s desire to shelve the ip provisions around pharmaceutical data is likely to win broad support , with japanese and new zealand officials also indicating their support for the change , two other sources said .
the original tpp agreement was seen as particularly onerous on vietnam , which be forced to make significant reforms , analysts said .
there s not much sense to agree to provisions they don t really want such as stronger monopolies on medicines if they are not going to get access to the u.s. market , said patricia ranald , research associate , university of sydney .
the original tpp offered an eight-year window before competitors can have access to proprietary pharmaceutical data , which critics said would impede development of cheap generics .
potential amendments , however , require delicate positioning .
while trump has said he will not change his mind on tpp , the remaining members are hopeful a future u.s. president will commit to the agreement , a cornerstone of former president barack obama s pivot to asia .
but analysts said wholesale changes , while ensuring the support of smaller members , would repel the united states .
the more you change the agreement , it is going to be harder to get the u.s. to sign on when it is ready to , said shiro armstrong , research fellow at the crawford school of economics in canberra .