dhaka ( reuters ) - bangladesh is in negotiations with myanmar aimed at a deal to repatriate displaced rohingya and dhaka s foreign minister will address the matter at talks in myanmar this week , the bangladeshi foreign ministry said on sunday .
more than 600,000 muslim rohingya have fled to neighboring bangladesh since late august , driven out by a military clearance operation in buddhist majority myanmar s rakhine state .
the rohingyas suffering has caused an international outcry .
bangladesh and myanmar are in the process of negotiation for a bilateral agreement for repatriation of displaced people and expect to form a joint working group to facilitate the repatriation , said a ministry statement , quoting remarks by foreign minister abul hasan mahmood ali at a meeting with his japanese counterpart in dhaka on sunday .
a senior aide to ali said he would leave for myanmar late on sunday to attend an asia-europe ( asem ) meeting on monday and tuesday and would stay on another couple of days for bilateral talks on the rohingya .
the official said ali hoped for an agreement on allowing rohingya to return to myanmar .
both countries have almost reached an understanding on this issue and there are a few points ( still ) to be agreed ... we hope to reach an agreement .
there was no immediate comment from myanmar .
on nov. 1 , myanmar insisted it was ready to set up a repatriation process but voiced fears bangladesh was delaying an accord to first get international aid money .
a senior bangladesh home ministry official described the accusation as outrageous .
stung by international criticism and accusations of ethnic cleansing of the rohingya , myanmar s de facto leader , aung san suu kyi , has said rohingyas who can prove they were resident in myanmar would be accepted back .
last week a united nations general assembly committee called on myanmar to end military operations that have led to the systematic violation and abuse of human rights of rohingya .
the move revived a u.n. resolution that was dropped last year due to myanmar s progress on human rights .
however , in the past three months there has been a rohingya exodus to bangladesh after the myanmar military began an operation against rohingya militants who attacked 30 security posts and an army base in rakhine on aug. 25 .
myanmar s army released a report on monday denying all allegations of rapes and killings by security forces , days after replacing the general in charge of the military operation .
top u.n. officials have denounced the violence as a classic example of ethnic cleansing .
the myanmar government has denied these allegations .
rohingyas have been denied citizenship in myanmar , where many buddhists see them as illegal immigrants from bangladesh .
a u.s. congressional delegation , european union foreign policy chief federica mogherini and the foreign ministers of germany , sweden and japan visited rohingya camps in cox s bazar at the weekend to raise awareness of their plight .
we support bangladesh s efforts toward a lasting solution , including the repatriation of displaced persons , japan s taro kona told ali at their meeting , where tokyo pledged $ 18.6 million in aid to ease the rohingya crisis .
mogherini told reporters : more than putting pressure , our approach has always been and will continue to be to offer a negotiating space , encourage the taking care of a situation that is not going to disappear .