phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodia s main opposition party will boycott a parliamentary vote to strip their detained leader of immunity on monday and will instead go to kem sokha s jail to demand his release , one of his deputies said on sunday .
kem sokha , the head of the cambodian national rescue party ( cnrp ) , was arrested a week ago and charged with treason for allegedly plotting to win power with the support of the united states , escalating a crackdown on critics of prime minister hun sen and independent media ahead of a general election next year .
two aid groups run by the publisher of the cambodia daily , shut a week ago in a dispute over a crippling tax bill , said they were suspending work after their accounts were frozen .
parliament is due to vote on whether to remove the immunity from prosecution which kem sokha gets as an elected member of parliament .
the ruling cambodian people s party s ( cpp ) majority means the motion is certain to pass anyway .
cnrp deputy leader mu sochua said the parliament vote was illegal .
we can t accept this .
we will demand that kem sokha , who has not done anything wrong , be released , she said , adding members of parliament would hold a protest at the prison where he is being held near the border with vietnam .
cpp spokesman sok eysan said the opposition boycott would be unconstitutional , but the cpp had enough votes to strip kem sokha of his immunity anyway .
hun sen , a 65-year-old former khmer rouge commander , has ruled cambodia for more than 30 years and said last week he planned to stay in power for another decade .
next year s election had been expected to be his toughest electoral test , but western countries and human rights groups have raised doubts as to whether the vote will be fair .
they have criticized kem sokha s arrest , but china has given its backing to close ally hun sen .
the evidence presented against kem sokha so far is a video recorded in 2013 in which he discusses a strategy to win power with the help of unspecified americans .
his lawyers have dismissed the evidence as nonsense and said he was only discussing election strategy .
in recent weeks , hun sen has also expelled the national democratic institute , a non-governmental organization that promotes democracy , and ordered 19 radio stations off the air .
the independent english-language cambodia daily shut last week after being given a month to pay a $ 6.3 million tax demand .
japan relief for cambodia and world relief for cambodia , aid groups financed by the paper s publisher , said their accounts had been frozen and they would have to suspend building schools and teaching english and computing to thousands of pupils .