in 2013 dr kermit gosnell was convicted of killing four people , including three babies , but is thought to have killed hundreds , perhaps thousands more in a 30-year killing spree.gosnell is currently serving three life sentences ( without the possibility of parole ) for murdering babies and patients at his house of horrors abortion clinic.this book now a major movie starring dean cain ( lois & clarke ) reveals how the investigation that brought gosnell to justice started as a routine drugs investigation and turned into a shocking unmasking of america s biggest serial killer .
it details how compliant politicians and bureaucrats allowed dr. gosnell to carry out his grisly trade because they didn t want to be accused of attacking abortion .
gosnell also exposes the media coverup that saw reporters refusing to cover a story that shone an unwelcome spotlight on abortion in america in the 21st century.gosnell is an astounding piece of investigative journalism revealing a coverup among the medical political and media establishments that allowed a killer to go undetected for decades.newsbusters among other things , gosnell was convicted may 2013 of first-degree murder of three babies ( while the nightmarish grand jury report , the hollywood reporter has noted , alleges gosnell killed hundreds of infants by sticking scissors into their necks ) .on tuesday , the new york times responded to a regnery statement thursday criticizing the news outlet for refus [ ing ] to include gosnell on their nonfiction print hardcover best sellers list .
while gosnell made no .
13 on the times combined print & e-book nonfiction list , regnery still accused the news outlet because it ignored the real sales numbers and refused to correctly list gosnell as the 4th bestselling nonfiction title .
the publishing company argued that gosnell reached no .
3 on amazon s best-seller book list and was named amazon s no .
1 hot new release .
this was all without any mainstream media attention no reviews , no features , no author interviews , the statement added.a new york times representative defended the outlet s methodology tuesday in a comment to mrc culture : the times s best-seller lists are based on a detailed analysis of book sales from a wide range of retailers who provide us with specific and confidential context of their sales each week .
these standards are applied consistently , across the board in order to provide times readers our best assessment of what books are the most broadly popular at that time.she added , that process is not influenced in any way by the content of a book , or by pressure from publishers or book sellers .
unfortunately , the gosnell story has faced media silence from the very beginning .
even gosnell s trial , in which witnesses described baby abortion survivors swimming in toilets to get out , attracted a mere 12 15 reporters .
and that came only after a local columnist tweeted a picture of the empty courtroom benches reserved for press .
only after 56 days , multiple letters from members of the house of representatives and a public outcry , did all three broadcast networks report on gosnell.watch megyn kelly tear dr. gosnell s attorney who attempts to make her viewers believe dr. gosnell was a good guy and a perfect gentleman after he was convicted of murder : from the authors , ann mcelhinney and phelim mcaleer : the newspaper has admitted it does not use sales numbers to decide which books are allowed on its best sellers list .
for the new york times the numbers of books bought by real people don t matter .
according to a statement they take into account the context of the sales .
the context ? ? ? ?
? according to the new york times this context allows them to provide times readers our best assessment of what books are the most broadly popular at that time .
in other words to hell with the numbers we will decide what is popular and you can be sure it won t be a truthful book revealing the truth about abortion even though that is what people are buying .
the new york times best sellers list is a fake list in a fake newspaper.well we need to send a message to these elites who seem to hate the the truth.please send this link www.gosnellbook.com to as many people as you can and buy as many copies as you can .
give them to friends or donate them to your local library .
we need to make sure that the mainstream media can no longer ignore this book or the truth about kermit gosnell .
they tried to coverup the case when he was on trial .
we defeated them then and we can do it again.the cover-up stops now.thank you , ann and phelim