manila ( reuters ) - the philippines military chief vowed no letup on monday in hunting down and destroying extremist groups loyal to islamic state , saying marawi city would be retaken within days after the pivotal killing of two top rebel commanders .
general eduardo ano said the successful operation to take out the two leaders was a triumph of good over evil and urged the 30 militants remaining in a shrinking combat zone to surrender and free hostages as troops stepped up their fight .
it will be just a matter of days before it will finally be declared that marawi has been liberated from the clutches of terrorists , ano told a televised news conference .
there will be no let up .
it s about time to end these terrorists .
isnilon hapilon , islamic state s anointed emir in southeast asia , was shot in the head by a sniper and omarkhayam maute , one of two middle east-educated khalifas at the helm of the militant alliance , died of a chest wound in a targeted operation during the night , officials said .
the mission came after a freed hostage disclosed the leaders location .
ano said the bodies had been recovered and identified by experts and by captured rebels .
the deaths of hapilon and maute is a major win for a military criticized for its slow progress in retaking marawi and the ease with which rebels laid siege to it on may 23 , before holding the heart of the city for nearly five months .
the united states has for years offered a bounty of up to $ 5 million for the elusive hapilon over his activities as a faction leader of abu sayyaf , a group notorious for kidnapping , piracy and for beheading hostages , including foreigners .
experts say hapilon was an islamist ideologue who took fighters from his faction to join forces with the maute clan , a well-funded extremist group on the island of mindanao that emerged only last year .
abdullah maute , the alliance s military commander , was reported killed in august , though no body was found .
ano said another key operative , malaysian mahmud ahmad , was believed to be in the battle zone .
the leaders have been central to rebels regrouping , re-arming and recruiting after previous clashes over the past two years , growing stronger each time .
the alliance , dawla islamiya , has been bolstered by fighters from indonesia , malaysia , singapore and the middle east , among other countries .
experts say foreigners have aided funding and recruiting , preying on vulnerable youth , as shown by the presence of teenagers and child soldiers in marawi .
the military will target the destruction of all groups tied to islamic state by the end of the year , ano said .
there will be no let-up .
it s about time to end these terrorists in mindanao .
the resistance , or what s left of it , the terrorists , will crumble .
it is a dead end , there is nowhere else to go .
rommel banlaoi , head of the philippine institute for political violence and terrorism research , warned of retaliatory attacks from leaders deputies , who would assume control .
he described monday s operation as a tremendous setback to islamic state loyalists , but said security forces should avoid complacency , boost intelligence and tackle recruitment .
we have seen many times in the past , the death of key leaders will not prevent the terrorist organizations from wreaking havoc , banlaoi told news channel anc .
more than 300,000 filipinos have been displaced by the fighting , which authorities say has killed 824 rebels , 47 civilians and 162 military .
the occupation has been the biggest internal security crisis in the catholic-majority philippines for years , compounding fears that islamic state s extremist agenda and its advanced recruitment methods are more widespread than previously thought .
defence secretary delfin lorenzana said defense chiefs would assess whether to lift martial law in mindanao .
he said all cities on the island of 22 million people were vulnerable to attack , but authorities were vigilant .