new delhi ( reuters ) - indian prime minister narendra modi s ruling group will sweep an election in his home state of gujarat , surveys showed on thursday , shaking off the most serious challenge yet from a combined opposition .
the election for a new state assembly in gujarat is seen as a litmus test for modi ahead of a national election in 2019 .
voting closed on thursday .
a win would help him dismiss critics who said the ruling bharatiya janata party s support base was eroding after last year s shock move to ban high-value currency notes in the fight against graft , and poor implementation of a national sales tax this year hit businesses .
the congress party led by rahul gandhi and teaming up with regional politicians has run a tough campaign aiming to weaken modi in his home base and rouse public discontent over lack of jobs and a softening economy .
but three separate television exit polls at the close of the final round of voting on thursday showed the bjp winning more than 100 seats in the 182-member state house , well clear of the half-way mark of 92 required to rule .
congress , the main opposition party , will win 70-74 seats , the polls showed , better than in the past but not enough to oust the bjp from power .
another exit poll , conducted by a today s chanakya group , gave the bjp a two-thirds victory .
the actual votes will be counted on monday and exit polls and other surveys have often gone wrong in india , where millions vote .
the congress party said it was too quick to call the election based on exit polls .
the bjp has ruled gujarat since 1998 , with modi as its chief minister for more than a decade before he became prime minister three years ago .
modi has won praise for transforming the coastal state into an economic powerhouse and deploying business-friendly policies to lure foreign investors .
to ensure his party s prospects , modi led from the front to campaign in the state and addressed dozens of public rallies , performed rituals and even waved from a sea plane on the last day of his campaign trail .
on thursday , modi cast his ballot in gujarat s ahmedabad city and then hit the streets again , showing off his inked finger as he walked , surrounded by hundreds of supporters .
in separate exit surveys released for state polls held in himachal pradesh state also showed modi s party emerging as a winner .