geneva ( reuters ) - more than 2 million people fleeing wars or persecution have joined the ranks of the world s refugees this year , but often face more restrictive asylum policies , including in europe and the united states , the top u.n. refugee official said on monday .
they include 650,000 from south sudan and 500,000 muslim rohingya who have escaped violence in myanmar for bangladesh over the past five weeks , many of the latter stateless , united nations high commissioner for refugees filippo grandi said .
so far in 2017 , more than 2 million people have fled their countries as refugees , grandi told the unhcr executive committee which opened a week-long meeting in geneva .
they often arrive sick , traumatized and hungry , in remote border locations , in communities affected by poverty and underdevelopment .
many have urgent protection needs children separated from their families , men , women , girls and boys exposed to sexual and gender-based violence , he said .
at the end of last year , 17.2 million refugees fell under unhcr s mandate , but some of them have returned and others have been resettled , and there is no updated total .
an additional 5 million palestinian refugees are cared for by unrwa .
grandi voiced concern that the refugee issue has been increasingly instrumentalized in local and national policies .
international cooperation has been replaced by fragmented responses , resulting in restrictive immigration and asylum measures , even in countries with their own histories of exile and migration , and a proud tradition of welcome , he said .
border closures , measures to limit entry , restrictive asylum procedures , indefinite detention in appalling conditions , and offshore processing had regrettably increased , he said , decrying rising xenophobia .
we have observed the protection environment deteriorate in many parts of the world , including in industrialized countries - in europe , in the united states , in australia , grandi said .
nearly 1.2 million refugees need resettling globally to third countries , he said .
it is therefore an issue of major concern that fewer than 100,000 resettlement places are expected to be available this year a drop of 43 per cent from 2016 , he said .
traditionally , the united states has taken the largest number of refugees deemed most vulnerable under unhcr s resettlement program involving about 10 western receiving countries .
syrian and congolese refugees led those resettled last year .
the trump administration last week proposed admitting a maximum of 45,000 refugees next year , the lowest cap in decades , which officials said was necessary to ensure u.s. security , although democrats and humanitarian groups blasted the decision .
the report also projected slashing funding to the refugee resettlement program by 25 percent .