athens ( reuters ) - several hundred elderly greeks marched through athens on thursday , protesting against a government they say took everything with a new round of cuts to pensions and crumbling health care benefits .
greece s three bailouts since 2010 have repeatedly taken aim at the pension system .
cuts have pushed nearly half its elderly below the poverty line with incomes of less 600 euros ( $ 710.70 ) a month .
with nearly a quarter of the workforce unemployed , a quarter of children living in poverty and benefits slashed , parents have grown dependent on grandparents for handouts .
but after the cuts to pensions , some greeks have seen their monthly cheque fall between 40 and 50 percent in seven years .
after rent , utility bills and health care , they barely make ends meet .
i have never seen the country in this state , not even during war , said 80-year-old nikos georgiadis , a former hotel employee whose pension has been reduced by 40 percent .
pensioners are impoverished , and not only can they not afford to buy medicines , some are looking for food in the trash , he said , leaning on a tree to catch his breath .
new changes to pension regulations mean more cuts are expected in 2019 .
pensioners also have to pay more out of pocket for health care .
fotini karavidou , a 75-year-old retired accountant who joined the march in a wheelchair , said she had to cut back on everything to afford medicine .
it s simple - many pensioners can not afford to eat and to buy medicine , said yiannis karadimas , 67 , who heads a local pensioners association .
karadimas said it was a joke that the government had legalised marijuana for medical purposes while cutting back on health care spending .
they re killing us and they re mocking us at the same time , he said .
the popularity of prime minister alexis tsipras has waned since he first won elections in 2015 .
in an effort to rebuild public support , the government gave greece s 1.3 million pensioners a one-off christmas bonus last year , worth 300 to 500 euros each .
but the handouts have failed to whip up any obvious increase in support .
pensioners have taken to the streets time and again in recent months .
about 2,000 people joined thursday s march .
unfortunately , i voted for them , and they turned out to be the biggest liars of all , georgiadis , the pensioner , said .
it ( the government ) promised us everything , and it took everything .
( $ 1 = 0.8442 euros )