paris ( reuters ) - france , germany , italy and spain want digital multinationals like amazon and google to be taxed in europe based on their revenues , rather than only profits as now , their finance ministers said in a joint letter .
france is leading a push to clamp down on the taxation of such companies , but has found support from other countries also frustrated at the low tax they receive under current international rules .
currently such companies are often taxed on profits booked by subsidiaries in low-tax countries like ireland even though the revenue originated from other eu countries .
we should no longer accept that these companies do business in europe while paying minimal amounts of tax to our treasuries , the four ministers wrote in a letter seen by reuters .
the letter , signed by french finance minister bruno le maire , wolfgang schaeuble of germany , pier-carlo padoan of italy and luis de guindos , was addressed to the eu s estonian presidency with the bloc s executive commission in copy .
they urged the commission to come up with a solution creating an equalization tax on turnover that would bring taxation to the level of corporate tax in the country where the revenue was earned .
the amounts raised would aim to reflect some of what these companies should be paying in terms of corporate tax , the ministers said in the letter , first reported on by the financial times .
le maire , schaeuble , padoan and de guindos of spain said they wanted to present the issue to other eu counterparts at a sept. 15-16 meeting in tallinn .
the eu s current estonian presidency has scheduled a discussion at the meeting about the concept of permanent establishment , with the aim of making it possible to tax firms where they create value , not only where they have their tax residence .
france has stepped up pressure for eu tax rules after facing legal setbacks trying to obtain payments for taxes on activities in the country .
a french court ruled in july french court ruled that google , now part of alphabet inc , was not liable to pay 1.1 billion euros ( $ 1.3 billion ) in back taxes because it had no permanent establishment in france and ran its operations there from ireland .