santiago ( reuters ) - chilean president michelle bachelet s top economic officials resigned on thursday after the cancellation of a major mining project , weakening her center-left coalition before november elections .
finance minister rodrigo valdes said in a news conference some members of bachelet s government had not shared his sense of urgency to spur growth and attract investment to the world s top copper producer .
i wasn t able to make everybody share this conviction , valdes said , pointing to the need for discipline and clear rules for the private sector .
valdes , who held his position for two years , had criticized the government s decision to reject a $ 2.5 billion copper and iron project owned by andes iron last week on environmental grounds .
so had economy minister luis felipe cespedes and finance undersecretary alejandro micco , who also stepped down .
[ nl2n1l70zt ] cespedes , talking with reporters , did not respond when asked why he had quit .
micco s office declined to comment on his reasons for resigning .
dominga , as the project is known , had become a symbol in recent months of the increasing difficulties of doing business in what remains one of latin america s most open economies and laid bare philosophical differences within the government .
bachelet said valdes will be replaced by nicolas eyzaguirre , an economist in charge of legislative affairs for the president , while cespedes will be replaced by jorge rodriguez , president of banco del estado de chile .
i don t think development is something to be done with your back to the people , where only the numbers matter and not what s happening to families , said bachelet .
the shakeup was seen by some as a blow to the center-left and its presidential candidate alejandro guillier , who is generally supportive of bachelet , and a boost for conservative frontrunner sebastian pinera .
the correct solution is not a change of cabinet , it is a change of government , pinera told journalists .
the chilean peso strengthened over 1 percent after valdes resignation as traders bet the shake-up will make a pinera win more likely and will make it tougher for the current government to push through a social security reform .
the only thing this can do is divide the center-left even more , said kenneth bunker , head of an elections unit at universidad central de chile .
eyzaguirre and rodriguez , both centrists , served under ricardo lagos , a moderate who was president from 2000 to 2006 .
growth has slowed recently in chile , long an investor darling and latin america s richest nation .
in july s & p downgraded its debt for the first time since the 1990s .
bachelet has faced criticism that her government is poorly organized and lacks unity .
her approval rating has risen slowly in recent months after a series of legislative wins but remains in the low 30s .