kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - when zakir naik emerged from a prominent malaysian mosque last month fans swarmed about him , seeking selfies with the indian muslim televangelist whose hardline views have sparked a criminal investigation back in his home country .
accompanied by a bodyguard , naik was making a rare public appearance at the putra mosque in malaysia s administrative capital , where the prime minister and his cabinet members often worship .
naik , who has been banned in the uk , has been given permanent residency in malaysia , and embraced by top government officials .
critics see naik s presence in malaysia as another sign of top-level support for hardline islam in a country with substantial minorities of christians , hindus and buddhists , and which has long projected a moderate islamic image .
support for a more politicized islam has grown in recent years under prime minister najib razak , especially after he lost the popular vote in the 2013 general election - the ruling coalition s worst-ever electoral performance .
since then , his ruling party has been trying to appease an increasingly conservative ethnic malay-muslim base and religion has become a battleground ahead of elections the prime minister has to call by mid-2018 .
naik , a 52-year-old medical doctor , has aroused controversy with his puritan brand of islam - recommending the death penalty for homosexuals and those who abandon islam as their faith , according to media reports .
a youtube video shows naik saying that if osama bin laden is terrorizing america the terrorist , the biggest terrorist , i am with him .
last week , india s counter-terrorism agency prepared charges against naik , saying he has been promoting enmity and hatred between different religious groups in india through public speeches and lectures .
bangladesh suspended peace tv channel , which features naik s preachings , after some media reports claimed bombers of a dhaka cafe that killed 22 people last year were admirers of him .
islamic state claimed responsibility for the attack .
the malaysian government accommodates naik because he remains a reasonably popular character amongst malays , who gloss over his more controversial aspects , said rashaad ali , an analyst with s. rajaratnam school of international studies ( rsis ) in singapore .
if the government were to kick him out of the country , it causes them to lose religious credibility in the eyes of the public .
at his appearance at the putra mosque last month , a female reuters reporter asked about the investigation in india .
naik would only say : sorry , it is not right for me to speak with ladies in public .
naik did not respond to subsequent requests for comment from reuters .
malaysian deputy prime minister ahmad zahid hamidi told parliament on tuesday that naik , who obtained permanent residency five years ago , was not being given preferential treatment .
over the time spent in this country , he has not broken any laws or regulations .
as such , there is no reason from a legal standpoint to detain or arrest him , zahid said .
the government has not received any official request from india related to terrorism allegations involving him , he added .
zahid and the prime minister have both posted photos on facebook of their meetings with naik last year in malaysia .
a group of malaysian activists has filed suit in the high court to deport naik , saying he is a threat to public peace in the multi-racial society - about 40 percent of malaysia s population is non-muslim .
the group said it was unaware naik had been going to the putrajaya mosque - or where he might be in malaysia .
officials at the putra mosque said naik has been attending friday prayers there for about a month .
he has also been spotted in other mosques , hospitals and restaurants in the administrative capital in recent months , according to witnesses that reuters spoke to .
naik has in the past denied india s allegations .
in an interview with a kuwaiti television channel in may , he said he was being targeted by the hindu nationalist government of narendra modi because of his popularity .
malaysia s opposition islamic party ( pas ) , which has defended naik in the past , last week urged the government to disregard any potential indian extradition request , saying the allegations aim to block his influence and efforts to spread religious awareness among the international community .
islamic groups have stoked controversy for trying to impose their ethos in a multi-cultural country .
malaysian authorities canceled a planned beer festival last month , citing security concerns , and for some years now international pop stars who wish to make appearances in malaysia face restrictions over clothing and dancing .
islam is the official religion in malaysia .
the laws , however , are secular , though the country does have sharia courts for civil cases for muslims .
malaysia s nine sultans , who take turns as the mostly ceremonial monarch and are the official guardians of islam in malaysia , last month called for unity and religious harmony after what they described as excessive actions in the name of islam .
one of them harshly condemned a muslim-only launderette .
we are seeing this gravitation toward fundamentalism and a conservative idea of islam because the current government doesn t want to be seen as secular anymore , said ahmad farouk musa , founder of a moderate islam think-tank , islamic renaissance front ( irf ) .
to ensure malay support , the government thinks it has to have islamic credentials just like pas , farouk told reuters .
said .
islam sells .
in september , turkish writer mustafa akyol was detained for giving an unauthorized speech in the malaysian capital , in which he argued that governments shouldn t police religion or morality .
zahid , also the home minister , said akyol s book islam without extremes : a muslim case for liberty has been banned as it contravened norms of the society in malaysia .
farouk , who organized the speech , said he now faces charges for abetting akyol .