nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s opposition leader raila odinga said on tuesday he wants an interim government to run the country for six months while the constitution is reviewed to curb the president s authority .
odinga told reuters in an interview that he was open to talks with president uhuru kenyatta over a constitutional review aimed at lowering the risk of violence from minority groups who feel excluded from power .
kenyatta was re-elected with 98 percent of the vote on oct. 26 after odinga boycotted the election , saying it would not be fair .
the repeat presidential vote followed an election in august , which kenyatta also won but which was nullified by the supreme court on procedural grounds .
odinga s supporters have repeatedly protested against the results , and at least 51 people have been killed in the turmoil since august , generating an atmosphere of uncertainty in east africa s richest economy .
a pure presidential system enhances ethnicity because each community believes that they are not safe unless their man is at the top , odinga said in the interview in his office .
three of kenya s presidents since independence from britain in 1963 have been from the kikuyu ethnic group and one has been from the kalenjin group , although there are 44 recognized ethnic groups in the nation .
the current president is a kikuyu and his deputy is a kalenjin , and many of odinga s supporters , who are largely drawn from other ethnic groups , say they feel excluded from power .
the 2010 constitution devolved some power and money to kenya s 47 counties , spreading the opportunities for power and political patronage .
but most of the budget and the power is still in the hands of the central government , something odinga wants to change .
we had a new constitution that we enacted in 2010 ; we think that now it is time to revisit it , he said .
a constitutional review could strengthen institutions like the election board and cut down the powers of the presidency , he said .
we think that maybe six months will be required to carry out all these changes that we need in this country .
odinga served as prime minister in a coalition government that was crafted in 2008 after two months of violence following a disputed election killed 1,200 people .
after the oct. 26 election , odinga s opposition alliance called for civil disobedience , including protests and a boycott of products and services by firms friendly to kenyatta s government , to force reforms .
the opposition did not challenge kenyatta s oct. 26 victory at the supreme court and there has been no protest action , but voter and rights activists lodged cases on monday .
the court has 14 days to review them .