counting bernie sanders write-in votes for clinton in michigan .
any gains by clinton are stolen votes .
mike roman ( @ mikeroman ) december 7 , 2016wayne county ( detroit ) is counting write-in votes for bernie as votes for clinton !
trump team has to challenge them .
pic.twitter.com/zaxemzfwmw mike roman ( @ mikeroman ) december 7 , 2016another one .
lawyers trying to have this ballot counted as a vote for clinton .
# michiganrecount # corrupt pic.twitter.com/sv80sao2qf mike roman ( @ mikeroman ) december 7 , 2016a fellow michigander and facebook friend ken crider exposes more fraud that was uncovered during the recount in wayne county ( primarily detroit voting districts ) : from ken crider : must read !
penny crider and i just got back from helping watch the recount at cobo hall in detroit .
on nov. 8th ( election day ) the election officials at 8:00 pm shut down the polls .
they then reconciled the differences from the machine count and the voter count on the computer .
at this point a metal tag/seal with a serial number is put on the box and the box was taken away .
penny s precinct , detroit precinct # 152 had an unbroken seal and everything looked proper .
the tag on the box said 306 and the book said 306 and the ticket said 306 , so there should be 306 paper ballots on the box , right .
well when they pulled out the ballots the stack seemed short and when they finished separating the two page ballot to count the presidential page only guess how many ballots were in the box ?
304 no , 299 nope , 200 nada , how about 100 wrong again .
there were only exactly 50 paper ballots in a locked sealed box that again was supposed to have 306 .
hmmmm .
oh i forgot to add , since there was a discrepancy in the two numbers the original count stands one more thing my precinct ( sorry i forgot the number ) , had 525 votes on the book , tag and ticket and we counted 525 ballots the election official was praising the lord hallelujah we have a countable precinct jill stein had three ( 3 ) votes.here is the actual facebook post :