german social democrat leader martin schulz said that , if elected chancellor , he would push for the eu to cut subsidies to countries that do not take in refugees .
with me as chancellor we won t accept that solidarity as a principle is questioned , schulz said on tuesday at a conference of a business lobbying group with ties to his party.on monday , orb n told the hungarian parliament that his country will not give in to blackmail from brussels and we reject the mandatory relocation quota .
schulz shot back swiftly at orb n in his speech on tuesday.his comments came as the european commission voted to launch infringement proceedings against the czech republic , poland , and hungary for not taking in refugees under a mandatory 2015 quota system advocated by germany that aimed to relocate 160,000 refugees across the continent.hungary s badass prime minister viktor orb n has consistently stood up to leftist eu bullies who are demanding that all eu nations take their fair share of the mass influx of mostly muslim refugees .
we shall not allow others to tell us whom we can let into our home and country , whom we can live alongside .
prime minister viktor orb nwatch prime minister viktor orb n s historic speech in march , 2016 , where he demands other european leaders find their backbone and save europe before it s too late .
his speech will make you want to stand up and cheer !
mr.orb n says that s a german problem , schulz said .
let me make this perfectly clear : when it comes to agricultural policy , it s all yes , please .
when it comes to subsidies , it s all yes , please .
and when it comes to solidarity in refugee policy , it s no , thank you that s not acceptable .
german social democrat leader martin schulz said that , if elected chancellor , he would push for the eu to cut subsidies to countries that do not take in refugees .
with me as chancellor we won t accept that solidarity as a principle is questioned , schulz said on tuesday at a conference of a business lobbying group with ties to his party.his comments came as the european commission voted to launch infringement proceedings against the czech republic , poland , and hungary for not taking in refugees under a mandatory 2015 quota system advocated by germany that aimed to relocate 160,000 refugees across the continent.east european leaders , particularly hungarian prime minister viktor orb n , have repeatedly railed against the eu resettlement plan .
politico