brussels ( reuters ) - european union lawmakers have raised concerns over money laundering in malta and the independence of its police and judiciary in a draft resolution , stepping up pressure on the island after the assassination of an investigative journalist .
daphne caruana galizia , who had denounced high-profile corruption and accused prime minister joseph muscat of wrongdoing , was killed on oct. 16 by a bomb that tore through her car .
an investigation is under way and muscat has promised that everything will be done to find the killers .
next week the eu parliament will vote on a resolution on the rule of law in malta .
in a draft text , seen by reuters , the parliament said it regrets that developments in malta in recent years have led to serious concerns about the rule of law , democracy and fundamental rights including freedom of the media and the independence of the police and judiciary .
it said that the independence of law enforcement and the judiciary in malta may be compromised by the fact that the government is empowered to appoint the police commissioner , the head of the fiau ( anti-money laundering agency ) and the attorney-general .
the resolution called on the european commission to oversee more closely respect for the rule of law in malta and regretted the eu executive s decision not to publish its anti-corruption report this year .
at a news conference on friday , the largest group in the parliament , the conservative european people s party ( epp ) , called on the eu commission to urgently step up its monitoring of malta .
we think there are serious questions regarding the freedom of media and the lack of law enforcement in malta , said daniel koster , an epp spokesman .
he said the epp had doubts about what the commission was doing to address this situation .
the calls from the conservatives were echoed by the liberal , leftist and green groupings in the assembly .
reports from the maltese anti-money laundering agency were leaked in june via caruana galizia s blog .
they raised concerns about pilatus bank , a maltese lender accused of having failed to report suspicious dealings as required by law .
the eu lawmakers draft resolution calls on malta to investigate pilatus bank .
the bank and the maltese police did not reply to reuters questions on the allegations .
there appear to be no grounds to suspect a systematic breach , of money laundering rules in malta , an eu commission official told reuters in reply to questions over the island s application of eu rules on money laundering .
the draft resolution , citing findings of the parliament s inquiry committee on money laundering , said maltese institutions in charge of enforcing rules to prevent financial crimes were highly politicized .
the number of convictions and confiscations related to money laundering in malta seems extremely low , it said .