america is falling in love with melania trump .
you can t help but notice how melania lights up every time she is around children .
her trip to a local hospital in rome was no exception .
melania used her special gift of speaking fluently in 5 languages to speak in italian to the young patients .
melania shined around the sick children and they responded with smiles .
melania s visit with sick children at the hospital in rome was captured in this ap video : while the media was busy obsessing over her veil and celebrities ignorantly mocked her modest clothing choice during a trip to the vatican , the first lady was busy praying over sick children and it seems at least one of her prayers may have been answered.in fact , mere hours after mrs. trump prayed over a little boy whose heart was failing , doctors told her they had found a donated heart that could end up saving his life .
but you won t hear that on your nightly news.after she and her husband , president donald trump , visited the vatican to meet with pope francis this week , it came out in the news that mrs. trump is , in fact , a practicing catholic.in their travels to the holy see , mrs. trump also visited a bambin ges hospital , a vatican-supported hospital in rome .
there , melania met with many of the pediatric ward s sick children , taking pictures with them and reading them books before spending some time praying at the hospital chapel , the daily mail reported .
if that wasn t awesome enough , mrs. trump , who s fluent in five languages , also reportedly spoke to the children in their native italian.the article added she left heartfelt , handwritten messages for the children before she left.but something else very special happened at that hospital the first lady also reportedly prayed by the bedside of a little greek boy who s been waiting on a heart transplant.on wednesday , just hours after spending time together , flotus tweeted from her official account that she d been told doctors had identified a donor heart for the little boy .
mrctva little boy who i visited today & had been waiting for a heart transplant will be receiving one !
# blessings # faith pic.twitter.com/dzu3ojxxvc melania trump ( @ flotus ) may 24 , 2017melania thanked the doctors and staff for the amazing job they do at the vatican-supported bambin ges hospital and asked her 7.2 million followers on twitter to pray for the patients : thank you @ bambinogesu for the heroic work you do .
i ask that everyone keep these amazing children in your thoughts & prayers .
pic.twitter.com/ufvac9lxv2 melania trump ( @ flotus ) may 24 , 2017the united states is blessed to have a first lady who doesn t just use the church as a backdrop for a photo-op .
with the number of people practicing religion in america dropping , it s refreshing to see a first lady , vice president and president who are unafraid to openly and genuinely express their faith to the world