( reuters ) - the california public employees ’ retirement system said on monday it shared about 14 percent of the profit made on private equity investments in the past year with firms managing the money .
the announcement by the nation ’ s largest public pension fund marks a milestone toward greater fee disclosures for private equity assets , which make up $ 26.4 billion or almost 9 percent of the total fund .
the move is sure to be noticed by other state and city pension funds .
calpers and other large public pension funds are under increasing pressure to track and disclose the costs of private equity investments .
a new california law passed this year requires the state ’ s public pension funds to disclose more about the fees paid to manage the funds .
calpers paid $ 228.4 million in fees in fiscal year 2015-2016 , and shared $ 539 million in profits with private equity firms .
in total , calpers realized $ 3.26 billion in gains from its private equity portfolio last year .
the asset class returned 1.7 percent in fiscal 2015-16 .
in fiscal year 2014-2015 , when the asset class returned 8.92 percent , the pension fund paid $ 431.7 million in fees .
calpers has been working with the institutional limited partners association ( ilpa ) to shed more light on fees paid to manage funds and profits shared with private equity firms .
few public pension funds disclose these costs , despite a growing consensus from government officials , regulators , and the public to do so .
on monday , some members of calpers board pushed for further transparency by requiring private equity firms to reveal the portfolio fees , offsets or management fee waivers that they may collect .
“ if somebody is not willing to disclose to us these kinds of fees , i ’ m not sure it ’ s somebody we want to play with , ” said calpers board member j.j. jelincic .
“ we are the gold standard , ” said fellow board member richard costigan .
“ every one of those funds should be disclosing and if they are not , or they are refusing , we should not be doing business with them. ” calpers consultants advised prudence when setting strict new rules that could dissuade firms from working with calpers .
the asset remains highly competitive , said michael moy of pension consulting alliance , and private equity firms have “ absolutely no trouble getting commitments from investors. ” “ you are not alone , but you are darn near it , ” moy said .
“ they are very reluctant to give any kind of ground in negotiations . ”