des moines , iowa ( reuters ) - hillary clinton ’ s struggle in iowa to fend off underdog bernie sanders , a self-described democratic socialist , reignited questions about her ability to close the deal with democratic voters and turned up the pressure on her high-profile white house campaign .
the democratic presidential front-runner , whose campaign ran off the rails in iowa in 2008 against barack obama , was dealt another setback on monday in the midwestern state that begins the 2016 race for the presidency .
the former secretary of state , clinton , 68 , was pushed to a virtual tie with sanders , a 74-year-old u.s. senator from vermont .
next up is new hampshire , which holds its primary on feb. 9 .
sanders has been leading in opinion polls there and has an advantage because it neighbors his home state .
a clinton loss would start to set off alarm bells with her supporters .
“ she has had every possible structural and organizational advantage and sanders fought her to a draw , ” said dan schnur , director of the jesse m. unruh institute of politics at the university of southern california .
“ this is almost a moment by moment rerun of 2008 , ” schnur said .
“ the difference is her competition is not as tough this time. ” clinton insisted at her post-caucus rally that she was the candidate who could unify her party and prevail against a republican challenger in the nov. 8 election but the sense of disappointment was palpable .
her subdued , six-minute speech contrasted with the ebullient tone of sanders ’ 16-minute speech .
with no clear victory to announce , clinton ’ s campaign scrapped a plan to have her daughter chelsea and her husband , former president bill clinton , introduce her .
they stood alongside her instead , with bill clinton wearing his campaign logo badge upside-down .
aides removed the teleprompter at the last minute , supporters at the drake university rally told reuters , in a further indication of last-minute changes in plans .
while the race in iowa had tightened in recent weeks , her aides had appeared to draw some confidence from a des moines register/bloomberg politics poll over the weekend that showed clinton with a three-percentage-point lead over sanders among likely caucus-goers .
into the early hours of tuesday morning , clinton and sanders remained separated by less than a single percentage point .
the race was so tight that several precincts were forced to decide whether clinton or sanders got the winning votes - and one more delegate - by a coin toss , following the state democratic party ’ s advice .
the msnbc television network finally called the race for clinton at nearly 3 a.m. cst ( 0900 gmt ) , and clinton ’ s iowa state director matt paul issued a statement declaring victory with “ no uncertainty. ” opinion polls show clinton still faces an enthusiasm gap with sanders and her republican rivals , whose race attracted a record turnout in iowa .
voters have persistent doubts about her honesty and trustworthiness after months of controversy over her use of a private email server for government work while secretary of state .
sanders , who launched his campaign nine months ago with a small , sparsely attended news conference on capitol hill , has excited liberal activists with an anti-establishment message that calls for eradicating income inequality , breaking up the big banks and providing free college tuition .
iowa was a good state to test that message , given the heavy liberal bent of the democratic activists who dominate the caucus process .
entrance polls of iowa caucus-goers showed 68 percent described themselves as very or somewhat liberal .
fundraising figures reported on sunday by sanders underscored the extent to which his campaign has grown into a popular movement .
clinton has raised more than sanders - her campaign brought in $ 109 million last year compared to his $ 73.5 million .
but 75 percent of his haul came from donations of $ 200 or less , in contrast to only 18 percent of clinton ’ s , and far more of clinton ’ s donors have hit the $ 2,700 donation limit .
still , sanders faces significant challenges when the democratic nominating contest moves to the more diverse states of nevada and south carolina before expanding to 11 states on march 1 , “ super tuesday , ” including seven in the south where clinton ’ s advantage with african-american voters could begin to pay off .
“ iowa was built for bernie sanders , ” said democratic strategist joe trippi , who nevertheless said the strong showing by sanders means “ this race goes on longer than clinton wanted it to. ” ( additional reporting by jonathan allen in washington ; editing by caren bohan and howard goller ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .