while donald trump says he d take the chinese president to mcdonald s , it s clear that the obama s pulled out all the stops for the chinese leader at the state dinner last night .
the night was heavy on the silicon valley and hollywood moguls like mark zuckerberg .
perhaps they were getting tips on how to employee more cheap labor .
prom night at the white house ! the striking difference in the attire of mooch and the chinese first lady .
did anyone else get the feeling it was prom night at the white house with the dress and hair mooch was sporting ? i know , i know , it s just that something s not quite right here maybe it s the hair and cleavage .
maybe mooch is channeling her inner beyonce .
but that hair ! president barack obama s lavish state dinner for chinese president xi jinping was supposed to be the social release after a long day of business .
the head table told a different tale bulging with the top brass from apple , microsoft , facebook , disney , dreamworks and more.the 200-plus guest list for the friday s soiree was a business-heavy mashup of hollywood , diplomacy and corporate chieftains , with ballerina misty copeland s presence offering it a bit of a lilt.dreamworks animation ceo jeffrey katzenberg , part of the east room s high-octane head table , was asked as he arrived whether the evening was all about business or pleasure .
fun , he declared , but he added : i hope .
for more than a few guests , the dinner was a chance to build up some serious chits with mom or other family members who arrived as dates .
empire creator lee daniels and r & b singer ne-yo , who was performing later in the night , both brought their mothers.clara daniels , glowing in a coral gown , declared her date my no .
1 son but didn t specify if that was because he s the oldest of her two sons or because he came up with the dinner invitation .
i am the most proud mom , enthused harriett loraine burts , mom to ne-yo .
then burts looked for a way to escape the cameras , confessing , i m not good at this red carpet thing .
as for how he scored the invitation to perform at such a high-powered event , ne-yo theorized it s because he s got some chinese in my heritage somewhere .
first through the guest entry hall for dinner were former labor secretary elaine chao and her dad .
faced with the fashion-forward question what are you wearing ?
chao seemed momentarily stumped .
oh my gosh , she stammered .
it s something very inexpensive .
copeland , who breezed through in a strapless metallic gown , had a similar response to the same query .
i have no idea , she confessed.there was no question about first lady michelle obama s fashion statement.she wore a black , off-the-shoulder mermaid gown created by chinese-american designer vera wang.xi s wife , peng liyuan , also a fashion-savvy first lady , selected an embellished silk gown in rich aquamarine.the wow factor was lower-key among seasoned state dinner attendees but still there nonetheless.former secretary of state madeleine albright said she d been to many state dinners , but added , they re always fabulous .
chris dodd , the former senator and current chairman of the motion picture association of america , was asked if it ever gets old .
never , he said.ninety-two-year-old henry kissinger , the shrewd diplomat who served under presidents richard nixon and gerald ford , hustled through without stopping to comment , moving pretty quickly even with a cane .
the decor in the big east room included a 16-foot silk scroll depicting two roses that the white house said was meant to symbolize a complete meeting of the minds .
that may have been somewhat aspirational , given the sharp differences between the u.s. and china on a range of issues.but all of that was largely glossed over in the dinner toasts .
obama said that while some differences were inevitable , he wished that the american and chinese people may work together like fingers on the same hand in friendship and in peace .
xi , for his part , called the state visit an unforgettable journey and praised the good will he felt from west coast to east.asian influences were everywhere in the dinner plan , down to the meyer lemons in the kurd lychee sorbet .
( the citrus fruit is thought to have originated in china .
) guest chef anita lo , owner of annisa in new york and a past top chef competitor , is a first-generation chinese-american from birmingham , michigan .
the culinary team created a menu that highlighted american cuisine with nuances of chinese flavor , according to the white house .
guests dined on wild mushroom soup , poached maine lobster , grilled cannon of colorado lamb and poppyseed bread and butter pudding.via : fox newsread more : uk daily mail