a conservation group and democrat congressman have filed a lawsuit to demanding an environmental study is performed before construction of trump s wall on the border between the us and mexico .
biologist jeff corwin paid a visit to msnbc to breathlessly warn viewers about the dangers of the wall president trump plans to build on the texas-mexico border national security purposes .
he warned viewers of the unprecedented environmental catastrophic consequences trump s wall on wildlife .
the msnbc host responds to his highly dramatic warning by asking drama queen jeff crowin , at the risk of sounding ignorant or foolish the birds specifically wouldn t they be able to fly over that wall ? '
hilarious ! not surprisingly , there was no mention of wind turbines in texas during the interview.watch : meanwhile in america , democrats remain silent about the bird holocaust caused by wind turbines every year .
an estimated 140,000 to 328,000 birds are killed every year in n. america by these green energy bird blenders.instead of worrying about trump s wall killing birds how about addressing these wind turbines in oil-rich texas that liberal federally-funded npr promoted while using a picture of turbines on top of a huge wall of dirt ?
npr another record was set for wind power generation this week , according to the group that manages much of the state s power .
the electric reliability council of texas ( ercot ) says wednesday evening , wind power generation on the grid reached10,296 megawatts ( mw ) , or enough to power 5 million texas homes during times of regular demand .
that beat the previous record of actual generation by 600 megawatts , roughly the equivalent of a medium-sized fossil fuel power plant.here s the real danger to birds in america that few democrats are willing to address : in 2010 david newstead , a u.s .
fish and wildlife service field biologist , visited the gulf shoreline of laguna madre , texas , to survey skimmers , terns , and egrets .
but it was a flock of 15 american white pelicans that caught his eye , flying toward the nearby pe ascal wind farm .
as he watched , a pelican at the flock s tail end was swiped by a massive turbine blade and literally erased from the air , newstead wrote afterwards .
this in itself isn t surprising wind turbines are notorious bird killers but this specific farm was supposedly equipped with radar that could detect approaching birds and halt the blades .
the radar had failed to do its job.watch as what appears as this bird that appears to be an eagle , is killed as it s chopped by a blade on this powerful wind turbine : wind turbines kill an estimated 140,000 to 328,000 birds each year in north america , making it the most threatening form of green energy .
and yet , it s also one of the most rapidly expanding energy industries : more than 49,000 individual wind turbines now exist across 39 states .
audubon