moscow ( reuters ) - russian opposition activist ivan skripnichenko died after being attacked by a man angry he opposed vladimir putin .
over a month later , nobody has been arrested , his family can t see his autopsy , and authorities say he probably died of heart disease .
the assault on the 36-year-old father-of-two is one of a growing number of vicious attacks on opposition figures in the run-up to a presidential election in march which putin , the incumbent , is widely expected to contest .
most activists do not believe that putin or the kremlin have a hand in the attacks , which have included caustic liquid being thrown in a victim s eyes , a car being set alight , and , in one case , an activist being bashed over the head with an iron bar .
but critics say the way the authorities have handled the cases - it s rare for anyone to be arrested and a nationalist group which says its carries out such attacks openly boasts about its activities - shows that they are at best turning a blind eye , and at worst tacitly condoning the violence .
yulia latynina , a journalist critical of the authorities , was forced to flee russia this summer after having faeces thrown at her , her car torched , and noxious gas pumped into her home .
for her , skripnichenko s death is part of a dangerous trend , and she has accused the authorities of losing control of the violent extremists responsible .
when you splash antiseptic in people s faces , pour shit over people , beat up activists , puncture their tires , or burn something , sooner or later someone will be burned alive or die in a fight , latynina said on her own radio show .
and that s murder .
according to skripnichenko s family , an unidentified man accosted him late on aug. 15 as he stood by a makeshift memorial to slain opposition leader boris nemtsov on a kremlin bridge , a rallying point for government critics .
nemtsov had been shot dead on the same spot in 2015 by a chechen gunman in one of modern russia s most high-profile killings .
don t you love putin ?
the man asked skripnichenko .
is putin a girl that i should love him ?
the activist parried .
the man knocked skripnichenko s cap to the ground , and , as his victim rose after picking it up , punched him hard in the face , breaking his nose .
skripnichenko hit his head on the pavement as he fell .
his attacker then kicked him as he lay prone .
mikhail silich , an activist who was with skripnichenko at the time of the attack , confirmed the family s account .
after the attack , skripnichenko left hospital and told other activists he thought he would be ok. his family say he went to a different hospital a week later to get his nose reset , and began to feel unwell in the canteen .
when he didn t come home that day , they phoned the next morning to be told he had died .
his family and activists say the authorities are not investigating his death properly .
investigators have neither identified nor arrested skripnichenko s attacker , have not opened a criminal case , and the dead man s family say they can t obtain his autopsy report .
citing procedure , moscow s investigative committee , which is handling the matter , told skripnichenko s widow olga that she would need to wait 40 days to get such a report .
the committee did not respond to a reuters request for comment on progress in the case .
despite the attack taking place in sight of the kremlin s walls on the same spot where nemtsov was gunned down two and a half years earlier , investigators say there is no cctv footage .
ilya novikov , the family lawyer , says that s hard to believe .
the cause of death is in question too .
investigators preliminary conclusion was that he had died of heart disease .
skripnichenko s sister nastya says doctors who examined her brother said he did not appear to have suffered serious head wounds .
yet she is skeptical he died of heart problems and suspects the attack triggered problems that took time to unfold .
my brother never complained about heart problems , she told reuters , saying doctors had given him a clean bill of health in a check-up as recently as this spring .
my brother was into cross-country skiing , flew a glider , did parachute jumps , and cycled at a semi-professional level .
i absolutely link my brother s death with the attack .
russia s liberal opposition has no seats in parliament and scant hope of mounting a serious challenge to putin next year , though alexei navalny , an opposition leader who doesn t fit the traditional liberal mould , is trying to make a run .
but in a country under western sanctions because of its 2014 annexation of ukraine s crimea and support for pro-russian separatists in eastern ukraine , pro-kremlin politicians often cast anyone critical of the authorities as the enemy within .
critics say such rhetoric is fuelling attacks against the opposition and that those who carry them out feel a sense of impunity because they are rarely punished .
navalny became temporarily blind in one eye in april after having caustic liquid thrown at him .
soon afterwards , a pro-government tv channel broadcast footage of navalny s attacker running away from the scene , but blurred out his face .
opposition activists identified the man as a member of a radical group ; investigators said there was not enough evidence for a prosecution .
in another incident , nikolai lyaskin , a navalny ally , was hit over the head with an iron bar in moscow last month , an assault navalny said was designed to turn him into an invalid .
police detained a suspect and opened a criminal case , but they then issued a statement saying the suspect had told them that lyaskin , the victim , had paid his assailant to stage an attack on him .
police released the suspect after 48 hours on conditions which were not disclosed .
the spot where skripnichenko was attacked is a favorite target for nationalists who dislike the makeshift shrine there to nemtsov .
for them , the former deputy prime minister turned putin critic is a pro-western traitor .
they have sometimes trashed his shrine and picked fights with its defenders .
serb , a radical nationalist group , has vandalized the memorial several times .
at an apartment block in moscow where nemtsov once lived , serb s leader igor beketov tore off a plaque that activists had hung honoring nemtsov .
a state tv report about the incident complained the opposition was using nemtsov s name for various purposes and gave beketov air time to explain his grievances .
outside the apartment block , skripnichenko family lawyer novikov became embroiled in a fist fight with beketov after serb members ripped up a photo of nemtsov .
serb pelts its targets with faeces , antiseptic and urine .
it has smashed cake into navalny s face , but denies the caustic liquid attack .
it has also hinted it threw faeces at latynina .
tamara lugovykh , an activist who knew skripnichenko , said she fears the authorities will do everything not to link his death to politics .
in interviews with reuters , seven activists said the attack chimed with the regular intimidation they face .
they saw parallels with the investigation into nemtsov s murder , which convicted a group of chechens but failed to identify who ordered the killing and why .
real blood has been spilled on the same spot a few meters apart , said activist andrei margulev .
at the bridge shrine , a portrait of skripnichenko is now on display next to that of nemtsov .
ivan had plans to have children with his wife , sergei kireyev , an activist who knew him , said .
but anything can happen on the bridge .
there are no rules .