fort worth , texas ( reuters ) - the widow of a slain navy seal whose story was turned into the hit movie “ american sniper ” has become a prominent figure in fort worth republican politics even though her name does not appear on tuesday ’ s primary ballot .
taya kyle , the wife of chris kyle , is campaign treasurer for a republican opponent of longtime tarrant county sheriff dee anderson , the lawman seen as the face of the manhunt for “ affluenza ” teen ethan couch .
kyle is also in a dispute with her late husband ’ s former business partner bo french , who is running as a republican for a texas house of representatives seat from the same county .
lawyers for kyle sent a cease-and-desist letter to the french camp last week calling on it to stop using her husband ’ s name and likeness in campaign materials .
“ bo ( is ) abusing the name of my late husband , a beloved son of texas , and a hero to the nation , in an attempt to manipulate voters , ” kyle said in a statement on social media .
she did not respond to requests to speak about her political activism .
“ her experience with public exposure and scrutiny has taught her not to let her guard down , ” said republican political strategist bill miller .
“ she ’ s become a very formidable woman. ” chris and taya kyle have become stars of the state ’ s republican establishment , with governor greg abbott setting up a day to honor the memory of chris kyle , who was killed in 2013 by a troubled veteran he was trying to mentor .
taya kyle last year endorsed former governor rick perry in his unsuccessful bid for the republican presidential nomination .
she now endorses u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas .
in the sheriff ’ s race , she may be the difference in the campaign of bill waybourn , a former suburban fort worth police chief , analysts said .
waybourn , backed by the conservative tea party movement , is challenging anderson , a fellow republican , who gained national attention in calling for the apprehension of couch .
the teen , whose lawyer said his wealth distorted his moral compass , fled to mexico in december apparently to avoid apprehension for violating the probation deal that kept him out of jail for a drunken driving wreck in 2013 that killed four people .
kyle , 41 , has not indicated any intention to seek elective office , but analysts said that should not be ruled out .
“ once someone gets involved and gets their hands wet in politics , it ’ s hard to get out , ” miller said .