washington ( reuters ) - wilbur ross , president-elect donald trump ’ s nominee for commerce secretary , has pledged to sell his stake in his main private equity firm and resign from corporate boards but will keep his interests in mortgage lending and shipping .
in an ethics agreement published on tuesday , the billionaire investor vowed to sell shares in invesco ltd ( ivz.n ) , the parent company of w.l .
ross & co , valued at up to $ 50 million .
he also pledged to divest other assets worth between $ 77 million and $ 209 million to prevent conflicts of interest .
he is due to be questioned by members of the senate commerce , science and transportation committee on wednesday at a confirmation hearing .
the federal disclosure forms for presidential appointees allow asset values to be listed in wide ranges with a maximum threshold of “ over $ 50 million ” .
picked by trump to lead an agenda aimed at shrinking u.s. trade deficits with china and mexico , the 79-year-old ross is estimated by forbes to be worth about $ 2.5 billion .
his asset sales would represent a small portion of that total .
ross earned his fortune in part by running businesses that have offshored thousands of u.s. jobs , according to labor department data seen by reuters .
he once served under former u.s. president bill clinton on the board of a fund set up by the u.s. government to make private investments in russia , and worked as a privatization advisor to former new york city mayor rudy giuliani .
ross said he would divest financial interests in some 80 entities , including ownership stakes in companies and investment partnerships , stocks and bonds .
he said he would retain his holdings in nine entities related to his mortgage finance and trans-oceanic shipping assets , but will resign positions he has in those companies and partnerships .
the disclosure form lists the valuations of those interests at about $ 8 million to $ 36 million .
he will also resign from positions at 22 of the business entities from which he is divesting , including giving up his board seats at steelmaker arcelormittal ispa.as and bank of cyprus boc.cy , and at chemicals and plastics distributor nexeo solutions ( nxeo.o ) where he is chairman of the board .
his stake in nexeo is the largest single investment that he plans to sell , valued in the 57-page financial disclosure at $ 25 million to $ 50 million .
his steel industry investments may have brought ross the most unfavorable media coverage .
he listed his shares in arcelormittal , which bought his international steel group in 2004 , as being worth $ 750,000 to $ 1.5 million .
other assets that ross intends to keep include two cash accounts holding more than $ 50 million each , the largest reporting threshold required on the forms , and an art collection valued at more than $ 50 million .