washington ( reuters ) - the united states issued about 50 percent fewer visitor visas in april to citizens of seven countries covered by president donald trump ’ s temporary travel bans than it did in an average month last year , according to a reuters analysis of preliminary government data released on thursday .
the total number of u.s. non-immigrant visas issued to people from all countries was about 15 percent lower in april compared with the 2016 monthly average .
the april data shows the continuation of a trend identified in data for the month of march , which the state department released last month .
that data showed that citizens of the seven muslim-majority countries under the bans - iran , iraq , libya , somalia , sudan , syria and yemen - received about 40 percent fewer visitor visas in march than in an average month last year .
[ nl1n1hz2pj ] trump ’ s travel bans have been blocked by the courts .
citizens of the seven countries received about 2,800 non-immigrant visas in april 2017 , compared with about 5,700 on average per month during the 2016 fiscal year and more than 6,000 on average per month in 2015 and 2014 .
data from previous years is only available in aggregate by fiscal year , rather than month-by-month .
( tmsnrt.rs/2p8efbm ) the state department released the data to comply with a directive from trump asking it to publish monthly breakdowns of the number of visas issued around the world .
the agency did not release data on the number of visa applications , so it is unclear whether the lower number of visas is because of a higher rate of rejections or other factors , such as fewer applicants or slower processing times .
“ visa demand is cyclical , not uniform throughout the year , and affected by various factors at the local and international level , ” said william cocks , a spokesman for the state department ’ s bureau of consular affairs .
trump , who has said the travel bans were intended to make americans safer from attacks , signed an executive order on jan. 27 barring people from the seven countries from entering the united states for 90 days .
after the order was blocked by federal courts , the trump administration replaced it with a revised , narrower ban which dropped iraq from the list .
courts have also halted parts of the second order .
on thursday , a u.s. appeals court refused to reinstate the travel ban , calling it discriminatory and setting the stage for a showdown in the supreme court .
[ nl1n1ir1fy ] although visitor visas were down across the board for the seven targeted countries compared with last years ’ averages , iraqis in april received 349 immigrant visas , which are typically given to those with jobs or family members in the united states , compared with 305 in an average month in 2016 .
syrians also received more immigrant visas in april - 268 versus an average of 219 per month last year .
all other countries targeted by one of trump ’ s bans received fewer immigrant visas in april than in an average month last year .