kabul ( reuters ) - afghanistan s telecoms regulator wrote to internet service providers this week ordering them to block the messaging services whatsapp and telegram but it was not immediately clear whether they had complied .
use of social media and mobile instant messaging services has exploded in afghanistan over recent years .
social media users and civil rights groups reacted with outrage to initial reports of the move and the letter sent by telecoms regulator atra was widely shared on social media .
some media reports , citing unidentified sources , said the move had been ordered by the national directorate for security to thwart the use of the encrypted messaging services by the taliban and other insurgent groups .
it was not immediately possible to confirm the reports .
the acting minister for telecommunications , shahzad aryobee , posted a message on facebook saying that the telecoms regulator had been ordered to put a gradual block on the services to improve their functioning after complaints had been received .
the government is committed to freedom of speech and knows that it is a basic civil right for our people , he wrote .
the letter by telecoms regulator atra , dated nov. 1 and signed by an official of the regulator , directed internet companies to block telegram and facebook inc s ( fb.o ) whatsapp services without delay for a period of 20 days .
however , the service worked normally this week and still appeared to be working normally on saturday on both state-owned operator salaam and private service providers .
on friday , there were reports of interruptions but it was not clear whether they were caused by a deliberate shutdown or by the unrelated issues with whatsapp services that were experienced in several countries .
mobile phone services have been one of the big success stories in afghanistan since the taliban were ousted from power by a u.s.-led campaign in 2001 , but there are also frequent complaints from users about quality and coverage .
whatsapp and similar services , including facebook messenger and viber , are widely used by afghan politicians and members of the government as well as by the taliban , which has a sophisticated social media operation of its own .
the movement s main spokesman , zabihullah mujahid , wrote to reporters this week giving his viber number in case whatsapp is not working .