it would appear that socialism is not the only answer in the ultra-liberal state of vermont tonight s donald trump rally in burlington vermont has all the makings of a doozy political event .
burlington vermont is ground-zero for democrat bernie sanders and both trump supporters and bernie s political protesters have plans on attendance.in essence trump is quite popular and viewed very favorably by the general citizenry of vermont .
however , the professional political apparatus in/around government enterprise is quite hostile ( openly so ) toward the trump campaign .
yes , trump is walking in to mordor to show his supporters what fearless campaigning looks like in person .burlington , vt .
hours before donald j. trump was set to hold a rally in the flynn center here , a crowd of supporters , hecklers and curious observers braved freezing temperatures to get a glimpse of the republican presidential candidate who dared to set foot on the traditionally liberal turf of senator bernie sanders.wearing make america great again hats and hoodies , dozens of people some of whom had arrived as early as 4:30 a.m. snaked around the block along burlington s main street in the hope of getting one of the theater s 1,400 seats .
the trump campaign distributed more than 20,000 tickets to the event , sending the theater s administrators and the local police department into a frenzy on how to handle the huge overflow.those bundled up outside just wanted to see the billionaire businessman in the flesh .
surprisingly , some were fans of both mr. trump and mr. sanders , the vermont senator seeking the democratic nomination , and were trying to decide which one to back .
i think he s smart , and he has the best chance of winning support and maybe flipping the state , daniel nadeau , 22 , of st. albans , vt. , said of mr. trump .
bernie is my no .
1 choice , and trump is no .
2 .
they re not that different .
voters who were on the fence between the seemingly polar-opposite candidates said that both communicated well with working-class people and made strong cases for how they would boost the economy , despite their differing policy ideas.for entire story : conservative treehouse