london ( reuters ) - back from brussels with a hard-fought brexit deal , prime minister theresa may wrote an open letter to the three million citizens of other european union states living in britain .
i know our country would be poorer if you left and i want you to stay , she wrote after striking the initial agreement , which promises to secure their british residency rights after brexit and allows the negotiations to move onto trade relations .
but for some eu nationals - who have endured uncertainty over their rights since the brexit vote in june 2016 , not to mention an unpleasant feeling that many britons do not want them around - may s dec. 8 deal is too little , too late .
it s too late to keep german nurse daniela jones in the chronically short-staffed national health service ( nhs ) , where she worked for 35 years .
it s too late for french psychotherapist baya salmon-hawk , who after 40 years in britain has moved to ireland to remain in the eu .
it s too late for french accountant nathalie duran , who is planning early retirement in france because after 31 years as a taxpayer in britain she objects to being told she has to pay a fee and fill in forms to be granted a new settled status .
i will have to regretfully decline your generous offer for settled status and oblige your lovely countrymen s wishes and go home , she wrote on facebook in a response to may laden with irony .
duran told reuters that the prime minister s late outpouring of love for eu citizens , after years of tough talk on the need to cut immigration , could not mask negative attitudes towards immigrants unleashed by the brexit vote .
i think it s turning ugly , said 56-year-old duran .
it s now ok to say go home foreigners .
eu citizens , particularly those from the poorer eastern member states such as poland and romania , have complained of increasing hostility from some britons .
they find themselves accused of stealing jobs from britons and driving down wages , even though unemployment is at a four-decade low , or of overburdening health services as patients , even though many help to provide them by working for the nhs .
official figures show hate crimes in britain surged by the highest amount on record last year , with the brexit vote a significant factor .
the impact of brexit on eu citizens in britain is a serious concern for sectors of the economy that rely heavily on european workers , such as hospitality , construction , agriculture , care for the elderly and the cherished nhs .
britain won t leave the bloc until march 2019 , but many eu nationals are already voting with their feet .
in the 12 months following the referendum , 123,000 of them left britain , a 29 percent year-on-year increase .
they were still outnumbered by the 230,000 eu citizens who arrived to live in britain in the same period , although that figure was down 19 percent on the previous year .
not everyone is making plans to go : 28,500 eu citizens applied for british citizenship in the 12 months after the referendum , an 80 percent year-on-year jump .
with personal and professional roots often running deep , many more have applied for permanent residence documents .
uk citizenship would be an option for nurse jones , 61 , who moved to england from munich just before her 18th birthday .
that was in 1974 , the year after britain joined what is now the eu .
today she has a grown-up british son and a british husband .
but as a point of principle she can not see why she should apply for something she never needed in the past .
despite my enormous love for britain , i do not feel that i am british , was how she put it in a letter to ruth deech , a pro-brexit member of parliament s house of lords , sent in february to lobby her on the eu citizens rights issue .
in a one-line response to the long , impassioned letter , which made clear jones had worked for 35 years in the state nhs , deech said she should have applied for uk citizenship .
jones replied it had never been necessary and explained that she was already a dual german and u.s. national through her german mother and her american father , a serviceman in the u.s. army who was posted to germany in the 1950s .
deech sent another one-liner : you sought u.s. citizenship - presumably you could have shown the same commitment to this country .
jones was dismayed by that response , which in her eyes lacked understanding and respect .
she began to think she needed to look after her own interests better .
a few months later , she quit her nhs job at a doctors office in yateley , a small town southwest of london .
she is now re-training as a foot and ear care specialist and plans to work privately .
i still like looking after people but i want to do it on my own terms , she told reuters .
it s time to get out .
work for myself , start a little business .
jones wrote to deech again , saying : i have now freed up a british job for a british worker .
this time she got no response .
deech declined an interview request from reuters , but said in an emailed response to questions that obtaining a british passport might be a good idea for any eu citizen who is ( probably needlessly ) concerned .
french national baya salmon-hawk , 61 , initially reacted to the brexit vote by trying to make sure her residency rights were not under threat .
having lived in england for 40 years , had her son there , owned a home , worked in a variety of jobs and paid taxes , she thought that should be straightforward .
but when she made inquiries about a permanent residence permit she had obtained in 1977 , she was told this was no longer valid and she would have to re-apply by filling an 85-page form and providing lots of documents , including details of every time she had left the country and returned , stretching back years .
besides , salmon-hawk was struggling to adjust to the new reality .
having believed previously that she was integrated into british society , she felt unwelcome for the first time .
i just don t understand what s happened to the uk , she said .
i became quite easily upset by all this and i didn t want to live like that anymore .
she and her 74-year-old wife audrey evelyn , who is british , decided to leave .
they sold their house in a village north of london , and in july this year they moved to county kilkenny in ireland , where evelyn has family ties .
at times , salmon-hawk has wondered if they made the right decision .
i may have made a foolish mistake .
i have woken up in the middle of the night in a state of panic , she said .
but she is starting a new venture as a professional story-teller at hook lighthouse on the southeast coast of ireland , telling visitors tales from irish history .
i thought i was done , i was settled , and i m not .
i m having a new adventure .