zalavar , hungary ( reuters ) - twice a month a few dozen russian orthodox believers gather in a small catholic chapel whose foundations date back to the 11th century , their temporary place of worship as they do not have a church of their own in western hungary .
these worshippers now have a good chance of having their own church built in the spa town of heviz , after prime minister viktor orban granted 2.4 billion forints ( $ 9 million ) in the budget to the renovating and building of russian orthodox churches .
channelling state money to the hungarian branch of the russian church , which had just 2,365 followers in the latest census in the mostly catholic country of 10 million , was seen by political analysts and critics as a bid to win favor with president vladimir putin .
orban signed off the decree and it was published on feb. 1 , the day before he received putin in budapest .
it was their fourth meeting in two years and putin was back on aug. 28 for a judo event when they met again .
on that day , orban allocated an additional 313 million forints to the russian orthodox church .
although the amounts are small , some analysts and critics see the bolstering of the russian orthodox church with state cash as significant in the context of russian-hungarian relations .
this move is on the one hand a gesture toward vladimir putin , and the russians , a small community living here in hungary , but at the same time it really shows the ... influence of russia on hungary , said peter kreko , director of think-tank political capital .
hungary s alignment to russia is unsettling to fellow european union member states where russia s alleged interference is taken with such alarm that several countries have moved to set up agencies to counter it .
inside the european union , hungary promotes scrapping economic sanctions imposed after russia s annexation of crimea in 2014 , saying it hurts trade .
trade ties between russia and hungary include a gas supply pact with gazprom and a deal for russia to finance and build a nuclear power plant .
construction is due to start next year .
in february , orban said hungary wanted open and transparent relations with russia .
on the western half of the continent , there is a strong anti-russian sentiment ... and anti-russian politics has come into fashion , orban said at a joint news conference with putin .
we had to defend our economic relations in this environment .
when asked about the church grant , foreign minister peter szijjarto told reuters : we work together with all the churches very closely .
the 2.4-billion-forint grant to russian orthodox churches compares to around 11 billion for similar investments and programs in other churches also in the 2017 budget .
andras racz , an associate professor at pazmany peter catholic university , said that both sides wanted different dividends from the relationship .
the cooperation is pragmatic from both sides , just they want different things : the hungarian side wants primarily economic benefits ... while the russian side has primarily political and strategic motivations , which of course includes some long-term strategic economic position building , he said .
after the soviet union collapsed in 1991 , the russian orthodox church emerged from decades of oppression to find post-communist politicians ready to help re-establish its role .
religion helped fill the ideological vacuum left by the failure of marxism , while the church , an integral part of russian history and culture , fitted well into the new nationalism .
the church has developed into a thriving institution that works closely with the kremlin to promote common interests .
with backing from oligarchs , it has built or restored tens of thousands of churches , mostly at home but also in over 60 countries including distant locations such as havana , caracas , bangkok and pyongyang .
as the russian orthodox believers left the small , christian chapel in zalavar , with the smell of incense lingering , priests removed russian icons from the walls .
some russian tourists were happy to hear that a church would be built in the spa town of heviz , where thousands of russians arrive on charter flights to take the waters of one of the world s biggest thermal lakes , landing at a nearby airport at a former soviet army base .
i think this is not only a matter of religion , but also our history ... so this is good , this is appropriate , aleksander kulchitskii , on holiday from the russian city of ryazan , said .
some hungarians , however , were less convinced .
klara kispal , a pensioner on holiday in heviz , said she agreed with orban s anti-migration policies but she could not support paying for a russian orthodox church in the town .
i don t think this is a good move ...
i am religious , roman catholic , and ( the government ) should promote our religion not a foreign religion , she said .