a federal judge rejected the state department s request of a january 2016 ( right before the iowa primary ) release of hillary clinton s e-mails in one big batch .
u.s. district court judge rudolph contreras ( obama appointee ) announced tuesday his plans to order a rolling production of the emails just hours after the state department proposed that it not be required to make the records public until january 2016 , a lawyer involved said.original post : in response to a freedom of information act lawsuit filed this year , the state department said that reviewing 55,000 pages of exchanges from mrs. clinton s private email account would be labor-intensive and time-consuming.noting the considerable public interest in the emails , the department is endeavoring to complete the review and production of them as expeditiously as possible , said john f. hackett , acting director of the office of information programs and services at the state department .
the collection is , however , voluminous and , due to the breadth of topics , the nature of the communications , and the interests of several agencies , presents several challenges .
the state department is proposing a date of jan. 15 , 2016 , for releasing the emails.the department is dividing the material into small batches , with plans to review about 1,000 emails a week .
in addition to the state department s freedom of information act office , subject-matter experts within the department will review the emails before their release , as will other government agencies when relevant , including the defense department , the central intelligence agency and the national security council .
currently , this project is staffed full time by a project manager and two case analysts , as well as nine foia reviewers who devote the entirety of their time at the state department to this effort , plus other analysts and information technology specialists who provide collateral assistance to this review in addition to their regular duties , the filing stated .
the team managing this project has met daily since early april to implement and oversee this large undertaking .
read more : politicoread more : nyt