( reuters ) - planned parenthood of indiana and kentucky on thursday filed a lawsuit against the state of indiana , saying a new state law restricting abortion was unconstitutional .
the law , which was signed last month by indiana governor mike pence and goes into effect on july 1 , prohibits abortion in the early stages of a pregnancy based on genetic abnormalities and mandates a fetus be buried or cremated , according to the lawsuit filed in u.s. district court .
planned parenthood asked for an injunction on the law , according to the lawsuit , which was filed by the american civil liberties union on behalf of the nonprofit organization ’ s indiana chapter .
“ the united states supreme court has repeatedly stressed that a woman , not the state , is to determine whether or not to obtain an abortion , ” ken falk , legal director for aclu of indiana , said in a statement .
“ the state of indiana ’ s attempt to invade a woman ’ s privacy and to control her decision in this regard is unprecedented and unconstitutional. ” the lawsuit named the indiana state department of health , prosecutors of several counties and the state medical licensing board .
a spokeswoman for the health department referred all questions to the attorney general ’ s office , where no one could be reached for comment .
a spokesman for the medical licensing board declined to comment about the lawsuit .
pence ’ s press secretary , kara brooks , said the governor is confident the law is constitutional .
“ we will work with the attorney general to defend the law that enhances information expectant mothers receive and enhances protection for the unborn , ” she said .
indiana was the second u.s. state to prohibit abortions based on a prenatal diagnosis of disabilities such as down syndrome , following north dakota .
planned parenthood does not ask patients to disclose why they are obtaining an abortion , but under the new law , doctors would be mandated to report if a fetal anomaly was present before the abortion .
the new indiana law would put physicians at risk for legal woes , and require additional costs for a fetus to be buried or cremated , according to the lawsuit .
“ gov .
mike pence isn ’ t a woman and he isn ’ t a doctor .
he needs to get out and stay out of our doctors ’ offices , ” betty cockrum , chief executive of planned parenthood of indiana and kentucky , said in a statement .