bravo !
this woman is example of true courage .
more americans need to take a stand against anyone who attempts to silence their first amendment right whenever folks in penfield , new york get a hankering for pancakes for lunch they head over to the 5 mile caf .the family-owned restaurant is known in those parts for serving breakfast any time of the day ( order their homemade corned beef hash ) .they are also known for their patriotism .
we are very patriotic here at the caf all year round not just this time of year , owner jennifer aquino told me .
we have american flags and patriotic things around the caf .
so jennifer decided to ask the town for a permit so she could post a god bless america banner on the front of her restaurant .
she wanted to display the banner from memorial day through independence day.there was just one significant problem.penfield has a strict banner allotment policy .
businesses are only allowed to post banners for a total of three weeks out of the year .
and jennifer had used up her allotment .
at one point we had banners all over the town and the town just looked trashy and our residents said enough s enough , town supervisor tony lafountain told whec.jennifer s request was denied.instead of posting the banner outside the restaurant , she posted it inside .
and that was that until the orlando terrorist attack .
i decided on my way to work that i was going to put it up regardless of the town telling me i couldn t , she said .
so i put it up .
a bit later that day she received an email from the town telling her to remove the banner .
they warned her that she could face a possible fine for violating the ordinance .
i didn t take it down , jennifer told me .
and i was willing to pay the fine .
the [ message on the banner ] means a lot to me especially during this time in our country with all that s going on with terrorism , she said .
i just can t believe that i can t have this banner up and be supported by the town board .
the fact that i m being asked to take it down is wrong , she said .
it s against my first amendment rights .
people need to open up their eyes .
if we start letting them tell us we can t do this it s going to get worse .
jennifer tells me she never imagined there would be a day like this in america .
i have lots of veterans in my family , she said .
i have a cousin who fought in desert storm so that we could have the freedom to hang a banner that says , god bless america .
and yet we live in a nation where you can be punished for simply being patriotic.via : fox news