beirut ( reuters ) - the iraqi kurdish vote for independence could bolster syria s own kurds if it pushes the syrian government to negotiate over autonomy , syrian kurdish leaders said on wednesday .
top kurdish politician ilham ahmed told reuters that officials from syria s kurdish-led regions had already met with the damascus government twice , but the russian-brokered dialogue went nowhere .
damascus has opposed autonomy plans that have grown during syria s six-year-old conflict .
but this week , the foreign minister said the government is open to talks with kurds after the fight against islamic state militants ends .
the impacts , if they continue like ( these ) comments ... then they will be positive , said ahmed .
monday s referendum in iraq could also drive kurdish authorities there to open routes with the autonomous regions that syrian kurds and their allies have set up in northern syria , she added .
iraqi kurds held their referendum in defiance of their u.s. ally , the baghdad government , and neighboring turkey and iran .
the vote delivered a resounding yes to split from iraq , but is not binding .
across the border in syria , kurdish leaders say they do not want secession .
the kurdish ypg militia and its allies have carved out cantons in the north since 2011 .
they have seized vast territory from islamic state with u.s. help , although washington opposes their autonomy plans .
with the ypg as a military backbone , the main syrian kurdish parties now hold nearly a quarter of the country , and say they seek autonomy as part of a decentralized syria .
syrian president bashar al-assad has pledged to take back every inch of the country as his army has captured land from rebels and militants with the help of russia and iran .
we have always sent messages ... that we are ready for talks , ahmed said .
we have informed the russians that they should convince the regime to negotiate .
at both meetings , damascus did not appear serious about talks over the future of the autonomous regions and the demand for a federal system for syria , she said .
autonomy does not mean separation .
another senior kurdish politician , fawza youssef , said the iraqi referendum likely had a hand in damascus adopting a more conciliatory tone toward syria s large kurdish population .
this is a positive step .
and our struggle in the past six years ... our military and political victories play the major role in pushing the syrian government to negotiate , she said .
kurds in northern syria support the iraqi kurdish right to decide their own future , but do not look to follow the example of this week s vote , youssef said .
the reality in syria and iraq is not the same , she said .
still , she added , if there will be exclusion of the kurdish people , stripping them of political and cultural rights ... of course with time this would lead to secession .
youssef and ahmed are both senior members of the kurdish-led authority running the cantons in northern syria .
damascus and the ypg have mostly stayed out of each other s way in the war .
but tensions have surfaced as both sides with their allies race to capture deir al-zor province in eastern syria .
the ypg has been battling islamic state under a u.s.-backed alliance known as the syrian democratic forces , which includes arab and other combatants .
the territory the sdf has captured in deir al-zor so far serves as a breadbasket and a route for imports into syria , said ahmed , who co-chairs the force s political wing .
so if ( damascus ) wants to continue with threats , there will be no benefit from this ...
but if they understand that dialogue is the right way , that would be the better position .
tensions in eastern syria might also fuel a shift in the government stance as damascus might be wary of opening yet another battlefront , she said .
kurdish-led authorities held elections in northern syria last week for local community leaders , part of a process that will culminate with electing a parliament .
syria s kurdish region borders turkey and the kurdish government of northern iraq , which are both hostile toward the ypg .
ankara views the militia as an extension of the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) that has waged a three-decade insurgency inside turkey .
youssef and ahmed said the vote next door could lead to mending ties with iraq s kurdistan regional government ( krg ) if iraqi kurdistan faces more pressure .
turkey and iran have threatened to impose a blockade .
they warn the referendum will spark regional chaos , and fear the spread of separatism among their own kurdish populations .
if they shut the roads , ( the krg ) will have to open a route , fix relations , and possibly trade with northern syria , ahmed said .
that would be good of course .