washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump delivered his first speech before the united nations on tuesday , touting u.s. sovereignty and threatening to totally destroy north korea .
trump has been critical of the united nations and complained about the cost to the united states of helping to fund the 193-nation body .
below are some comments he has made about it over the years .
remarks at luncheon hosted by u.n. secretary general september 19 , 2017 for years i ve been a critic , but i ve also been somebody that said that the united nations has tremendous potential .
remarks at u.n. general assembly september 19 , 2017 too often the focus of this organization has not been on results , but on bureaucracy and process .
the united states is one out of 193 countries in the united nations , and yet we pay 22 percent of the entire budget and more .
in fact , we pay far more than anybody realizes .
remarks at lunch with u.n. security council ambassadors april 24 , 2017 i also want to say to you that i have long felt the united nations is an underperformer but has tremendous potential .
there are those people that think it s an underperformer and will never perform .
twitter dec. 26 , 2016 the united nations has such great potential but right now it is just a club for people to get together , talk and have a good time .
so sad !
american israel public affairs committee speech march 21 , 2016 which brings me to my next point , the utter weakness and incompetence of the united nations .
the united nations is not a friend of democracy , it s not a friend to freedom , it s not a friend even to the united states of america where , as you know , it has its home .
and it surely is not a friend to israel .
twitter oct. 3 , 2012 the cheap 12 inch sq .
marble tiles behind speaker at un always bothered me .
i will replace with beautiful large marble slabs if they ask me .
twitter sept. 8 , 2011 why is the un planning to attack @ israel s sovereignty and ignore iran s nuclear program ?
the us should look at future funding .
senate committee hearing on renovation of u.n. headquarters july 21 , 2005 i am a big fan , a very big fan of the united nations and all it stands for .
i can not speak as to what has been happening over the last number of years because it certainly has not been good , but the concept of the united nations ... is very important to me and very important to the world as far as i am concerned .