if rudy giuliani is going to continue bringing up 9/11 , he should at least have the common decency to not lie about what happened that day and in the aftermath.after all , thousands of pictures were taken that day and in the days after in addition to hundreds of videos .
so one would think giuliani would know better than to blatantly lie.but that s exactly what he did during a rally in florida on wednesday in support of serial groper donald trump .
don t tell me if you said that you remember september 11 , 2001 , giuliani said in reference to hillary talking about being in the city .
i remember september 11 , 2001 .
yes , yes , you helped to get benefits for the people who were injured that day .
but i heard her say that she was there that day .
i was there that day , i don t remember seeing hillary clinton there .
that was like when she said she had to run through gunfire .
that turned out to be , what do we call it ?
a lie .
but don t tell me that you subscribe to the notion that all of us who were there on september 11 , and we re lucky to have been alive and lost so many friends .
i lost so many friends on september 11 , i think about it every day .
don t tell me you belong to our very , very tight group of never forget .
don t tell me that .
here s the video via twitter.rudy giuliani : i was there on 9/11 , i don t remember seeing hillary clinton there .
https : //t.co/irb09cq8eh abc news politics ( @ abcpolitics ) october 12 , 2016hillary clinton was serving her first year as a united states senator representing new york at the time the planes hit the twin towers on 9/11 .
she was in washington d.c. heading to the senate when evacuations were underway.the next day , hillary went to new york city to stand in solidarity with giuliani and governor george pataki , both republicans , and tour the devastation.as for giuliani never seeing hillary , a single photo makes everything pretty damn clear as my colleague oliver willis pointed out on twitter .
i don t remember seeing hillary clinton on 9/11 rudy giuliani , just now .
look to your left , rudy .
pic.twitter.com/zjbvfmdhuf oliver willis ( @ owillis ) october 12 , 2016 look to the left , indeed.it s completely unfair for republicans to pretend that they were the only ones who went through 9/11 .
the fact is that the entire country went through it , even if they were not physically there .
besides , hillary was in our nation s capital that day when terrorists flew a plane into the pentagon.but , hey , at least giuliani s memory is improving .
only a few weeks ago he forgot that 9/11 ever happened.featured image : jeff swensen/getty images