ye baw kya , myanmar ( reuters ) - myanmar authorities displayed on wednesday the bodies of hindu villagers they say were killed by muslim insurgents , victims of a surge of violence in someone else s fight now playing their part in a propaganda war .
authorities found 45 hindu villagers in mass graves in the north of rakhine state this week , and the news has dominated myanmar s media coverage of a new round of violence in old strife between the state s buddhists and muslims .
the military on wednesday flew a group of reporters from the city of yangon to see the bodies laid out on the grass , and to hear from those who found them after information about the massacre filtered back from hindus who have sought refuge from the violence in bangladesh .
we followed the paths based on the information we got from the other side , police officer okkar ko told reporters at the scene .
we found where the soil wasn t normal and then when we dug up the ground , the smell came out .
the latest violence in rakhine state erupted on aug. 25 , when rohingya muslim insurgents attacked 30 police posts and an army camp , killing about 12 people .
hours later , insurgents of the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) came to the hindu village of ye baw kya , gathered up about 100 people , marched them away through their fields and killed them with knives , the government says .
the military response to the insurgent attacks has driven 480,000 rohingya refugees to bangladesh and drawn u.n. accusations of ethnic cleansing by the army with the help of buddhist vigilantes .
myanmar denies that , saying its forces are fighting ruthless terrorists .
for the government , the proof of the insurgents brutality is plain to see , lying in rows by the mass graves just outside the village of ye baw kya .
this is terrorism , minister for social welfare , relief and resettlement , win myat aye , who visited the site on tuesday , told reuters .
the arsa has denied killing the hindus saying they never kill civilians .
exactly why myanmar s tiny hindu minority in rakhine state got caught up in the bloodshed is not clear , and different people have given different accounts at different times .
some villagers have said the insurgents suspected hindus of being on the side of the government and acting as government spies .
in late august , reuters reporters in bangladesh interviewed a group of hindu women from the village who said their male loved ones were killed by rakhine buddhists .
however , three of the same women told reuters this week that muslims who brought them to bangladesh had ordered them to say it was buddhist vigilantes who had done the killing .
the three who individually recounted closely matching stories said that on aug. 25 , they and about 100 other hindus were marched by masked men to the area of the mass graves .
they were later able to identify some of the masked men as rohingya muslims , although the women said the men spoke several languages they could not identify , besides the dialect spoken by both muslims and hindus in the area .
we watched as they tied each person , hands behind their back and also legs ...
they cut all their throats and pushed them into a hole , said one of the women , bina bala , 22 , adding that the women were spared after promising to convert to islam .
they said the attackers had objected to official identity cards given to hindus but not muslims , saying hindus should not have them .
the victims were blindfolded , with their hands tied and had their throats slit , said kyaw maung maung thien , hospital superintendent in the myanmar town of maungdaw , who examined the bodies .
the evidence points to a massacre by the arsa terrorists , he told the state-run global new light of myanmar newspaper .
while the accusations fly , the bodies await cremation .
police have been guarding the site of the mass graves , lighting fires at night to keep wild dogs away .