berlin ( reuters ) - germany took a first decisive step on wednesday toward forming a new government when its veteran finance minister , conservative wolfgang schaeuble , agreed to become president of the parliament , clearing the way for another party to take his job .
chancellor angela merkel will hope that schaeuble , deeply respected in germany for helping to steer the euro zone through its debt crisis , can stamp his authority on a fractious bundestag lower house that will include two more parties after sunday s federal election .
merkel must assemble germany s first three-way coalition since the 1950s after her conservatives lost support and a far-right party , the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) , entered parliament for the first time in half a century .
in a sign of the challenges ahead , andrea nahles , the social democrats newly elected parliamentary leader , told reporters her party would hit conservatives squarely in the jaw after four years as junior partner in a merkel-led grand coalition .
merkel s most realistic coalition option now is a deal with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) , returning to parliament after a four-year hiatus , and the greens .
but the parties disagree on issues such as energy , europe and migration , complicating the path to a so-called jamaica coalition - a reference to the parties colors : black , yellow and green , which are also those of the jamaican flag .
schaeuble , 75 , who emerged as one of europe s most influential politicians during the euro zone crisis , will bring unprecedented weight to the role of bundestag president , normally a low-profile position .
his willingness to quit as finance minister after eight years in the post makes it easier for the fdp to join a merkel-led coalition .
the fdp , who are as fiscally hawkish as schaeuble , have said they want his old job .
as an outstanding personality wolfgang schaeuble possesses a natural authority that is of particular importance in these times , said fdp leader christian lindner , himself seen as a likely successor at the finance ministry .
lindner s deputy , wolfgang kubicki , another possible candidate for the post , told the rnd newspaper chain that schaeuble s move showed merkel s openness to a jamaica coalition .
he also underscored his party s call for a shift in fiscal policy .
schaeuble was criticized in southern europe , especially greece , for his insistence on tax hikes and spending cuts at a time of deep recession , but is popular at home for balancing the books and presiding over high growth and low unemployment .
european commission president jean-claude juncker , speaking in munich , said he did not think schaeuble s departure would soften the eu s approach to heavily indebted greece .
the austerity measures will be continued by those who carried them out together with wolfgang schaeuble , he said .
the free democrats , with a voter support base among germany s small and medium-sized businesses , are as committed to budgetary discipline as schaeuble but less pro-european , meaning wednesday s news drew a mixed reception from the euro zone .
i don t think there will be radical changes in german economic policy if the fdp replaces him , said one official close to euro zone policy-making .
the fdp are also hardliners on deficits .
but another euro zone official said the euro zone was losing one of the most pro-european politicians i know and instead getting a party markedly cooler on political integration .
italian finance minister pier carlo padoan told the handelsblatt newspaper he would miss schaeuble s steady hand .
wolfgang schaeuble was a loyal discussion partner , serious , competent and also a good friend , he said .
merkel emerged from sunday s election a weakened figure after her conservatives , still the largest bloc in the bundestag , bled support to the afd .
but the exit of schaeuble , the most powerful counterweight to the long-serving chancellor , could paradoxically strengthen her position .
as bundestag president , schaeuble will not be involved in coalition negotiations , removing one strong-minded negotiator from the table and potentially giving merkel a freer hand .
coalition negotiations will only begin in earnest after oct. 15 , when the conservatives hope to wrest power from the social democrats in a state election in lower saxony .
by law , the new parliament must convene for its first session 30 days after the election , so by oct. 24 at the latest .