( reuters ) - the u.s. senate banking committee has set a hearing date for president barack obama ’ s two nominees to the securities and exchange commission , a move that follows democrats ’ complaints about a backlog of nominations .
the committee ’ s hearing for the nominees , democrat lisa fairfax and republican hester peirce , will take place on march 15 , more than five months after obama announced their selection , according to a schedule published on tuesday .
senate banking committee democrats , in a letter on feb. 22 , asked the panel ’ s chairman , republican senator richard shelby , to “ clear the backlog ” of 16 nominations by obama to posts related to financial oversight , national security and other areas .
if confirmed , fairfax and peirce would restore the sec ’ s commission to five members .
the agency has been overseen by three commissioners since last year when republican daniel gallagher and democratic luis aguilar stepped down .
the situation has heightened the agency ’ s challenges in recent years of getting a consensus .
only three sec commissioners remain : kara stein is a democrat ; mike piwowar , a republican ; and chair mary jo white , an independent .
on feb. 22 , white said that she intends to wait until the sec once again has a full five-member panel before moving forward to appoint a new head of the public company accounting oversight board , a body created in the wake of the enron scandal to police corporate auditors .
another topic that has proven particularly controversial at the sec are regulatory waivers .
banks and other companies that break criminal laws or face civil fraud charges must apply to the agency for waivers to keep operating normally .
last year , commissioner stein began publicly dissenting on waivers , saying the agency was too often rubber-stamping them and creating a policy of “ too-big-to-bar. ” obama tapped fairfax and peirce after months of delays and pressure from liberal groups to nominate someone who will be tough on wall street .