paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron on saturday unveiled measures aimed at educating the public and schoolchildren about sexism and violence against women and improving police support for victims .
during his campaign macron , who won the presidential election in may , promised to rethink sexual politics and gender equality , which he made a national cause for his five-year mandate .
the harvey weinstein scandal in the united states has accelerated a rethink of attitudes toward sexual harassment in france , a country that cherishes its self-image as the land of seduction and romance .
let s seal a pact of equality between men and women , macron said in a speech marking the international day for elimination of violence against women .
about violence and sexual abuse , he said : it is essential that shame changes camp .
during his speech , macron observed a minute s silence for the 123 women killed by their partner or ex-partner in 2016 .
measures announced include educating secondary school children about pornography and simplifying the system for rape and assault victims to go to the police .
proposals that could be included in a 2018 draft law include criminalizing street harassment and extending the statute of limitation for the rape of minors to 30 years from 20 years .
macron also said he was personally in favor of setting the age of sexual consent at 15 .
currently france has no minimum age for sexual consent .
planned changes to the police system include allowing victims of rape and sexual assault to make their initial complaints online , before going to a police station to bring criminal charges .
other measures include on demand bus stops , where women can stop a bus anywhere at night so they can get home safely .
french feminist group osez le f minisme said the measures were going in the right direction but must be accompanied by adequate funding .
without funding , any communication , training , awareness or help plan for the victims will be useless , the statement said .
france has often debated sexual harassment over the past decade following scandals involving french politicians .
six years ago a sex scandal forced former finance minister dominique strauss-kahn to resign as head of the international monetary fund , provoking a round of soul-searching in france about sexual abuse that goes undetected in the upper echelons of power .