geneva ( reuters ) - civilians caught up in the battle for the syrian city of raqqa are paying an unacceptable price and attacking forces may be contravening international law with their intense air strikes , the top united nations human rights official said on thursday .
a u.s.-led coalition is seeking to oust islamic state from raqqa , while syrian government forces , backed by the russian air force and iran-backed militias are also advancing on the city .
some 20,000 civilians are trapped in raqqa where the jihadist fighters are holding some of them as human shields , the world body says .
u.n. high commissioner for human rights zeid ra ad al-hussein said that his office had documented 151 civilian deaths in six incidents alone in august , due to air strikes and ground-based attacks .
given the extremely high number of reports of civilian casualties this month and the intensity of the air strikes on raqqa , coupled with isil s use of civilians as human shields , i am deeply concerned that civilians who should be protected at all times - are paying an unacceptable price and that forces involved in battling isil are losing sight of the ultimate goal of this battle , zeid said in a statement .
... the attacking forces may be failing to abide by the international humanitarian law principles of precautions , distinction , and proportionality , he said .
the u.s.-led coalition has said it conducted nearly 1,100 air strikes on and near raqqa this month , up from 645 in july , the u.n. statement said .
russia s air force has reported carrying out 2,518 air strikes across syria in the first three weeks of august , it added .
meanwhile isil fighters continue to prevent civilians from fleeing the area , although some manage to leave after paying large amounts of money to smugglers , zeid said .
we have reports of smugglers also being publicly executed by isil .
u.s.-led warplanes on wednesday blocked a convoy of islamic state fighters and their families from reaching territory the group holds in eastern syria and struck some of their comrades traveling to meet them , a coalition spokesman said .