des moines ( reuters ) - texas senator ted cruz was victorious in the first republican nomination contest of the 2016 white house race , but there was another big winner in iowa on monday night : florida senator marco rubio and the republican establishment .
for months , cruz and donald trump ’ s brand of angry , scorched-earth , insurgent politics defined the race for the republican presidential nomination , while more moderate candidates tussled with themselves to try to mount a challenge to them .
the hope among republican party leaders has long been for a champion to emerge .
and on monday , that person was rubio , who finished a hair behind trump and only a few points behind cruz .
when rubio took the stage in a hotel ballroom after the final results were announced , he gave what amounted to a victory speech .
“ this is the moment they said would never happen , ” the first-term senator said .
“ for months , they told us we had no chance. ” the fight for the nomination has unmistakably entered a new phase .
“ we have a three-way race , ” said craig robinson , the former political director of the iowa republican party .
rubio ’ s night shocked iowa political observers like robinson , who had predicted rubio would wind up far behind trump and cruz , with perhaps around 15-18 percent of the vote .
he finished with 23 percent .
rubio ’ s performance will strengthen his argument that supporters of other moderate , establishment candidates such as former florida governor jeb bush , new jersey governor chris christie , and ohio governor john kasich should throw their support , and their money , behind him .
rubio could use the extra cash .
his campaign committee raised just over $ 14 million from donors in the fourth quarter of 2015 , putting him well behind cruz , who brought in more than $ 20 million .
to date , his campaign has raised nearly $ 40 million , while cruz has raised $ 47 million .
rubio ’ s super pac , which can raise unlimited funds as long as it does not coordinate directly with him , also trails the pacs supporting cruz .
it pulled in $ 30.5 million last year , while cruz ’ s pacs raked in $ 42 million .
trump , a billionaire , largely self-funds his campaign .
rubio ’ s third place finish in iowa means he “ is the consensus establishment candidate , ” said douglas gross , a republican strategist in des moines .
rubio flew to new hampshire on monday evening and will likely begin making that argument to voters there ahead of the state ’ s primary , or early nominating contest , on feb. 10 .
on the campaign trail in iowa , rubio railed at many of the same targets as cruz and trump : islamic state , immigration and president barack obama ’ s healthcare overhaul , popularly known as obamacare .
but he embedded his criticism within a more optimistic , inclusive message .
the american-born son of cuban immigrants , rubio would be the first hispanic president .
“ it ’ s not enough to just be angry , ” rubio told voters during last-minute campaigning in the weekend before the caucus vote .
“ anger is not a plan .
anger is not solution. ” iowans who supported rubio at the caucuses told reuters they responded to his positive message and viewed him as the best candidate to beat hillary clinton in the november election , should she be the democratic nominee .
“ i ’ ve been looking for someone who really will be an agent for change and i think marco rubio will be that guy , ” said kevin huerkamp , 56 , of clive , iowa .
according to election returns , rubio swamped both cruz and trump in iowa ’ s urban areas - des moines , iowa city , davenport -suggesting that he could prosper when the republican race progresses to denser , more populated states such as florida and ohio .
( this story has been refiled to replace rubio ’ s name in last paragraph with trump ’ s )