18 mayors sent a letter to obama telling him that they want more syrian refugees .
is your mayor on this list ? remember syracuse is the city that saw a beautiful catholic church become a mosque .
i m guessing the mayor wants to see more of that because the majority of the syrians to be admitted to the us through the un are sunni muslims .
kind of ironic that they penned this letter when the pope was here .
does he want more muslims to take over more catholic churches worldwide ? clearly catholic charities and mayor miner of syracuse do ! from syracuse.com : mayor stephanie miner is one of 18 mayors encouraging president barack obama to accept additional syrian refugees into the united states.miner signed a letter , sent to obama , that calls for an increase of the number of refugees the u.s. will accept in the next two years .
obama has already pledged to take 10,000 syrian refugees and increase the overall refugee allowance to 100,000 by 2017 .
our cities have been transformed by the skills and the spirit of those who come to us from around the world , the letter reads .
the drive and enterprise of immigrants and refugees have helped build our economies , enliven our arts and culture , and enrich our neighborhoods .
all 18 mayors are members of cities united for immigration action , a coalition pushing for immigration reform .
along with miner , mayors from los angeles , new york city , pittsburgh , boston and chicago signed the letter .
[ i bet if you dug into this group , you would find it another george soros-funded group .
ed ] syracuse currently accepts between 1,100 and 1,200 refugees each year .
two organizations catholic charities of onondaga county and interfaith works cny resettle refugees in syracuse .
we have taken in refugees , and will help make room for thousands more , the letter reads .
here are the 18 cities which need new mayors : ed pawlowski , mayor of allentown , pa stephanie rawlings-blake , mayor of baltimore , md martin j. walsh , mayor of boston , ma james diossa , mayor of central falls , ri mark kleinschmidt , mayor of chapel hill , nc rahm emanuel , mayor of chicago , il edward terry , mayor of clarkston , ga nan whaley , mayor of dayton , oh domenick stampone , mayor of haledon , nj pedro e. segarra , mayor of hartford , ct eric garcetti , mayor of los angeles , ca betsy hodges , mayor of minneapolis , mn bill de blasio , mayor of new york city , ny jose torres , mayor of paterson , nj william peduto , mayor of pittsburgh , pa javier gonzales , mayor of santa fe , nm francis g. slay , mayor of st. louis , mo stephanie a .
miner , mayor of syracuse , nyvia : refugee resettlement watch