i just want to start with what you just heard from newt gingrich and mike huckabee , both going public against mitt romney for secretary of state .
you seemed to join in as well .
you tweeted : receiving deluge of social media and private coms re : romney .
some trump loyalists warn against romney as secretary of state .
do you think mitt romney could be a loyal secretary of state for donald trump ? kellyanne conway , trump senior adviser : i would hope so , because that s the first job of any secretary of state , dana , is to support and work directly for and advise the president for whom you work.i felt compelled to mention it because i it s just breathtaking in scope and intensity the type of messages i have received from all over the country .
and i m just me .
i m not donald trump.and so , just as his former campaign manager , the number of people who feel betrayed to think that a governor romney would get the most prominent cabinet post , after he went so far out of his way to hurt donald trump there was the never-trump movement and then there was mitt romney.he gave speeches against donald trump .
he attacked his character .
i never heard governor romney come out and say , hey , you know , i have a problem with x , y and z , but that 25 million job creation plan over the next 10 years is really something to look at .
the fact that you will reduce the capital gains tax and the tax on employers and businesses , or you will unleash energy investment , or you have 10-point plan to reform the veterans administration , none of that was ever said.and his the romney consultants transparent were the worst to all of us , including mr. trump .
their twitter feeds were complete 100 percent anti-trump screed.and , look , if president-elect trump chooses mitt romney as his secretary of state , or whomever he chooses , that will have the full support and backing of all of us .
i respect the brilliance and judgment and sheer instincts of president-elect trump to form his cabinet as he wishes.but i felt compelled to come forward on behalf of the people who were weighing in.watch : https : //youtu.be/ciokzm91hca