phnom penh ( reuters ) - sweden said on thursday it would rethink its engagement with cambodia if the main opposition party is dissolved , in the strongest warning yet from a western aid donor .
the government has filed a suit to dissolve the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) after charging its leader , kem sokha , with treason .
he rejected the charge as politically motivated .
excluding the opposition party would allow veteran prime minister hun sen a clear field to extend his 32-year rule at the next election in 2018 .
swedish human rights ambassador annika ben david told a news conference at the end of a five-day visit the banning of the opposition party could have consequences .
should the cambodia national rescue party be dissolved , this will force my government to rethink our engagement cambodia , she said .
other western countries have condemned the arrest of kem sokha and warned against dissolving the cnrp , but have not raised the possibility of action .
david did not elaborate on what sweden might do .
government spokesman phay siphan rejected david s comments as interference in cambodia s sovereignty and an insult .
this is language that the royal government can t accept , phay siphan told reuters .
this is an invasion and insult to the cambodian national institution .
sweden had given cambodia an estimated $ 100 million in aid over five years , david said .
according to cambodia s database of donors , sweden ranked third for aid among individual eu member states last year after france and germany .
david also pointed out that swedish fashion group h & m was an important buyer of clothes from cambodia s garment factories - the country s main export earner .
hun sen s ruling cambodia people s party ( cpp ) has launched a crackdown on its critics , including politicians , independent media and non-government groups .
this week , parliament changed the law so that the cnrp s seats can be shared amongst other parties if it is dissolved .
while western governments have for years tried to put pressure on cambodia over the stifling of democracy and the trampling of human rights , china has become an increasingly important ally and business partner .