21st century wire says president obama is once again appearing on info-tainment programming on comedy central but his appearance is clearly not to entertain or inform the viewer .
in the final days of the president s time in office he is going on comedy shows to push the russian hack effect on the u.s. presidential election outcome .
he does so without a shred of evidence nor a mention of the podesta emails , the collusion of the media with the clinton campaign or the questionable practices of the clinton foundation.the duran asks some good questions and provides further analysis alex christoforou the duranobama has gone all in to blame russia for hillary clinton s loss and the dnc hack that exposed hillary clinton for the corrupt cheat that we all knew , deep down inside , she truly was.notice how obama talks only about the dnc hack and not the wikileaks podesta email leak .
also notice how obama tries to justify his conveniently timed call for an investigation , by throwing it back onto donald trump.obama never states that he has irrefutable evidence that russia hacked the dnc emails , and never even mentions once the podesta emails we determined and announced in october that it was the consensus of all the intelligence agencies in law enforcement that organizations affiliated with russian intelligence were responsible for the hacking of the dnc materials that were being leaked .
fyi china , israel , germany , etc also hack us institutions .
us intelligence agencies hack governments all over the world.obama s above assertions are based on james clapper s statement that the duran reported on in october consider the statement us intelligence published last week on the subject of alleged russian hacking of the democratic national committee and of other us agencies involved in the election .
it reads as follows : the u.s. intelligence community ( usic ) is confident that the russian government directed the recent compromises of e-mails from us persons and institutions , including from us political organizations .
the recent disclosures of alleged hacked e-mails on sites like dcleaks.com and wikileaks and by the guccifer 2.0 online persona are consistent with the methods and motivations of russian-directed efforts .
these thefts and disclosures are intended to interfere with the us election process .
such activity is not new to moscow the russians have used similar tactics and techniques across europe and eurasia , for example , to influence public opinion there.we believe , based on the scope and sensitivity of these efforts , that only russia s senior-most officials could have authorized these activities .
( bold italics added ) the statement is an implicit admission that us intelligence has no evidence to back its allegations of russian hacking.it is merely confident not sure that it is the russians who are behind the hacking , and it is clear from the statement that it arrived at this conclusion purely through inference : because the hacks supposedly were consistent with the methods and motivations of russian-directed efforts .us intelligence assumes the russians were behind the hack not because it knows this to be so but in part because of what it believes russian motives to be.the statement backs its claim with a textual trick .
it says the russians have used similar tactics and techniques across europe and eurasia .
it then immediately follows these words with the words for example .these lead to the expectation that an actual example of such russian tactics and techniques is about to follow .
instead what is provided are the fact free words to influence public opinion there .the words for example lend nothing to the meaning of the statement , which would be exactly the same without them .
these two words as used in the statement are actually meaningless .
that is a sure sign that their presence in the statement is intended to confuse the casual reader , and that this is true of the statement as a whole.the words are designed to create a subliminal impression to a casual reader that the russians have been caught doing this sort of thing before , without however providing a single actual example when this was the case.demonstrating how thin the case of russian government actually is , the statement then goes on to say : some states have also recently seen scanning and probing of their election-related systems , which in most cases originated from servers operated by a russian company .
however , we are not now in a position to attribute this activity to the russian government .
( bold italics added ) in other words us intelligence admits the mere fact servers operated by a russian company may have been used for scanning and probing and presumably also for hacking is not in itself proof of the involvement of the russian government.the daily show s trevor noah , who is not a journalist , and not even american , is the perfect useful idiot to conduct this interview and help spread obama s political spin.no tough question , no follow up questions just giggly gushing glances of admiration and awe from noah.remember when obama told trump to stop whining about a rigged election and focus on getting votes .
this was when obama , and the entire hillary liberal elite establishment , were certain that trump had no chance to win the us presidency.how things change , and how obama is now changing his tune doing everything in his power to undermine trump and undermine us democracy , while risking escalating , already high tensions with russia.continue reading this story at the duranread more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 files