barack obama , champion of the taxpayer funded government employee .
destroyer of the private sector president barack obama on monday ordered government contractors to offer their workers seven days of paid sick leave a year and , without naming them , knocked republican presidential candidates for advocating what he said were anti-union policies.obama signed an executive order on sick leave , which the white house said would affect some 300,000 people , during a flight to boston , where he spoke at a union event.starting in 2017 , workers on government contracts will earn a minimum of one hour of paid sick leave for every 30 hours worked .
contractors can offer more generous amounts at their discretion.speaking to a friendly crowd without a tie or jacket , obama said such policies were beneficial to employers and said more worker friendly measures , such as paid maternity leave , were needed .
right now , we are the only advanced nation on earth that does not guarantee paid maternity leave , he said .
now , for the men in the audience in particular , think about that .
we wouldn t even go to work if we had to carry around somebody for nine months .
the human race would evaporate , he said , drawing laughter and applause from the crowd.unions and organized labor are a key constituent for the democratic party , and their support will be critical in the 2016 presidential election.obama , who joked that he was glad not to be on the ballot next year , made thinly veiled references to wisconsin governor scott walker and new jersey governor chris christie for anti-union remarks and policies .
he did not name them by name .
it s clear he stands with the big government union bosses while we stand with the people , walker , during a campaign stop in new hampshire , said in response to the president.the executive order follows a series of measures by the white house to expand access to paid leave .
in january , obama issued a presidential memorandum directing the government to advance up to six weeks of paid sick leave for the birth or adoption of a child , or for other sick leave-eligible uses.obama is also pressing congress to pass legislation giving government employees six additional weeks of paid parental leave .
labor secretary thomas perez said he could not say what the cost of implementing the seven-day paid leave rule would be to contractors .
we believe the cost of implementing this rule is offset by the efficiencies that come with reduced attrition , increased loyalty , all of those things that have been documented in a number of studies of state laws that have been enacted , perez told reporters on a conference call on sunday.obama also used the trip to boston to renew his call for congress to pass the healthy families act , which would require all businesses with 15 or more employees to offer up to seven paid sick days each year.according to the white house , an estimated 44 million private-sector workers , about 40 percent of the total private-sector workforce , do not have access to paid sick leave .
via : reuters