for anyone who cares to do the research , there is always more to obama s unyielding public support of a person who is held up as a victim .
every move is carefully calculated , orchestrated and implemented by the master community organizer in chief as many people thoroughly anticipated the back-story to the 14-year-old briefcase clockmaker reflects his father is actually a rather controversial muslim activist .
this lends further credence toward a reasonable belief that his taking a briefcase clock to school was not as innocent as the media would lead everyone to believe.update-1update : in his own words ahmed mohamed , 14 , an irving macarthur high student essentially states he knew taking the device to school was controversial .
listen at 1:26 video : i closed it with a cable , so because , i didn t want to lock it to make it seem like a threat so i just used simple cable .
so it won t look that much suspicious .that s what you call an admission of premeditation and intent .
in his own words , with forethought , he knew the briefcase with wires and a countdown clock would be suspicious ; especially around 9/11.texas [ ] the ninth grader is the son of mohamed elhassan mohamed , a sudanese immigrant who has made headlines of his own over the years .
a february 2015 profile in the north dallas gazette details the elder mohamed s activities.born in sudan in 1961 , mohamed , a former customs worker at khartoum international airport , earned a degree in philosophy from cairo university in khartoum before emigrating to the u.s. once i realized my dream was bigger than what sudan had to offer i immigrated to america in the mid-1980 s , he told the north dallas gazette .
in that same interview , mohamed shared that upon arrival in the u.s. where he says his degree was not accepted he initially sold hot dogs , candy , and newspapers in manhattan .
i realized this wasn t enough for me , and i packed my bag and moved to dallas , texas y all , he told the paper.in texas , he started out as a pizza delivery man before becoming a taxi driver and ultimately launching his own business ventures he owns a computer repair shop in irving , texas ( perhaps where his son gets his tech acuity from ) , a cab company called jet taxi , a medical emergency transport company called paradise prime investments , and the solar energy business alsufi international in sudan .
he also served as self-elected president of the small sufi muslim alsufi center in irving.via : conservative treehouseahmed s father , mohamed elhassan mohamed is also well known for his defense of the quran against florida pastor terry jones .