maricopa county sheriff joe arpaio says a new video analysis shows that parts of obama s birth certificate were copied from another certificate .
after arguing his point for five years , arpaio says he will turn this new evidence over to the fed .
usa todayat 4 p.m. sharp , arpaio and a member of his sheriff s office s cold case posse had a big message for the 40-odd journalists in attendance : you were wrong.arpaio and his aides announced that a five-year investigation had proved that obama s birth certificate from hawaii in 1961 was a fake .
an accompanying presentation highlighted what they called 9 points of forgery on the document , which focused on the angles of date stamps , typed letters and words .
usa todayremember the woman who verified obama s birth certificate that was killed in a plane crash after she verified the authenticity of his birth certificate ? the hawaiian health official who verified the authenticity of president obama s birth certificate died in a small plane crash.the plane , carrying a pilot and eight passengers , went down wednesday in the water a half mile off the hawaiian island of molokai , the maui fire department said .
the lone fatality was loretta fuddy , who has served as state health director since january 2011 .
tom matsuda , the interim executive director of hawaii s health insurance exchange , confirmed fuddy s death.fuddy , 65 , made national news in april 2011 when she verified the authenticity of certified copies of president obama s birth certificate .
obama had requested the release to curb claims by so-called birthers that he was born in kenya and not eligible to be president.makani kai air president richard schuman told honolulu-based kitv that he spoke with the pilot of the single-engine turboprop cessna grand caravan after the crash .
what he reported is after takeoff there was catastrophic engine failure , schuman said .
he did the best he can to bring the aircraft down safely and he got everybody out of the aircraft .
schuman said the cause of the engine failure had not yet been determined .
the national transportation safety board was investigating the crash ; ntsb spokesman eric weiss said that based on the location of the crash it was unlikely the plane will be recovered .
usa todayarpaio promised to provide an update and a final conclusion to the barack obama birth certificate investigation.the maricopa county sheriff s office announced they believe president obama s longform birth certificate was forged.they cite nine points of forgery , claiming the obama document contains stamp prints digitally lifted from a certificate belonging to a person named johanna ah nee .
breaking 911chief investigator mike zullo said , forensic analysis showing the characters on the document were pieced together from secondary sources .
[ .. ] words , letters and hand placed date stamps have been digitally copied from ah nee s birth certificate and pasted onto obama s longform birth certificate [ .. ] we re pretty confident with these results .
breaking 911