yangon ( reuters ) - myanmar insisted on wednesday it was ready to set up a repatriation process for rohingya muslims even as more risked their lives fleeing the country , but it voiced fears bangladesh was delaying an accord to first get international aid money .
a senior bangladesh home ministry official described the accusation as outrageous .
more than 600,000 rohingya have fled predominantly buddhist myanmar to neighboring bangladesh since late august to escape violence that accompanied a brutal military counter-insurgency operation after rohingya militant attacks on security posts in myanmar s rakhine state .
stung by international criticism and accusations of ethnic cleansing , myanmar s de facto leader , aung san suu kyi , has said rohingya refugees who can prove they were resident will be accepted back .
but for now , the flow of people is one-way , with rohingya still preferring to risk being destitute in bangladesh rather than stay in myanmar in fear of their lives .
zaw htay , a spokesman for suu kyi , said myanmar was ready to begin the repatriation process any time , based along the lines of an agreement with bangladesh that covered returns of rohingya to myanmar in the early 1990s .
he said bangladesh had yet to accept those terms .
we are ready to start , but the other side did not accept yet , and the process was delayed .
this is the number one fact , zaw htay , director-general of the ministry of the state counsellor s office , told journalists on tuesday .
a memorandum of understanding on border liaison posts was signed with bangladesh home minister asaduzzaman khan following talks in the myanmar capital , naypyitaw , last week , but there was no progress on reviving the old agreement .
zaw htay linked the delay by bangladesh to the money raised so far by the international community to help build gigantic refugee camps for the rohingya .
currently they have got $ 400 million .
over their receipt of this amount , we are now afraid of delaying the program of deporting the refugees , he said in comments carried in a front-page article in the state-run global new light of myanmar newspaper on wednesday .
they have got international subsidies .
we are now afraid they would have another consideration as to repatriation , he said .
a senior bangladesh home ministry official gave a scathing response .
their claim is outrageous .
we are stunned , the official told reuters in dhaka .
how can they say this when everyone knows who are making the delay ?
the bangladesh government issued a statement last thursday saying that myanmar had not agreed to 10 points put forward by its minister at last week s talks , including the full implementation of the recommendations of an advisory commission on rakhine state , chaired by former u.n. secretary general kofi annan , for a sustainable return of rohingya .
khan told bangladesh media last friday that the two sides were unable to form a joint working group but said it should be set up by the time foreign minister abul hassan mahmood ali goes to myanmar for further talks on nov. 30 .
the united nation s new interim resident coordinator for myanmar began his new job on wednesday .
knut ostby , a norwegian , has stepped into the key humanitarian and diplomatic role at a time of growing strains with the myanmar government over the handling of the rohingya crisis .
meantime , while myanmar and bangladesh work out how rohingya can eventually go home , the grim exodus from myanmar continues .
seven rohingya , including three babies and two children , drowned making the perilous sea crossing up the coast from myanmar to bangladesh earlier this week .
given the horrors endured by many rohingya now living in refugee camps it would be unsurprising if they were in no hurry to return to their old home .
u.n. investigators interviewing rohingya living in refugee camps in bangladesh said on friday they had gathered testimony pointing to a consistent , methodical pattern of killings , torture , rape and arson .
a worry for myanmar as it prepares to scrutinize any returnees is the risk of islamist militants sneaking into the country , as several groups , including al qaeda in the indian subcontinent ( aqis ) , have called for a jihad to fight for the rohingya .
( this version of the story fixes typo in second paragraph )