dublin ( reuters ) - a breakthrough on the future of the irish border once britain leaves the european union is doable before a key eu summit in two weeks time but the negotiating teams are not there yet , ireland s foreign minister said on friday .
avoiding a so-called hard border on the island of ireland is the last major hurdle before brexit talks can move to negotiations on britain s future trade relationship with the eu and a possible two-year brexit transition deal .
european council president donald tusk last week set an absolute deadline of monday - when british prime minister theresa may meets eu chief executive jean-claude juncker and his chief brexit negotiator , michel barnier - for london to deliver sufficient progress in its divorce offer .
let s hope we can make more progress in the next few days .
i don t think everything needs to be done by next monday but certainly we need to be in a position by the time eu leaders meet ( on dec. 14 ) , i hope , to have wording that everybody can live with , irish foreign minister simon coveney told reporters .
i think it s doable but i think there s a need for some movement and more flexibility than we ve seen to date .
we re not where we need to be today but i do think it is possible to get to where we need to be over the next few days , he said .
if london meets the three key eu conditions on its financial settlement for leaving , the rights of expatriate citizens and the border , then leaders could give a green light to trade talks at the summit on dec. 14-15 .
before it can sign off on the first phase , dublin wants may to spell out in writing how she intends to make good on a commitment to avoid a hard border and says the best way to do so is to keep regulations the same on both sides of a border that will be the uk s only land frontier with the bloc after brexit .
coveney said negotiators were working to find sensible wording , drafts of which were being exchanged .
dublin , he said , will insist there will be no fudge .
he said his government and the pro-brexit northern ireland party propping up may s government agreed on far more than it disagreed on after the democratic unionist party ( dup ) hinted it might withdraw its support for may if she gives too much away .
however he warned the dup that one party does not have a monopoly on the region whose voters sought to stay in the eu and that there were broad and different views among the british province s unionists and irish nationalist communities .
we can t allow one party to dictate what s acceptable and what s not , he said .