washington ( reuters ) - mayors of 21 cities in florida on friday called on the moderators of next week ’ s presidential debates in miami to ask candidates how they would deal with rising sea levels caused by climate change , a concern of the state ’ s coastal communities .
“ it would be unconscionable for these issues of grave concern for the people of florida to not be addressed in the upcoming debate you will be hosting in the state , ” the mayors wrote in an letter to cnn , the washington post , univision and the other media outlets hosting the democratic and republican debates on march 9 and march 10 in miami .
the bipartisan group of mayors , who represent coastal cities and towns from miami to tampa , have complained that the issue of climate change has not been raised in the dozens of televised debates held to date .
of the four remaining republican candidates , none say they believe that anything should be done to address climate change and all have called for federal environmental rules to be scaled back .
one of the letter ’ s signatories , pinecrest mayor cindy lerner , traveled to new hampshire in february to press florida republican candidate senator marco rubio to discuss the issue .
rubio has said that the climate has always been changing and that he will not support policies to combat climate change that will “ destroy our economy. ” billionaire businessman donald trump has called climate change a conspiracy invented by china , while texas senator ted cruz called climate science “ pseudoscientific theory. ” ohio governor john kasich has said climate change is a problem but has not proposed a plan to address it .
democratic hopefuls hillary clinton and senator bernie sanders have made climate change a top-tier issue that needs to be addressed .
southeast florida is especially vulnerable to rising sea levels .
four counties in the region formed the southeast florida regional climate change compact six years ago to coordinate their response and pool funding to deal with its impact .
the issue has gotten little attention in the national presidential debates .
the mayors provided debate moderators three questions on climate change , all of which were directed to rubio .
they warned that higher sea levels will pose a costly threat to florida ’ s economy .
florida coastal communities could experience about a 2-foot ( 60-cm ) rise in sea level by 2060 , the u.s. geological survey said .
( reporting by valerie volcovici ; editing by steve orlofsky ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .