kathmandu ( reuters ) - a leftist alliance between nepal s former maoist rebels and moderate communists appeared to be heading for a victory in elections aimed at completing a transition to democracy after the abolition of the monarchy and end to civil war .
early tallies from thursday s vote show the leftists lead in 63 out of 80 constituencies where counting has begun .
nepal has seen 10 government changes in as many years .
instability has given rise to corruption , retarded growth and slowed recovery from a 2015 earthquake that killed 9,000 people .
the election pits the centrist nepali congress party of prime minister sher bahadur deuba , who heads a loose alliance that includes the madhesi parties from nepal s southern plains and former royalists , against the tight-knit alliance of former maoists and the moderate communist uml party .
the nepali congress party is considered a pro-india group , while the opposition alliance is seen as closer to china .
nepal is a natural buffer between the two and the outcome could indicate whether china or india gets the upper hand in the battle for influence in a nation rich in hydropower and home to mount everest .
nepal emerged from a civil war in 2006 and abolished its 239-year-old hindu monarchy two years later .
guna raj luintel , editor of the daily nagarik , said it was almost certain the leftist alliance would win .
trends so far suggest they could win a two-thirds majority .
if that happened , that will be a landslide win , luintel said .
there are 165 seats to be decided on a first-past-the-post basis for which voting was held on thursday with another 110 seats decided by proportional representation .
few results are in from the southern plains , home to nearly half of the population , and communists are thought to have weaker support there .
final results of the election , nepal s first under its republican constitution approved by a special constituent assembly in 2015 , could take around 10 days due to cumbersome counting procedures .