every time a terrorist murders an innocent person , and falsely invokes the name of god , it should be an insult to every person of faith .
terrorists do not worship god .
they worship death .
president donald j. trumpdonald trump insisted in a speech addressing global islamic extremism that muslim leaders must scare would-be terrorists into submission , warning them about the impact suicide bombings will have on their immortal souls .
religious leaders must make this absolutely clear : barbarism will deliver you no glory piety to evil will bring you no dignity , trump said in a sumptuous saudi ballroom that put mar-a-lago to shame .
if you choose the path of terror , your life will be empty , your life will be brief , and your soul will be fully condemned , he said .
heroes don t kill innocents , a confident trump declared at the king abdulaziz conference center in riyadh .
they save them .
the president urged 55 world leaders from arab and other muslim nations to drive out terrorists from every corner of their lives including mosques in a zero-tolerance approach that lines up with his 2016 campaign rhetoric .
drive them out !
he said .
drive them out of your places of worship , drive them out of your communities .
drive them out of your holy lands , and drive them out of this earth , he trumpeted.trump s performance was forceful at times but largely a cautious , measured and presidential-sounding effort , raising his voice only once .
with god s help this summit will mark the beginning of the end for those who practice terror and spread its vile creed , the president said.trump insisted that fighting terrorism is a battle between good and evil , not between different faiths , different sects , or different civilizations .
terrorists do not worship god .
they worship death , trump declared .
if we do not act against this organized terror , then we know what will happen and what will be the end result .
he predicted that in the absence of multi-nation commitments to action , peaceful societies will be engulfed by violence , and the futures of many generations will be sadly squandered .
and if the world doesn t unite to fight isis , al-qaeda , hezbollah , hamas and other groups , he said , not only will we be judged by our people , not only will we be judged by history , we will be judged by god .
trump said middle eastern nations can t wait for the u.s. to solve the terror problem for them .
muslim-majority countries must take the lead in combating radicalization , he said.trump took pains to isolate iran in his speech , saying the islamic republican is spreading destruction and chaos throughout the middle east and gives terrorists safe harbor , financial backing and the social standing needed for recruitment .
saudi king salman bin abdulaziz al saud , too , declared on sunday that the iranian regime has been the spearhead of global terrorism .
trump called defeating global terrorism history s great test , as he urged summit attendees to vanquish the forces that terrorism brings with it every single time .
young muslim boys and girls should be able to grow up free from fear , safe from violence and innocent from hatred , trump said .
this is a battle between barbaric criminals who seek to obliterate human life , and decent people of all religions who seek to protect it , trump said , reading from teleprompters.watch video here : king salman seemed to agree with trump s most aggressive and foreboding statement that jihadi terrorists place their souls at risk .
our way to achieve the goals of our religion and win everlasting life in heaven is to promote the tolerant values of islam , which are based in peace and moderation , he said in introducing trump from behind a desk onstage .
there is no honor in committing murder , he said through a translator .
islam is the religion of peace and tolerance .
it considers killing an innocent soul tantamount to killing all of humanity .
salman called on gulf cooperation council leaders to reject extremism , work on fighting all forms of terrorism , stop its financing and its propagation , dry up its sources , and stand firm in confronting this scourge that poses a danger to all of humanity .
and he pledged to prosecute terrorists and terror financing , to eradicate the isis terror army and other terrorist organizations regardless of their religious , sect or ideology .
daily mail