as donald trump was being sworn in as grand wizard of the united states , pope francis was throwing shade at our new president-with-an-asterisk in an interview with a spanish newspaper.he didn t address trump directly in his interview with el pais after all , where s the fun in that ?
but instead talked about someone of whom many trump supporters are fond , adolf hitler : germany was looking for a leader , someone who would give her back her identity and there was a little man named adolf hitler who said i can do it .
hitler did not steal power .
he was elected by his people and then he destroyed his people .
the germans at that time also wanted to protect themselves with walls and barbed wire so that others can not take away their identity .
it doesn t take much imagination at all to see the similarities .
immediately after trump assumed office , any mention of civil rights disappeared from the white house website and he immediately signed an executive order aimed at taking healthcare away from millions of americans .
the case of germany is classic , he said , adding that hitler gave his citizens a deformed identity and we know what it produced .
in other words , germany first , america first , it s all the same .
but pope francis says to give trump a chance to prove him right : let s see .
let s see what he does and then we will evaluate .
naturally , conservatives are furious .
responding reports on trump s statements , the right lashed out at pope francis for insulting their god : @ rt_com @ robertntaupier is it sacrilegious to tell a godless commie pope to go * * * * himself ?
thomas pine ( @ ameripundit ) january 23 , 2017 @ rt_com stuff it the worst pope ever who totally politicizes everything for his socialists cronies e publius unum ( @ cesquirecowen ) january 23 , 2017 @ rt_com this pope is hurdling christianity towards extinction .
lowest numbers in recent history .
1 9 1 6 ( @ pepewillsitv3 ) january 23 , 2017 @ rt_com the pope is a jesuit marxist lisa m b ( @ lisamlouisiana ) january 23 , 2017 @ rt_com just another old guy and his old opinions .
hopefully the church starts to be taxed so they can act responsible raisemmmk ( @ raisemmmk ) january 23 , 2017 @ rt_com a leftist , papal imposter .
he is probably only a layman since they changed the rites of ordination after vatican 2 .
not catholic !
procinctu ( @ theprocinctu ) january 23 , 2017 @ rt_com you look into your business mr poop sorry , mr pope .
silako silmi ( @ gilmaparty ) january 23 , 2017 @ rt_com i 've looked at history , hitler , was n't a bad person , just trying to protect germany from satan , if he had completed his work , better pl ( ( ( andros ) ) ) ( @ mrrealandros ) january 23 , 2017 @ foxnews passing judgement is n't his place.has he read the bible . ?
time 4 a new pope this one is defective sharon ( @ sharonm67714628 ) january 22 , 2017 @ foxnews passing judgement is n't his place.has he read the bible . ?
time 4 a new pope this one is defective sharon ( @ sharonm67714628 ) january 22 , 2017 @ sexxxylisa @ foxnews i agree with you 100 % !
yes not a nice old pope .
he 's an evil old jesuit globalist nwo pope .
liziz fine ( @ lizizfine ) january 22 , 2017this isn t the first time the pontiff has attacked president cheeto .
in february , shortly after the donald warned trump about lying about his religion : a person who thinks only about building walls wherever they may be and not building bridges , is not christian i d just say that this man is not christian if he said it this way .
if donald trump s presidency feels like the rise of hitler to you , you re not alone and it is your duty as an american to stand up to the threat every day of your life until it is no longer present .
it s going to be a long and terrible four years , but we must stand together against this unpresidented threat to our country , minimize the damage , and rebuild when he is gone in four years.featured image via getty images ( franco origlia ) /screengrab