brasilia ( reuters ) - brazil s scandal-plagued political class voted on wednesday to set up a 1.7 billion reais ( $ 542 million ) fund with taxpayer money to finance election campaigns , making up for a dearth of private funding ahead of next year s general election .
a ban on corporate donations coupled with the drying up of under-the-table contributions and kickbacks in the wake of the country s biggest corruption scandal have left lawmakers struggling to raise campaign funding .
the lower house of congress approved a bill that had passed the senate and will take funds from pork barrel appropriations and government payments to buy tv and radio time for parties .
the fund was meant to be part of improvements to brazil s discredited political system to reduce a proliferation of parties that has made it hard to govern latin america s largest nation without unwieldy coalitions based on self-interest .
the senate unanimously approved on tuesday a constitutional amendment that limits coalitions to parties with similar platforms , but it will not go into effect until the 2022 elections .
more than 100 lawmakers are targeted by the car wash corruption investigation that uncovered a network of bribes from private companies seeking to win contracts or influence policies , and even implicated president michel temer and several of his cabinet ministers .
critics of the campaign fund said it was aimed at providing funding for lawmakers seeking re-election to shield themselves from prosecution for corruption .
it is shameful that this fund will be used by unethical politicians who should not be sitting here in congress , said julio delgado , leader of the brazilian socialist party ( psb ) .
not a single lawmaker under investigation has opposed it .
backers of the use of public money for campaigns argued that organized crime would step in to finance politicians if funding was lacking .
the sprawling car wash graft investigation that convicted dozens of executives from brazil s main contractor companies has shut down the flow of undeclared payments to politicians .
what most worries them is where they will get money for their campaigns now that companies can not donate and are not willing to engage in illegal contributions , said lucas de arag o , partner at political risk consultancy arko advice .
on the positive side , he said , congress set a threshold for parties to be able to access public funding and free tv time based on the votes they win , which will help reduce the number of parties , today totaling 35 .
( this version of the story corrects the fifth paragraph to say coalitions reform will not go into effect until the 2022 elections ) .