ankara ( reuters ) - iran s elite islamic revolutionary guards ( irgc ) said on thursday its ballistic missile programme would accelerate despite u.s. and european union pressure to suspend it , the semi-official tasnim news agency reported .
in a significant u.s. policy shift on oct. 13 , president donald trump disavowed iran s compliance with a landmark 2015 nuclear deal and launched a more aggressive approach to the islamic republic over its missile development activity .
iran s ballistic missile programme will expand and it will continue with more speed in reaction to trump s hostile approach towards this revolutionary organisation ( the guards ) , the irgc said in a statement published by tasnim .
the trump administration has imposed new unilateral sanctions aimed at impairing iran s missile programme .
it has called on tehran not to develop missiles capable of delivering nuclear bombs .
iran says it has no such plans .
tehran has repeatedly pledged to continue what it calls a defensive missile capability in defiance of western criticism .
trump s anxiety and trembling voice in his speech was a sign of beginning of the era of failure for america s hegemony , tasnim quoted irgc chief commander mohammad ali jafari as saying .
boosting iran s defence power remains our top priority .
iran has one of the most advanced ballistic missile programmes in the middle east , viewing it as an essential precautionary defence against the united states and other adversaries , primarily gulf arab states and israel .
imposing cruel sanctions against the guards and hostile approach of the rogue and brute ( u.s. ) president shows the failure of america and the zionist regime s ( israel ) wicked policies in the region , the guards statement said .
signalling no respite in tension in the middle east , where shi ite muslim iran has waged a long proxy war with u.s.-allied sunni muslim saudi arabia , the guards also vowed to continue confronting the united states and israel .
more decisive and stronger than ever , the guards will continue to defend islamic iran and its interests , the statement said , alluding to the quds force , the guards overseas arm that operates in iraq , syria and yemen among other places .
trump s hardened iran stance has united officials behind the irgc .
today , iranians , boys , girls , men , women , are all irgc .
standing firm with those who defend us and the region against aggression and terror , u.s.-educated foreign minister mohammad javad zarif wrote on his twitter account after trump s speech .