following a leftist agenda is no longer optional .
follow their rules or be subject to fines the guide states , the district uses the probable cause standard in determining whether the above constitute harassment or a hostile work environment .
stephanie franklin , ohr s interim director of policy and communications , confirmed in an email that any workplace environment in dc private businesses included in which supervisors or co-workers deliberately misuse a person s preferred name or pronoun may be considered unlawful harassment and/or a hostile work environment according to dc law .
the best practices guide featues a chart on gender and gender-neutral pronouns that includes the gender-neutral pronoun ze .
the chart includes example phrases using the gender-neutral pronoun , such as ze smiled , i met zir , zir bike and ze is zirself .
regardless of the legal name and gender , employers should use an employee s desired name and pronouns when communicating with them , and when talking about them to third parties , the guide states.the guide says , the employer must ensure employees respect and use a transgender employee s preferred names and pronouns , as repeated failure to do so can be considered harassment , and can cause severe distress to a transgender employee .
the guide also make clear that employees should be allowed to use the bathroom in which they re most comfortable .
transgender employees should at all times be able to use the restroom and other gender-segregated facilities ( such as locker rooms ) that they are most comfortable with , the guide states.in the 2015 fiscal year , 307 discrimination complaints ( including race , gender and disability complaints ) ended in settlements via the mediation process .
in 2015 , the annual report states , more than $ 3.69 million was awarded in settlements during successful mediations , a 74 percent increase over [ the 2014 fiscal year ] .
that averages out to more than $ 12,000 per settlement .
according to non-profit organization workplace fairness , d.c. s anti-discrimination protections are broader than federal law because you may prove your case by showing that your employer acted wholly or partially for discriminatory reasons , and because you can bring an individual claim against your supervisor for aiding and abetting discrimination .
via : daily caller