johannesburg ( reuters ) - south african president jacob zuma reiterated a call on monday for radical reforms to shift the balance of monopoly economic power away from whites who dominated under apartheid , saying without such change blacks would stay poor for a long time .
he made the remarks , reiterating a staple criticism leveled by his ruling anc about south africa s economy , against the backdrop of widespread allegations of corruption against zuma and his friends , the indian-born gupta brothers .
zuma was responding to a question about his role as an enemy of white capital , during an interview with the ann7 news network , which was founded by the guptas .
zuma and the guptas have denied any wrongdoing .
i don t know why there is a debate in fact .
because there is a monopoly capital and in south africa it is white ... because of our history , it does have a color .
it is white , zuma , who steps down as head of the anc in december but can remain head of state until elections due in 2019 , said .
companies that dominate in the mines , there are not many ... you will find the same companies in charge .
that means they are monopolizing the economy and they re not black , he said .
the chamber of mines in the world s top platinum producer says that in 2016 , 39 percent of the sector was owned by historically disadvantaged south africans - meaning non-whites .
zuma said the policy of radical economic transformation , which has also seen moves to change the constitution to allow for the expropriation of land for redistribution to landless blacks , was needed to correct the past .
the anc must follow this policy because if you don t , we are going to stay in poverty , in inequality , for a long time .
the frontrunners to replace zuma at the helm of the anc are deputy president cyril ramaphosa , a trade unionist who amassed a fortune in the world of business , and nkosazana dlamini-zuma , former chair of the african union and zuma s ex-wife .
ramaphosa is viewed more favourably by foreign investors , who help cover the country s deficits .
many of them are unsettled by dlamini-zuma s calls to radically redistribute wealth and her perceived links to her former husband .
in a separate interview on state broadcaster sabc , anc secretary general gwede mantashe said state capture is a reality , referring to allegations that the guptas and others have undue political influence with access to state resources and contracts under zuma .
mantashe is regarded as an ally of ramaphosa with ties that go back to the 1980s when they were involved in the founding of the national union of mineworkers .