hillary clinton has a long history of violence and abusing and men , women and security officers.of course , you ll never see any of these quotes from the condescending former first witch in the mainstream media , but that doesn t mean they didn t happen .
hillary has a reputation for having a vulgar potty mouth and a nasty disposition .
wouldn t it be nice if the gop leaders cared as much about her negatives as an 11 year old trump story.here are a few of her more memorable lines : where is the g-damn f * * king flag ?
i want the g-damn f * * king flag up every f * * king morning at f * * king sunrise .
( from the book inside the white house by ronald kessler , p. 244 hillary to the staff at the arkansas governor s mansion on labor day , 1991 ) you sold out , you mother f * * ker !
you sold out !
from the book inside by joseph califano , p. 213 hillary yelling at democrat lawyer .
son of a b * tch !
( from the book american evita by christopher anderson , p. 259 hillary s opinion of president george w. bush when she found out he secretly visited iraq on thanksgiving just days before her highly publicized trip .
) f * * k off !
it s enough that i have to see you shit-kickers every day , i m not going to talk to you too ! !
just do your g * damn job and keep your mouth shut .
( from the book american evita by christopher anderson , p. 90 hillary to her state trooper bodyguards after one of them greeted her with good morning .
you f * * king idiot .
( from the book crossfire p. 84 hillary to a state trooper who was driving her to an event . )
if you want to remain on this detail , get your f * * king ass over here and grab those bags !
( from the book the first partner p. 259 hillary to a secret service agent who was reluctant to carry her luggage because he wanted to keep his hands free in case of an incident . )
get f * * ked !
get the f * * k out of my way ! ! !
get out of my face ! ! !
( from the book hillary s scheme p. 89 hillary s various comments to her secret service detail agents . )
stay the f * * k back , stay the f * * k away from me !
don t come within ten yards of me , or else !
just f * * king do as i s ay , okay ! ! ! ?
( from the book unlimited access , by clinton fbi agent in charge , gary aldrige , p. 139 hillary screaming at her secret service detail . )
why do i have to keep proving to people that i am not a liar ? !
( from the book the survivor , by john harris , p. 382 hillary in her 2000 senate campaign ) where s the miserable c * ck sucker ?
( from the book the truth about hillary by edward klein , p. 5 hillary shouting at a secret service officer ) put this on the ground !
i left my sunglasses in the limo .
i need those sunglasses .
we need to go back !
( from the book dereliction of duty p. 71-72 hillary to marine one helicopter pilot to turn back while en route to air force one . )
come on bill , put your dick up !
you can t f * * k her here ! !
( from the book inside the white house by ronald kessler , p. 243 hillary to gov .
clinton when she spots him talking with an attractive female at an arkansas political rally ) you know , i m going to start thanking the woman who cleans the restroom in the building i work in .
i m going to start thinking of her as a human being -hillary clinton ( from the book the case against hillary clinton by peggy noonan , p. 55 ) the only way to make a difference is to acquire power ( from the book i ve always been a yankee fan by thomas d. kuiper , p 68 hillary to a friend before starting law school .
) trump talks smack with men .
hillary clinton abuses people.via : gateway pundit