paris ( reuters ) - president emmanuel macron has said his government could consider changes in the relationship between mainland france and corsica , which seeks greater autonomy , but ruled out new residency rights or recognition of corsican as an official language .
an alliance of corsica s two main nationalist parties swept a local election on dec. 10 and has been pressing for talks with paris .
its leaders want more autonomy on fiscal issues , an equal status for the french and corsican languages , and the limiting of the right to buy property in some areas to people who have been resident on the holiday island for at least five years .
the two-party pe a corsica ( for corsica ) alliance won nearly two thirds of seats in the local assembly election .
support for their cause is driven by dissatisfaction with france s mainstream parties , mirroring a trend that has spurred secessionist ambitions elsewhere in europe , such as catalonia .
looking ahead , we could consider possible changes , and the prime minister has indicated this to corsica s leaders , macron said in an interview published by spanish daily el mundo on wednesday .
but these would come , as elsewhere , within the framework of the constitution .
this republican framework does not allow us to say yes to certain demands , such as on residency rights or recognizing coriscan as the official language alongside french .
corsica s nationalists are split between those who seek greater autonomy and those who see full independence as the ultimate goal .
corsica makes up two of france s 101 departments - local administration areas .
unlike in catalonia , its nationalists downplay any immediate ambitions for independence , saying the island - where napoleon was born in 1769 - lacks the spanish region s demographic and economic clout .
while macron did not say what he might be prepared to negotiate , it is the first time he has touched on the subject since the vote .
france is a highly centralized state and corsica s demands for more autonomy have often been met with irritation and a refusal to negotiate by past governments .