on thursday , the u.k. voted to leave the european union , and , of course , conservatives here in the u.s. rejoiced because they see it as a move for freedom and sovereignty , and against big government ( they don t get it , in other words ) .
trump is one of those people who panders to xenophobic , anti-globalists despite profiting from the global economy , and he got it way wrong when he got to scotland and gave a speech at his new golf course there.here s what he tweeted upon his arrival in scotland : just arrived in scotland .
place is going wild over the vote .
they took their country back , just like we will take america back .
no games !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 24 , 2016 place is going wild , and , they took their country back .
really ?
scotland voted to remain in the e.u .
by well over 60 percent .
once again , we have to ask , bro , do you even news ?
those in the twitterverse , who know what s what , decided to answer that question by taking him task for this in a way that only twitter can ( warning : explicit language ) .
@ realdonaldtrump they voted to stay , dear .
if mrs. doubtfire were real & back in scotland she would would smack you on the head .
randi mayem singer ( @ rmayemsinger ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump they voted in you absolute fucking doughnut .
a future leader ?
you couldn t lead an oap egg and spoon race .
ayden callaghan ( @ aydencallaghan ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump jeez you re stupid you sentient enema .
lachlan buchanan ( @ lachlanbuchanan ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump you couldn t be more out of touch with reality if nessie bit you on the arse you utter fool .
scotland voted remain .
terry mcdermott ( @ terrymacmusic ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump yeah except scotland votes to remain , you fucktart .
aronmagner ( @ aronmagner ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump so far from truth .
scotland voted to remain unanimously .
remember darkness and hate can t put out darkness and hate .
paul potts ( @ paulpottsmusic ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump we voted to stay in the eu , you utter cockwomble .
go take a swim in the firth of clyde .
jennifer hainey ( @ gingernutjen ) june 24 , 2016hey @ realdonaldtrump , do you realise that you are a fuck-knuckle ?
scotland voted remain .
going as wild as your real hair you twat stick !
nic donald ( @ nicdonald ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump scotland voted against leaving you leather faced , shit- tobogganist laura wootton ( @ bornmorgana ) june 25 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump and all your speech writers just sighed a collective oh what the fuck .
# brexitvote # wrongcountry # scotsvotedtostay donnalovessports ( @ donnas86 ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump does donald actually know how to read ?
lol joshua b. porter ( @ joshuabporter ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump scotland near unanimously voted to remain you big floppy haired nonce .
james xavier lam ( @ jamesxavierlam ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump sorry scotland .
not all americans are complete assbags .
this orange guy doesn t know anything .
lamo joe ( @ 1bad_scientist ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump in what kind of school did you learn to write but not to read ?
bakjour ( @ bakjour ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump scotland voted overwhelmingly against brexit you stupid nylon-haired shit stain .
pete brown ( @ petebrownbeer ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump so you say you ll get america out of the eu ?
( ( ( toby ) ) ) ( @ tobybaier ) june 24 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump are you really this stupid !
scotland voted against leave , you stupid man .
no wonder wall street won t touch you .
bobsmithwalker 45 % ( @ bobsmithwalker ) june 24 , 2016is there anything better than seeing pissed-off citizens of the u.k. hurling insults at king donald the trump ? the result of brexit will be another independence referendum in scotland .
scotland feels that they were dragged out of the e.u .
against their will , and first minister nicola sturgeon said they will get legislation underway immediately for that referendum .
scotland tried an independence referendum about two years ago , and it failed by a not-insignificant margin , but brexit might be what scotland needs to push that referendum through.none of that matters to trump , though , because the truth doesn t matter to him .
he ll twist the truth to suit his agenda , and his agenda is highly nutty .
in fact , it s so nutty that this is what he was apparently greeted with at turnberry : donald trump surrounded with red golf balls with swastikas on them in scotland pic.twitter.com/qphffoecpd [ email protected ] ( @ toonarmymia ) june 24 , 2016it s amusing that he tried to paint scotland , of all countries , as supportive of brexit .
they are anything but , and he needs to learn to read news that doesn t come from infowars.featured image by jeff j mitchell/getty images and twitter