jakarta ( reuters ) - the new governor of indonesia s capital faced a barrage of criticism on tuesday for remarks in his inauguration speech that some residents and politicians warned could stoke ethnic and religious tension in the southeast asian country .
anies baswedan , a former education minister , said in a speech only hours after he was sworn in on monday that pribumi ( native or indigenous indonesians ) should take back control of the country from colonial influences .
his comments came as tolerance in the muslim-majority country has been under scrutiny since bitterly fought city elections this year during which islamist-led rallies targeted the former governor , an ethnic chinese christian , in a controversial blasphemy case .
we pribumi people were oppressed and defeated .
now , after independence , it is time for us to be masters in our own country , baswedan said in a speech to supporters outside the jakarta city hall late on monday .
the word pribumi , which excludes ethnic groups like chinese indonesians or indian indonesians who have lived in the country for generations , was the top trending topic on twitter in indonesia on tuesday .
you are of arab descent yourself sir !
so who do you mean when you say it s time for pribumi to be masters of the country ?
user @ denradityaa tweeted .
baswedan is a descendant of the hadrami tribe of yemen and comes from a family of respected moderate islamic scholars .
some took baswedan s words to single out chinese indonesians - a minority that has faced long-running resentment for their control of trade and wealth in indonesia .
there were also some supporters .
why are people making a racket about pribumi ?
if you re born , raised and have indonesian id , you re a pribumi .
those who are mad with ( the word ) pribumi are not indonesians , @ febrin_navarro wrote .
a spokesman for the governor did not immediately reply to a request for comment , but baswedan was quoted by media as saying the comments referred to the colonial era .
the point is that ( the word ) was used to explain the dutch colonial era , he was quoted as saying .
baswedan and his deputy , sandiaga uno , won april s governor election on the back of support from hardline islamists who have pushed , among other things , vitriolic anti-chinese rhetoric .
a prominent islamist leader , bachtiar nasir , who backed baswedan s campaign , said the wealth of chinese indonesians was a problem and advocated an affirmative action program for native people .
neighboring malaysia runs a controversial affirmative action policy under which ethnic malays and other indigenous populations enjoy entitlements such as quotas in universities and companies and cheaper property rates .
indonesia s 250 million people are predominantly muslim , but it has sizeable christian , hindu and buddhist minorities and hundreds of ethnic groups .
baswedan is ripping the national fabric ... with the use of the word pribumi , said rian ernest , an ethnic chinese politician with the solidarity party of indonesia .
we strongly condemn baswedan s statement , which does not reflect the spirit of leadership or unity in diversity , he added , referring to indonesia s national motto .