mecca ( reuters ) - more than two million pilgrims participating in the haj this week began returning to mecca on sunday for final prayers as the world s largest annual gathering of muslims winds down .
senior saudi officials said the rituals , which have in the past seen deadly stampedes , fires and riots to which authorities sometimes struggled to respond , had gone off without incident .
mecca province governor prince khaled al-faisal , who heads the central haj committee , called this year s pilgrimage a success .
i am proud today to have offered these services and i am proud of all my brothers who participated and i am proud of each pilgrim who came to this land and assisted in the success of this season , he told reporters in mina , east of mecca .
thousands of pilgrims participated in a symbolic stoning of the devil , part of the haj rituals , in jamarat before returning to mecca .
by nightfall , mecca s grand mosque was crowded with worshippers .
saudi arabia stakes its reputation on its guardianship of islam s holiest sites and organizing the pilgrimage .
more than 2.3 million pilgrims came to saudi arabia this year , most of them from abroad , for the five-day ritual .
attendance is a religious duty , once in a lifetime , for every able-bodied muslim who can afford it .
the organization was excellent and there was no crowding or anything .
things went well , thanks to god , said yemeni pilgrim rashid ahmed .
more than 100,000 members of the security forces and 30,000 health workers were on hand this week to maintain safety and provide first aid .
a crush in 2015 killed nearly 800 pilgrims , according to riyadh , when two large groups of pilgrims arrived at a crossroads east of mecca .
counts by countries of repatriated bodies showed over 2,000 people may have died , including more than 400 iranians .
tehran sent nearly 90,000 pilgrims to the haj this year after boycotting the event last year amid a diplomatic rift with riyadh .
saudi health minister tawfiq al-rabeeah said the pilgrimage had passed without any outbreak of disease , a perennial concern .
he told reuters in an interview late on saturday that the ministry had also provided care to 400,000 people , including 21 open-heart surgeries .
we are keen to offer excellent service so that the pilgrims return home in good health after completing the haj , he said .