beirut/paris ( reuters ) - hezbollah s leader said on friday that saudi arabia had declared war on lebanon and his iran-backed group , accusing riyadh of detaining saad al-hariri and forcing him to resign as lebanon s prime minister to destabilize the country .
france became the first western country to indicate that saudi arabia was holding hariri against his will , saying it wished for him to have all his freedom of movement and be fully able to play the essential role that is his in lebanon .
hariri s resignation has plunged lebanon into crisis , thrusting the small arab country back to the forefront of regional rivalry between the sunni muslim monarchy saudi arabia and shi ite revolutionary iran .
sayyed hassan nasrallah , the hezbollah leader , said saudi arabia s detention of hariri , a long-time saudi ally who declared his resignation while in riyadh last saturday , was an insult to all lebanese and he must return to lebanon .
let us say things as they are : the man is detained in saudi arabia and forbidden until this moment from returning to lebanon , nasrallah said in a televised speech .
it is clear that saudi arabia and saudi officials have declared war on lebanon and on hezbollah in lebanon , he said .
his comments mirror an accusation by riyadh on monday that lebanon and hezbollah had declared war on the conservative gulf arab kingdom .
riyadh says hariri is a free man and he decided to resign because hezbollah was calling the shots in his government .
saudi arabia considers hezbollah to be its enemy in conflicts across the middle east , including syria and yemen .
western countries have looked on with alarm at the rising regional tension .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson warned other countries and groups against using lebanon as vehicle for a larger proxy fight in the middle east , saying washington strongly backed lebanon s independence and respected hariri as a strong partner of the united states , still referring to him as prime minister .
there is no legitimate place or role in lebanon for any foreign forces , militias or armed elements other than the legitimate security forces of the lebanese state , tillerson said in a statement released by the u.s. state department .
tillerson told reporters on friday there was no indication that hariri was being held in saudi arabia against his will but that the united states was monitoring the situation .
the french foreign minister said earlier on friday that he also believed hariri was a free man - a statement at odds with the later french foreign ministry comment that it wanted hariri to have all his freedom of movement .
hariri has made no public remarks since announcing his resignation in a speech televised from saudi arabia , saying he feared assassination and accusing iran and hezbollah of sowing strife in the arab world .
two top lebanese government officials , a senior politician close to hariri and a fourth source told reuters on thursday that the lebanese authorities believe hariri is being held in saudi arabia .
nasrallah said saudi arabia was encouraging israel to attack lebanon .
while an israeli attack could not be ruled out entirely , he said , it was unlikely partly because israel knew it would pay a very high price .
i warn them against any miscalculation or any step to exploit the situation , he said .
saudi will fail in lebanon as it has failed on all fronts , nasrallah said .
riyadh has advised saudi citizens not to travel to lebanon , or if already there to leave as soon as possible .
other gulf states have also issued travel warnings .
those steps have raised concern that riyadh could take measures against the tiny arab state , which hosts 1.5 million syrian refugees .
hariri s resignation is being widely seen as part of a saudi attempt to counter iran as its influence deepens in syria and iraq and as riyadh and its allies battle iranian-allied houthi rebels in yemen .
hariri s resignation unraveled a political deal among rival factions that made him prime minister and president michel aoun , a political ally of hezbollah , head of state last year .
the coalition government included hezbollah , a heavily armed military and political organization .
aoun told saudi arabia s envoy on friday that hariri must return to lebanon and the circumstances surrounding his resignation as prime minister while in saudi arabia were unacceptable , presidential sources said .
an international support group of countries concerned about lebanon , which includes the united states , russia and france , appealed for lebanon to continue to be shielded from tensions in the region .
in a statement , they also welcomed aoun s call for hariri to return .
in comments to reuters , top lebanese druze politician jumblatt said lebanon did not deserve to be accused of declaring war on saudi arabia .
for decades we ve been friends , he said .
we are a country that is squeezed between two antagonistic interests , between saudi arabia and iran , he said .
the majority of lebanese are just paying the price ... lebanon can not afford to declare a war against anybody .
the saudi foreign minister accused hezbollah of a role in the launching of a ballistic missile at riyadh from yemen on saturday .
saudi arabia s crown prince mohammed bin salman said iran s supply of rockets to militias in yemen was an act of direct military aggression that could be an act of war .
nasrallah mocked the saudi accusation that iran and hezbollah were behind the firing of the missile from yemen , saying yemenis were capable of building their own missiles .