.
@ speakerryan the women of america are watching .
you will regret any attempt to defund planned parenthood https : //t.co/pc37nd0fld jan schakowsky ( @ janschakowsky ) january 5 , 2017the wife of felon bob creamer is apparently borrowing a page from her husband s chicago politics playbook .
the good news is , schakowsky is wasting her time with her silly rhetoric .
america has spoken , and the radical leftist agenda of the left can now be found exactly where it belongs in the white house trash bin.republicans will need just a simple majority of members to pass both measures .
planned parenthood legislation would be in our reconciliation bill , ryan said to reporters at a press conference , when asked how and when the house will pass legislation to defund the organization .
i think the 2015 bill we passed will make it into reconciliation and be part of it , said rep. mark meadows said .
nothing in washington , d.c. is 100 percent , but i do believe there is a high probability that it happens .
republicans across the spectrum of conservatism , from moderates to far right members , are now lined up and prepared to support that bill and strip planned parenthood of federal funding.that commitment that is not new to capitol hill , where republicans have pushed since 2015 to defund the organization in response to secretly recorded videos of abortion doctors discussing the use of fetal tissue , which were deceptively edited .
house republicans passed a defunding bill in 2015 , but the bill never got a vote in the senate .
-buzzfeed ( we only used the fake news site buzzfeed as a source because it is part of the story , as it was included in rep. schakowsky s tweet .
as a disclaimer do not consider them a reliable source of news . )
in october 2016 , james o keefe released an undercover video in that exposed democratic operatives working in the underbelly of their party to coordinate and commit violent and illegal activities against americans in order to defeat trump.one of the key figures in o keefe s report was convicted felon and husband of rep. jan schakowsky ( d-il ) , robert creamer who oversaw a check-kiting scheme so elaborate that his employees followed a written manual complete with detailed instructions on when and where to float checks totaling millions of dollars.go to the 3:35 mark to see who bob creamer is : james o keefe asked rep. jan schakowsky how her felon husband was doing after he saw her tweet : how 's your husband doing ?
bob creamer ?
https : //t.co/wgcvqihre1 james o'keefe ( @ jamesokeefeiii ) january 10 , 2017as it turns out , convicted felon robert creamer was also a frequent visitor of the white house .
between 11/21/2009 and 6/24/2016 , robert creamer appears to have visited the white house 342 times , 340 times as robert creamer and twice as bob creamer .
he logged in times and was either a guest of barack obama or his lovely wife michelle .
one can only wonder what business michelle had with this criminal .
hmmm here s mooch cozying up to democratic voter-fraud operative robert creamer : .
@ flotus @ potus why did you invite convicted felon @ rbcreamer who oversaw @ realdonaldtrump rally agitators to the @ whitehouse 342 times ?
pic.twitter.com/plcdzerlor james o'keefe ( @ jamesokeefeiii ) october 19 , 2016like so many other democrats whose spouses have been convicted of felonies and sent off to prison , the radical anti-gun activist and congresswoman , jan schakowsky was not found to have any part in her husband s crimes ( even though she signed the false w-2 forms he used to deceive the irs ) .as executive director of the illinois public action fund , robert creamer s actions led several banks to experience shortfalls of at least $ 2.3 million , authorities alleged.in all , the 56-year-old evanston resident was charged with 16 counts of bank fraud involving three alleged check-kiting schemes in the mid-1990s.the indictment , however , alleges no wrongdoing on the part of schakowsky , who served on the group s policy board and currently holds a similar position with citizen action/illinois .
that group was formed by ex-employees after creamer resigned in 1997 when the allegations first surfaced.creamer worked for 22 years for the illinois public action fund and for the citizens action center for consumer rights .
the not-for-profit groups had been influential in pushing progressive causes such as campaign finance and health care reform .