berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel on sunday urged party leaders negotiating a tricky three-way coalition government to show more willingness to compromise , as support for her conservative bloc plunged to the lowest level in more than six years .
merkel s conservatives , who bled support to the far-right alternative for germany in a sept. 24 election , are trying to forge an alliance with the pro-market free democrats ( fdp ) and the left-leaning greens which is untested at the national level .
despite three weeks of exploratory talks , the unlikely partners still have to overcome differences over climate protection , energy , transport , immigration and euro zone policy .
speaking ahead of a meeting in which party leaders were expected to sum up progress made so far and bridge some gaps , merkel said all parties had first exchanged their views and then consolidated the approaches by highlighting their differences .
now in this third phase , the task is to find compromises , merkel said , adding that there was still a lot of work to do .
but from my point of view , a solution can be reached with goodwill , merkel said .
if this will be achieved , we ll not know before the end of the week , however .
fdp leader christian lindner put the onus on merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) and her bavarian csu allies , saying his party and the greens had already given ground .
the greens and the fdp have moved .
now it s up to the conservatives to show some flexibility .
i assume there is goodwill from all sides , lindner said .
katrin goering-eckardt from the greens said she wanted to see a leap from the other negotiation partners .
but csu leader horst seehofer declined to comment when asked by reporters what compromises he was willing to offer .
the greens made concessions on tuesday by no longer insisting on fixed dates to ban cars with combustion engines and to shut down coal-fired power stations .
the fdp gave ground by accepting more modest income tax cuts than an election campaign pledge of up to 40 billion euros in relief .
lindner also dropped an election manifesto pledge to phase out the esm euro zone bailout fund .
merkel wants to have an agreement in principle by nov. 16 on moving ahead to formal coalition negotiations to form a black-yellow-green government dubbed a jamaica coalition because the parties colours match those of that country s flag .
with less than a week to go , the exploratory coalition talks are not only complicated by the differences between the parties , but also by splits within the political parties themselves especially within the conservatives and greens .
a breakdown of the talks could mean fresh elections in germany , europe s biggest economy , since the social democrats ( spd ) the second biggest party have made clear they have no appetite for joining another grand coalition under merkel .
a survey by emnid for bild am sonntag newspaper showed only 30 percent would vote for merkel s cdu/csu bloc if there were a federal election this sunday , down 1 percentage point .
this is the lowest reading for the conservatives in this survey since october 2011 and marks a slump in support since the sept. 24 election , in which merkel s bloc won 32.9 percent .
touching on one of the thorniest issues , merkel said on saturday that germany should lead the fight against climate change and cut emissions without destroying industrial jobs .
merkel s comments , made in her weekly podcast and in the middle of talks on limiting global warming attended by about 200 nations in the western german city of bonn , highlighted the dilemma facing the centre-right leader in the negotiations .
while the cdu/csu and the fdp want to spare companies from additional burdens , the greens want to spell out which measures the next government will implement for germany to reach its 2020 goal of lowering emissions by 40 percent from 1990 levels .
due to strong economic growth and higher-than-expected immigration , germany is at risk of missing its emissions target without any additional measures .