rome ( reuters ) - libya s eastern-based military commander khalifa haftar was quoted on friday as saying force must remain an option for imposing order in the country , though he added that a political solution would be preferable .
libya has been mired in turmoil since a 2011 nato-backed uprising that ended muammar gaddafi s 42-year rule , giving space to islamist militants and smuggling networks that have sent hundreds of thousands of migrants to europe via italy .
italy and other western states have tried to work with the u.n.-backed government of national accord ( gna ) in tripoli , but factions aligned with haftar control eastern libya and back a rival government .
it s obvious that we prefer the political routes , but when these don t work there must be other solutions , haftar told italy s corriere della sera newspaper in an interview .
we are defeating terrorism in libya not through diplomatic channels , but with weapons .
haftar s comments came as united nations envoy ghassan salame made a renewed push to get rival factions to sign up to a plan to stabilize libya and take the country toward presidential and parliamentary elections .
haftar spoke to the corriere after his first official visit to italy on tuesday .
after the meeting , italian defense minister roberta pinotti expressed hope that all parties would support salame s inclusive political strategy ... excluding any military solution .
haftar also said pinotti had agreed to train his soldiers and urged the revocation of a u.n. arms embargo if european countries are interested in stopping migrants .
he also criticized italian efforts to convert armed groups on the western coast into anti-smuggling police .
it s a big mistake .
the italian government should not be led astray by the militias ...
tomorrow they will fight among themselves for a share of the spoils ; it will be a never-ending blackmail , haftar said .
some international media have reported that the leader of one such group , the anas al-dabbashi brigade , had received five million euros directly from italy s secret services to stop the migrant boats .
italy has denied making any direct payments to armed groups .
there has been a sharp reduction in migrant departures since the brigade , known previously as one of the country s biggest people smuggling gangs , clamped down on trafficking in july in exchange for promises of legitimacy and state security jobs from the gna .
almost two weeks ago , fighting broke out in sabratha between the dabbashi brigade and its allies and rival cross-town factions .