marawi city , philippines ( reuters ) - the philippine military said on thursday there was a big possibility that a top malaysian militant tipped to become islamic state s point man in southeast asia has been killed in a battle overnight .
twenty rebels among the remaining islamic state loyalists holed up in the devastated heart of marawi city were killed in the latest fighting , likely including malaysian mahmud ahmad , said colonel romeo brawner , deputy commander of a military task force .
there is a big possibility that dr mahmud is among them , brawner told reporters .
but we will only be definite once we have a match of probably dna samples , maybe of the dental records .
if confirmed , mahmud s death would be a blow to any effort by islamic state , which is on the back foot in syria and iraq , to establish a presence in mindanao , an island with a history of rebellion and home to the predominantly roman catholic nation s muslim minority .
the marawi siege has been the philippines biggest security crisis in years , but some experts see it as a prelude to a more ambitious bid by militants to exploit mindanao s poverty and use its jungles and mountains as a base to train , recruit and launch attacks in the region .
the armed forces in a statement said 13 militants were killed overnight and seven on monday morning .
two hostages were rescued and information they provided meant the authorities were increasingly becoming confident that mahmud was dead .
the 39-year-old former university lecturer is believed to have been pivotal in raising and channeling funds for the alliance and its foreign fighters during an occupation that has lasted 150 days , killing more than 1,000 people , mostly rebels .
central marawi has been flattened by government air strikes .
some experts say mahmud could become islamic state s southeast asian emir after the death on monday of isnilon hapilon , the head of the alliance that seeks to carve out an islamic state wilaya in the southern philippines .
philippine soldiers on monday killed hapilon , a target of the u.s. federal bureau of investigation .
they also killed omarkhayam maute , one of two brothers at the helm of the maute militant clan .
mahmud was seen in a video alongside hapilon and the maute brothers plotting the marawi siege .
security experts say he studied in pakistan and learned to make bombs in an al qaeda camp in afghanistan .
he left malaysia in 2014 .
brawner said the military was relentless in finishing off the rebels , but was unsure how many were left .
estimates on monday were 20 to 40 fighters .
the resistance is still there .
in fact , we can hear from the background , the battle is ongoing , he said .
security analyst rommel banlaoi said the end of mahmud would not mean the end of the extremists presence in mindanao .
there are still high-value terrorist personalities who are still at large in mindanao , not to mention other foreign fighters coming from indonesia and elsewhere in the arab world , he said on television .
they are very , very elusive and because they mixed with the communities and at the same time , they hang out with the armed groups that have the mastery of the terrain in mindanao .
it s very difficult for them to be caught by the military .