washington ( reuters ) - the united states is voicing skepticism about russian president vladimir putin s announcement of a major withdrawal of russian troops from syria and is arguing that his declaration of victory against islamic state was premature .
putin , during a surprise visit on monday to russia s hmeymim air base in syria , declared that the work of russian forces was largely done in backing the syrian government against militants in the country s war following the defeat of the most battle-hardened group of international terrorists .
still , u.s. officials are challenging the russian and syrian portrayal of syria as a country poised for peace once the final enclaves of the islamic state militant group , known as isis , are recaptured .
syrian government forces , u.s. officials said , are too few , too poor and too weak to secure the country .
islamic state , and other militants in syria , have ample opportunity to regroup , especially if the political grievances that drove the conflict remain unresolved , the officials said .
we think the russian declarations of isis defeat are premature , a white house national security council spokeswoman said .
we have repeatedly seen in recent history that a premature declaration of victory was followed by a failure to consolidate military gains , stabilize the situation , and create the conditions that prevent terrorists from reemerging .
the u.s. military in syria , which unlike the russians are operating there without the blessing of damascus , has long been skeptical of moscow s announced drawdowns .
marine major adrian rankine-galloway , a pentagon spokesman , said the united states had not observed any significant withdrawal since putin s announcement .
although he did not predict future moves , he said : there have been no meaningful reductions in combat troops following russia s previous announcements planned departures from syria .
the washington-based institute for the study of war said moscow s past announcements of pullouts led to a recalibration of russian forces .
russia has previously used claims of partial withdrawals in order to rotate out select units for refit-and-repair , remove redundant capabilities , and reinsert alternative weapons systems better suited for the next phase of pro-regime operations , it wrote in a research note on tuesday .
the u.s. military still has around 2,000 troops in syria and has announced that any withdrawal will be conditions-based , arguing a longer-term presence of american forces would be needed to ensure islamic state s lasting defeat .
russia s announcement , however , suggested a different image of syria in which foreign forces were becoming unnecessary .
after turning the tide of the conflict in syrian president bashar al-assad s favor , putin wants to help broker a peace deal .
a senior trump administration official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said that the united states believed assad would fail if he attempts to impose victor s peace .
the odds of syria breaking into a civil war again would be high without meaningful political reconciliation , the official said .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson on tuesday stressed the importance of a roadmap for peace , including elections that would allow voting by syrians overseas who fled to the conflict .
and it is our belief that through that process , the assad regime will no longer be part of that leadership , tillerson said .