washington/caracas ( reuters ) - venezuelan president nicolas maduro said on wednesday that venezuelan-american executives at refiner citgo who were arrested in a corruption sweep this week would be tried as corrupt , thieving traitors despite a request by the united states to free them .
five of six executives of u.s.-based refiner citgo [ pdvsac.ul ] who were arrested in caracas this week are u.s. citizens , according to a source familiar with the matter , possibly complicating venezuela s corruption sweep of the oil industry .
the six executives included acting citgo president jose pereira , who has venezuelan citizenship and u.s. permanent residency , the source said .
citgo did not respond to requests for comment .
late on wednesday , maduro tapped asdrubal chavez , a former oil minister and cousin of the late president hugo chavez , to replace pereira .
military intelligence agents detained the texas-based executives during an event at state oil company pdvsa s headquarters in caracas on tuesday , two sources told reuters .
u.s.-based citgo petroleum corp ( citgo ) is a venezuelan-owned refiner and marketer of oil and petrochemical products .
maduro said the u.s. embassy had requested that its nationals be freed .
he mocked the demand and vowed that the men , who are also venezuelan , would pay for alleged wrongdoing in a financial deal .
these are people born in venezuela , they re venezuelan and they re going to be judged for being corrupt , thieving traitors , maduro said in a televised broadcast during which he also sang and danced salsa .
they re properly behind bars , and they should go to the worst prison in venezuela .
relations between caracas and washington have long been tense .
they have further soured under president donald trump since his administration imposed sanctions on venezuelan officials including maduro , and economic sanctions that have impeded the opec nation s access to international banks .
venezuela has defaulted on sovereign debt and bonds issued by pdvsa after failing to make timely payments , a new york-based derivatives group ruled on thursday .
late on wednesday , a u.s. state department official said , we have seen media reports of the arrest of u.s. citizens in venezuela .
venezuela is required under the vienna convention on consular relations to provide consular notification to the u.s. upon request of a detained u.s. citizen , and to provide consular access .
when a u.s. citizen is arrested overseas , we immediately request permission to visit him or her .
we have no additional information to offer at this time .
venezuelan state prosecutor tarek saab has declared a crusade against organized crime in venezuela s oil industry .
saab told a news conference on tuesday that his office had uncovered a roughly $ 4 billion planned deal with foreign companies , offering the refiner as guarantee in a detrimental deal for venezuela .
according to saab , the deal was with u.s. investment fund apollo global management llc and dubai-based frontier management group ltd , and also included a swiss-based intermediary , mangore sarl .
he added there was a presumed link between mangore sarl and the citgo executives .
opposition leaders have attributed the arrests to in-fighting among government factions and the cash-strapped government s desire to gain control of money-making companies rather than a genuine desire to root out corruption .
venezuela has whipped out much of citgo s top brass at a delicate time for the opec nation , which has been declared in selective default after some late payments .
but as venezuela is making efforts to pay , bondholders of some of the world s highest yielding debt have so far been tolerant of the delays .
the five other arrested executives are : tomeu vadell , vice president of refining operations ; alirio zambrano , vice president and general manager of corpus christi refinery ; jose luis zambrano , vice president of shared services ; gustavo cardenas , vice president of strategic shareholder relations , government and public affairs ; jorge toledo , vice president of supply and marketing .