vallegrande , bolivia ( reuters ) - thousands gathered on monday in a small town in southern bolivia , where the leader of the cuban revolution ernesto che guevara was executed by cia-backed bolivian soldiers 50 years earlier .
bolivia s president evo morales , one of few remaining leftist leaders in a region that has shifted to the political right , camped in a sleeping bag and tent and welcomed dignitaries from allies cuba and venezuela .
50 years later , the legend of ernesto che guevara lives in the young people , in their unquestionable struggle for equality and liberation , morales wrote on twitter ahead of a scheduled speech .
over the weekend artists , activists , veterans of the cuban revolution and guevara s descendants gathered to commemorate the revolutionary hero in vallegrande , where he was buried in a hidden , unmarked grave in 1967 before his remains were moved to cuba 30 years later .
the argentine-born doctor met fidel castro in mexico , where they trained and bought guns in preparation for the cuban revolution before setting sail for the island on nov. 25 , 1956 , to start the insurgency that toppled u.s.-backed dictator fulgencio batista two years later .
guevara rose to become one of the most important men in the rebel force and later in cuba s revolutionary government , heading the central bank and industry ministry .
he had hoped to replicate the revolution in congo and then in bolivia , but his call to arms largely failed and he was surrounded by u.s.-trained soldiers and caught in a ravine near la higuera on oct. 8 , 1967 .
the next day he was taken to vallegrande , 60 km ( 37 miles ) away and bolivia s then-president ren barrientos ordered his execution , avoiding a trial .
guevara was 39 .
his remains were exhumed and reburied in santa clara , cuba , in 1997 , when the cuban communism he helped build was struggling to survive after the soviet union collapsed .
commemorative ceremonies were held in santa clara on sunday , and cuba s vice president ramiro vald s joined morales in bolivia on monday .
guevara remains an anti-imperialist hero to many , especially in latin america and africa .
in cuba he is remembered for promoting unpaid voluntary work by toiling shirtless on building sites and hauling sacks of sugar .
but in the town of rosario , argentina , where he was born , some residents have been collecting signatures to have his statue removed , protesting what they call his violent means to promote communism and lack of human rights in today s cuba .