berlin ( reuters ) - turkish foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu said on saturday he would work towards a normalization of relations with germany after months of mutual recriminations on a range of issues between the nato allies .
already tense relations took a turn for the worse after turkish president tayyip erdogan launched a crackdown on his opponents following a failed coup attempt last year .
germany has also protested against the detention of german citizens on political charges and has raised the question of whether eu accession talks with turkey should go ahead .
striking an unusually conciliatory tone , cavusoglu told der spiegel weekly there was no reason for problems between the two countries .
if you take one step towards us , we will take two towards you , he said .
and asked if he believed there would be a normalization in relations , cavusoglu said : yes .
and i am ready to make an effort towards that .
earlier this year , erdogan and some of his political allies compared germany to the nazi era after some local authorities stopped turkish ministers campaigning here for a referendum that handed the president sweeping new powers .
german officials cited security concerns .
the nazi comparisons were a kind of response to the hostility from germany , cavusoglu said , adding germany had to learn to respect turkey .
germany s deputy foreign minister michael roth told welt am sonntag weekly that berlin was ready to talk and said he hoped that we can soon move closer together again .
however , he said germany would not be silent when innocent german citizens are behind bars .
we must find solutions to this , he said .
in an election on sept. 24 , conservative chancellor angela merkel won a fourth term but suffered heavy losses to the far right .
she looks set to try to form a coalition with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and greens .
a possible candidate for foreign minister is cem ozdemir , a co-leader of the greens who has turkish parents and has been very critical of erdogan .
whoever comes to turkey as foreign minister will meet the same respect as he shows us , cavusoglu told der spiegel .