erbil , iraq/istanbul ( reuters ) - iraq s kurds will go ahead with a referendum on independence on monday because their partnership with baghdad has failed , kurdistan regional government president massoud barzani said on sunday , shrugging off international opposition to the vote .
in response , the iraqi government asked the autonomous kurdish region to hand over control of its international border posts , its international airports and called on foreign countries to stop importing kurdish crude oil .
it asked the neighboring countries and the countries of the world to deal exclusively with the federal government of iraq in regards to entry posts and oil , according to a statement from iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi s office .
the united states and other western powers have urged kurdish authorities in the oil producing region to cancel the vote , arguing that it distracts from the fight against islamic state .
turkey and iran have also kept up the pressure to stop the vote , with presidents tayyip erdogan and hassan rouhani speaking by phone and expressing concern that it will bring chaos in the region , according to erdogan s office .
barzani , at a news conference at his headquarters near erbil , dismissed the worries of iraq s neighbors , committing to respect laws on international boundaries and not seek to redraw the region s borders .
we will never go back to the failed partnership with baghdad , he said , adding iraq had become a theocratic , sectarian state and not the democratic one that was supposed to be built after the 2003 overthrow of saddam hussein .
the vote , expected to result in a comfortable yes to independence , is not binding and is meant to give the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) a mandate to negotiate secession with baghdad and the neighboring countries .
barzani said iraq s kurds would seek talks with the shi ite-led central government to implement the expected yes outcome , even if they take two years or more , to settle land and oil sharing disputes ahead of independence .
abadi s government in iraq regards the referendum as anti-constitutional and in a televised address on sunday he said it could lead to ethnic divisions , exposing ( the iraqis ) to disastrous dangers that only god knows .
earlier , iranian authorities stopped air traffic to iraqi kurdistan s international airports at erbil and sulaimaniya in response to a request from baghdad , fars news agency said .
iran also started war games at the kurdish border .
speaking by telephone with abadi , iran s rouhani voiced support for iraq s national unity and territorial integrity , the state news agency irna reported .
iran fully supports iraq s central government , rouhani was quoted as telling abadi .
on saturday , turkey s parliament voted to extend by a year a mandate authorizing the deployment of turkish troops in iraq and syria .
turkey has also vowed political , economic and security steps without specifying what they are , but turkish prime minister binali yildirim reinforced the message on sunday .
turkey is the transit route of all crude exported by the landlocked kurdistan region of iraq .
turkey will never ever tolerate any status change or any new formations on its southern borders , he said in a speech in the capital ankara .
the krg will be primarily responsible for the probable developments after this referendum .
but barzani said ankara won t benefit economically should it close the border with iraqi kurdistan .
tehran and ankara fear the spread of separatism to their own kurds .
iran also supports shi ite groups who have been ruling or holding key security and government positions in iraq since the u.s-led invasion which toppled saddam hussein .
barzani said kurds will keep extending their hand to iran and turkey , even if they do not reciprocate .
he said he recently met in the kurdish region iranian revolutionary guard commander qassem soleimani , who came to convince him to delay the vote .
the krg has resisted calls to delay the referendum by the united nations , the united states and britain who fear it could lead to unrest in disputed areas like multi-ethnic oil-rich kirkuk , as well as distracting from the war on islamic state .
but the iraqi kurds say the vote acknowledges their crucial contribution in confronting islamic state after it overwhelmed the iraqi army in 2014 and seized control of a third of iraq .
kurdish peshmerga fighters who control kirkuk were given instructions not to respond to any provocation meant to disrupt the vote , but they will defend the region if attacked from outside , he said .
the u.s. embassy in iraq warned its citizens that there might be unrest during the referendum , especially in disputed areas like kirkuk , also claimed by the iraqi central government .
the iranian military drills , part of annual events held in iran to mark the beginning of the 1980-1988 war with iraq , were launched in the oshnavieh border region , according to iranian state broadcaster irib .
turkey s military said on sunday its aircraft launched strikes against kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) targets in northern iraq s gara region on saturday after spotting militants preparing to attack turkish military outposts on the border .