jerusalem ( reuters ) - a palestinian stabbed an israeli security guard at jerusalem s main bus station on sunday , police said , and violence flared near the u.s. embassy in beirut over u.s. president donald trump s recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital .
four days of street protests in the palestinian territories over trump s announcement on wednesday have largely died down , but his overturning of long-standing u.s. policy on jerusalem a city holy to jews , muslims and christians drew more arab warnings of potential damage to prospects for middle east peace .
our hope is that everything is calming down and that we are returning to a path of normal life without riots and without violence , israeli defence minister avigdor lieberman said on army radio .
but in jerusalem , a security guard was in critical condition after a 24-year-old palestinian man from the occupied west bank stabbed him after approaching a metal detector at an entrance to the city s central bus station , police said .
the alleged assailant was taken into custody after a passer-by tackled him .
in public remarks on sunday , turkish president tayyip erdogan , a frequent critic of israel , called it an invader state and a terror state .
israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu who spoke at a news conference in paris alongside french president emmanuel macron after the two leaders met , fired back : i m not used to receiving lectures about morality from a leader who bombs kurdish villages in his native turkey , who jails journalists , helps iran go around international sanctions and who helps terrorists , including in gaza , kill innocent people , netanyahu said .
macron told netanyahu that he needed to make gestures to the palestinians to break the impasse between the two sides .
i asked prime minister netanyahu to make some courageous gestures towards the palestinians to get out of the current impasse , macron said , suggesting that a freeze of construction in settlements could be a first step .
most countries consider east jerusalem , which israel annexed after capturing it in a 1967 war , to be occupied territory and say the status of the city should be decided at future israeli-palestinian talks .
israel says that all of jerusalem is its capital , while palestinians want east jerusalem as the capital of a future independent state .
the trump administration has said it is still committed to reviving palestinian-israeli talks that collapsed in 2014 , but jettisoning old policies is necessary to break the deadlock .
washington says it has not taken a position on jerusalem s final status or borders , but it is sensible to recognize that any future peace deal will have israel s capital in the city .
the united states was as committed to the peace process as we ve ever been , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said on sunday .
trump didn t talk about boundaries , he didn t talk about borders ... because the final status of jerusalem is between the palestinians and the israelis .
it s not for the americans to decide .
palestinian president mahmoud abbas will not meet u.s. vice president mike pence during his visit to the region , foreign minister riyad al-maliki said on saturday .
the white house said on sunday that decision was unfortunate and pence looked forward to seeing netanyahu and egypt s president abdel fattah al-sisi .
it s unfortunate that the palestinian authority is walking away again from an opportunity to discuss the future of the region , said jarrod agen , a spokesman for pence .
netanyahu reacted to critics in a statement before talks with macron , to be followed by a meeting with european foreign ministers in brussels on monday .
i hear ( from europe ) voices of condemnation over president trump s historic announcement , but i have not heard any condemnation for the rocket firing against israel that has come ( after the announcement ) and the awful incitement against us , netanyahu said .
in beirut , lebanese security forces fired tear gas and water cannons at protesters , some of them waving palestinian flags , near the u.s. embassy .
demonstrators set fires in the street , torched u.s. and israeli flags and threw projectiles towards security forces that had barricaded the main road to the complex .
in the moroccan capital , rabat , tens of thousands of protesters marched down the city s main thoroughfare chanting slogans including , the people want to liberate palestine and death to israel , enemy of the people and provoker of wars .
waving palestinian flags and holding up pictures of jerusalem , they expressed anger at the betrayal by arab governments perceived to have backed trump s move .
in the indonesian capital jakarta , thousands protested outside the u.s. embassy , many waving banners saying palestine is in our hearts .
maliki has said the palestinians will be looking for a new peace talks broker instead of the united states and would seek a united nations security council resolution over trump s decision .
arab foreign ministers who met in cairo on saturday urged the united states to abandon its decision on jerusalem and said the move would spur violence throughout the region .
echoing that view , abu dhabi crown prince sheikh mohammed bin zayed al-nahayan , the de facto leader of the united arab emirates , said the u.s. move could throw a lifebuoy to terrorist and armed groups , which have begun to lose ground in the middle east .
along israel s tense frontier with the gaza strip , the israeli military on sunday destroyed what it described as a significant cross-border attack tunnel dug by the enclave s dominant islamist group , hamas .
there was no immediate comment from hamas on the demolition , which came as palestinian factions tried to meet sunday s deadline for an egyptian-mediated handover of gaza by hamas to western-backed president abbas after a decade s schism .
pre-dawn israeli airstrikes in the gaza strip on saturday killed two palestinian gunmen after militants fired rockets from the area into israel on friday .