bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand s ousted former prime minister thaksin shinawatra will be charged with royal insult and computer crimes , the junta s attorney general said on friday , a day after a court issued a second arrest warrant for his sister .
thaksin , whose populist movement s struggle with the thai establishment has dominated politics for over a decade , lives in exile after fleeing thailand to escape a jail sentence for corruption after he was overthrown in a 2006 coup .
his sister , yingluck shinawatra , overthrown as prime minister in 2014 , fled thailand in august to avoid conviction in a criminal negligence case she said was politically motivated .
she was jailed for five years in absentia .
attorney general khemchai chutiwong did not give details as to exactly how thaksin had insulted the monarchy , which is protected by a stringent lese majeste law .
this is a criminal case , he told a news conference .
right now it remains to find the individual .
supporters of the shinawatras , who had the backing of poor , rural voters , have won every election since 2001 .
they remain a significant force ahead of a ballot the military has said could happen as early as next year .
it was not clear whether the attorney general s office was referring to accusations of royal defamation against thaksin that thai police said they were investigating after he gave an interview to south korean media in 2015 .
reuters was unable to immediately contact thaksin or his lawyers for comment .
republishing details of an alleged offense to the monarchy could also be a crime under a law that sets a sentence of up to 15 years for each offense of royal insult .
since taking power in a 2014 coup , the military government has pursued supporters of the shinawatras and has jailed several leaders of the red-shirted political movement that backed them .
a criminal court issued a second arrest warrant for yingluck on thursday for violating immigration law during her escape .
thaksin s son , panthongtae shinawatra , has also complained of victimization and this week called for the dropping of a money-laundering investigation against him .
thaksin has a home in dubai but travels frequently .
his thai passports were revoked after the interview he gave in 2015 but he holds the passport of at least one other country .