lany , czech republic ( reuters ) - czech election winner andrej babis will attempt to form a minority government after being shunned by other parties , babis said on tuesday after meeting the president .
the country faces the possibility of months of political wrangling which could put approval of the 2018 budget approval at risk , potentially curbing investments that would help the economy keep growing at least at its current rapid pace .
babis said he hoped to have a new government put together by the christmas holiday .
his ano party won a parliamentary election this month by a large margin , convincing voters it could deliver a more effective state , weed out corruption and distribute the fruits of economic expansion more fairly .
other parties have refused to back a government that includes billionaire businessman babis , who is facing fraud charges regarding a 2 million euro eu subsidy .
babis denies any wrongdoing , calling the charges politically motivated .
after meeting president milos zeman , babis said he was very sorry the other parties had not given ano a chance in coalition talks .
we will try to form a minority government and will try to convince lawmakers ... of other parties with our programme , he told a news conference alongside zeman .
zeman said he would give babis a second attempt if his first try fails a confidence vote in the lower house .
forming a minority government would require support from other parties as ano s 78 seats do not make up a majority in the 200-member lower chamber .
only the communists have said they could tolerate a minority government .
babis can be appointed prime minister only after nov. 20 , when the newly elected lower chamber of parliament opens its session .
it has to elect a speaker before current prime minister bohuslav sobotka can vacate the position for his successor .
this process could take long as some parties may try to prevent babis appointment by blocking the speaker s election .
in 2013 , zeman rejected a majority coalition in parliament after a centre-right cabinet had collapsed , and appointed jiri rusnok , the current governor of the czech national bank , as prime minister .
his government ruled for half a year without winning a confidence vote .
babis dismissed a suggestion by the head of the conservative top 09 party to block the speaker as destructive and reckless .
the worst thing which could happen is that we would have a blocked parliament and a provisional budget , he said .
if a budget is not approved by the end of the year , a provisional arrangement kicks in , meaning the state would run with the previous year s budget , imposing severe limits on investments and other non-mandatory spending .
czech markets have taken the political uncertainty in their stride , with the crown trading near multi-year highs as the central bank looks set to continue raising interest rates this week .
the country of 10.6 million has a history of shaky coalition governments .
the outgoing centre-left coalition , led by the social democrats and including ano , is the first in 15 years to finish its four-year term .