santiago ( reuters ) - chile s stock market has priced in a victory of conservative presidential candidate sebastian pinera , even though progressive candidates could form an alliance in a december runoff , traders and analysts said .
the ipsa stock market index has surged 27 percent this year and is on track for its best year since 2010 , spurred by a rebound in prices of top-export copper and polls that have shown pinera ahead in the race .
pinera , a wealthy businessman and supporter of free-market policies , is expected to come in first by a wide margin in november s first-round vote , but he is unlikely to win an absolute majority .
that would result in a close runoff against the leading progressive candidate .
the majority is left of center , said kenneth bunker , a political scientist at universidad central de chile .
a pinera victory depends on division within the left .
the most recent gfk adimark poll shows pinera , who has consolidated the support of the country s political right , leading at 34 percent of the vote .
center-left senator alejandro guillier is second with 16 percent , well ahead of several candidates promising to continue president michelle bachelet s socially progressive policies .
hard-left candidate beatriz sanchez , who has proposed billions of dollars in new taxes on mining companies , was third at 15 percent .
as campaigning officially began last week , guillier appealed for unity , saying in a radio interview that he would share his policy platform with rivals on the left to try to align their positions .
no one doubts that in the second round we will all be together , guillier said at a rally .
while chile remains one of latin america s most business-friendly countries , public debt has grown as falling copper prices hit government revenue , and bachelet critics say she has not prioritized growth .
last month , her top economic officials resigned in part over the government s rejection of a $ 2.5 billion copper and iron project on environmental grounds .
investors are particularly attentive to candidates proposals related to mining , chile s most important industry .
guillier and pinera have both pledged to streamline the mine permitting process , though guillier has suggested modifying free-trade accords to promote domestic mineral processing .
in a banner year for emerging markets , the ipsa has outpaced most regional peers .
brazil s bovespa index has surged 24 percent , peru s leading index is up 20 percent , and colombia s colcap index is up 9 percent .
only argentina s merval , up 49 percent , has surged more .
the industrial and raw materials sectors have led chile s market gains , surging 55 and 41 percent year to date , respectively .
lithium miner sociedad quimica y minera de chile sa has risen 77 percent in the past 9 months , while shipping firm compania sud americana de vapores sa is up 97 percent .
in recent client notes , credit suisse and j.p. morgan have said the so-called pinera effect has passed and that now might be the time for traders to take profits or wait for election results .
hugo rubio , president of brokerage btg pactual chile , said a pinera loss would cause a double-digit drop in the stock market , though the full extent would depend on the candidate .
it s a risk the markets don t seem to be alive to at this stage , said edward glossop , emerging markets economist at capital economics in london .
the risks are to the downside .