hillary s for all everyday americans just not the elderly ones in wheelchairs hillary clinton wants to meet everyday americans so badly , she drove right past many waiting in front of her event in iowa.in the now-viral clip of reporters chasing after clinton s scooby van , the clinton camp drove to the back entrance , surprising both reporters and many of her supporters waiting to get a glimpse of the candidate .
i think what you don t see in that clip , which is one of the most surprising things is there were actually a ton of people waiting for her at the front of that college , said financial times reporter megan murphy .
there were elderly people in wheelchairs , there were people and they just cruised right on by to the back .
the news that clinton symbolically drove past ordinary voters while driving their own everyday americans to the event will certainly reflect poorly on the campaign .
the incident draws parallels to the man clinton hopes to succeed in the oval office when he drove past disabled veterans in phoenix.the democratic front-runner had already snubbed everyday americans when she parked at a handicapped spot for her convenience at one event and did not include differently-abled citizens in her announcement video .
those were the everyday americans .
those were the everyday iowans and guess what they were lined up in front of that community college , murphy said.morning joe host mika brzezinski was appalled after hearing the story .
earlier in the day , she criticized the clinton campaign for her evasive and inaccessible approach to the campaign roll out which has left clinton looking stale and flat .
joe scarborough , on the other hand , laughed and said the story proved the narrative of an inauthentic clinton campaign .
the former congressman said it was not surprising clinton did not want to meet the elderly people on wheelchairs because her staff did not get to vet them first .
because they want the everyday americans that they had talked to for 30 minutes about how to act like an everyday american , scarborough said.with senior citizens making up a quarter of all voters in 2014 , up from 21 percent in 2010 , clinton may face an uphill battle in gaining the trust of the most reliable voting block to turn out on election day.via : wfb