donald trump s financials and business ventures are astronomically sketchier than mitt romney s. he refuses to release his tax returns , his name appears in the panama papers thousands of times , and now an exclusive report from usa today shows trump and his companies are linked to over 100 lawsuits , tax disputes and other legal limbos.an analyst from pored over thousands of documents and concluded , in summary : usa today s examination of trump s track record as a business taxpayer found not just court actions , but dozens of additional tax disputes with local authorities that didn t reach the courthouse in states including new york , nevada , florida and new jersey .
in some cases , trump s businesses have disputed tax assessments ; in others , they have simply not paid the tax bill until after the government took additional action.according to the information obtained from court cases , property records , and other documents showed that every year from the late 1980s to now , trump and his associates/companies have been involved in tax disputes .
between june 2015 to now , five trump companies in new york state alone have been issued warrants for more than $ 13,000 in unpaid or late taxes .
before june 2015 , trump has two other unpaid warrants ; $ 1,580 for trump mortgage ; $ 1,747 for trump university .
one failed , the other is under investigation for fraud.usa today issued a detailed list of tax issues over the decades : not only does trump have decades worth of tax and assessment issues stemming over three decades , he also overestimates the worth of his properties , something that might be shown in his tax returns and prove that he isn t worth as much as he says he is .
for example , the ritz carlton resort and spa in jupiter , florida has been assessed at $ 13.7 million .
trump , however , personally assesses the property at $ 50 million , a full $ 36.3 million more .
then there s the famous mar-a-lago , trump s personal estate in palm beach , florida .
assessed at only $ 20 million , trump contends that it is actually worth $ 50 million.once again , records show ( or don t show , because trump won t release them ) that trump is lair , cheater , and overblows his worth to make himself look good.trump s shady business dealings are miles long , miles deep .
this is the great businessman republican voters are touting when they spout their support for him.featured image via spencer platt/getty imges