madrid ( reuters ) - the spanish government will take control of catalonia if regional leader carles puigdemont replies ambiguously to madrid s question about whether he has declared independence from spain , the interior minister said on saturday .
puigdemont made a symbolic declaration of independence on tuesday night , only to suspend it seconds later and call for negotiations with madrid on the region s future .
spain s prime minister mariano rajoy has given him until monday to clarify his position - and then until thursday to change his mind if he insists on a split - threatening to suspend catalonia s autonomy if he chooses independence .
the answer must be without any ambiguity .
he must say yes or no , spanish interior minister juan ignacio zoido told cope radio .
if he answers ambiguously , it means he doesn t want dialogue and thus the spanish government will have to take action , he also said .
puigdemont , who is holding consultations with local parties to prepare his answer , faces a tough dilemma .
if he says he did proclaim independence , the central government will step in .
if he says he did not declare it , then the far-left catalan party cup would probably withdraw its support for his minority government .
cup on friday called on puigdemont to make an unequivocal declaration of independence in defiance of the madrid government s deadlines .
such a hardline position has also been backed by influential pro-independence civic group asamblea nacional catalana ( catalan national assembly ) .
they were joined on saturday by another key member of puigdemont s coalition , esquerra republicana de catalunya , whose leader oriol junqueras said they should press ahead with splitting from spain following an independence vote .
the catalan government said 90 percent of catalans had voted for a breakaway in an oct. 1 referendum that central authorities in madrid had declared illegal and most opponents of independence boycotted , reducing turnout to around 43 percent .
we have an unequivocal and absolute commitment to fulfill the democratic mandate from oct. 1 , junqueras said .
under article 155 of the spanish constitution , the central government in madrid can suspend the political autonomy of a region if it breaks the law .
this article , which enables rajoy to sack the catalan government and call a regional election , has never been activated since the constitution was adopted in 1978 after the death of dictator francisco franco .