dubai ( reuters ) - the israeli army s chief of staff told an arabic language online newspaper that israel was ready to share intelligence information with saudi arabia , saying their countries had a common interest in standing up to iran .
lieutenant general gadi eizenkot told the privately saudi-owned elaph in what it said was his first interview with an arabic newspaper that israel had no plans to attack lebanon s hezbollah group .
saudi arabia has ratcheted up pressure on arch-foe iran , accusing tehran of trying to expand its influence in arab countries , often through proxies including the lebanese shi ite hezbollah group .
increased tension between tehran and riyadh has fueled speculation that shared interests may push saudi arabia and israel to working together against what they see as a common iranian threat .
saudi arabia maintains that any relations with israel hinge on israeli withdrawal from arab lands occupied in the 1967 middle east war .
asked if israel had shared any information with saudi arabia , eizenkot said : we are ready to share information if necessary .
there are many shared interests between us .
he said u.s. president donald trump s election on a platform that calls for increasing pressure on iran has provided an opportunity for new alliances in the middle east .
both saudi arabia and israel view iran as a main threat to the middle east .
a major and general strategic plan must be prepared to stop the iranian danger , and we are ready to exchange expertise with moderate arab states and exchange intelligence information to face iran , he said , according to elaph , which said the interview was conducted at eizenkot s office in tel aviv by an israeli arab journalist .
earlier this month , lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri announced his resignation in a surprise move that had plunged lebanon into a new political crisis .
hariri s resignation thrust lebanon into the front line of a regional struggle between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran that has also buffeted syria , iraq , yemen and bahrain .
it also raised speculation about possible military action against lebanon by israel , which sees hezbollah as a strategic threat .
responding to a question on speculation that israel may launch a military operation against hezbollah , eizenkot said : we do not have any intention initiating any offensive against hezbollah in lebanon and reaching a ( state of ) war .
but we will not accept a strategic threat against israel .