bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand s junta has removed the head of the national buddhism office , the prime minister said on tuesday , after religious groups called on the government to sack him over his plans to clean up scandal-hit monasteries .
but prime minister prayuth chan-ocha said it wasn t a punishment .
pongporn pramsaneh , who joined the national office of buddhism in february , had vowed to reform thailand s more than 40,000 temples by forcing them to open their finances to the public .
they take billions of dollars in donations every year .
the former policeman was appointed amid a standoff between security forces and the influential dhammakaya temple in february .
authorities wanted to question the temple s chief abbot on money-laundering charges .
pongporn will now move to a lower profile post of inspector-general in prayuth s office .
he has got some of the jobs done .
he came in to solve temple issues , prayuth told reporters .
i ll now bring him close to me , to help me work on religious reform ...
this is not a punishment .
pongporn told reuters : i have done my duties to the best of my ability .
buddhism is one of the three traditional pillars of thai society alongside the nation and monarchy .
it has largely eluded the junta s control as it has stamped its authority on other aspects of thai life since a 2014 coup .
the national office of buddhism is responsible for state administration of the religion followed by 90 percent of thailand s 67 million people , but religious affairs are handled by a sangha supreme council of elderly monks .
despite high-profile temple scandals over murder , drugs and sex as well as improper financial dealings , pongporn s call for change had jarred on some monks .
a group called the thailand buddhists federation submitted a petition to the prime minister s office this month , calling for pongporn to be removed to prevent further damage to monks .
he painted monks as villains in thai people s eyes , the group s secretary-general , korn meedee , said in a statement on facebook .
in july , another buddhist group had called for pongporn s removal , saying he had damaged the buddhist institution .
phra buddha issara , a firebrand monk who called for reform of buddhism , said the junta gave in to pressure too easily given government promises to fight corruption .
are they still serious about tackling corruption or are they only moving against certain people and groups ?
he said , adding that when it came to monks : no one can touch them .
reuters reported exclusively in march that the junta was drafting a law which would significantly weaken the sangha council .
the draft is expected to be brought to parliament this year .
thai security forces besieged the dhammakaya temple in february to try to catch its former abbot , wanted for questioning on money laundering .
but police failed to catch him and he is still on the run .