dresden , germany ( reuters ) - the youth wing of german chancellor angela merkel s conservatives said on friday the bloc had a credibility problem on migration and needed new faces after suffering big losses in the sept. 24 national election .
merkel won a fourth term in office , but her christian democrats ( cdu ) and their bavarian sister party saw their worst results since 1949 , bleeding support to the far-right alternative for germany and the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) .
merkel , who will address 1,000 delegates from the young union ( ju ) in dresden on saturday , will try to hammer out differences with bavarian party leaders on sunday about their call for an upper limit to migration .
an agreement is needed before conservatives can enter into talks on a tricky three-way coalition with the fdp and the environmentalist greens , an alignment untested thus far on a national level .
the young conservatives dresden declaration called for an honest and unflinching questioning of our polices of the past years given the election results .
things can not just continue as they were , the declaration said .
many people have the feeling that those up there have forgotten us down here .
the declaration said conservatives had a credibility problem on the migration issue , but emphasized the group s wish for merkel s continued leadership .
at the same time , it said conservatives should have the courage to represent the full spectrum of the party through new faces in government , the parliamentary group and party .
deputy finance minister jens spahn , considered a possible successor to merkel , drew sustained applause for a speech in which he blamed the government s migration policies for the election losses , and said conservative leaders had refused to acknowledge that fact or address the public s fears head on .
the declaration did not demand an upper limit on migration as the bavarian christian social union ( csu ) has done , but said a clear limit on migration and a quota for refugees were needed .
what we don t need is uncontrolled immigration into our social welfare systems , it said .
merkel and the greens have rejected the call by the csu for a migrant cap but there are signs that conservatives could agree on different wording .
i honestly don t care what it s called , spahn told delegates , adding that conservatives understood that some change was needed .
we got the message , he said .
some members of merkel s conservatives and potential coalition partners have called for an immigration law as a way to solve the issue .
a new poll released by focus magazine showed that 67 percent of germans back the migrant cap demanded by the csu , while 26 percent reject such a plan .