tripoli ( reuters ) - gunmen killed at least four people and wounded nearly 40 on wednesday in a suicide attack on a court complex in the libyan city of misrata , officials and a witness said .
islamic state claimed responsibility for the attack , saying in a statement run by the group s amaq news agency it had targeted one of the most prominent strongholds of libya s u.n.-backed government of national accord ( gna ) .
the attack shows the enduring militant threat in libya after a misrata-led coalition under nominal gna command battled for more than six months last year to oust islamic state from its former stronghold in sirte , about 230 km ( 140 miles ) southeast of misrata .
since then , militants have been trying to regroup in the desert south of sirte .
they have stepped up their presence in remote areas , though attacks in urban centers have been rare .
wednesday s attack was launched by several assailants who drove up to the complex in central misrata in a black vehicle , a witness said .
one of them blew himself up at the gate and the other two with kalashnikovs opened fire at random , he said .
shooting could be heard all over the city center after the attack .
the witness , who asked not to be named , said he believed the attackers had used rocket propelled grenades .
the military alliance from misrata that led the campaign in sirte said two suicide attackers were involved in the operation , and that there had been an explosion after a gun battle lasting about 20 minutes .
the attackers killed four and wounded 39 , misrata hospital said in a statement , listing names of victims .
two of the attackers blew themselves up and a third was killed during the gun battle , said a local security source , speaking on condition of anonymity .
bomb disposal experts also defused a booby-trapped car that had been packed with explosives to be used in the attack , he said .
misrata , a large commercial port about 190 km east of tripoli , is one of libya s major military power bases but the city itself has been largely immune from armed clashes and attacks in recent years .
dozens of islamic state suspects are being held in the city .
libya slid into turmoil after a nato-backed uprising that toppled long-time leader muammar gaddafi six years ago .
it remains divided between loose political and military alliances based in the east and west , resulting in a security vacuum in the center of the country .
as militants increased their activity in recent weeks to the south and east of sirte , the united states launched two sets of air strikes against jihadist desert camps .
the u.s. also provided air support for the misrata-led campaign last year .