monrovia ( reuters ) - liberia s supreme court has halted preparations for next week s presidential run-off vote between former soccer star george weah and vice president joseph boakai until it considers a challenge to first round results by a losing candidate who alleged fraud .
the decision casts further doubt on the oct. 10 poll that losing parties say was marred by foul play at polling stations and at the highest levels of government .
it could also delay a second-round vote scheduled for nov. 7 to find a successor to president ellen johnson sirleaf , who won a nobel peace prize in 2011 and is the country s first elected leader since a 14-year civil war ended in 2003 .
in a writ issued late on tuesday , the court instructed the liberty party of third-placed charles brumskine , who made the complaint , and the national elections commission , to file briefs by thursday .
this is a big step in the right direction , said liberty party chairman benjamin sanvee .
the court recognizes the gravity of the issues and has taken action in defense of the law and democracy .
this week , boakai s ruling unity party announced it was backing the legal challenge .
it accused johnson sirleaf , one of its own members , of interfering in the october vote by holding private meetings with election magistrates .
johnson sirleaf denied the meetings were inappropriate .
observers from the european union and the carter center say they saw no major problems with the first round vote .
the supreme court s decision is an example of an increasingly assertive role some african judiciaries are playing in overseeing elections .
kenya s supreme court annulled the results of a presidential election in august .
national elections commission chairman jerome korkoya questioned the need for the supreme court s decision , which he said has halted preparations for the vote , including training polling station staff .
let me categorically say i see no reason , legal or otherwise , for such an order , he told reporters .
the election was transparent and credible .
looking to head off a crisis , the chairman of west african regional body ecowas , togolese president faure gnassingbe , and the african union chair , guinea s president alpha conde , arrived in the capital monrovia on wednesday .
there have been some complaints , some challenges .
that process is ongoing in keeping with the rule of law , johnson sirleaf said at a news conference alongside gnassingbe , conde , weah , boakai and three other candidates .
this democratic process must be concluded within the time frame of the constitution so that i may be able to retire and end this transition successfully , she said .
the streets of monrovia remained calm though the court ruling raised tension in the capital where memories of the war are fresh .
large numbers of riot police deployed outside the supreme court and election commission headquarters .
i see this entire process as critical to our survival as a nation .
we must do all to avoid sliding into war , said student david farmah .
no one has money to have a re-run of the election .
it should go ahead .
weah won the first round with 38.4 percent of the vote to boakai s 28.8 percent .
he has tapped into frustration with johnson sirleaf s 12-year tenure , which has seen a post-war peace consolidated and the economy quadruple in size but has failed to root out corruption and alleviate poverty .
morluba morlu , a senior official from weah s cdc party , said on wednesday he still expected the run-off to go ahead next week .
it is sad for a ruling party that has been in power for 12 years ( to ) be crying , he said of unity party s support for the legal challenge .
we don t want any mockery of this election .