dubai ( reuters ) - a group of 13 human rights organizations urged the british government to call for the release of three bahrainis detained in the gulf state , saying they were being punished because they were relatives of a london-based activist and his wife .
in a letter sent to foreign secretary boris johnson , the group that includes amnesty international and uk legal charity reprieve called for the release of sayed nazar alwadaei , hajar mansoor hasan and mahmood marzooq mansoor .
the three are relatives of sayed ahmed alwadaei and his wife duaa alwadaei .
sayed ahmed alwadaei is the director of advocacy at the bahrain institute for rights and democracy , a britain-based group campaigning for political change in bahrain .
the three were arrested in march in bahrain while sayed ahmed alwadaei was attending the 34th session of the un human rights council in geneva .
we therefore urge your government to request bahrain to immediately release mr and mrs alwadaei s relatives ahead of their october 30 trial and drop all charges against them , said the letter sent on thursday .
it called the case part of a pattern of abuse and harassment against human rights defenders and their families in bahrain .
the letter said the three detainees are facing up to three years in jail .
bahrain is punishing his innocent family as retribution for his peaceful activism , said maya foa , director of reprieve .
bahrain s government officials could not be immediately reached for a comment .
sayed ahmed alwadaei s family members have been under the spotlight of bahrain s authorities since he took part in protest against the attendance of the gulf state s king at a royal horse show in britain .
king hamad attended the royal windsor horse show last year , and the state-run bahrain news agency bna published his photographs with britain s queen elizabeth ii .
bahrain , which has a shi ite muslim majority population and is ruled by a sunni royal family , has seen unrest since the arab spring protests across the region in 2011 .
many of bahrain s shi ites say they suffer discrimination , which the government denies .
it accuses shi ite power iran of fomenting unrest on its soil , a charged tehran denies .