notre dame students are freaking out over vice president pence s planned commencement speech .
once again , the college snowflakes are trying to shut down free speech .
how will these students ever survive in the real world ? the college is breaking with a 60-year tradition by not inviting the sitting president to speak .
instead , the university president announced pence s scheduled visit noting he s a native son : it is fitting that in the 175th year of our founding on indiana soil that notre dame recognize a native son who served our state and now the nation with quiet earnestness , moral conviction and a dedication to the common good characteristic of true statesmen , said notre dame president rev .
john i. jenkins , c.s.c .
with his own brand of reserved dignity , mike pence instilled confidence on the state level then , and on the world stage now .
we are proud to welcome him to represent the new administration .
notre dame students protesting vp pence as this year s commencement speaker because it makes them feel unsafe pic.twitter.com/w7mjofp6dv fox & friends ( @ foxandfriends ) april 12 , 2017 university of notre dame students have begun a # notmycommencementspeaker white board campaign to protest the invitation of vice president mike pence to speak at commencement.last week , seniors immane mondane and jourdyhn williams invited students to take photos holding white boards with direct quotes from pence that are racist , sexist , homophobic , xenophobic , offensive , or ostracizing to members of our community , along with the hashtag # notmycommencementspeaker .
alternatively , students could also write about why they feel unsafe with the presence of mike pence on our campus , with daily opportunities to have photos taken with their whiteboards through the week.once all the photos have been compiled , the organizers plan to share them on social media in hopes of starting a discussion about pence s invitation .
for me personally , pence represents the larger trump administration , mondane told the observer .
his administration represents something , and for many people on our campus , it makes them feel unsafe to have someone who openly is offensive but also demeaning of their humanity and of their life and of their identity .
while the photos do not appear to have been posted yet , mondane provided the observer with several examples of the complaints that students shared.one student used a quote from pence favoring traditional marriage , writing on their board , congress should oppose any effort to put gay and lesbian relationships on an equal status with heterosexual marriage -pence # notmycommencementspeaker .
another read , because i am the daughter of immigrants family of lgbtq folks .
read more : campus reform