ankara ( reuters ) - turkey , iran and iraq have agreed to consider counter-measures against kurdish northern iraq over a planned independence referendum , turkey s foreign ministry said on thursday .
in a joint statement , the foreign ministers of the three countries voiced concerns that the referendum would endanger the gains iraq has made against islamic state , and reiterated their fears over the potential for new conflicts in the region .
in the meeting , the three ministers emphasized that the referendum will not be beneficial for the kurds and the kurdish regional government ( krg ) , and agreed , in this regard , to consider taking counter-measures in coordination , the statement said .
the statement gave no details on the possible measures but said the ministers , who were in new york attending the united nations general assembly , called on the international community to intervene .
turkey s president tayyip erdogan has threatened to impose sanctions against kurdish northern iraq .
turkish troops are also carrying out military exercises near the border .
the central government in baghdad , iraq s neighbors and western powers fear the vote could divide the country and spark a wider regional conflict , after arabs and kurds cooperated to dislodge islamic state from its stronghold in mosul .
the statement said turkish foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu , iranian foreign minister javad zarif and their iraqi counterpart ibrahim al-jaafari expressed concerns that conflicts surfacing as a result of the referendum would prove difficult to contain .
but the kurds say they are determined to go ahead with the vote , which , though non-binding , could trigger the process of separation in a country already divided along sectarian and ethnic lines .
the three ministers also voiced their strong commitment to maintain iraq s territorial and political unity , the foreign ministry s statement said .
turkey , which has pulled forward a cabinet meeting and national security council session to friday over the referendum , will also convene parliament for an extraordinary meeting on saturday , the chairman of the ruling ak party s parliamentary group said on thursday .