vina del mar , chile ( reuters ) - chile expects to close an energy swap deal with argentina in the days ahead , chilean energy minister andres rebolledo said in an interview on thursday , the latest example of increasing economic integration between the south american nations .
the neighboring countries are also negotiating the locations for five additional transmission line interconnection points , with an agreement expected as early as january , the minister told reuters .
we made a proposal to argentina and we are very close to reaching an agreement , rebolledo said , referring to the energy swap .
i think we can have an agreement in the next couple of days or if not , over the next few weeks , he added .
chile and argentina share a 3,300-mile ( 5,300-kilometer ) border running north to south along the rugged terrain of the andes mountains .
the deal would allow both countries to send natural gas or electricity at one point of the frontier and obtain needed supplies at another border point .
in 2016 , chile exported 100 gigawatt-hours of electricity to argentina and 361 million cubic meters of gas , worth nearly $ 100 million .
the deal is the latest episode in a larger economic and diplomatic rapprochement between the neighboring south american countries that have often had frosty relations .
since conservative argentine president mauricio macri came to power in 2015 , the two nations have signed free trade deals and begun transporting gas between the nations , among several other measures .
rebolledo , who spoke with reuters on the sidelines of the energy and climate partnership of the americas ( ecpa ) meeting in the coastal city of vina del mar , said chile and argentina are planning to add five new electricity interconnection points in the coming years .
for this , he said the countries commissioned studies with financial support from the development bank of latin america ( caf ) to define the geographic points that would make the project most efficient .
in january we will probably have the result ( of the study ) , with the map of the five main points where there is supply and demand on the other side , and where it is best to put the transmission lines , he said .
chile is currently undergoing a broader transmission buildout .
in august , rebolledo told reuters that the government hopes to have a formal proposal to pitch to investors for a line connecting northern chile with southern peru by the end of the current government in march .