paris ( reuters ) - rank and file members of france s biggest union , the cfdt , urged their leaders on tuesday to take a tougher stand against president emmanuel macron s reform agenda .
at a convention bringing some 10,000 cfdt members together in paris , executives came under fire for snubbing protest calls from the communist-rooted cgt against a labor law overhaul last month , the first major reform of macron s five-year term .
your words are too soft ... we really need a much harder position , cfdt union official pascale meunier from telecoms group orange told members of the union s executive committee during a debate .
the revolt is a new sign that some grassroot union members are worried macron s government is running roughshod over unions .
on friday , delegates from the force ouvriere ( fo ) union voted in favor of pushing for a harder line .
the cgt , which fell behind the cfdt earlier this year as france s biggest union , was the only major union to hold protests against the labor reform though some fo and cfdt union members joined the demonstrations .
the absence of fo , france s third-biggest union , disappointed many of its members as it had marched with cgt in 2016 against a labor reform by the previous government .
norbert raffolt , a cfdt official with the union s metal-working branch , accused the union s leadership of turning a deaf ear to calls for a tougher line .
today you can hear it in the room .
the rank and file is saying we ve got to move it , we ve to give a different answer , raffolt said .
cfdt head laurent berger responded by saying street protests risked being seen as old-fashioned by the broader public and he urged members to push back against the implementation of the reform at their workplaces .
i understand and even sometimes share the legitimate desire of some of you to put shoes on and express your frustration , berger said a speech closing the convention .
but let s not give the government arguments to cast us into the annals of history , he added .
even if unions step up pressure on macron s government , at this point there is little that they can do against the labor reform as he signed the decrees underpinning it last month .
however , a tougher tone from the unions could make life difficult for the government as it seeks to launch talks on revamping unemployment insurance and professional training in the coming months , followed by the retirement system next year .
union leaders are due to meet individually with macron starting oct. 12 about the upcoming reforms .