when americans heard about the tragic deaths of the four u.s. troops , killed in an attack by islamic extremists in niger , on october 4 , their first thought for most of us , was sadness for the families of the brave troops.for democrat congresswoman frederica wilson of florida , her first thought was how she could use a condolence call made by president trump to the widow of sgt .
la david johnson , as a way to harm president trump.unfortunately , for the other 3 families , who are grieving the unimaginable loss of their loved ones , the actions of the selfish , partisan , politician frederica wilson , have caused a media circus that is laser-focused on the choice of words president trump used in his call to the widow of sgt .
la david johnson , rather than the loss of 4 honorable men who sacrificed their lives for our country.y.rep .
frederica wilson , who was in the car with johnson s family , said that trump had told the widow , you know that this could happen when you signed up for it but it still hurts .
wilson claimed president trump also referred to sgt .
johnson as your guy , which the partisan congresswoman claimed was an insensitive statement .
president trump , sarah sanders-huckabee and general john kelly , who was in the room when trump called johnson s widow , myeshia johnson , to offer his condolences refuted the claims .
the hullabaloo surrounding the phone call president trump made to sgt .
johnson s widow is not sitting well with the father of staff sgt .
dustin wright , a green beret and member of a family with a long history of service to our u.s. military.in an interview with time , arnold wright , the father of another one of the four american soldiers killed in niger said wednesday that trump was respectful when he called with his condolences .
the father of the late staff sgt .
dustin wright , told time : this isn t about donald trump and this isn t about a damn phone call , he said .
this is about my son and the kind of man he was .
he died in a bad situation that needs to be changed .
and he s not coming back home .
arnold wright said that he and trump spoke for about 20 minutes , and that trump mostly listened .
he talked to me about the loss of my son and how he served with honor and dignity and he just wanted to give me a call to thank me , arnold wright told time in a phone interview .
i told him the kind of man dustin was .
we talked about his deployment .
we got troops out there with no air cover .
there are still teams in the country .
that was the main point that was the conversation .
arnold wright said he had no qualms about the fact that trump s phone call came nearly two weeks after his son s death was announced.the show of support for trump by a gold star father came as trump is under fire from democrats , former military leaders and other gold star families for his handling of the aftermath of the soldiers deaths in niger .
in defending his delay before calling the families , trump falsely asserted monday that former president barack obama had never made such calls .
the controversy flared anew when florida democratic rep. frederica wilson said that trump told myeshia johnson , the widow of staff sgt .
jeremiah johnson , that her husband knew what he signed up for .
trump on wednesday called that account of their conversation totally fabricated , but cowanda jones-johnson , staff sgt .
johnson s mother , confirmed wilson s account and told the washington post that president trump did disrespect my son .
arnold wright had a different experience in talking to trump about his late son .
the tone was great , wright said .
his comments were appropriate .
when pressed if trump had said something similar to him , wright said twice that trump did not , adding that he didn t see anything problematic about it anyway .
i ll say it : my son knew what he signed up for .
he signed up to be a green beret .
he had no illusions about what that meant , said wright , a military veteran himself .
my son came from a military family with a tradition that dates back to 1812 .
he fully knew what it means to serve and the risk involved .