david fry is a self-titled computer expert that has joined the bundy occupation at the malheur national wildlife refuge in oregon .
he is also a huge fan of adolf hitler and supports isis.a post that fry made to his google+ account read as follows : all i want for christmas is for isis to nuke israelhell !
source : opb.orgwhen asked by opb to explain why he supported isis and liked hitler , he spoke about government conspiracies , plots against other nations , the september 11th attacks , the fukushima nuclear disaster in japan , and a jewish conspiracy to destroy the world with nuclear meltdowns.one week before fukushima happened , an israeli security team installing security equipment was there at fukushima.source : opb.orgfry explained that he drove from ohio to join the occupation because he felt the bundy militia consisted of pretty good people .
it was ( a ) miracle , that i got here , fry said .
i ve had quarrels with the government myself , and i feel there has to be some point where people have to put their foot down against the problems.source : opb.orgfry is currently occupying his time using government computers to allegedly make a website for the oregon occupation .
the website is defendyourbase.net , which has various videos of militants , but it also has videos from video games and other very non-freedom related items , some of them from months ago.why would a website made for the militia , have videos from months ago of some dude playing video games ?
it s a good question and i can offer one suggestion.fry didn t make the website for the occupation .
the domain was created in february of 2015 , practically an entire year ago.domain name : defendyourbase.net registrar : register.com , inc .
sponsoring registrar iana id : 9 whois server : whois.register.com referral url : [ link removed ] name server : ns1.x10hosting.com name server : ns2.x10hosting.com status : clienttransferprohibited [ link removed ] updated date : 07-feb-2015 creation date : 07-feb-2015 expiration date : 07-feb-2016source : internicin reality , this website appears to be something fry made to display videos of himself playing video games .
perhaps he retooled it a bit for the cause of liberty .
the name defendyourbase definitely sounds like the video game angle is plausible , since in many shooter games you and your team have a base to defend.here is a video that fry made of himself from a government computer within the wildlife refuge : [ youtube https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=k37cfetlzea & w=420 & h=315 ] the bundy militia officially has a nazi-sympathizing , isis-supporting , israel-hating , conspiracy-obsessed individual who got his combat experience shooting virtual aliens with a laser rifle in their ranks .
it must make the bundys feel a lot safer knowing he s on their side.featured image via video screen capture