mazar-i-sharif , afghanistan ( reuters ) - germany s defense minister said on tuesday she wanted to boost the german presence in afghanistan , in the first public indication that berlin could accept a u.s. call for more soldiers to help reverse territorial gains by taliban insurgents .
germany currently has 980 soldiers stationed in the hindu kush mountains as part of a nato mission to train afghan security forces , the second biggest national contingent after the united states .
the soldiers , and especially the trainers , are telling me : we have enough trainers but we could do significantly more if we had better protective components , more security personnel , defence minister ursula von der leyen said during a visit to the northern afghan city of mazar-i-sharif .
von der leyen added that the german parliament would have to approve any additional deployments .
the minister is a member of chancellor angela merkel s conservatives and has said she hopes to retain her job in a new coalition government currently being negotiated .
merkel hopes to forge another grand coalition with the center-left social democrats ( spd ) like the one that has led germany for the past four years .
the spd is generally more cautious about defense spending and sending german troops abroad .
u.s. president donald trump in august authorized an increase in u.s. troops to train afghan security forces and carry out counter-terrorism operations , hoping to reverse gains by taliban insurgents and compel them to agree to peace talks .
on monday von der leyen criticized the rapid reduction in forces since the nato-led international security assistance force ( isaf ) wound up in afghanistan in 2014 , and she called for a longer-term commitment in the hindu kush mountains .
at the peak of the isaf mission around 150,000 foreign soldiers were deployed in the hindu kush .
there are now around 17,000 , of whom 10,000 are americans .
germany increased the upper limit to its afghanistan mandate to 980 soldiers from 850 in 2016 , at a time when the united states and most other countries were reducing their forces .
von der leyen called for negotiations between the afghan government and the taliban , saying the afghan security forces could apply pressure to those taliban who were ready to negotiate .
only that will lead to success in the long-term , she added .