myrtle beach , s.c. ( reuters ) - the growing feud between republican front-runner donald trump and his central rival ted cruz intensified on saturday with tit-for-tat attacks that put to rest any notion that their debate night fight was a solitary engagement .
the split between the two is evidence of the closeness of the race for the 2016 republican presidential nomination , particularly in iowa .
polls there show a neck-and-neck battle with little more than two weeks to go until iowa on feb. 1 stages the first nominating contest on the road to the nov. 8 election .
trump , who needs a victory in iowa to set a winning tone to his campaign , kept up his attempt to undermine cruz ’ s attempt to portray himself as an outsider to the political establishment .
trump seized on a report in the new york times that said cruz had failed to disclose a second loan , from citibank , that helped bankroll his 2012 senate campaign .
the times earlier had reported that cruz had not disclosed a loan from goldman sachs for the same campaign .
cruz ’ s campaign has said the failure to report the loan was a paperwork error .
“ he didn ’ t report his bank loans , ” trump told delegates to the south carolina tea party convention .
some booed trump for criticizing cruz since they had cheered cruz when he spoke to the group earlier .
“ say whatever you want , ” trump said in response to the boos .
“ he didn ’ t report his bank loans ... and then he acts like robin hood .
say whatever you want .. ” cruz did not mention trump to the tea party event but talking to reporters in fort mill , s.c. , earlier in the day he was unsparing .
he suggested the new york billionaire and former reality tv star lacks the temperament to be president , pointing to his frequent twitter assaults on his adversaries .
he said trump had attacked him because cruz was a threat to him in iowa .
“ i think in terms of a commander-in-chief , we ought to have someone who isn ’ t springing out of bed to tweet in a frantic response to the latest polls , ” cruz said .
“ i think the american people are looking for a commander-in-chief who is stable and steady and a calm hand to keep this country safe. ” trying to prove trump is not the conservative he says he is , cruz ’ s campaign released a video entitled “ donald trump ’ s new york values ” that linked to a 1999 interview trump did on nbc ’ s “ meet the press ” in which trump declared he favored a woman ’ s right to abortion and supported gay marriage .
the two candidates had clashed at the last republican debate , on thursday in charleston , over the issue of “ new york values ” with trump saying cruz had insulted the city that absorbed the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks and rebounded .
trump brought up the issue again at a town hall meeting in portsmouth , n.h. , hours before a scheduled address at the south carolina tea party convention in myrtle beach .
cruz ’ s criticism of new york , he said , was a “ total disgrace. ” ( reporting by steve holland ; editing by chizu nomiyama ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .