panmunjom , south korea ( reuters ) - north korea violated an armistice agreement with south korea this month when north korean soldiers shot and wounded a north korean soldier as he defected across their border and it must not do so again , south korea s defense minister said on monday .
the defector , a north korean soldier identified only by his surname , oh , was critically wounded but has been recovering in hospital in south korea .
the incident comes at a time of heightened tension between north korea and the international community over its nuclear weapons program , but the north has not publicly responded to the defection at the sensitive border .
south korean minister of defence song young-moo issued his warning to the north while on a visit to the border where he commended south korean soldiers at a joint security area ( jsa ) , in the so-called truce village of panmunjom , in the demilitarized zone , for rescuing the defector .
a north korean border guard briefly crossed the border with the south in the chase for the defector on nov. 13 - a video released by the u.n. command ( unc ) in seoul showed - a violation of the ceasefire accord between north and south at the end of the 1950-53 korean war .
shooting towards the south at a defecting person , that s a violation of the armistice agreement , song said .
crossing the military demarcation line , a violation .
carrying automatic rifles ( in the jsa ) , another violation , he added as he stood near where south korean soldiers had found oh , collapsed and bleeding from his wounds .
north korea should be informed this sort of thing should never occur again .
since the defection , north korea has reportedly replaced guards stationed there .
soldiers have fortified a section of the area seen aimed at blocking any more defections by digging a trench and planting trees .
as song was speaking 10 meters away from the trees north korean soldiers planted , four north korean soldiers were spotted listening closely .
south korean military officials pointed out two bullet holes in a metal wall on a south korean building , from north korean shots fired at oh as he ran .
oh has undergone several operations in hospital to remove bullets .
his lead surgeon , lee cook-jong , told reuters his patient has suffers from nightmares about being returned to the north .
in south korea , six soldiers , three south korean and three american , were given awards by the u.s .
forces korea last week in recognition for their efforts in rescuing the defector .
after inspecting the site on monday , song met troops stationed there for lunch and praised them for acting promptly and appropriately .
south korea has been broadcasting news of the soldier s defection towards north korea via loudspeakers , according to the south s yonhap news agency .
south korean military officials have declined to confirm that .