cairo ( reuters ) - palestinian president mahmoud abbas on monday intensified efforts to rally middle eastern countries against u.s. recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital , setting up talks with arab leaders beginning in cairo .
abbas met with president abdel fattah al-sisi of egypt , which has been a key broker in past peace talks with israel and between fighting palestinian factions .
abbas and sisi agreed to continue high-level coordination and to use the widespread rejection of the u.s. move to maintain the rights of the palestinians , a statement from the egyptian presidency said .
palestinian presidency spokesman nabil abu rdainah said there would be an arab move to preserve the rights of the palestinian people soon .
abbas will later head to istanbul to give a speech at a meeting of the organization of islamic cooperation ( oic ) .
arab states condemned u.s. president donald trump s jerusalem decision last week , and vowed to press international bodies to take action against it .
the arab parliament held an emergency meeting on the issue in cairo on monday , state news agency mena reported .
sisi , after a separate meeting with visiting russian president vladimir putin , said the u.s. moving its israel embassy to jerusalem would have dangerous effects on peace and security in the region .
abbas met the head of the arab league in cairo on monday , local media reported .
arab foreign ministers held an hours-long emergency meeting at the weekend and vowed to seek a u.n. security council resolution rejecting the u.s. move , but gave few details on other measures they would take .
the palestinians hope for concrete action .
daring palestinian and arab decisions are required in the coming stage , which is very important , abbas s spokesman nabil abu rdainah told palestinian official news agency wafa .
world powers have said the u.s. move will impede peace efforts in the decades-long israeli-palestinian conflict as anger spreads across the region .
the trump administration says it is still committed to the peace process .
abbas will not meet mike pence during the u.s. vice president s visit to the region later this month , palestinian foreign minister riyad al-maliki said on saturday .
egypt s top muslim and christian religious leaders also said they would not meet pence .
egypt has also brokered reconciliation deals between abbas s fatah party and gaza-based islamist group hamas , which called for a new uprising against israel last week .
the planned handover of control of gaza to the fatah-dominated palestinian authority under the latest deal hit another delay on sunday , with a fatah official blaming obstacles without elaborating .
israel launched fresh air strikes in gaza on saturday in response to rocket fire from the enclave , where it fought a war in 2014 which killed more than 2,000 people , most of them civilians .