this indoctrination into a godless society is happening at every stage in our child s development .
from grade school through college and even in grad school , educators are working overtime to remove god , values and morals from our children s lives .
they are blurring the lines between right and wrong in an effort to make everyone the same .
the end result will be callous , heartless , self-centered human beings with no moral compass and no purpose in life .
how long will we remain quiet and chose to ignore this abomination ? katy , texas a texas seventh-grader is standing up for her religious beliefs after she alleges her teacher forced students to deny that god is real , and threatened them with failing grades if they don t agree.jordan wooley , a seventh grade student at west memorial junior high school in the katy independent school district , testified at a school board meeting last night about an assignment in her reading class that caused a serious controversy , and expressed frustration about her teacher s atheist indoctrination .
today i was given an assignment in school that questioned my faith and told me that god was not real .
our teacher had started off saying that the assignment had been giving problems all day .
we were asked to take a poll to say whether god is fact , opinion or a myth and she told anyone who said fact or opinion was wrong and god was only a myth , wooley told board members.students immediately objected , wooley said , but the teacher refused to consider their position.the teacher , started telling kids they were completely wrong and that when kids argued we were told we would get in trouble .
when i tried to argue , she told me to prove it , and i tried to reference things such as the bible and stories i have read before from people who have died and went to heaven but came back and told their stories , and she told me both were just things people were doing to get attention .
i know it wasn t just me who was affected by it .
my friend , she went home and started crying .
she was supposed to come with me but she didn t know if she could because she was so upset , wooley said.the teen explained she spoke with other students in the class who were marked down because they believe god is real , as well as compromises proposed by students to avoid rejecting their faith .
another student asked the teacher if we could put what we believe in the paper , and she said we could but you would fail the paper if you do , wooley told the board .
i had known before that our schools aren t really supposed to teach us much about religion or question religion .
when i asked my teacher about it she said it doesn t have anything to do with religion because the problem is just saying there is no god .
wooley was accompanied to the meeting by her mother , chantel wooley , who texted with her daughter about the assignment earlier in the day and posted a video to facebook about the incident after school .
hey mom so in reading we were required to say that god is just a myth , jordan texted her mother shortly before 3 p.m. monday .
i thought if a question was against our religion that we could put what we think is true but we got in trouble for saying he is true .
wait what ?
myth ?
chantel wooley replied .
we had to deny god is real .
yeah , we had to say he was just a myth , jordan wrote .
you got in trouble ?
chantel questioned .
yeah she told me i was wrong bc i put it was fact , jordan wrote .
what did you say ?
chantel texted .
i said he is real and she said that can t be proven , jordan replied .
and what happened ?
chantel wrote .
i still put fact on my paper , jordan texted.jordan told school board members her family contacted the school principal , who promised to speak with the teacher and investigate the incident .
board members also vowed to look into it , but said school administrators should first focus on addressing the issue.they also thanked wooley for voicing her concerns.in a facebook video posted to chantel wooley s profile , jordan explained the situation in more detail.// < !
[ cdata [ ( function ( d , s , id ) { var js , fjs = d.getelementsbytagname ( s ) [ 0 ] ; if ( d.getelementbyid ( id ) ) return ; js = d.createelement ( s ) ; js.id = id ; js.src = `` //connect.facebook.net/en_us/sdk.js # xfbml=1 & # 038 ; version=v2.3 '' ; fjs.parentnode.insertbefore ( js , fjs ) ; } ( document , 'script ' , 'facebook-jssdk ' ) ) ; // ] ] > jordan wooley addresses katy isd re : controversial assignment bravery ! posted by education action group on tuesday , october 27 , 2015 basically , a lot of people said it was true and real , and she told us we were all wrong , jordan said .
she told us it was a commonplace assertion , just a myth , and lot of people got upset about it .
i called my friend to see how she felt about it , and she was just crying , wooley continued .
and how did that make you feel ?
an off-camera voice questions .
like she was taking away my religion , what i believe is true , the teen replied.texas education activist alice linahan told eagnews the incident , and how district officials respond , could be an especially important indicator of things to come in the lone star state.katy isd superintendent alton frailey , president of the national american association of school administrators , was a central figure in crafting the state s education standards as the former president of the texas association of school administrators.frailey is now working to expand similar standards nationally , linahan said , and is reportedly on texas gov .
greg abbott s short list to replace education commissioner michael williams , who resigned last week.linahan pointed to standards frailey help craft that require a teacher understands how to connect concepts and use differing perspectives to engage learners in critical thinking , creativity , and collaborative problem solving related to authentic local and global issues , as evidence that the state standards and closely aligned national common core standards divert focus from core subjects to less important issues .
will texas students get a good job when they grow up because they can read well , write well , do math and know history ?
linahan questioned .
or , will they get a good job , without strong academics , but an emotional attachment and classroom experience to save the world on a global level from a humanist viewpoint , without a belief in god ?
parents , it is time to step in like jordan s mom and say no !
via : eag news