munich , germany ( reuters ) - victims of the attack on the israeli team at the 1972 olympic games were remembered by germany and israel on wednesday with a memorial , following a long campaign by their relatives .
german president frank-walter steinmeier and his israeli counterpart reuven rivlin attended the inauguration of the munich 1972 massacre memorial at munich s olympic park , 45 years after the attack by palestinian gunmen .
relatives of the victims and the state of israel waited almost half a century for this moment , rivlin said .
45 years have passed for an official israeli delegation to return to this place .
the munich olympics became the blood olympics .
members of the israeli olympic team were taken hostage on sept. 5 , 1972 , at the poorly secured athletes village by palestinians from the black september group .
eleven israelis , a german policeman as well as five of the palestinian gunmen died after a stand-off at the village and then a nearby airfield , as police rescue efforts failed .
the memorial offers some comfort for relatives who have also long demanded a minute s silence at the opening ceremonies of olympics games , only to be consistently turned down by the ioc .
steinmeier said it had taken too long for the memorial to be built .
it is high time and we owe it firstly to you , the relatives , steinmeier said .
the olympic village became a place of palestinian terrorists , a stage for their boundless hatred for israel .
it should never have happened .
ankie spitzer , whose fencing coach husband , andre , was one of the victims , and ilana romano , wife of weightlifter joseph romano , have waged a decades-long campaign to get a commemoration at the games opening ceremony .
we wanted this memorial .
in the years after we heard voices that us israelis brought war to germany and the terrorists were hailed as freedom fighters , romano said .
that hurt so much but we did not give up .
we knew our way was the right one ... for the future of our children and the next generations , she added .
the ioc , whose president thomas bach was also present , has said opening ceremonies are not the appropriate platform and has instead made other gestures to remember the victims .
at last year s rio de janeiro games the ioc inaugurated the place of mourning , a small park which will be a feature at every olympics .