new york ( reuters ) - lawyers for an executive at turkey s majority state-owned halkbank who is accused of helping iran evade u.s. sanctions on wednesday asked a u.s. federal judge to declare a mistrial as jurors were expected to begin deliberating .
in a motion filed in manhattan federal court , the lawyers for mehmet hakan atilla said prosecutors had prejudiced the jury by asking their client during cross-examination on tuesday whether he remembered that a report by a turkish expert concluded he violated sanctions .
atilla s lawyers immediately objected before atilla could answer , and u.s. district judge richard berman ordered the question stricken from the record .
however , atilla s lawyers said wednesday that the damage had been done .
they said jurors should not have been allowed to hear about the turkish report because its author was not in court , depriving atilla of his right to confront his accuser .
they also said the question grossly mischaracterized the report s conclusion .
asking this question in open court had the effect of introducing otherwise inadmissible hearsay and an expert opinion on the ultimate issue for the jury , they said .
berman ordered prosecutors to respond to the motion by 5 p.m. ( 2200 gmt ) wednesday .
jurors had been expected to begin deliberating wednesday morning after a three-week trial that has strained diplomatic relations between the united states and turkey .
at the center of the trial was explosive testimony from turkish-iranian gold trader reza zarrab , who pleaded guilty to charges of violating sanctions and testified for u.s. prosecutors .
zarrab testified that atilla helped design fraudulent transactions of gold and food that allowed iran to spend its oil and gas revenues abroad , including through u.s. financial institutions , defying u.s. sanctions .
zarrab also implicated turkish officials in the scheme , including president tayyip erdogan .
attempts to reach erdogan s spokesman for comment on the allegations at the trial have been unsuccessful .
erdogan has publicly dismissed the case as a politically motivated attack on his government .
atilla , testifying in his own defense at the trial , denied all the charges against him .
halkbank has denied taking part in any illegal transactions .
atilla s lawyers already asked for a mistrial last week after jurors heard testimony from huseyin korkmaz , a former turkish police officer who said he led an investigation that included atilla and was forced to flee turkey to escape retaliation .
berman denied that motion .
u.s. prosecutors charged nine people in the criminal case , though only zarrab , 34 , and atilla , 47 , were arrested by u.s. authorities .