dar es salaam ( reuters ) - two east african presidents on saturday condemned a decision by the international criminal court to open a war crimes investigation into burundi , saying it undermined regional peace initiatives .
the court ordered a formal investigation on thursday into crimes committed in burundi from april 2015 to october 2017 .
ugandan president yoweri museveni has condemned the decision of the international criminal court ( icc ) , which ordered its prosecutor to launch an investigation into the burundi conflict , tanzania s presidency said in a statement on saturday .
museveni is the current chairman of the east african community ( eac ) regional economic bloc comprising uganda , tanzania , kenya , burundi , rwanda and south sudan .
the statement was issued after tanzanian president john magufuli ended a three-day visit to uganda where he held talks with museveni on burundi and other matters .
burundi plunged into violence in april 2015 after president pierre nkurunziza said he would seek a third term in office , triggering protests and a crackdown by security forces .
he won re-election that july , but most opponents boycotted the vote , saying his decision to stand violated the constitution and the terms of a peace agreement that had ended a war in the central african country .
government forces are suspected to have killed more than 1,000 people and displaced 400,000 during a crackdown after the election , although rights groups say the number killed could be higher .
the court is investigating crimes against humanity that include murder , torture , rape and persecution .
tanzania , which hosts thousands of burundian refugees , and uganda have been engaged in months of diplomatic efforts aimed at restoring peace in burundi .
so far , there has been little progress .
museveni ... said the icc is interfering in eac affairs without consulting regional leaders , which is a wrong move that undermines previous peacemaking efforts in burundi , said the statement .
tanzania s magufuli also criticized the icc investigation .
magufuli said the move ( by the icc ) was going against efforts already taken by the east african community , which include appointing a mediation committee for the burundi peace process led by former tanzanian president benjamin mkapa , the statement said .
regional mediators of the burundi peace talks are expected to hold another round of talks on nov. 23 , the tanzanian presidency said .
magufuli said security concerns in burundi have been exaggerated , citing a recent voluntary repatriation of burundian refugees from tanzania .
last month burundi became the first nation to withdraw from the court , amid growing criticism from african leaders who complain prosecutors are excessively targeting africans .