jakarta ( reuters ) - a lawyer for indonesia s parliament speaker denied on thursday that the politician had gone into hiding to avoid being questioned by an anti-corruption agency over a $ 170 million graft investigation and said his client had a busy schedule .
officers from the corruption eradication commission ( kpk ) sought to arrest speaker setya novanto at his house in jakarta late on wednesday , but failed to find him , sparking speculation about his whereabouts .
he is not hiding , novanto s lawyer , fredrich yunadi , told reuters by telephone .
he is very busy , invited to many events and such .
if he hears of violations of any law , he will discuss it with other officials , said yunadi .
novanto , who is chairman of indonesia s second-biggest political party , golkar , was still in jakarta , he added .
novanto was not available for comment .
he has previously denied wrongdoing but has missed repeated kpk summons for questioning in recent months , saying he was ill and needed to undergo heart surgery .
the kpk is investigating state losses amounting to about $ 170 million linked to a national electronic identity card scheme after allegations that sums ranging from $ 5,000 to $ 5.5 million - generated by marking up the costs of procurement - were divided up among politicians in parliament .
because of the alleged embezzlement , millions of people have faced long delays in getting cards , or have been issued pieces of paper in place of a proper cards .
novanto was named a suspect in the case again last week after he had used a controversial legal maneuver , a pre-trial motion , to get earlier charges dropped last month .
yunadi said on thursday his client had been summoned by the kpk 11 times as a witness and as a suspect in the investigation .
we will file another pre-trial motion , but it is still to be decided when , said yunadi vice president jusuf kalla , who is also a golkar member , told reporters novanto should be ready to face any legal process if called upon .
officials at the anti-graft agency did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
a kpk spokesman febri diansyah was quoted in kompas newspaper as saying the commission had a warrant for novanto s arrest and called on him to surrender .
novanto has for years been dogged by allegations of corruption , but has never been prosecuted .
in late 2015 , a parliament ethics committee launched an investigation into allegations by a freeport indonesia executive that novanto had tried to extort $ 1.8 billion worth of shares from the local unit of the u.s. mining company .
novanto denied the allegations but stepped down temporarily .
he was reappointed as speaker a year later , after being cleared by an ethics panel .
indonesians widely perceive parliament as one of their country s most corrupt institutions , transparency international says .