one of the largest environmental disasters in american history is happening right now , and there is a great chance that you never heard of it thanks to corporate-owned media.there is a colossal leak of methane gas currently pouring out of the ground in aliso canyon , california , at an astonishing rate of 110,000 pounds per hour .
the fallout is intense .
1700 homes in the area have been evacuated so far , prompting many lawsuits to be filed against the corporation that owns the faciliy.southern california gas company is the entity that s responsible for the disaster , which began in october of 2015 .
a statement by scgc in december said that stopping the leak would take at least 2 more months.below you can see video footage of just how bad the leak is : [ youtube https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=exfj8vpqdty & w=420 & h=315 ] the severity of this can t understated .
this single leak is accounting for 25 percent of the entire state s methane emissions , and has been classified as the worst environmental disaster since the 2010 bp deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico .
methane is 25 times more potent than carbon dioxide as a greenhouse gas as well , marking this as a signicant ecological threat.anne silva , spokesperson for scgc , made the following statement : our efforts to stop the flow of gas by pumping fluids directly down the well have not yet been successful , so we have shifted our focus to stopping the leak through a relief well.the relief well process is on schedule to be completed by late february or late march .
source : motherboardthe part that is making it so difficult to deal with , is the fact that the well is 8,000 feet deep .
this is preventing the normal disaster recovery method of plugging the leak with fluids from working , due to too much pressure coming up from underground .
the hope is that the relief well will drain off some pressure from the main well , allowing the fluid plug to work as intended.if you thought this was the only methane leak in california , you were wrong .
the reality is far worse.in pasadena , 35 miles from the aliso canyon leak , investigators found a cluster of leaks at 4 miles or less from each other .
below is a map of them , courtesy of earth defense fund : image credit : edfwhere the hell is the accountability for this ?
the map above should be a criminal offense.the story of southern california gas company is a pretty damning one .
edf has found that more than 38 percent of the methane pipes that scgc manages are more than 50 years old , and 16 percent are made from sub standard materials prone to leaks and corrosion .
over 150 million pounds of methane have been released by the leak so far , and that isn t counting the huge cluster of leaks shown above.lets put this into perspective .
if 1700 families had to evacuate a california town because of volcano suddenly springing up , it would be everywhere in the media .
there would be a nightly obsession over it on cable news .
politicians on every level would be pledging to help , and doing everything they can to hasten relief efforts.if we had a terrorist act that caused 1700 people to have to evacuate an american town , we would already be invading multiple middle eastern countries that had nothing to do with it.instead , we have 1700 people displaced by an ecological disaster caused by a corporation , and the media response is what disaster ?
featured image via flickr