parachinar , pakistan ( reuters ) - a suspected u.s. drone attack along the pakistani-afghan border killed an islamist militant commander from the taliban-allied haqqani network , a pakistani official and two members of the haqqani group said .
the pakistani official said it was not immediately clear whether the missile struck on the afghan or pakistani side of the border .
the members of the network and an eyewitness reached by reuters said the incident took place inside pakistan .
there have been multiple suspected u.s. drone strikes in the mountainous border region separating pakistan s kurram agency from afghanistan since u.s. president donald trump took office in january .
trump has taken a hardline stance on pakistan , which he says provides safe haven to terrorists including the afghan taliban and the haqqani network carrying out attacks in afghanistan .
tuesday s suspected drone attack targeted the vehicle of a militant commander named jamiuddin , said the pakistani official , who is based in the area , speaking on condition of anonymity , added that it also killed an associate of the commander .
a senior member of the haqqani network told reuters : maulvi jamiuddin was our trusted man .
he was part of our organization and used to facilitate our fighters during their movement inside afghanistan .
he added that jamiuddin was traveling in his car in pakistan s kurram region and that none of his associates were killed in the attack .
jamiuddin stopped the car ... for conversation on his cellular phone when the drone fired two missiles and killed him on the spot , another haqqani member said .
rehmanullah , a resident of the area who uses only one name , said he saw the strike near the mata sanghar area of kurram agency , across from the afghan province of paktia .
i saw two missiles hit the vehicle and the people inside were killed , he told reuters by telephone .
an increase in drone strikes that hit inside pakistani territory is one of the steps u.s. officials have said could be taken if islamabad does not end safe havens for militants .
pakistan has sought to play down several recent drone strikes inside the border , with officials saying they were on the afghan side even though local residents said they were in pakistan .
in october , three suspected strikes in two days killed 31 people who officials said belonged to the afghan taliban and the haqqani network , allied to the taliban .
those attacks came days after a canadian-american couple held hostage by the taliban were freed from the area in pakistan s northwest , striking a rare positive note in the country s often-fraught relations with the united states .