mccain s war hero status is not in question with the american voter , but his service to our nation as a senator is clearly an issue donald trump leads the gop presidential field again this week , though controversial remarks about sen. john mccain may have dented his popularity among republicansdonald trump s rise in the republican contest for the 2016 presidential nomination doesn t appear to have been slowed much at least not yet by the recent controversy over his criticisms of arizona sen. john mccain s war record last weekend .
in fact , although trump s favorable ratings among republicans have declined , he is still ahead and far ahead when republicans are asked to choose among the 16 currently announced candidates.in last week s poll , donald trump received the highest favorable ratings of any candidate from republicans , apparently helped by his tough position on illegal immigration .
this week , however , trump s favorable ratings dropped 11 points , and his unfavorable rating has risen 15 points.donald trump and john mccaina separate yougov poll completed wednesday suggests a reason why the mccain controversy may not have affected trump as much as some expected .
two out of three republicans view mccain as a war hero .
but fewer say they have a favorable opinion of him .
in fact , republicans in that poll gave both trump and mccain similar ratings.the differences between the trump favorable ratings in the economist/yougov poll and the daily poll are not significant.in addition , while a majority of republicans ( 54 % ) think trump should apologize for this statement about trump : he s not a war hero .
he s a war hero cause he was captured .
i like people that weren t captured .
ok ?
perhaps he was a war hero , but now he s said some very bad things about a lot of people .
32 % of republicans believe he doesn t need to apologize .
in fact , more democrats than republicans want trump to apologize.even more striking , veterans and those currently in the military are more likely to have favorable views of trump than to have favorable views of mccain .
41 % say they have favorable views of mccain , while more than half are favorable to trump.veterans are divided on whether trump owes mccain an apology.while a core of republicans appear to have coalesced around a trump candidacy , the new york businessman has yet to cross the threshold of being viewed as a likely winner with many republicans .
more than three times as many republican-identifying registered voters view bush as the likely republican nominee than say trump is that person .
36 % call bush the likely winner , 11 % choose walker , and just 10 % name trump.via : yougov us