washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. state department was “ disappointed ” india had refused visas to members of a u.s. commission that examines violations of religious freedom around the world , a spokesman said on monday .
the commission , made up mainly of professors and leaders of non-profit groups appointed by the president and members of congress , had planned to travel to india last week but new delhi failed to issue them visas .
the indian embassy said in a statement on its web site that “ a foreign entity ” like the u.s. commission had no standing to pass judgment on the state of india ’ s constitutionally protected rights .
robert george , a professor of jurisprudence at princeton who chairs the commission , said last week it was unfortunate that a secular democracy like india had refused a visit from the panel , which has been permitted in countries such as saudi arabia , pakistan and china , which restrict religious freedoms .
state department spokesman john kirby said the united states was “ disappointed by this news. ” “ we ’ re supportive of the commission and the important role they play in reviewing facts and circumstances of violations of religious freedom around the world , ” kirby said .
he declined to say whether the state department had discussed the issue with counterparts in new delhi .
but he did say the united states remained engaged “ in a number of discussions ” with the government on the issue .
the commission said in its 2015 report on religious freedom that incidents of religiously motivated and communal violence had reportedly increased for three consecutive years .
it said that despite india ’ s status as a pluralistic , secular democracy , new delhi had long struggled to protect minority religious communities or provide justice when crimes occurred , creating a climate of impunity .
non-governmental organizations and religious leaders , including from the muslim , christian , and sikh communities , attributed the initial increase in violence to religiously divisive campaigning in the 2014 general election by the hindu nationalist bharatiya janata party , or bjp , which won the vote .
since the election , religious minorities have been subject to derogatory comments by politicians linked the bjp and numerous violent attacks and forced conversions by hindu nationalist groups .
despite a much-heralded fresh start in u.s.-india relations under prime minister narendra modi of the bjp , the united states has run into problems arranging visits by other american officials , including the head of its office to combat human trafficking and its special envoy for gay rights .