new delhi ( reuters ) - indian authorities on thursday ordered an inquiry to determine within seven days the cause of a blast at a coal-fired power plant that killed 26 people and injured more than 100 one of the country s worst industrial accidents in years .
more than 20 survivors were battling for life with severe burn injuries following wednesday s blast at the 1,550-megawatt plant operated by state-owned ntpc in northern uttar pradesh state , state officials said .
arvind kumar , a principal secretary , said some of the severely injured had been taken to a hospital in the state capital lucknow .
blockages in the flue gas pipe in a unit led to the blast .
hot flue gases and steam let out by the blast severely injured several workers , sanjay kumar khatri , the top government official of rae bareli district where the plant is located , told reuters on thursday .
a magisterial inquiry has been initiated .
this two-member technical team will submit findings within seven days , khatri said .
ntpc is the country s top power producer and accidents have been rare at its facilities .
senior state police official anand kumar said in a statement posted online on wednesday that ash had piled up in the furnace beneath the boiler , which led to building up of pressure resulting in the explosion .
the state government has offered cash compensation of 200,000 rupees ( $ 3,097 ) to the families of the deceased , 50,000 rupees for the severely injured and half of that to those who sustained minor injuries , khatri said .
the plant in the town of unchahar supplies electricity to nine states , ntpc s website showed .
but the company said other facilities would make up for the shortfall and outages were unlikely .
the 500 mw unit , where the mishap occurred , had been operating since april and is under shut down after the accident .
the other five units of the station are operating normally , ntpc said in a statement .
this is most unfortunate .
ntpc has initiated an inquiry into the incident .
we are not a company that will take any risk .
we have so many units that if power can not be supplied by one , it can be given by the other .
it was a sudden accident , an ntpc official , who did not wish to be quoted , said .