new york ( reuters ) - the u.s. government will pay u.s. health insurers who provide medicare advantage plans to elderly and disabled americans about 0.85 percent more on average in 2017 than in 2016 , reflecting mostly stable medical costs , a government agency said on monday .
the department of health and human services ’ final plan to raise payments was a bit less than the 1.35 percent increase the agency proposed in february .
it said the lower figure reflected revisions to medical services cost calculations .
“ the medicare advantage rates look very much in line with the proposed rule , ” said ipsita smolinski of capitol street , a washington research firm .
insurers including unitedhealth group inc , aetna inc and anthem inc manage health benefits for more than 17 million americans enrolled in medicare advantage plans .
the other more than 30 million people eligible for medicare coverage are part of the government-run fee-for-service program .
shares in unitedhealth and aetna were slightly lower in very light after-hours trading , while anthem was unchanged .
each year , the government sets out how it will reimburse insurers for the healthcare services their members use .
payments vary by region , the quality rating earned by the health plan and the relative health of the members .
the proposal is always subject to industry lobbying and often changes before it is finalized .
analysts said that while that the lower-than-proposed payment was a slight negative for insurers , the agency made two other modifications in the final overall payment plan that would benefit the industry next year .
capital alpha partners analyst kim monk said the centers for medicare and medicaid services , the health agency division that regulates medicare , gave ground on two issues : a new method for calculating risk and cuts in payments for certain employer-based retiree drug plans .
the government agency , which initially planned to implement the cuts over a year , said on monday it now planned to introduce a two-year transition period after hearing from insurers , unions , employers and lobbying groups that the cuts proposed in february were too aggressive .
insurance lobbyist america ’ s health insurance plans president marilyn tavenner said in a statement the government had made changes to mitigate the negative impact of its original proposal , but that more could be done to improve the stability of the employer-based retiree plans .