the left shouldn t be offended by graham s decision to do his banking elsewhere since they re all about defending choice franklin graham is calling on christians to boycott corporations that feature same-sex relationships in their commercials .
and he says he ll do his part by moving all the bank accounts for his two ministries out of wells fargo because of its ad featuring a lesbian couple .
this is one way we as christians can speak out we have the power of choice , graham wrote on facebook over the weekend .
let s just stop doing business with those who promote sin and stand against almighty god s laws and his standards .
maybe if enough of us do this , it will get their attention .
reached monday , a spokesperson for wells fargo said the bank has proudly supported the lgbt community for a long time a commitment echoed by the ad .
at wells fargo , serving every customer is core to our vision and values , said christina kolbjornsen .
diversity and inclusion are foundational to who we are as a company .
our advertising content reflects our company s values and represents the diversity of the communities we serve .
wells fargo , based in san francisco , has its largest employee base in the charlotte area.during an interview monday , graham the ceo of both the billy graham evangelistic association in charlotte and samaritan s purse in boone said he was not targeting companies that hire or serve gay and lesbian customers .
there s lots of businesses out there that do business with gay people , he said .
that s fine .
he wants christians to stop giving their money to businesses , such as wells fargo and tiffany jewelers , that use shareholders advertising dollars to promote homosexuality .
it s promoting a godless lifestyle .
a bank should be promoting the best interest rates they re going to give me and what they can do for me as a business .
but they should not be trying to get into a moral debate and take sides .
graham specifically objected to a wells fargo tv and online ad that features a lesbian couple learning sign language for their adopted daughter .
hello , beautiful , the couple in the ad tell the little girl in sign language .
we re going to be your new mommies .
stirring up conservativesgroups representing gays and lesbians charged that graham was trying to stir up conservative christians in anticipation of a u.s. supreme court ruling that could legalize same-sex marriage nationally.graham is on the quickly losing side of moral history , said chris sgro , executive director of equality nc , a statewide lgbt rights group based in raleigh .
the business community knows these ads are good for business and good for making north carolina a welcoming state .
they are only going to increase , not decrease .
graham said in monday s interview with the observer that a decision has been made about which bank will get the accounts the bgea and samaritan s purse are moving from wells fargo .
based on their own reports , the accounts could total in the hundreds of millions of dollars.asked whether he would identify the chosen bank , graham said : not today because i haven t talked to that bank and i m not sure they want to be part of your story .
charlotte-based bank of america has not yet made commercials featuring same-sex couples , but it has run same-sex ads in programs for some events as well as in lgbt publications .
would that be enough for graham to rule out bank of america for the accounts leaving wells fargo ?
i m not going to answer that question , graham said.bank of america spokeswoman anne pace declined to comment monday.for now , graham said , the closing of the wells fargo accounts is in the works .
to close these accounts , it may take 30 days .
the bgea , started by graham s famous evangelist father , spreads the gospel via worldwide crusades and charlotte s billy graham library .
in 2014 , it received contributions and other income totaling $ 107.7 million , according to the bgea s most recent ministry report.samaritan s purse , a christian charity that helps people cope with natural disasters , had contributions and grants in 2013 the most recent report available that totaled $ 460 million.tough questions for banksbanks would usually line up for those kinds of deposits .
but ken thomas , a miami-based independent bank consultant and economist , said the bank that receives graham s bank accounts will have to answer some tough questions .
the bank that takes this account will be in a higher visibility position because you re going to ask them , what do you think of that ad ?
and they will face some potential reputation risk .
banks , thomas said , don t like controversy , and they don t like reputation risk .
whichever bank receives these accounts will have to combat the perception that they stand counter to the ideals of wells fargo .
to take your money out of one of the best-run banks in america , and for another bank to accept an account that came out of wells fargo , some people might ask questions like , does your bank not agree with wells fargo ?
thomas said.corporate america has increasingly come to the defense of the lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender community .
governors and legislatures in republican-leaning states such as indiana and arkansas retreated this year from legislation that would have permitted people to decline services to gays and lesbians for religious reasons .
the reason : corporations in those states opposed the measures as discriminatory against the lgbt community.in north carolina , a similar bill went nowhere after it was opposed by gop gov .
pat mccrory and legislative leaders in raleigh.leaders of charlotte s big banks played a visible role going back to the late 1990s on issues involving sexual orientation.ed crutchfield s first union , now part of wells fargo , and hugh mccoll s nationsbank , now bank of america , amended their policies to state that no employee will be discriminated against because of their sexual orientation .
at that time , many other large companies in the area didn t use such specific language.also , in the 1998 merger of nationsbank and san francisco s bankamerica , which had domestic partner benefits , the combined lender agreed to extend the benefits to nationsbank s employees.graham said in the observer interview that he plans to compile and publicize a list of companies that feature same-sex couples in their advertising .
i want people to know , he said.in his facebook post , graham singled out another company tiffany & co. , which sells jewelry for advertising wedding rings for gay couples .
there are plenty of other jewelry stores , graham wrote.two others that have featured same-sex couples in their ads : cheerios and allstate.impact unknownit s too early to determine whether graham s call for a boycott will have much impact.as of monday afternoon , more than 93,000 people had approved of graham s facebook message by clicking like .
more than 41,000 people had shared his message with their own facebook friends.but graham s call to fight the moral decay that is being crammed down our throats by big business also brought negative reactions on facebook .
in my opinion , moral decay is using the pulpit to spread bigotry and hate , wrote one facebook commenter , who then alluded to jesus teachings in the new testament .
perhaps you should take some time and chip away at that block of wood sticking out of your own eye .
on twitter , where graham also announced that we re moving all the @ bgea bank accounts from @ wellsfargo to another bank , he got some supportive tweets .
via : charlotte observer