in february , boston-based entrepreneur and inventor of email v.a .
shiva ayyadurai announced his candidacy for the us senate seat currently occupied by radical leftist elizabeth warren.today , shivaratri , when light overcame darkness , we launched my campaign for us senate against @ senwarren .
defend the american dream !
dr. shiva ayyadurai ( @ va_shiva ) february 25 , 2017ayyadurai is a graduate of the massachusetts institute of technology , and is best known for his claim to have invented email.ayyadurai is not afraid to take the fight to the very dishonest democrat senator elizabeth warren .
yesterday , he tweeted evidence of a dna kit he sent to senator warren for her birthday that was promptly returned .
the dna kit was a clear jab at warren after she lied about her indian heritage as a way to jump ahead of other applicants for a teaching position at the prestigious harvard university.i 'm deeply saddened @ senwarren refused my thoughtful ( gift-wrapped ) birthday gift : the 23 & me dna test kit .
most unfortunate !
# fakeindian pic.twitter.com/bi7f20wdw8 dr. shiva ayyadurai ( @ va_shiva ) july 2 , 2017elizabeth warren was listed as the harvard law s first woman of color in 1997 law review piece on diversity and affirmative action ! elizabeth warren pushed back hard on questions about a harvard crimson piece in 1996 that described her as native american , saying she had no idea the school where she taught law was billing her that way and saying it never came up during her hiring a year earlier , which others have backed up.but a 1997 fordham law review piece described her as harvard law school s first woman of color , based , according to the notes at the bottom of the story , on a telephone interview with michael chmura , news director , harvard law ( aug. 6 , 1996 ) .
gpdr .
v.a .
shiva ayyadurai has a pretty impressive resume : he s the inventor of email and polymath , holds four degrees from mit , is a world-renowned systems scientist , inventor and entrepreneur.his love of medicine and complex systems began in india when he became intrigued with medicine at the age of five as he observed his grandmother , a farmer and healer in the small village of muhavur in south india , apply siddha , india s oldest system of traditional medicine , to heal and support local villagers .
these early experiences inspired him to pursue the study of modern systems science , information technology and eastern and traditional systems of medicine to develop an integrative framework linking eastern and western systems of medicine .