the despicable anti-free speech , communist clown , michael moore is taking page out of obama s community organizer book .
he s asking for drones to help him report trump on facebook in an effort to shut down what moore considers an opposing view .
of course , he wants the ability to make 2nd rate anti-american films , but god forbid , anyone running for office openly love and embrace american values leftwing filmmaker michael moore is asking his followers to report donald trump for using hate speech on facebook , in hopes of getting the gop frontrunner banned from the social media site .
facebook prohibits all its users from using hate speech on its site ( you will not post content that is hate speech ) , wrote moore in a detailed post on wednesday .
i m joining others today in filing a complaint with facebook that trump s facebook page is using hate speech to promote racism and bigotry .
moore added : please file your complaint , too .
here s how : go to trump s page facebook.com/donaldtrump .
click report .
then click it shouldn t be on fb .
then click hate speech .
then click either race or ethnicity or religious group .
that s it .
let s get a few million doing this by the end of the day !
the new york daily news reported this week that despite an online campaign to censor trump , his posts are protected under facebook s community standards : facebook s policy does highlight that any hate speech content attacking people on their race , ethnicity , religious affiliation or national origin will be removed .
however , trump s posts could potentially be protected by another rule under facebook s community standards : facebook can be used to challenge ideas , institutions , and practices .
such discussion can promote debate and greater understanding.friday , roughly a dozen protesters stormed a $ 1,000-a-plate new york city luncheon where trump was delivering a speech , the associated press reported.moore tweeted his team was outside the hotel : my team is down at the trump protest in nyc today .
the donald is having a fundraiser at the plaza hotel .
standby for updates .
# dumptrump michael moore ( @ mmflint ) december 11 , 2015live on # periscope : live from the trump protest in nyc today outside plaza hotel .
donald arriving soon ( via @ jas https : //t.co/iqplwuabaa michael moore ( @ mmflint ) december 11 , 2015new york daily news picks up my campaign to have facebook enforce its policy on hate speech against donald trump : https : //t.co/hirqr6ruir .
michael moore ( @ mmflint ) december 10 , 2015time magazine has just named german chancellor angela merkel as person of the year .
somebody get trump some smelling salts .
michael moore ( @ mmflint ) december 9 , 2015just sang christmas carols outside the national republican center in d.c. all donald trump themed songs of course .
pic.twitter.com/fjfjdcgh1w michael moore ( @ mmflint ) december 9 , 2015via : breitbart news