the democrats have been in washington dc only because of the negro vote .
you put them first , and they put you last .
because you re a chump .
a political chump .
malcolm xif malcolm x were alive today , how would he feel about our first black president ?
how would he feel about obama encouraging millions of illegal aliens and refugees to come to america and take the jobs of millions of unemployed americans struggling to find work ?
the truth of the matter is , obama will go down as the worst president in history for blacks in america .
while we definitely don t agree with some of the positions malcolm x took , we do agree that the democrats have been selling the black community a bill of goods for decades .
perhaps it s time to get off the democrat plantation and vote for a candidate who genuinely wants to put every unemployed black citizens back to work .
perhaps its time for someone with no political ties to come in and clean obama s corrupted house .
larry elder had a fascinating column discussing malcolm x and how he really felt about the democratic party and black people who voted in lockstep with this party .
he even goes on to show how the democrats have continued to destroy almost every aspect of the black family and how their policies are exactly against what malcolm x had been advocating.back in 1964 , the black community gave 80 percent of their vote to the democratic party .
as a result of this , malcolm x called them political chumps .
why ?
because the black community had been betrayed by the democrats .
the white vote was so close that they always need to go back and recount , which means that if black people were to stick together , they have the power of determining who is ultimately elected .
still , the democrats failed to deliver on a promised civil rights bill because they correctly anticipated that they could still count on the black vote and their blind support in the next election.https : //youtu.be/7byvv4ly_kqstrong words indeed .
but it also begs the question of what would malcolm x think about the situation today ?
today , it is even worse , with about 90 to 95 percent of the black vote being in lockstep with the democratic party .
yet , the democrats have not kept their promises of family stability , education , and job creation.over the last 50 years , the black community and its family unity has been completely destroyed .
even when slavery prevented marriage , a black child was more likely to be raised in a home with their biological mother and father than today .
according to economist walter williams , during the period of 1890-1940 a black child was slightly more likely to grow up with married parents than a white child.back in 1965 , 24 percent of black babies were born to unmarried mothers .
then , the war on poverty began and today this number is up to 72 percent .
interesting to see that the more money we supposedly threw at helping the black family , the worse things have become .
plus , it has not helped to reduce the rate of poverty , either .
since 1965 the government has spent nearly $ 20 trillion fighting poverty .
when this started , the poverty rate was 17 percent .
after this spending started , the rate began to flat line ( it had been consistently going down since 1949 before this ) because people learned that they could marry the government and that men could abandon their financial and moral responsibility.malcolm x was also fond of pointing out how he learned from a good library .
wonder how he would feel today about the democratic opposition to school vouchers , allowing money to follow the student rather than the school ?
urban schools , with predominantly black students , have unquestionably failed .
they continue churning out kids who can not read , write , and compute .
the drop out rate approaches 50 percent in some districts .
teachers even send their own kids to private schools.plus , there is 14 percent black unemployment thanks to our wonderful community organizer in chief .
heck , emanuel cleaver ( dem , mo ) , former chair of the congressional black caucus , has admitted that if this had happened under a white president , there would be hell to pay but obama knows that blacks are going to show him more slack since he black himself.all of this is interesting to think about .
it shows us just exactly what the democrats really think of the black community .
they have never been about actually doing something to help and improve the lives of their constituents .
rather , they are only focused on increasing their power .
starting with kennedy and lbj , the whole idea was to trap the black vote in a cycle of dependence so that they would need to rely on the government for everything .
downtrend