berlin ( reuters ) - german parties exploring a coalition government have underscored their commitment to the nato alliance and transatlantic ties , but also said they wanted good relations with russia , according to a draft document seen by reuters .
the three-page paper , to be considered by chancellor angela merkel s conservatives , the pro-business free democrats and the greens later on friday , mapped out broad agreement on a pragmatic approach to foreign policy , multilateralism and a strong commitment to global trade .
we want to strengthen the diplomatic resources of germany , putting a priority on civilian crisis prevention , active crisis management and long-term stabilization , the paper said .
it said the parties were committed to ridding the world of nuclear weapons and would launch a new diplomatic drive for nuclear disarmament , pushing for a more european approach on many issues .
it gave a nod to the greens by saying the parties agreed to take a restrictive approach to weapons exports , and would push for a joint european arms export policy .
the paper also underscored the importance of global trade and called for efforts to strengthen the central role of the world trade organization ( wto ) .
it said the prospective coalition government would maintain close ties to the u.s. administration , but would also seek to expand ties with u.s. state governments and cities .
many of those entities have said they will defy a decision by president donald trump to withdraw from the paris climate agreement .
the paper also contained several bracketed sentences that had not yet been agreed , including a proposal by the greens to withdraw the nato nuclear weapons that remain on german soil , and to ban all weapons sales to countries involved in the war in yemen .
the parties also remain at odds over the use of armed drones and over foreign military missions , the draft document showed .
also missing from the draft is any mention of the nato target of moving toward spending 2 percent of gross domestic product ( gdp ) on defense by 2024 .
officials close to the talks say the target should not be included in the coalition agreement since the target date is well beyond the four-year scope of the deal .