paris ( reuters ) - president emmanuel macron s remark that he will not bow to slackers who resist labor reforms looked set to dog the image-conscious french leader , with opponents casting him as a champion of the wealthy and big business .
the elysee palace and government ministers have scrambled to contain the fallout , saying the 39-year-old was referring to past leaders who lacked the courage to push through unpopular changes and accusing his opponents of twisting his comments .
macron , who on tuesday visited islands in the caribbean damaged by hurricane irma , has himself shown little contrition .
i am fully determined and i won t cede any ground , not to slackers , nor cynics , nor hardliners , he said on friday during a trip to greece .
his opponents were quick to pounce , branding him an out-of-touch president who has put himself above the person in the street .
fools , cynics , slackers , everyone take to the streets on sept. 12 and 23 , jean-luc melenchon , leader of the hard-left france unbowed party , said on twitter , referring to two days of street protests .
philippe martinez , head of the far-left cgt trade union , called macron s comment scandalous .
who is the president referring to when he says he won t give an inch to slackers ?
to the millions without a job or in a vulnerable position ?
macron s centrist government announced measures in august to hand more power to companies to set working conditions and adapt pay to market conditions , as well as making it easier to hire and fire employees .
the president says the measures are needed to spur job creation , boost growth and attract investment .
unions say workers rights are being eroded and benefits undermined .
macron faced his first challenge on the streets on tuesday when thousands of cgt trade unionists protested in cities across france .
in bordeaux , protesters chanted : macron you re screwed , the slackers are in the streets while in paris others carried placards reading : slacker on strike .
asked on monday if he regretted his comment , he replied : we can not move forward if we don t tell it like it is .
it s macron s style , said jerome fourquet of pollster ifop .
he s not going to back down , make apologies .
that carries a risk .
macron is not the first french leader to offend people with a casual comment .
former president nicolas sarkozy caused uproar while interior minister when in 2005 he branded youths behind the worst urban violence in france in decades as racaille ( scum or rabble ) .
that remark entrenched sarkozy s reputation as a bully in the suburbs blighted by crime and unemployment outside paris .
sarkozy s successor , francois hollande , suffered with the publication of a tell-all book in which his former partner accused the socialist leader of describing the poor as toothless , undermining his efforts to portray himself as in touch with the needy .
before joining a protest in marseille , melenchon , who bills himself as a champion of french workers and rails against globalisation , said : mr macron knows he has a battle on his hands .
he picked it .