watch as katy tur tries to hilariously convince the audience that the press doesn t have any biases : if we have any bias , it s a bias towards the facts .
she then goes on to convince the audience what a horrible human being donald trump is , he didn t appeal to their better demons of voters in this country .
he appealed to their most base fears and their most base frustrations and anger and that worked for him .
watch : during a news conference in july of 2016 , nbc news correspondent katy tur asked trump whether he has any qualms about asking a foreign government to hack into a system of anybody s in this country after trump said he hoped russia would find more emails from hillary clinton or the dnc .
hey , you know what gives me more pause , that a person in our government , crooked hillary clinton here s what gives me more pause , trump said , as tur tried to ask follow-ups .
be quiet , i know you want to , you know , save her .
that a person in our government , katy , would delete or get rid of 33,000 emails .
that gives me a big problem .
after she gets a subpoena .
she gets subpoenaed , and she gets rid of 33,000 emails .
that gives me a problem .
now , if russia or china or any other country has those emails , i mean to be honest with you , i d love to see them .
as tur asked another question a few minutes later , mentioning trump s poll numbers , trump once again mocked her .
katy just said that , many polls show you are winning .
are you katy tur of nbc ?
it s a disguise , he said.this is far from the first time trump has picked on tur .
in june , trump told fox & friends that his campaign don t even let her in or let people talk to her because she s not a very good reporter .
in december , trump called out tur in the middle of a rally , leading trump supporters to point at her and boo .
little katy , third-rate journalist , trump said , as he complained about the news media.watch candidate trump tell katy to be quiet : if you want to know why the press is obsessed with taking down donald trump , watch this video : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=ymogq82mhjw