washington ( reuters ) - clarence thomas ended a decade of silence from the bench during supreme court arguments on monday when the conservative justice unexpectedly posed questions during a gun rights case from maine .
his comments , which surprised courtroom observers and then held them rapt , focused on thomas ’ concern that people convicted of domestic-violence misdemeanors could permanently lose the right to own a firearm .
thomas has been a consistent vote on the court for robust gun rights under the u.s. constitution ’ s second amendment .
thomas , 67 , had not asked a question during oral arguments since feb. 22 , 2006 , when he made queries during a south carolina death penalty case .
his words came just over two weeks after the death of fellow conservative antonin scalia , who had been one of the most outspoken justices during arguments as well as a strong advocate for gun rights .
thomas ’ questions were directed at ilana eisenstein , an assistant u.s. solicitor general who was defending a federal firearms statute .
at issue was when a prior state misdemeanor domestic assault conviction based on “ recklessness ” may lead to a person being barred from ever owning a gun again under federal law .
his first words were , “ ms .
eisenstein , one question. ” “ can you give me another area where a misdemeanor violation suspends a constitutional right ? ” thomas asked .
eisenstein stressed that congress was concerned about future harm by individuals convicted “ of battering their family members. ” she said lawmakers particularly wanted to prevent gun violence .
thomas asked whether either of the defendants involved in monday ’ s cases had used a weapon against a family member .
eisenstein said no .
“ so ... the suspension is not directly related to the use of the weapon , ” thomas said .
“ it ’ s just a family member ’ s involved in a misdemeanor violation ; therefore a constitutional right is suspended. ” thomas , the court ’ s only black justice , in the past has attributed his reluctance to ask questions to a few factors , some personal .
he told a group of students in 2000 that his reluctance to speak during arguments arose from a shyness tracing to his birth in pin point , georgia , and his childhood with his grandparents in nearby savannah : “ i had grown up speaking a kind of dialect. ” in part to avoid the ridicule of classmates , thomas said , “ i just started developing the habit of listening .
...
i didn ’ t ask questions in college or law school .
i could learn better just listening. ” thomas has also said he thinks his colleagues interrupt the lawyers too much and that the lawyers should be able to explain their positions .