these leftist professors aren t just donating chump change either .
the average donation from these leftist professors to hillary s campaign is a whopping $ 1,043.75.only hamilton college history prof. robert paquette has donated to a republican candidate in the current election cycle from the top 50 liberal arts colleges in america.according to fec third quarter reports released october 16 , 47 professors at the top 50 liberal arts colleges in the country , as ranked by u.s. news & world report , have given to presidential campaigns .
of those 47 professors , hamilton college history professor robert paquette was the sole donor to a republican candidate , giving $ 150 to carly fiorina s campaign.the remaining 99.51 percent went to democrat candidates hillary clinton and bernie sanders .
the 46 other professors collectively donated $ 20,875 to hillary clinton and $ 8,417 to bernie sanders .
professors donating to clinton have given an average of $ 1,043.75 .
those giving to sanders donated an average of $ 323.73 .
i do believe these numbers give an accurate representation of the political leanings of faculty on most college campuses , paquette wrote in an e-mail to campus reform , especially allegedly elite liberal arts colleges like hamilton college , where he claims to be the only out-of-closet conservative in a faculty of 200 .
after 35 years of experience in higher education , paquette believes that the business has become a racket monopolized by the academic left .
paquette argues that with cover from spineless or sympathetic administrators , leftist faculty are able to keep their campuses liberal .
conservatives like himself can be prohibited from participating in searches for their own department and large endowment funds are lavished on faculty activists and their programmatic agendas .
paquette says that trustees know about the problem but [ prefer ] not to hear , see , or speak any evil to protect the elite brand of the college .
when the search is expanded to include students , graduate/law professors , and administrators at the elite group of colleges , paquette s donation is joined by an additional $ 6,150 to jeb bush , $ 150 to ted cruz , $ 2,000 to carly fiorina , $ 540 to john kasich , and $ 250 to scott walker.even so , only 10.84 percent of donor affiliates gave to republican candidates , and their donations amount to less than 15 percent of total contributions.historical giving patterns reveal a strong bias toward liberal candidates , especially at the nation s most elite colleges .
in 2012 , campus reform reported that 96 percent of ivy league donations went to the obama campaign .
so far this cycle , over 95 percent of ivy league affiliates have donated to democrat candidates .
via : campus reform