washington ( reuters ) - the taliban has increased the amount of territory it has influence over or controls in afghanistan in the past six months , a u.s. watchdog agency reported on tuesday , as the militant group has stepped up attacks in recent weeks .
as of august , 13 percent of the 407 districts in afghanistan were under taliban control or influence , compared with 11 percent in february , according to a report from the special inspector general for afghanistan reconstruction , or sigar .
that means an additional 700,000 people now live in districts where the taliban has at least some influence .
the updated figures are a sign of the deteriorating security situation in the war-torn country , even as the united states has committed several thousand more troops .
the gains being made by the taliban and a spate of recent attacks underscore worries about afghan security forces ability to deal with a relentless insurgency that they have struggled to contain since most foreign troops left at the end of 2014 .
in total , about 43 percent of afghanistan s districts are either under taliban control or being contested , three percent higher than six months ago , sigar said .
u.s. forces in afghanistan also withheld certain data on the afghan national defense and security forces , the report said , including casualties , personnel strength , attrition , and the operational readiness of equipment .
in a significant development this quarter , u.s. forces-afghanistan ( usfor-a ) classified or otherwise restricted information sigar has until now publicly reported , the report said .
afghanistan s worsening security situation was highlighted on tuesday when a suicide bomber in the capital killed as many as eight people .
islamic state claimed responsibility for the attack .
the increase in the campaign of u.s. air strikes in recent months is part of a new strategy aimed at reversing taliban gains and forcing the insurgents to seek peace talks with the afghan government .
the sigar report , citing the united nations assistance mission in afghanistan , also said there had been a 52 percent increase in civilian casualties from coalition and afghan air strikes in the first nine months of 2017 compared with the same period in 2016 .
there had also been a sharp increase in insider attacks by militants , targeting u.s. and afghan forces .
in june , three americans were killed an one wounded when an afghan soldier opened fire on them .