dallas cowboys star wide receiver dez bryant took to instagram monday to express his thoughts on who s to blame for the plight of the black people in america .
first and foremost , i would like to say i do a great job of minding my own business , but it s pressing on my heart to share my thoughts about white americans and black americans ( racism ) , bryant wrote.bryant continued : i saw a person quote charles barkley when he said , we as black people , we re never going to be successful not because [ of ] you white people , but because of other black people .
i hate to admit it , but i understand that quote.i ve been [ racially ] profiled on numerous occasions , but not once has it influenced an ill feeling inside me about anyone outside of that issue .
real slavery is different from what s going on in our world now .
we all ( every ethnicity ) have the opportunity to lead by example.instead of making videos about the history of racism that get applause or people with influence merely doing things to post for social media , we should focus on individual accountability to be better as a whole.i recently ran into a guy i grew up with who spent his adulthood dealing drugs .
while we were catching up , he shared with me that he wished that he chose a different and better path .
he said seeing my success was inspiring and that it encouraged him to do better with his life.real question : what is wrong with being sophisticated and black ?
why do we associate those who choose the straight-and-narrow as not being black enough ?
why was it that i was one of the first examples of success to my friend ? we focus hard on fighting the realities that exist instead of creating our own reality .
the ones who came for us ( martin luther king , rosa parks , malcolm x ) paved a new path for us to follow .
the struggles and hurt they endured created new life for us today.it is not our job to carry the burden , but it is our job to lead by example.not that my opinion matters , i m just sharing my thoughts .
dee s opinion does matter , especially when you consider that he had to know he would get blowback for his views .
mrctv breitbarthere is a screen shot of his final post on the matter .
bryant tries to explain to his followers that god guides him in all that he does , my life has no filter lol all i can say is thank you god : here are a few of the hateful responses bryant got to his remarks on instagram :