jerusalem ( reuters ) - as dark falls , adeeb joudeh , a muslim , makes his way through the stone alleyways of jerusalem s walled old city cradling the ancient key to one of christianity s holiest sites .
centuries ago , the imposing iron key to the church of the holy sepulchre , built where many christians believe jesus was crucified and buried , was entrusted to his family , one of jerusalem s most prominent clans , says joudeh .
he dates the arrangement back to the time of saladin , the muslim conqueror who seized the holy city from the crusaders in 1187 .
honestly , it s a great honor for a muslim to hold the key to the church of the holy sepulchre , which is the most important church in christendom , joudeh , 53 , said .
another of the city s oldest muslim families , the nusseibehs , were entrusted with the duty of opening and closing the church doors , a task they perform to this day .
it requires firm fingers : the key is 30 cm ( 12 inches ) long and weighs 250 grams ( 0.5 pounds ) .
historians differ on the roots of the arrangement .
some researchers say saladin most likely bestowed the guardianship upon the two families in order to assert muslim dominance over christianity in the city .
it also had financial implications , with a tax from visitors collected at the door .
documentation , however , only goes back to the 16th century , joudeh said , displaying dozens of fermans , or royal decrees by rulers of the ottoman empire , bestowing the key custodianship upon his family .
jerusalem s old city today houses sites that are sacred to all three major monotheisms .
it and other east jerusalem areas were captured by israel from jordan in the 1967 middle east war .
israel has since declared the entire city its undivided capital .
this status is not recognized internationally and is rejected by the palestinians who want east jerusalem as capital of a state they hope to found .
joudeh says his key is about 800 years old .
another copy he holds broke after centuries of use .
i started learning this when i was eight years old .
it s handed down from father to son , said joudeh .
i have been doing this for 30 years and i feel that the church of the holy sepulchre is my second home .
the greek orthodox , armenian and roman catholic denominations share custody of the church , where tensions often run high over control of its various sectors .
christianity scholar yisca harani said having muslim families in charge of the key and the doors helps somewhat in keeping the peace between the denominations .
the church is definitely a model of co-existence , harani said .