london ( reuters ) - british voters will be able to change the terms of the country s relationship with the european union after leaving the bloc if they don t like the final brexit deal , senior cabinet minister and pro-brexit lawmaker michael gove said on saturday .
britain and the eu achieved sufficient progress in brexit negotiations on friday to allow them to move on to discussing future trade ties , in a move welcomed by gove and other brexit supporters in prime minister theresa may s conservative party .
however , while gove , who is britain s environment minister , reiterated his support for may , he gave succour to critics of the deal by saying that if britons were dissatisfied with the terms of brexit , future governments could change it .
the british people will be in control .
by the time of the next election , eu law and any new treaty with the eu will cease to have primacy or direct effect in uk law , gove wrote in a column in the daily telegraph .
if the british people dislike the arrangement that we have negotiated with the eu , the agreement will allow a future government to diverge .
britain is due to exit the eu in march 2019 .
the next election is not scheduled until 2022 , though there has been speculation in british media that it could come earlier , given may s lack of a parliamentary majority and deep divisions within her party about brexit .
some eurosceptic voices outside the government have said that may has betrayed british leave voters and given in to eu demands with the agreement .
it has been a tough week for may after northern ireland s small democratic unionist party ( dup ) - whose support she needs in parliament - unexpectedly blocked an initial deal on monday , leaving britain and the eu scrambling to find wording acceptable to all sides ahead of next week s summit of eu leaders .
while agreement was eventually reached on friday , gove said that all uk proposals were provisional on a final deal being done , and even then , that arrangement could be revisited by future governments .
matthew parris , an anti-brexit columnist and former conservative lawmaker , told bbc radio that gove might envisage a situation in which he would be spearheading a new approach to brexit .
but gove , who was briefly in the running to lead the party last year , praised may on saturday , and said the deal was a result of her tenacity and skill .
fellow pro-brexit cabinet colleague andrea leadsom defended his comments , saying it did not imply that may would be replaced before the next election .
it s simply the case that in taking back control ( from brussels ) ... it will be for the voters to determine what future governments do , leadsom told bbc radio .
i think it is a statement of the obvious .