tokyo/washington ( reuters ) - south carolina governor nikki haley has written to u.s. energy secretary ernest moniz demanding a shipment of weapons-grade plutonium en route to her state from japan be turned back or sent elsewhere , according to a copy of the letter seen by reuters .
the demand has the potential to embarrass the obama administration a week before it hosts an important summit on nuclear non-proliferation and undermine what so far has been viewed as a success in keeping weapons-grade material safe .
the ship loaded with weapons-grade plutonium left japan for a department of energy site in south carolina on tuesday in what is the largest such shipment of the highly dangerous material since 1992 , the environmental group greenpeace said .
the shipment “ puts south carolina at risk for becoming a permanent dumping ground for nuclear materials , ” haley said in the letter dated march 23 .
“ therefore , stop shipment or re-route this defense plutonium .
god bless. ” a representative for the u.s. department of energy said it is reviewing haley ’ s letter but can not comment on matters under active litigation .
the state has sued the department over the federal government ’ s plans to scrap a plutonium recycling plant that has been under construction for years in the state .
the dispute comes as washington prepares to host the nuclear security summit march 31 to april 1 .
the plutonium being shipped was supplied by the united states , britain and france for the government-owned japan atomic energy agency ’ s fast critical assembly research project in tokai mura , according to the international panel on fissile materials .
the agreement to transfer the material to the united states was reached in march 2014 at a previous non-proliferation summit , the panel said on its website .
a south carolina-based environmental advocacy group said the shipment “ only exacerbates the plutonium storage and disposition problems at ” the department ’ s savannah river site , a 310-square mile ( 500 square kilometers ) area bordered by the savannah river and georgia .
“ the u.s. government has done a poor job of explaining why this material is being taken to srs , ” tom clements , director of srs watch , said in a statement .
the 331 kilograms ( 730 pounds ) on board the british-owned pacific egret is only a tiny proportion of the nearly 50 tonnes ( 55 tons ) of plutonium held by japan .
japan wants to use the plutonium extracted from spent fuel in nuclear plants as fuel for modified reactors .
but with nearly all the country ’ s units still shut down in the wake of the fukushima nuclear disaster five years ago and no schedule for further restarts there is little use for the material .
only a few reactors can take plutonium as fuel .
a homegrown reprocessing plant being built in northern japan , which has relied on the british and french to extract plutonium from spent uranium fuel rods , also has the potential to add to the stockpile , although its start has been repeatedly delayed .
the plutonium being shipped , enough to make about 50 nuclear weapons , was taken from the nuclear research center in the port town of tokai mura near tokyo , for transport to south carolina .
the website www.vesselfinder.com said the ship is a nuclear fuel carrier .
shipments of plutonium are highly sensitive because it can be used in nuclear weapons or to make a so-called dirty bomb .
in japan , public sensitivity is also high because it is the only country that has been attacked with nuclear bombs .
japan is also the only nation without atomic weapons with significant amounts of plutonium , which has led to constant criticism from neighboring countries , scientists and others .
china , a nuclear weapons state , this week said japan should abide by its non-proliferation obligations .
“ japan is still stockpiling a large amount of other sensitive nuclear materials , including separated plutonium and highly enriched uranium .
this certainly is an issue for the international community to be concerned about , ” chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said on tuesday .
thomas countryman , an assistant u.s. secretary of state in charge of non-proliferation , has called into question the renewal of an agreement between washington and tokyo that allows japan to reprocess and produce weapons-grade plutonium .
the agreement is due to be extended in 2018 , but with a new u.s. administration starting in january its status is unclear .
“ we think that there are genuine economic questions where it ’ s important that the u.s. and its partners in asia have a common understanding of the economic and non-proliferation issues at stake before making a decision about renewal of the 1-2-3 agreement , for example , with japan , ” countryman told a senate hearing last week .