valletta ( reuters ) - daphne caruana galizia , malta s best-known investigative journalist , was killed on monday when a powerful bomb blew up her car , police said , in a case that stunned the small mediterranean island .
caruana galizia , 53 , ran a hugely popular blog in which she relentlessly highlighted cases of alleged high-level corruption targeting politicians from across party lines .
there are crooks everywhere you look now .
the situation is desperate , she wrote in a blog published on her site just half an hour before an explosion tore into her car .
locals said caruana galizia had just left her house and was on a road near the village of bidnija in northern malta when the bomb detonated , sending her car flying into an adjacent field .
maltese prime minister joseph muscat , who faced accusations of wrong-doing by caruana galizia earlier this year , denounced her killing , calling it a barbaric attack on press freedom .
he announced that the u.s. federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) had agreed to help local police investigate the killing and was flying experts to the island as soon as possible .
i will not rest until i see justice done in this case , he said in a statement , calling for national unity .
around 3,000 people held a silent , candle-lit vigil on tuesday evening in sliema , just outside valletta .
the hashtag je suis daphne circulated widely among social media users on the island of 400,000 people , the european union s smallest state .
everyone knows caruana galizia was a harsh critic of mine , both politically and personally , but nobody can justify this barbaric act in any way , muscat said .
the only remedy for anyone who felt slandered was through the courts .
muscat sued caruana galizia after she wrote blogs earlier this year saying his wife was the beneficial owner of a company in panama , and that large sums of money had been moved between the company and bank accounts in azerbaijan .
both muscat and his wife denied the accusations .
looking for a vote of confidence to counter the allegations , muscat called snap elections in june which he easily won .
recently , caruana galizia s outspoken blog had turned its fire on opposition politicians .
malta television reported that caruana galizia had filed a complaint to the police two weeks ago to say she had received threats .
it gave no further information .
opposition leader adrian delia said the blogger was the victim of a political murder .
caruana galizia revealed the panama papers and was the government s strongest critic , he said , calling for a independent probe of her killing .
we will not accept an investigation by the commissioner of police , the army commander or the duty magistrate , all of whom were at the heart of criticism by caruana galizia , he said .
wikileaks founder julian assange said he would offer a 20,000 euro ( $ 23,578.00 ) reward for information leading to the conviction of caruana galizia s killers , and european politicians expressed dismay at her death .
frans timmermans , first vice president of the european commission , tweeted that he was shocked and outraged , adding that if journalists are silenced our freedom is lost .
manfred weber , head of the conservative bloc in the european parliament , said the killing marked a dark day for democracy .
caruana galizia took aim at politicians and senior officials from across malta , seeing the island as a hotbed of corruption .
malta s public life is afflicted with dangerously unstable men with no principles or scruples , she wrote last year .
her family asked that the magistrate assigned to investigate the case , consuelo scerri herrera , be substituted because of an alleged conflict of interest , court documents showed .
herrera had sought libel damages after caruana galizia attacked her in her blog .