naypyitaw ( reuters ) - prime minister narendra modi said on wednesday that india shared myanmar s concern about extremist violence in its rakhine state , where a security force operation against muslim rebels has sent about 125,000 people fleeing to bangladesh .
modi spoke after talks with myanmar s de facto leader aung san suu kyi during a visit aimed at expanding commercial ties as part of an act east policy , and pushing back against chinese influence .
myanmar has come under international pressure after some 125,000 rohingya muslims fled from a surge of violence in rakhine state , beginning with an aug. 25 attack by rohingya insurgents on dozens of police posts and an army base .
the rebel attacks triggered a sweep by the myanmar security forces , in which refugees and right groups say many innocent rohingya have been targeted .
buddhist-majority myanmar rejects accusations by refugees and rights groups that its armed forces have violated the rights of the mostly stateless rohingya , saying the army and police are fighting terrorists .
mostly hindu india has faced years of attacks by islamist militants .
suu kyi told a joint news conference at the presidential palace in the capital , naypyitaw , that myanmar was grateful for india s stance on the attack on her country and they could work together to face the challenge .
we would like to thank india particularly for its strong that it has taken with regard to terrorist threat that came to our country a couple of weeks ago , she said in brief remarks .
we believe that together we can work to make sure that terrorism is not allowed to take root on our soil .
modi said india and myanmar had similar security interests in the region .
we share your concerns about extremist violence in rakhine state and specially the violence against security forces and how innocent lives have been affected , he said .
we hope that all the stakeholders together can find a way out in which the unity and territorial integrity of myanmar is respected and at the same time we can have peace , justice dignity and democratic values for all .
modi s government has taken a strong stance on an influx into india of some 40,000 rohingya from myanmar over the years , vowing last month to deport them all .
that decision has drawn criticism from rights groups and prompted a petition in the supreme court to stop the government from doing so .
international concern , in particular from muslim countries , is growing about the latest exodus of rohingya .
turkish president tayyip erdogan has pressed world leaders to do more to help the population of roughly 1.1 million , saying they are facing genocide .
u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres warned on tuesday of the risk of ethnic cleansing and regional destabilization .
india is trying to boost economic ties with resource-rich myanmar , with which it shares a 1,600-km ( 1,000-mile ) border , to counter chinese influence and step up links with a country it considers its gateway to southeast asia .
two-way trade has grown to about $ 2.2 billion as india courts myanmar following the gradual end of military rule , but indian-funded projects have moved slowly .
india recently started exporting diesel to myanmar via a land route , in a boost to modi s pledge to enhance hydrocarbon trade with neighbors ..