thank you , president trump , for those words of comfort and for denouncing those who promote violence and hatred -susan bro , mother of charlottesville attack victim heather heyer.susan bro , mother of charlottesville attack victim heather heyer , thanks pres .
trump for denouncing those who promote violence and hatred pic.twitter.com/e46onwe5fw nbc news ( @ nbcnews ) august 14 , 2017president trump has denounced over and over the violence on both sides !
to anyone who acted criminally in this weekend s racist violence you will be held fully accountable .
justice will be delivered .
potus pic.twitter.com/agjrt4xnfr cbs this morning ( @ cbsthismorning ) august 14 , 2017susan bro s statement isn t what the left wants the woman who lost her daughter is behaving better than those who are calling for more violence in the streets .
yes , the groups on the left are using charlottesville as a launching point for even more violence and chaos can you believe it ? the daily caller reports : far-left agitators are calling for an escalation in tactics following this weekend s violence at a white nationalist rally in charlottesville.many of the same groups that have organized violent demonstrations in berkeley , california and elsewhere are now calling for an aggressive response to the violence in charlottesville .
far-left anti-fascist ( or antifa ) figures are advising agitators to do the job that police won t : shutting down fascists and prevent them from organizing.radical left-wingers have for months justified violence as a way to fight back against fascism and racism terms that they have applied not just to white nationalist fringe groups but to prominent figures on the right as well.a huge sign of a bigger force ( soros ) with the funds is when signs are professionally done and you see lots of them : note : the signs say refusefascism.org please go to this link to see what they re planning : refuse fascism charlottesville is just the beginning .
if the alt-right can get away with murder there , none of us will be safe .
we have to stand up to white supremacists , we have to shut down and chase out these bigots every time they try to organize , or else they will kill more people , reads one poster created by anarchist group crimethinc , a self-described international network of aspiring revolutionaries .