beijing ( reuters ) - some top chinese officials are guilty of practicing sorcery and would rather believe in gurus and western concepts of democracy than the communist party , a senior minister wrote on thursday , warning of the danger they presented to its survival .
china guarantees freedom of religion for major belief systems such as buddhism , christianity and islam , but party members are meant to be atheists and are barred from what it calls superstitious practices , such as visits to soothsayers .
recent years have seen several cases of officials jailed as part of president xi jinping s crackdown on corruption being accused of superstition , part of the party s efforts to blacken their names .
some senior officials in leadership positions had fallen morally , their beliefs straying from the correct path , wrote chen xi , the recently appointed head of the party s powerful organisation department that oversees personnel decisions .
some don t believe in marx and lenin but believe in ghosts and gods ; they don t believe in ideals but believe in sorcery ; they don t respect the people but do respect masters , he wrote in the official people s daily , referring to spiritual leaders or gurus .
people in china , especially its leaders , have a long tradition of turning to soothsaying and geomancy to find answers to their problems in times of doubt , need and chaos .
the practice has grown more risky amid xi s war on graft , in which dozens of senior officials have been imprisoned .
attacking officials whose faith in communism is wavering , chen said some consider it an entirely unreal mirage , and have lost faith in socialism .
instead , they look to western concepts of the separation of power and multi-party systems as their ideal , added chen , who also runs the central party school that trains rising officials .
he did not name any officials guilty of practicing superstition or fawning over the west .
but elsewhere in the article he named some of those caught up in the most high-profile recent cases , such as the feared former domestic security chief , zhou yongkang and the former party boss of chongqing , sun zhengcai , sacked for corruption in july .
they were political careerist plotters , whose cases showed that officials political problems were no less a threat to the party than corruption , chen wrote .
the higher the position , the greater their platform , the greater the harm they caused to the party , he added .