barcelona/girona , spain ( reuters ) - twenty-four hours after spain removed him from power , catalonia s leader had resolved to leave the country and take his independence campaign to the heart of the european union , but first he needed to tie off an important loose end .
carles puigdemont s secessionist alliance was threatening to unravel , with the region s biggest grass-roots independence organization unhappy about his plan .
so he called a meeting of political allies on the eve of his departure for brussels , according to three sources with first-hand knowledge of the events .
in the rural hamlet of vilahur , near puigdemont s home town , he and seven others , including the deputy chief of the grass-roots catalan national assembly ( anc ) , met over dinner at a farmhouse in the expectation puigdemont and others present would be arrested for rebellion within hours , one source said .
puigdemont told the group he was not running away from a fight , as anc officials feared it would be perceived , and that he would use brussels , home to the eu parliament and commission , as a stage to continue to speak out against spain s crackdown on the independence movement , the source added .
after adjourning for the night , the group resumed the next morning at the farmhouse and agreed to back his plan .
crucially , that plan also included a commitment to contest snap regional elections called by madrid for dec. 21 rather than boycott them as the anc first envisaged .
on reaching agreement , puigdemont told them he was prepared to spend 30 years in prison for the cause and the others embraced him in what the source described as an emotional farewell .
anc deputy leader agusti alcoberro was among them .
the account of the meeting reveals how the independence movement s leadership managed to overcome deep-rooted internal divisions and agree a rough game plan for the weeks ahead .
while the two main pro-independence parties finally chose on tuesday to contest the elections under their own brand rather than a joint ticket , their manifestos will be coordinated and they are still expected to join forces after the vote .
an opinion poll this week showed that pro-independence parties would win the largest share of the vote , though a majority was not assured and question marks remain over puigdemont s leadership of the pro-independence cause .
puigdemont could not be reached for comment .
wrong-footed at the time of the vilahur talks , prime minister mariano rajoy seemed to hold the upper hand .
he had surprised the secessionists by calling elections much sooner than they had expected , according to sources close to puigdemont .
a disparate collection of parties whose only common thread is independence , puigdemont s coalition had been bickering over what some saw as his timid tactics .
some had even been talking of boycotting the election , which could have spelled the end of the movement .
he was wrong-footed by rajoy s tough response , said an ally of puigdemont .
when rajoy dropped his election bombshell , puigdemont was still celebrating the regional assembly s vote earlier that day to declare catalonia a republic .
the catalan leader had to move quickly to secure consensus for the brussels plan and , more importantly , for his unwieldy coalition to contest the elections , which had been called by a nation they no longer considered themselves to be a part of .
in puigdemont s first meeting late on oct. 27 , in barcelona s regional parliament building , the coalition decided that only a few ministers would go with him to brussels and the rest would stay and defend themselves against any prosecution for sedition , said sources briefed on that meeting .
afterwards , he drove to girona , the town he had run as mayor .
in a courtyard of a government building , he filmed a message calling for non-violent opposition to rajoy s takeover of the region .
it was televised by catalan public broadcaster tv3 which called him president .
later , he lunched with his wife and two friends at a local wine bar and walked with them to girona s placa de la independencia ( independence square ) where he posed for photos while applauding onlookers shouted long live catalonia .
despite the defiant scene , the day was not going well for the newly declared catalan republic .
rajoy was receiving backing from world powers including france , germany and the united states .
spanish authorities were already taking over catalan government offices .
however , puigdemont got some news that appeared to justify his brussels strategy just as he and four of his ex-ministers were making their way there .
belgium s migration minister , theo francken , said that if puigdemont were to seek political asylum in belgium , it would be not unrealistic to grant it .
belgium is one of few eu states where eu citizens can request asylum .
francken belongs to flemish nationalist party n-va , which is supportive of catalan self-determination .
he said no asylum request had yet been made but events were moving fast .
puigdemont was meanwhile in a friend s car heading for marseilles , southern france , where he would board a flight to brussels .
to elude spanish police , someone drove his official car in a different direction .
since arriving in brussels , puigdemont and the four ex-ministers who accompanied him there have been slapped with european arrest warrants for rebellion and sedition , crimes carrying up to 30 years in jail .
back in spain , eight other ex-ministers have been jailed pending an investigation and potential trial for rebellion , sedition and misuse of public funds .
puigdemont has not sought asylum but is at liberty in belgium pending a hearing on extradition , which his lawyer has said he will oppose .