the left has been itching for a fight the only problem is , they ve been itching for a fight against trump supporters who re outnumbered so they can t fight back .
they may be biting off a bit more than they can chew this time around a group of bikers said it plans to protect supporters from possible violence at a donald trump rally scheduled to be held in phoenix on saturday .
we re going to stand between them and any protesters that come onto the property and hopefully protect them from any bodily harm , should it get to that point , cindy perrin with lions guard arizona said.the rally is expected to begin saturday about 4 p.m. at the veterans memorial coliseum on the arizona state fairgrounds near 19th avenue and mcdowell road.the protest will be held at nearby encanto park from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.perrin said the biker group , made up mostly of retired police officers , such as herself , and veterans , will be wearing american flag bandanas so they are easy to identify .
if they have any problems , they ll be able to locate us and ask us for help , she said.perrin said her group is not expecting things to take a violent turn outside of trump s rally , unlike several events the presumptive republican presidential nominee hosted in california .
we re not expecting it to get to that point in arizona , she said.the bikers will not be the only group attempting to keep things calm on saturday .
arizona department of public safety capt .
damon cecil said his organization has reached out to groups both for and against trump .
most of those groups not all , but most of those groups we have talked to their leadership and got assurances their protests were going to be peaceful , he said.protest organizers are also hoping things remain civil .
my message to the folks that want to protest is : you know what ?
why don t you pick up a clipboard , let s get some voter registrations and get some more families registered to vote who will vote against trump come november , tony navarette with promise arizona said.dream act advocate carmen cornejo said protesters who act violently are doing nothing more than falling into line with trump s rhetoric .
i invite all young people to not react with violence to the provocations and the incendiary comments of mr. trump , she said .
via : ktar