as james bond s nemesis auric goldfinger famously observed , once is happenstance , twice is coincidence .
the third time is enemy action .
on tuesday evening , three prominent republicans senator john mccain , senator marco rubio , and 2012 presidential candidate mitt romney endorsed the left-wing media s preferred narrative and embraced the masked thugs of antifa as heroes.no , not the same .
one side is racist , bigoted , nazi .
the other opposes racism and bigotry .
morally different universes .
mitt romney ( @ mittromney ) august 16 , 2017twitter users hit back at romney , who likely has no idea who antifa really is and the danger the violent , anti free-speech , soros-funded poses to americans : the fact that you view antifa as moral and acceptable is beyond disgusting .
no wonder you lost resoundingly in your presidential run .
alex ( @ socal4trump ) august 16 , 2017mccain and romney used almost identical language , bending their knees to the media narrative that only two factions were present in charlottesville during the awful events of last weekend : white supremacist nazis and americans standing up to defy hate and bigotry .
there 's no moral equivalency between racists & americans standing up to defy hate & bigotry .
the president of the united states should say so john mccain ( @ senjohnmccain ) august 16 , 2017senator john mccain got hammered by this twitter user for not recognizing the violence antifa has inflicted on innocent trump supporters as a way to shut down free speech .
this collage of photos is a not-so-subtle reminder : here john , u uninformed piece of shit , are the faces of innocent peaceful rally attendees assaulted by antifa .
antifa went looking for a war pic.twitter.com/k8fqkkanh7 texasstrong.357 ( @ sonofliberty357 ) august 16 , 2017as james bond s nemesis auric goldfinger famously observed , once is happenstance , twice is coincidence .
the third time is enemy action .
on tuesday evening , three prominent republicans senator john mccain , senator marco rubio , and 2012 presidential candidate mitt romney endorsed the left-wing media s preferred narrative and embraced the masked thugs of antifa as heroes.mccain and romney used almost identical language , bending their knees to the media narrative that only two factions were present in charlottesville during the awful events of last weekend : white supremacist nazis and americans standing up to defy hate and bigotry .
senator rubio , who just can t seem to get over his loss to president trump , took to twitter to defend the violent antifa group and condemn president trump for including them in his condemnation of the violence that took place in charlottesville : the organizers of events which inspired & led to # charlottesvilleterroristattack are 100 % to blame for a number of reasons .
1/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017they are adherents of an evil ideology which argues certain people are inferior because of race , ethnicity or nation of origin .
2/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017when entire movement built on anger & hatred towards people different than you , it justifies & ultimately leads to violence against them 3/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017so , is marco rubio condoning the type of violence by antifa that trump supporters are met with on a regular basis simply for daring to utter a viewpoint that is in opposition to the # altleft ? most people disagree with you , marco .
these people absolutely deserve blame for their violence .
any violence & hate is contemptible pic.twitter.com/fqtomlasmk steph ( @ steph93065 ) august 16 , 2017senator rubio probably doesn t visit the antifa website , but if he did , he might have seen this special credit card sized knife that antifa was selling on their website for their members to use at trump rallies to stab people they disagree with : these groups today use same symbols & same arguments of # nazi & # kkk , groups responsible for some of worst crimes against humanity ever 4/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017mr .
president , you ca n't allow # whitesupremacists to share only part of blame.they support idea which cost nation & world so much pain 5/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017republican rep steven smith shared a video with senator rubio , who apparently needs visual aids to see why president trump was unwilling to call the violence in charlottesville one-sided : have you seen the video ?
no police protection , two violent groups .
clearly two , with one blocking the road .
how is it one-sided ?
pic.twitter.com/0w5cyqpt6m rep. steven smith ( @ repstevensmith ) august 16 , 2017the # whitesupremacy groups will see being assigned only 50 % of blame as a win.we can not allow this old evil to be resurrected 6/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017rubio s third tweet explicitly endorses violent responses to hate speech , but the last one is the money shot , as rubio embraces the essence of whataboutism and agrees with the media that left-wing thuggery is a fact on the charlottesville ground that must be ignored if we are to properly condemn white nationalism.mccain and romney are politically irrelevant , but rubio still has political ambitions .
imagine the priceless look of surprise on his face when he gets branded a nazi because he favors pro-growth tax cuts , free-market reforms , or balks at allowing illegal aliens to vote .
he ll be so astounded at the way hate speech is expanded to cover his policy positions , and how the next wave of antifa thugs justifies a violent response .
breitbart news