after examining the data reuters used to make their bold prediction , we noticed they hadn t given any consideration to the high probability that democrats will likely find a way to give illegal aliens the opportunity to cast their ballots in 2016 .
illegal alien voters aside , here is reuters interesting ( and somewhat hopeful ) study elections are not mysterious events subject to the whimsy of unpredictable candidates and voters .
they re actually highly predictable , with a set of variables that influence outcomes in familiar ways.because of that , we can say , with reasonable confidence , that a republican will be moving into the white house in 2017.that conclusion is based on the results of a data model we created , and is primarily the result of two factors , both related to the challenges faced by successor candidates candidates from the same party as the incumbent .
first , a republican will win because voters typically shy away from the party currently in power when an incumbent isn t running .
in fact , a successor candidate is three times less likely to win .
second , president barack obama s approval ratings are too low to suggest a successor candidate will take the white house.why are we so confident , especially when opinion poll data now gives hillary clinton the edge over most republican opponents ?
the simple answer is that we re relying on models , not polls.at this point in the election cycle , poll data asking the horserace question ( who will you vote for in november 2016 ? )
can be very misleading .
this far from election day , published poll data is off by an average of 8 percentage points compared with the true election outcome .
that s an enormous number when we re used to elections where candidates win by two to three points.time before election average error of polls ( compared to final results ) one week 1.7 % one month 2.7 % two months 3.8 % three months 4.8 % six months 5.8 % nine months 6.9 % twelve months 7.9 % source : ipsos analysis of 300 polls across 40 markets from 1980 through currentmodeling results is a simple concept : look at past data , identify patterns , and use those patterns to make predictions .
so we begin by aggregating data from past u.s. presidential elections , but are immediately hampered by the fact that there aren t very many elections to work from 25 if we go back 100 years.so we created a much larger database of elections by looking beyond the united states to hundreds of presidential and parliamentary elections in democratic countries around the world .
this exercise gave us far more data to work with : a sample size of more than 450 elections from 35 countries.the most important finding from our model is the power of incumbency : if you already hold the office you seek , you are far more likely than not to retain it .
our model showed that incumbents have a threefold greater chance of beating their opponent .
when no incumbent is running , successor candidates ( in this case , democrats ) are three times less likely to win.our model proves the power of presidential approval ratings .
it determines that in order for a successor candidate to have better than even chances of winning , the sitting president must have an approval rating of above 55 percent .
because barack obama s average approval rating is now at 45 percent , a successor candidate ( i.e .
democrat ) is unlikely to win.president ( govt ) approval rating incumbent probability of victorysuccessor probability of victory40 % 55 % 6 % 45 % 78 % 14 % 50 % 90 % 28 % 55 % 96 % 49 % 60 % 98 % 71 % source : ipsos analysis of over 450 elections since 1938our model works on the basis of probabilities , and is focused at the party level rather than the candidate level .
it seeks only to predict the likelihood of a change to the party in power .
it has an 85 percent predictive ability , so it s right most but not all of the time .
things that could confound the model include rapid changes to obama s approval rating , or unusually high or low turnout ( which can be driven by wild card candidates or other factors ) .in the coming months , obama s approval ratings may tick up .
but they would have to pass the 55 point mark to give the democrats even odds of keeping the white house .
this is extremely unlikely , given the fact that presidential approval typically declines over time , and obama s ratings are no exception.some will argue that hillary clinton is special ; that her chances are significantly better because , given her popularity and status as a legacy candidate , she seems more like an incumbent .
but if we go along with that hypothesis and run it through our model , at obama s current approval ratings , clinton s chances of winning the general election are still less than half.the democrats have quite a mountain to summit to retain power past 2016.via : reuters