trump s not dropping in the polls in spite of the gop and mainstream media s best efforts on the rush limbaugh show , the popular conservative talk radio host discussed donald trump s immigration plan and told listeners that trump s meteoric rise in the polls is entirely attributable to his mainstream position on immigration , which appeals to a broad array of voters.in a lengthy segment , limbaugh laid out several of the policy items addressed in trump s in-depth immigration proposal , such as ending birthright citizenship , deporting illegal immigrants , and building a border fence.limbaugh argued that trump s mainstream stance on immigration stands in stark contrast to the extreme position held by the open borders class that runs the country : now , the inside-the-beltway people , when they hear that , they cringe , oh , my god , don t say that s what republicans [ stand for ] oh , god .
[ but the ] people are standing up and cheering .
they don t want their country given away , for crying out loud !
[ ] i m telling you , that one has people standing up and cheering.limbaugh explained that trump s success is , due to substance and it is due to immigration , insisting that , it s obvious that that issue is the foundational issue for trump .
limbaugh told listeners that trump has used the issue of immigration to distinguish himself from all of the other republican candidates currently running : it s amazing .
sixteen people are running for the presidency , and 15 of them are perceived to have essentially the same policy on immigration .
one of them is entirely different from the other 15 , and he s the one who s leading .
now , don t you think people inside the beltway should be able to look at this and put two and two together and figure out what is causing this ?
they can chalk it up to celebrity , they can chalk it up to pop culture , they can chalk it up to circus.limbaugh argued that trump has been able to surpass all other republican candidates because he has adopted a position on immigration that prioritizes the desires of the american voter above the desires of republican donors and inside-the-beltway elites : both parties , conservative-liberal , republican-democrat , i don t think they have the slightest idea what the vast majority of people in this country think about immigration and what s happening to the country , and they don t want any part of it .
and of course the establishment is seen as wanting to ramrod their view of immigration down everybody s throat .
trump s the only guy standing up against it i don t think these people have any idea just how angry , frightened , fearful , a pretty big majority of the people in this country are , that we are losing the country , and we re losing it because of immigration and they see both parties in cahoots to make it happen , and they don t understand it .
people that love america do not understand this .
i mean , even when you tell em , well , big-money donors say this because they want x , y , and z , it still doesn t make any sense .
how does that trump patriotism ?
how does all that matter more to these people , elected officials , than patriotism , love of country , america , shining city on a hill and all that , why does that not matter anymore ?
and there isn t a single candidate for president addressing the issue in a way that resonates with the american people , particularly republican primary voters , not one , until donald trump comes along.limbaugh explained that trump s position represents the mainstream view on immigration : trump is not seen as a radical at all in this by average , ordinary americans .
he s not seen as an extremist .
he s not seen as a fringe kook .
instead , trump s ideas are not fringe , are not outliers , they are mainstream .
they represent the views and the attitudes of the people who make this country work .
to reinforce this point , limbaugh highlighted a recent article by the washington examiner s byron york which found a recent academic paper published by stanford professor david broockman and berkeley phd candidate douglas ahler , and it suggests a majority of the public s views on immigration are closer to trump s than to the advocates of comprehensive immigration reform .
limbaugh argued that by embracing a platform of immigration moderation i.e .
returning immigration to lower , more normal historical levels from today s surging record highs trump will appeal to a wide-range of democratic and independent voters.republican party officials , inside-the-beltway officials tell us that we can t win the white house anymore without getting additional votes besides just republican votes we need to get democrats .
we need to get independents okay , fine , well , guess what , who s doing that ?
who is expanding the party beyond what it is normally thought to be ?
trump , of all people .
and yet they re lowering the hammer on the guy each and every day , when it is donald trump who is executing what the republican party says they need to win.indeed , polling commissioned by the national republican senate committee ( nrsc ) recently found that a populist position on immigration has mass appeal amongst women , minorities , and non-republican voters in addition to the base of republican voters.limbaugh believes that other republican candidates could see similar success if they were to adopt trump s position on immigration : if just one of these republican candidates just one of them had come out forcefully for america on this immigration business , trump wouldn t even exist as a candidate .
well , he might exist , but he wouldn t have such a free road in this one issue.in fact , limbaugh predicted that trump s announcement will influence many candidates on the critical issue of immigration : the me-toos are beginning .
hey , my proposal is just like trump s. you watch the me-toos are now starting .
rather than people trying to steal it , people are gon na want to get in on it .
it has the potential here to be a genuine movement , so transformative that the inside-the-beltway people , even while studying it and looking straight at it , still stand a chance of being blindsided by it.limbaugh also made the larger point that much of the hand-wringing in the gop over trump s immigration platform is curious given that uncontrolled immigration has put one of the largest states in america firmly outside the reach of the gop , and if it is not curtailed , more states like virginia will follow : if you want to find the future of the republican party and the country , look at california .
there isn t a single republican in statewide office .
there never will be in the future .
it s not gon na happen .
the republican party practically doesn t exist statewide .
the economy in california , you talk about inequality , the haves and have-nots , it s no more pronounced anywhere in the country than in california.you don t have to go back that far where the republican party owned it .
routinely elected governors , those governors became presidential candidates .
and i ll tell you when you can tie it to .
you can tie the end of the republican party in california to 1986 , and that was the simpson-mazzoli amnesty immigration bill .
we re talking back then 3.9 million illegal aliens granted amnesty .
since then it s been curtains for the republican party , which means constant victory for the democrat party .
they have shaped that state , and it s a mess .
and it s a harbinger of where we re going nationwide .
via : breitbart