tokyo ( reuters ) - the standoff over north korea could lead to nuclear war , a japanese pro-wrestler turned lawmaker warned on wednesday , urging nations to dial down the tension after the isolated country fired a missile over northern japan last month .
tokyo could play a role in mediating with its neighbor , said the 74-year-old antonio inoki , who is known for fighting boxer muhammad ali four decades ago .
we are seeing a situation where each raises his fist and the situation is escalating , inoki , who recently returned from his 32nd visit to pyongyang , told a news conference , wearing his signature red scarf .
it s important to see who can be the first to lower his fist and reduce the tension , said inoki , who , like u.s. basketball star dennis rodman , has made numerous visits to north korea .
pyongyang must commit to denuclearization as a prerequisite for talks , japanese prime minister shinzo abe said in an interview with the nikkei business daily published on wednesday .
on monday , the u.n. security council voted to tighten sanctions on the north over its sixth nuclear test .
during meetings with north korea s top diplomat ri su yong and others on his visit , inoki proposed that japan s ruling liberal democratic party send a delegation to pyongyang , perhaps as a first step toward a visit by abe , he added .
i did make the proposal and was told they would be happy to receive such a delegation , said inoki , who strode into the news conference as if entering the ring , his theme song blaring .
inoki said he sensed more ldp members were beginning to think dialogue was needed , but admitted the hurdle to an abe visit was high .
abe and other japanese officials have said now was the time for pressure , not dialogue .
the square-jawed , 1.9-metre- ( 6-foot-three-inch- ) tall inoki developed close ties with north korea because his mentor , pro-wrestling legend rikidozan , hailed from north korea but could never go home .
first elected to parliament s upper house in 1989 from his sports and peace party , inoki made headlines the next year when he went to iraq during the gulf war and intervened on behalf of japanese hostages , who were subsequently released .
inoki was elected again in 2013 as an independent .
like rodman , he says it is vital to maintain lines of communication with the isolated north .
it s important to keep the door open , inoki said .