dhaka ( reuters ) - bangladesh approved a $ 280 million project on tuesday to develop an isolated and flood-prone island in the bay of bengal to temporarily house 100,000 rohingya muslims fleeing violence in neighbouring myanmar .
the decision came just days after bangladesh sealed a deal aiming to start returning rohingya to myanmar within two months to reduce pressure in refugee camps .
a bangladeshi government committee headed by prime minister sheikh hasina approved the plan to develop bhashan char island , also known as thenger char , despite criticism from humanitarian workers who have said the island is all but uninhabitable .
planning minister mustafa kamal said it would take time to repatriate the refugees , and in the meantime bangladesh needed a place to house them .
the project to house 100,000 refugees on the island would be complete by 2019 , he said .
many rohingya people are living in dire conditions , he said , describing the influx of refugees as a threat to both security and the environment .
more than 620,000 rohingya muslims have sought sanctuary in bangladesh after the military in mostly buddhist myanmar launched a harsh counter-insurgency operation in their villages across the northern parts of rakhine state , following attacks by rohingya militants on an army base and police posts on aug. 25 .
bangladesh foreign minister abul hassan mahmood ali appealed in september for international support to transport rohingya to the island .
there were already about 300,000 rohingya refugees in bangladesh before the most recent exodus .
bangladesh , one of the world s poorest and most crowded nations , plans to develop the island , which emerged from the silt off bangladesh s delta coast only 11 years ago and is two hours by boat from the nearest settlement .
it regularly floods during the june-september monsoons .
when seas are calm , pirates roam the nearby waters to kidnap fishermen for ransom .
a plan to develop the island and use it to house refugees was first proposed in 2015 and revived last year .
despite criticism of the conditions on the island , bangladesh says it has the right to decide where to shelter the growing numbers of refugees .