moscow ( reuters ) - a colleague of katerina tikhonova from the world of acrobatic rock n roll confirmed that she is the younger daughter of russian president vladimir putin , and then later withdrew his comments , saying he had misheard the question .
it is the second time in two years that reuters has disclosed tikhonova s relationship to the president , citing a named source , and then been publicly challenged post publication .
world rock n roll confederation ( wrrc ) vice president for legal affairs manfred mohab told reuters in an interview on sunday during a dance event that he knew tikhonova through their work together on the confederation s presidium .
when asked whether he knew tikhonova was putin s daughter , he said : yes .
i know her , yes of course .
asked a second time , he nodded and said : yes .
the kremlin and tikhonova did not respond to requests for comment .
after the reuters article was published on tuesday , mohab telephoned reuters and said : i can t confirm that i know the daughter of mr. putin .
i have nothing to do with them .
asked why he had earlier said tikhonova was putin s daughter , mohab said : believe me , it was so loud in the hall that a lot of the things i can t understand and other things i felt that i didn t understand right .
so it s not sure that i gave you the right answers .
mohab said he had problems with his hearing .
i m sure we had some misunderstandings .
in 2015 , andrey akimov , deputy chairman of the board of directors at russian lender gazprombank , told reuters that tikhonova was putin 's daughter but later denied the statement .
reuters also confirmed her identity through two other sources who spoke on condition of anonymity .
[ reut.rs/2ztup0f ] after the report , gazprombank said akimov was `` surprised and bewildered '' by the quotes attributed to him by reuters and that he had made no such remarks .
[ reut.rs/2zhzvaj ] akimov and a representative for gazprombank did not respond to a request for comment on tuesday .
putin , a former kgb intelligence officer , is famously guarded about his private life and has fought to keep his two daughters , maria and katerina , away from the public eye .
while katerina s identity has been widely assumed , it has never been confirmed by tikhonova herself , her representatives or the kremlin , which says it does not comment on the private lives of putin s close relatives .
mohab , in his comments to reuters on sunday , became the first official to publicly identify her relationship to the russian president since akimov in 2015 .
tikhonova , who uses a surname inherited from her grandmother , runs publicly-funded projects at moscow state university and serves as the wrrc s vice president for expansion and marketing .
aged 31 , she is a major player in acrobatic rock n roll , a niche dance discipline she has competed in and helps manage through senior positions at the wrrc and the russian national federation .
she is also married to kirill shamalov , the son of one of putin 's closest friends , who has since made a fortune of at least $ 1 billion through dealings in russia 's largest petrochemical company .
[ reut.rs/2bft74a ] mohab spoke to reuters on the sidelines of the world cup rock n roll european championship in moscow .
asked if tikhonova s personal connection to the president had been a boon for acrobatic rock n roll , he said : yes , of course .
the sport is developing thanks to russia , he said .
we have an expansion project which is working on all continents and in a lot of countries .
and this is all going out from russia .
with just over 200 adult pairs in the wrrc world rankings , acrobatic rock n roll remains a relatively obscure discipline in competitive dancing that is most popular in eastern europe .
around 9,000 people actively participate in acrobatic rock n roll in russia and organizers aim to add another 3,000 people by 2020 , according to the national federation .
reuters reported in december last year that moscow was building a publicly-funded $ 30 million complex for the sport on the outskirts of the city , an investment which dwarfs that spent in other countries and on some bigger sports in russia .