cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - up to 300,000 rohingya muslims could flee violence in northwestern myanmar to neighboring bangladesh , a u.n. agency official said on wednesday , warning of a funding shortfall for emergency food supplies for the refugees .
according to estimates issued by united nations workers in bangladesh s border region of cox s bazar , arrivals since the latest bloodshed started 12 days ago have already reached 146,000 .
numbers are difficult to establish with any certainty due to the turmoil as rohingya escape operations by myanmar s military .
however , the u.n. officials have raised their estimate of the total expected refugees from 120,000 to 300,000 , said dipayan bhattacharyya , who is bangladesh spokesman for the world food programme .
they are coming in nutritionally deprived , they have been cut off from a normal flow of food for possibly more than a month , he told reuters .
they were definitely visibly hungry , traumatized .
the surge of refugees , many sick or wounded , has strained the resources of aid agencies and communities which are already helping hundreds of thousands displaced by previous waves of violence in myanmar .
many have no shelter , and aid agencies are racing to provide clean water , sanitation and food .
bhattacharyya said the refugees were now arriving by boat as well as crossing the land border at numerous points .
another u.n. worker in the area cautioned that the estimates were not hard science , given the chaos and lack of access to the area on the myanmar side where the military is still conducting its clearance operation .
the source added that the 300,000 number was probably toward the worst-case scenario .
the latest violence began when rohingya insurgents attacked dozens of police posts and an army base .
the ensuing clashes and a military counter-offensive killed at least 400 people and triggered the exodus of villagers to bangladesh .
in a letter to the u.n. security council on tuesday , secretary-general antonio guterres expressed concern that the violence could spiral into a humanitarian catastrophe .
based on the prediction that 300,000 could arrive , the wfp calculated that it would need $ 13.3 million in additional funding to provide high-energy biscuits and basic rice rations for four months .
bhattacharyya called for donors to meet the shortfall urgently .
if they don t come forward now , we may see that these people would be fighting for food among themselves , the crime rate would go up , violence against women and on children would go up , he said .