new york ( reuters ) - facing a hostile congress in an election year , president barack obama will be hard-pressed to push through many of the proposals in his final budget as u.s. leader .
but that could be a silver lining for investors : if the long-shot plans gain traction , companies that stand to win new business or funding from proposed spending , such as auto suppliers , hospital chains and construction firms , could get an unexpected boost to their shares .
some details of the budget plan , set to be unveiled on tuesday , already are known .
it will include $ 4 billion over 10 years for development of safe-driving vehicles , an area already of interest to many companies .
added funding could benefit suppliers such as delphi automotive , autoliv and mobileye , which are developing safety features for autonomously driven cars , and lear , which makes electrical power systems , according to brian sponheimer , analyst at gabelli & co. “ the market discounts that any proposals by this administration will be if not ignored , then outright put down , ” sponheimer said .
“ there clearly is upside if it passes , but there is a very healthy skepticism that that is likely to take place. ” obama ’ s plan to fund an overhaul of the nation ’ s infrastructure through a $ 10-a-barrel tax on crude oil could also boost engineering and construction firms such as granite construction said morris ajzenman , an analyst at griffin securities .
“ but i give very very little probability that it comes to pass. ” similarly , ipsita smolinski , managing director at healthcare research consulting firm capitol street , said it was doubtful the republican congress would approve obama ’ s plan to aid the 19 state governments that passed up an earlier offer to expand the medicaid program for low-income americans .
such a plan , she said , would benefit hospital companies including tenet healthcare and hca holdings and medicaid insurers such as centene and molina healthcare .
more palatable to congress could be obama ’ s push for $ 755 million to jumpstart cancer research .
but that level of investment without being more targeted may not benefit any specific firms , given that so many drug and biotech companies are invested in developing cancer therapies .
major defense contractors - including lockheed martin , northrop grumman , raytheon and general dynamics - stand to benefit from the budget , said sterne agee crt analyst peter arment .
“ it ’ s an election year , national security is at the top of the priority list and a lot of elected officials – they don ’ t want to be tied to cutting defense , ” arment said .