buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentine president mauricio macri s business-friendly coalition is poised to win an important senate seat in two weeks , opinion polls showed on sunday , potentially damaging former populist president cristina fernandez s attempted comeback .
esteban bullrich , formerly macri s education minister , received 33.9 percent of voter intention in the contest for buenos aires province , home to about 40 percent of voters , according to a poll by consultancy management & fit seen by reuters .
fernandez earned 29.6 percent of voter intention .
another poll by poliarquia consultores published in la nacion newspaper showed bullrich earning 37.7 percent of voter intention , compared to 35.2 percent for second-place fernandez .
a loss would diminish her chances of returning to the presidency in 2019 .
the oct. 22 legislative elections will be closely watched by investors as a signal of argentines appetite to return to fernandez s interventionist policies , and as an indication of macri s ability to carry out the rest of his agenda .
the one who is weak is the peronist party , the one who is expanding and getting more influence is the government , poliarquia director alejandro catterberg told reuters .
cristina is only really present in buenos aires .
while macri s let s change coalition will not obtain a majority in either house of congress , a strong performance would help in negotiations with opposition lawmakers over reforms to argentina s tax code and capital markets regulations .
the winner receives two seats for their coalition while the second-place finisher receives one , meaning fernandez will likely enter the senate either way .
moderate peronist sergio massa is polling a distant third , the surveys showed .
since taking office in december 2015 , macri has introduced a number of reforms economists say were necessary to stabilize latin america s no .
3 economy , including allowing the peso currency to float and cutting subsidies for energy consumption .
fernandez has criticized the measures during the campaign .
the opinion polls show bullrich has gained momentum since narrowly losing an aug. 13 primary .
government data shows the economy improving in recent months , while macri s nationwide approval rating has risen to its highest level since early 2016 at 46.5 percent , according to management & fit .
its poll of 1,000 respondents in buenos aires was conducted between sept. 30 and oct. 3 , and has a 3.1 percent margin of error .
poliarquia consulted 1,130 respondents between oct. 3 and oct. 6 .
it has a 2.97 percent margin of error .