washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential front-runner donald trump said on tuesday the united states should use waterboarding and other harsh interrogation techniques when questioning terror suspects , and renewed his call for tougher u.s. border security after the attacks in brussels .
the billionaire businessman said authorities “ should be able to do whatever they have to do ” to gain information in an effort to thwart future attacks .
“ waterboarding would be fine .
if they can expand the laws , i would do a lot more than waterboarding , ” trump said on nbc ’ s “ today ” program , adding he believed torture could produce useful leads .
“ you have to get the information from these people. ” waterboarding , the practice of pouring water over someone ’ s face to simulate drowning as an interrogation tactic , was banned by president barack obama days after he took office in 2009 .
critics call it torture .
trump ’ s main republican rival , u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , suggested heightened police scrutiny of neighborhoods with large muslim populations .
“ we need to empower law enforcement to patrol and secure muslim neighborhoods before they become radicalized , ” he said in a statement .
trump also called for increased law enforcement surveillance of mosques in the united states .
“ you need surveillance .
you have to deal with the mosques , whether we like it or not , ” trump told fox business network .
“ these attacks ... they ’ re not done by swedish people , that i can tell you. ” islamic state claimed responsibility for tuesday ’ s suicide bomb attacks on brussels airport and a rush-hour metro train in the belgian capital which killed at least 30 people .
trump , who has called for a temporary ban on muslims entering the country , urged tougher measures to stop the flow of illegal immigrants , particularly syrian refugees , into america .
“ as president ...
i would be very , very tough on the borders , and i would be not allowing certain people to come into this country without absolute perfect documentation , ” said trump , campaigning to become the republican nominee for the nov. 8 election that will decide on obama ’ s successor .
the brussels attacks brought national security back to the top of the presidential election agenda , possibly sharpening the division between trump ’ s isolationist approach to foreign policy and his republican rivals ’ more traditional interventionist outlook .
on monday , trump expressed skepticism about the u.s. role in the north atlantic treaty organization and said the united states should significantly cut spending on the defense alliance .
cruz criticized trump ’ s nato proposal .
“ the way to respond to terrorist attacks is not weakness .
it ’ s not unilateral and preemptive surrender .
abandoning europe , withdrawing from nato , as trump suggests , is preemptive surrender , ” cruz told reporters in washington .
earlier attacks in paris and san bernardino , california , have pushed security issues to the forefront of the white house campaign debate .
when 130 people were killed in paris in november , the threat of terrorism jumped from fifth to first on a reuters/ipsos poll list of the country ’ s most important problems and remained there until the economy moved back to the top of the list in mid-january .
democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton said u.s. military leaders have found techniques like waterboarding are not effective .
“ we ’ ve got to work this through consistent with our values , ” she said on nbc , adding officials “ do not need to resort to torture , but they are going to need more help. ” clinton ’ s democratic rival , u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont , backed stronger intelligence-sharing and monitoring of social media in the fight against islamist militants , but opposed bolstered surveillance of muslim communities .
“ that would be unconstitutional , and it would be wrong .
we are fighting a terrorist organization , a barbaric organization that is killing innocent people .
we are not fighting a religion , ” sanders told reporters .
walid phares , named by trump this week as one of his foreign policy experts , told reuters the brussels attacks would force europe and the united states to “ reassess ” counter-terrorism strategies in “ identifying the radicalized elements and also the type of protection soft targets need. ” trump looks to take another step toward winning the republican presidential nomination in contests in arizona and utah on tuesday , aiming to deal another setback to the party establishment ’ s flagging stop-trump movement .
he has a big lead in convention delegates who will pick the republican nominee , defying weeks of attacks from members of the party establishment worried he will lead the republicans to defeat in november .
in arizona , one of the u.s. states that borders mexico , trump ’ s hardline immigration message is popular and he leads in polls , while in utah trump lags in polls behind cruz .
in addition to the temporary ban on muslims entering the country , trump has called for the building of a wall on the u.s.-mexican border to halt illegal immigration .