federal law says that presidential recounts must be completed within 35 days after an election .
stein waited until 90 minutes before the wisconsin deadline for filing a recount petition expired.all the votes have to be certified by december 13 according to a report on friday .
the electors meet on december 19.wisconsin will almost certainly miss that deadline , since the last recount took more than a month .
and that recount was for a state supreme court contest where only 1.5 million votes were cast.if wisconsin misses the december 19 deadline , the electoral votes may not be counted.stein is going to ask for a hand recount , which will slow the process even further.if wisconsin s electoral votes are excluded on december 19 , the state will then have to try and get congress to include the votes in the january 6 count.they 're not looking for fraud .
they 're seeking to delay the counting of the votes so that trump wo n't have 270 on december 13. https : //t.co/padfpky3hb thomas wictor ( @ thomaswictor ) november 27 , 2016they ca n't steal 100,000+ votes .
they do n't even have to .
all they need to do is stall the electoral vote count for two weeks .
https : //t.co/8q2kmw0ayi thomas wictor ( @ thomaswictor ) november 27 , 2016according to inquisitr : the statewide recount in the presidential election would require a recount of nearly twice as many ballots about 3 million and the process would become even more cumbersome if stein is successful in requiring a recount by hand , as she has said she prefers.so the situation is actually much worse than most people think.stein may successfully strip trump of the electoral votes of wisconsin , michigan , and pennsylvania .
if so , it ll be up to congress to decide whether they include the votes or not .
gateway pundityou 're letting them distract you .
it is n't the votes .
the goal is to the nullify the electoral votes by making the states miss the deadline .
https : //t.co/kacevja6ed thomas wictor ( @ thomaswictor ) november 27 , 2016