when you have a crowd of people listening to this kind of idiotic drama , i think it s safe to say you should expect to be booed off the stage if you don t tow the line .
here r the black net roots speaker s dramatic introduction for governor o malley : let s be clear every single day folks are dying !
not being able to take another breath !
we are in a state of emergency !
we are in a state of emergency and if you don t fill that emergency you are not human !
as the washington examiner noted saturday , former maryland governor and current presidential candidate martin o malley was being interviewed at the annual netroots nation conference and was making a statement about the need for civilian police review boards .
the interview was interrupted by a group of protestors chanting , say , black lives matter !
in response to a question by one of the protestors about alleged instances of police brutality against african americans , o malley stated , i think all of us have a responsibility to recognize the pain and grief caused by lives lost to violence .
black lives matter .
white lives matter .
all lives matter .
the statement is said to have drawn boos from the crowd .
a minute or two later , o malley apologized.the incident illustrated neatly illustrated the cultural divide between the left and the rest of america .
most people , without much of a thought , would agree that all lives matter , whether they belong to someone killed in an altercation with police or say a marine gunned down by a terrorist .
the crowd at netroots nation disagreed.more importantly , o malley failed the sister souljah test by apologizing for saying something that should be axiomatic .
a sister souljah moment refers to an incident during the 1992 presidential campaign in which then governor bill clinton condemned a rapper named sister souljah for racially incendiary lyrics in some of her songs .
the statement caused a great deal of consternation , but clinton received praise for taking on an extremist who was part of an important democratic constituency .
clinton went on to be elected and then reelected four years later .
via : the examiner