as a side note , paul ryan still needs 18 additional votes to ensure his new role as speaker of the house .
the full house is expected to elect ryan as speaker in a formal floor vote thursday morning , transferring the gavel from speaker john boehner ( r-ohio ) , who is resigning friday after a quarter century in congress.republicans on wednesday rallied behind rep. paul ryan to be the next speaker of the house , declaring him the best candidate to turn the page and unify a fractured gop conference.ryan , a wisconsin republican and the 2012 vice presidential nominee , easily defeated his only rival for the top job , gop rep. daniel webster , a former speaker in the florida statehouse.ryan routed webster in a 200-43 vote during a closed-door conference meeting in the cavernous ways and means hearing room where ryan now presides as committee chairman .
house majority leader kevin mccarthy ( r-calif. ) received one vote , as did rep. marsha blackburn ( r-tenn. ) .ryan will need 218 votes to be elected speaker on the house floor .
he is expected to receive more gop votes now that he has won the conference election.boehner in last year s election led his party to the largest house majority in generations , but he faced an uprising this fall from conservatives who threatened to oust him from power.for now , ryan has support from most of the 40 members of the far-right freedom caucus , but he ll have to wrestle with the same conservative forces that pushed out his predecessor and scuttled mccarthy s own bid for the speakership.wednesday s internal vote came just hours after ryan announced he would back a sweeping two-year deal that raises spending caps and the debt ceiling .
conservatives had urged him to oppose the pact because the white house , boehner and other top congressional leaders negotiated it behind closed doors.but the agreement eliminates the possibility of a government shutdown or debt default through the 2016 elections .
in a statement , ryan said it gives republicans a chance to wipe the slate clean .
house republicans are eager for a fresh start after the turmoil that defined the boehner era.as he s wooed his colleagues the past week , ryan has said he s open to changes to internal rules and procedure that would give rank-and-file members more power to decide things like which bills come to the floor and who should serve on which committees .
last friday , he told conservatives leaders that , unlike boehner , he would not seek retribution against republicans who buck gop leadership.in a private candidates forum wednesday morning , ryan told colleagues he wouldn t operate as caesar , gesturing with a thumbs-up and a thumbs down reenacting a scene from the action flick gladiator .
he said , i don t plan to be caesar , deciding the fate of everything from the speaker s office , calling all the shots , said rep. matt salmon ( r-ariz. ) , a freedom caucus leader who is backing ryan.ryan s only competition for the job came from webster , who received a dozen votes in his challenge to boehner in the speaker s race in january .
but webster rubbed some supporters the wrong way when he gave a short speech at the wednesday forum , then refused to take questions and bolted out the door to attend another engagement.one former webster supporter said the candidate sent a fundraising email to his wife , explaining that he s running for speaker and imploring her to donate money .
he won t ask for my vote but he s asking for money , the gop lawmaker quipped.by contrast , ryan stayed at the candidate s forum for more than an hour , fielding questions from dozens of his colleagues until they had nothing left to ask .
some pressed him to explain his support for the bipartisan budget deal , said lawmakers who attended the event .
he s supporting the budget because he doesn t want to have these cliffs or crises , said freshman rep. barbara comstock ( r-va. ) , who worked on the romney-ryan presidential campaign in 2012 .
via : the hillrep .
luis gutierrez ( d-il ) endorsement of rep. paul ryan ( r-wi ) for speaker of the house has drawn new attention to ryan s two-decade history of pushing for open borders immigration policies .
a previously little noticed 2013 video of ryan and gutierrez stumping for sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) amnesty bill in which the two make a candid pitch for unlimited immigration shows just how far ryan is willing to go to push for open borders policies.in the wide-ranging 53 minute video , which took place in chicago , both gutierrez and ryan outline their shared plan for adopting open borders : that is , a national policy of allowing companies to bring in and hire as many foreign workers as they would like .
this free movement of people across national boundaries is the centerpiece of the open borders ideology to which ryan has devoted much of his career.the video is entitled : rep. paul ryan and rep. luis gutierrez push for immigration reform .
the two congressional partners lay out an immigration plan that is far more radical in scope than many would have imagined , and absent from virtually all major media coverage of the ryan speakership push .
the video gives fresh insight into what legislation paul ryan would advance and what legislation he would block if given the speaker s gavel.in the video , ryan begins by adopting a left-wing narrative about gop voters and suggesting that their opposition to mass migration is fueled by ignorance .
ryan rejects the idea that america is a country i.e .
a land with a fixed border and heritage but instead an idea since ideas don t have borders.ryan says : [ america ] is not just a country .
america is an idea .
it s an idea that people from all over the world to aspire to achieve there is no other economic system , no other immigration system that has done more to lift people out of poverty than the american free enterprise system , and american immigration system that we have here .
that s what makes us proud .
so the question is : what do we do to restore this ?
[ ] we ve had plenty of waves of immigration that have always been met with resistance in the past the irish wave is just but one of them .
each wave is met with some ignorance , is met with some resistance.ryan appears to be taking a page from his mentor jack kemp , who as ann coulter has written had a habit of smearing blue-collar voters of his own party if they opposed his expansionist agenda .
via : breitbart news