washington ( reuters ) - former naacp president ben jealous said on wednesday he would seek the democratic nomination for maryland governor next year , charging that the republican incumbent lacked the courage to stand up to president donald trump .
jealous , an ally of u.s .
senator bernie sanders during his 2016 bid for the democratic presidential nomination , said incumbent larry hogan had failed to oppose trump policies that would weaken healthcare and education as well as environmental protection of the chesapeake bay .
jealous , making his first bid for elected office , is the latest democrat to try to link an opponent to the republican president .
approval ratings have sagged for trump , who has been embroiled in controversy since his may 9 firing of fbi director james comey who was overseeing an investigation into possible collusion between trump ’ s presidential campaign and russia .
“ it seems like every week our governor becomes a little more like the lion in ‘ the wizard of oz , ’ all strength and no political courage , ” jealous , 44 , said as he declared his candidacy outside a cousin ’ s flower shop in baltimore .
hogan , who did not endorse trump in the 2016 election , has not said if he will seek re-election .
a spokesman did not respond to a request for comment .
democratic presidential nominee hillary clinton won maryland by 26 percentage points in last november ’ s election .
jealous led the national association for the advancement of colored people , the biggest u.s. civil rights group , from 2008 to 2013 .
he is the second democrat to announce his candidacy ahead of maryland ’ s june 2018 primary , joining entrepreneur and author alec ross .
jealous , if elected , would be maryland ’ s first black governor .
jealous , who spearheaded the naacp ’ s successful campaign to overturn maryland ’ s death penalty in 2012 , said he backed raising the minimum wage to $ 15 a hour from the current $ 8.75 , improving teacher quality , expanding mass transit and improving training for police officers .
hogan has followed a moderate agenda focused on economic growth and cutting regulations and fees .
he also has banned fracking , which involves injecting water , sand and chemicals into shale to release natural gas and oil , thus aligning himself with maryland ’ s heavily democratic voter base .
he held a 65 percent approval rating among registered voters in a washington post-university of maryland poll in march , but only 41 percent backed him for a second term .
hogan , 61 , scored an upset victory in 2014 over democratic lieutenant governor anthony brown .