beirut ( reuters ) - syria s army and its allies neared al-mayadin on friday , sources said , pushing an advance on an eastern city seen as islamic state s main remaining base in the country .
the government forces had reached within 10 km ( 7 miles ) of the city and taken positions parallel with a key road , a military media unit run by the lebanese hezbollah group said .
the syrian observatory for human rights , a war monitor , said the army supported by russian forces had reached the western edge of al-mayadin , entering the ruins of a castle and an area of grain silos .
islamic state has lost swathes of territory in recent months to the syrian government , backed by russian air power and iran-allied militias , in eastern deir al-zor province that borders iraq .
a syrian military source told reuters fighting was ongoing around deir al-zor towards al-mayadin on friday .
the syrian army is continuing to strike the terrorist daesh ( islamic state ) group fiercely in deir al-zor and its surroundings ... and will continue its operations until it eliminates ( daesh ) and drive what s left of them out of this province , he said .
last month the syrian army s advance to deir al-zor city lifted a three-year-long siege imposed by islamic state on a government-held enclave there .
the army has since pushed its advance further eastwards towards al-mayadin , which lies 45 km south of deir al-zor , along the euphrates valley .
u.s.-backed syrian militias are also waging a separate campaign against the jihadist group s last major strongholds in deir al-zor province in june , two u.s. intelligence officials told reuters that they believed islamic state had moved most of its diminished command structure and propaganda team to al-mayadin , southeast of its former capital of raqqa .
the observatory said on friday there were clashes in several areas in eastern deir al-zor province .
the syrian military shelled al-mayadin overnight and syrian and russian warplanes have conducted hundreds of strikes , it said .
hezbollah , part of the military alliance supporting president bashar al-assad , said this week a senior commander had been killed in an islamic state attack in syria s central desert .