rome ( reuters ) - italy s anti-establishment 5-star movement supports the european union and wants significant law-making powers transferred from governments to the european parliament , its leader luigi di maio told reuters .
5-star , which leads opinion polls ahead of an election to be held by may , is trying to reassure italy s partners and financial markets that it can be trusted in government , and distance itself from its previously eurosceptic positions .
we are pro-eu and we intend to contribute to creating the future of europe , the 31-year-old lower house deputy , who was elected in september as 5-star s leader and prime minister candidate , said in an interview .
he said if 5-star wins power it will negotiate with italy s partners to try to set up eu-wide welfare policies to tackle growing poverty and inequality in many countries in the bloc , including italy , the eu s fourth largest economy .
if it reforms , the eu can be a solution to many of our problems , di maio said , calling for more law-making powers for the european parliament as the only directly elected eu body .
he said 5-star s stance on europe and the euro had shifted since 2014 , when it lobbied for a referendum to take italy out of the common currency zone and joined the eurosceptic group of britain s united kingdom independence party ( ukip ) in the european parliament .
he said the defeat of traditional parties in france and the difficulties in forming stable , majority governments in germany , spain and portugal meant there is no longer the wide eu support for austerity policies that 5-star has opposed .
it has not totally withdrawn the idea of a referendum on the euro , but it now calls it a last resort to be employed only if italy wins no concessions on eu governance from its partners .
we set out with strong opposition to the euro because back then there was too much difference between our positions and the monolithic , pro-austerity position promoted by germany which dominated in europe , he said .
but now things have changed .
5-star tried this year to leave the ukip group in the european parliament to join the pro-europe alliance of liberals and democrats for europe ( alde ) , but the switch fell through due to resistance from some alde members .
di maio said that after the next european elections in 2019 5-star would avoid linking up with any extremist , populist , xenophobic or old-style leftist movements .
domestically , 5-star bases its support on an anti-corruption drive and policies that bridge the traditional left-right divide such as clean energy , tax cuts for small businesses and more public investment in infrastructure and education .
as part of a charm offensive as the election nears , last month di maio visited washington to burnish 5-star s image with the u.s. administration , and party officials met in rome with representatives of large international banks and hedge funds .
he spoke to reuters on the sidelines of a conference organized by italian media website eunews .
5-star , which shuns alliances with italy s traditional parties , leads opinion polls with around 28 percent of the vote , some 3 points ahead of the ruling democratic party , but it seems sure to fall well short of a parliamentary majority .
di maio said 5-star s plan was to form a minority government and seek support from other parties for its policies on a case-by-case basis .