a black woman went into a fit of rage after she spotted a confederate battle flag on a car at a local festival .
ybia anderson posted a video of herself confronting a man who brought his dukes of hazzard inspired general lee car to the highland creek heritage festival .
here s what she said on her facebook page : at this racist-ass highland creek heritage festival where a car featuring two confederate flags is being celebrated .
this wannabe hillbilly is trying to educate me on the civil war ! ! !
guess he doesn t realize his side lost ! ! !
the video is sideways but you ll get the point : anderson shrieked : this racist car has not one , but two confederate flags on it .
the astonished owner of the car attempted to explain but anderson was just interested in getting the car removed asap : people who look exactly like me and my sons died , were murdered , because of that flag .
it has no place here and it is the very first car people see when they walk in .
the kicker in all this is that if you go to ms. anderson s facebook page , here s her deplorable profile photo : how heartless is this ?
the woman who claimed to be so upset at a racist car thinks it s ok to make fun of a young white man who was murdered by the north koreans really ? everyone caved to this shrieking bully : of course , the officials of the event caved immediately and gave an apology for having the racist car at the festival : festival chair paul maguire said , we are very sorry that someone is hurt , it s a family event and there are hundred , thousands who came and had a lot of fun and nobody should be subjected to those triggering moments that just bring back moments of the worst of human history .
if there were a swastika here i would have known right away , that can t be here .
now i know the confederate flag has the same status .
toronto mayor john tory had this pitiful statement to make : the confederate flag and what it was represented historically , and represents of a lot of people today , has no place in toronto .