a georgetown university associate professor had a month-long meltdown after a muslim woman explained why she voted for president-elect donald trump.asra q. nomani , a former georgetown journalism professor and wall street journal reporter , wrote an op-ed in the washington post nov. 10 explaining why she , as a muslim woman and long-time liberal , voted for trump .
i support the democratic party s position on abortion , same-sex marriage and climate change , nomani wrote .
but i am a single mother who can t afford health insurance under obamacare .
here is a portion of nomani s op-ed explaining why she s supporting trump : a lot is being said now about the silent secret trump supporters .
this is my confession and explanation : i a 51-year-old , a muslim , an immigrant woman of color am one of those silent voters for donald trump .
and i m not a bigot , racist , chauvinist or white supremacist , as trump voters are being called , nor part of some whitelash .
in the winter of 2008 , as a lifelong liberal and proud daughter of west virginia , a state born on the correct side of history on slavery , i moved to historically conservative virginia only because the state had helped elect barack obama as the first african american president of the united states.but , then , for much of this past year , i have kept my electoral preference secret : i was leaning toward republican presidential candidate donald trump.tuesday evening , just minutes before the polls closed at forestville elementary school in mostly democratic fairfax county , i slipped between the cardboard partitions in the polling booth , a pen balanced carefully between my fingers , to mark my ballot for president , coloring in the circle beside the names of trump and his running mate , mike pence .
wpjust prior to the election nomani explains why she s voting for trump : c. christine fair , a previously friendly colleague , went on a 31-day screed against nomani spanning across twitter and facebook .
according to nomani s dec. 23 follow-up complaint to the university , the peace and security studies professor called her a wretch , clueless dolt and a fame-monger.fair also compared trump to adolf hitler and asserted that nomani s vote for trump helped normalize nazis in dc .
she didn t clarify if she was referring to trump supporters or actual nazis marching the streets.she again attacked nomani dec. 6 with an open letter on facebook , in which fair told her to f * ck off and go to hell .
it s unclear why fair announces that she s a slut .
nomani told the daily caller news foundation that georgetown professor bruce hoffman replied to her original dec. 2 complaint on dec. 3 .
he told her he forwarded her complaint to professor irfan nooruddin .
nooruddin is the faculty chair of georgetown s school of foreign service.nooruddin told nomani in a dec. 4 email that , i shall follow up directly with professor fair .
fair posted her facebook rant about nomani two days after nooruddin said he would speak with her .
additionally , she threatened nomani in an email dec. 6 with legal action .
your attempt to silence my opinion or force a dialogue by involving my employer is unacceptable and any further action on your part to involve georgetown will be met with legal action , fair wrote .
your social media and email appeal to my employer with the intent or threat of damaging my employment status is a form of cyber bullying , which will not be tolerated .
daily caller