this is maddening !
we have a president and congress who do nothing but promote illegal entry into america treason !
the obama administration has been releasing thousands of criminal illegal aliens onto our streets .
in just the last three years , ice released 86,288 criminal aliens .
senator jeff sessionssenator jeff sessions questioning thomas homan , the executive associate director , enforcement and removal operations of u.s. immigration and customs enforcement , u.s. department of homeland security .
homan admits they find illegal aliens but can not deport them because of president obama , whose policies protect whole classes of illegal aliens.sessions delivers opening statement on declining deportations and increasing criminal alien releases washington u.s. sen. jeff sessions ( r-al ) , chairman of the subcommittee on immigration and the national interest , delivered the following statement on the administration s actions that have resulted in a dramatic decrease in the number of aliens removed from the united states over recent years , and thousands of otherwise removable aliens being released from custody : thank you to everyone for being here today , and thank you to senator blumenthal for serving as ranking member.first i d like to extend my condolences to the director of ice , sarah salda a , and her family on their recent , tragic loss .
our thoughts and prayers go out to them during this difficult time.throughout its tenure , the obama administration has made numerous public statements , issued multiple memoranda , and represented in testimony before congress that it has limited resources and therefore can remove only a certain number and category of illegal aliens .
specifically , the administration repeatedly claimed that u.s. immigration and customs enforcement had the resources to deport only approximately 400,000 illegal aliens from the united states each year.so , their reasoning went , they were compelled to focus on criminal illegal aliens and other aliens who pose threats to the country s security .
because of this focus , the president argued he had no choice but to grant executive amnesty to millions of illegal aliens which would allow them to stay in the country and obtain work permits and other federal benefits.yet , as we will examine in today s hearing , rather than truly prioritizing the removal of certain types of illegal aliens over others , the obama administration has simply refused to execute the laws passed by congress and signed into law.it has ordered immigration law enforcement officers to ignore plain law and acquiesce to the presence of millions of illegal aliens in the united states , including criminals and those who have already been ordered deported to leave the country.if the obama administration was truly prioritizing the removal of certain illegal aliens over others , it would be reasonable to assume that with the same or more resources , the number of deportations would remain relatively steady each year.however , the simple fact is that since these policies were implemented , deportations have plummeted particularly deportations from the interior of the country as opposed to the border and most sharply under guidelines issued by secretary of homeland security jeh johnson in november 2014.as this dramatic decline has occurred , congress has increased funding each year for the purpose of immigration enforcement.this is not prioritization and this is not prosecutorial discretion .
this is a total refusal to carry out the laws passed by congress that the constitution obliges the president to faithfully execute.meanwhile , the obama administration has been releasing thousands of criminal illegal aliens onto our streets .
in just the last three years , ice released 86,288 criminal aliens.at the same time , the administration touts the decrease in the number of apprehensions at the border as a sign of border security .
but as we will hear in testimony today , we simply do not apprehend every illegal alien who crosses the southern border .
not even close .
moreover , we are seeing near-record levels of certain categories of aliens unaccompanied alien minors and family units who face no chance of actually being deported under this administration .
this simply sends a message that anybody , anywhere in the world , if they can get into the united states across our southern border , for example , they will be allowed to stay in the country .
other than mexico , they re allowed to stay in the country .
and that is why so many are coming .
it s not the law that s on the books , but the policies that are being carried out at our border .
this is not how the immigration system was intended to work , it s not how the immigration system must work , this is a lawless policy and it has to be ended.so today s hearing will focus on a central claim the obama administration makes to excuse its lawless immigration policies namely that limited resources compelled the implementation of its lawless immigration policies .
we will also assess the impact of this lawlessness on the integrity , the very moral foundation of our immigration system .
if it s not properly executed and carried out , it has no integrity and it lacks morality.this administration for too long has been trying to hide from the american people the true nature of what it has been doing .
today , we will set the record straight .
efficiency , effectiveness , and productivity are essential in this government .
the taxpayers don t spend money for ice and the border patrol to have supervisors somehow keep the officers from doing their duty .
accountability is critical .
congress has a duty to ensure accountability of the agencies it supervises , and that is what we will do today .