beijing ( reuters ) - chinese president xi jinping is set to amass even greater power at a communist party congress this week , promoting close allies , having his guiding thought enshrined in the party constitution and possibly assuming a title to put him on par with mao zedong .
that is the view of multiple sources with ties to the chinese leadership , including senior party officials , former officials and foreign diplomats who have talked to top officials .
much of it has also been signalled in various ways in the state media in recent months .
xi was born into revolutionary aristocracy and came of age in the tumult of mao s cultural revolution .
since taking office five years ago , he has cast aside decades of precedent , stamping his authority on the party s 89 million members and asserting china s rising might on the global stage .
having been perceived as a colourless , unambitious princeling child of the elite before catapulting into the apex of power as a standing committee member in 2007 , xi has surprised time and again , leadership sources , diplomats and experts say .
he has locked up political rivals for corruption , accumulated titles and pushed painful reforms for the military .
china s state council , which doubles as the party s spokesman s office , did not respond to a request for comment on xi s plans for the 19th party congress or on how the party evaluates his first five years in office .
at the congress , a twice-a-decade event that opens wednesday , some of xi s most trusted aides look set for promotion to the standing committee , such as li zhanshu , an advisor who worked as a junior official in hebei province in the 1980s at the same time as xi .
in another key break with tradition , xi looks set to retain a key ally , wang qishan , in some capacity despite the anti-corruption tsar passing retirement age .
xi could also end up being called party chairman , a role that would pave the way for him to stay in office past 2022 when precedent dictates he should step down , leadership sources say .
xi is now moving more in the direction of a king , of i am china and i am the communist party , said steve tsang , director of the china institute at the school of oriental and african studies in london .
in another first , xi has already overseen two large-scale military parades in his first term , including a dramatic display of china s rising power and military capability through beijing s tiananmen square in 2015 .
what will actually happen at the congress , and what xi will say in his state-of-the-party address at its opening , are closely guarded secrets , even as the party and state media have flagged the broad outlines of what will happen .
one of the most important signals to watch at the congress will be whether - or how often - xi is referred to as lingxiu , or leader .
that honorific has been bestowed only on two others since the 1949 founding of the people s republic of china : mao and his short-lived successor , hua guofeng .
using the term over the congress could set him up to be named party chairman , a title that has not been used since hu yaobang , who died in 1989 , sources with ties to the leadership and diplomats say .
xi is currently head of the party but with the title general secretary , and has to rule by consensus with his standing committee , part of a system of collective leadership set up after mao died to prevent a recurrence of the chaos that erupted under him .
if he does become chairman , that will spell the end for the concept of collective leadership , said a senior beijing-based asian diplomat .
he won t have to answer to anyone , the diplomat said .
xi has gathered other titles gradually since late 2012 , when he first became party chief , just before assuming the presidency .
he also runs the national security commission and the top financial and reform decision-making councils .
and despite already being head of the military , he was appointed commander-in-chief last year .
arguably one of china s crowning achievements over the past five years , one unquestionably popular with the public , has been xi s crackdown on corruption .
some 1.4 million officials have been punished and many jailed , including the much feared former domestic security chief , zhou yongkang .
xi has also cracked down on the pomp that had previously gone with visits by high-level chinese officials to the provinces , and flashed a deft common touch to show his connection to the ordinary person .
in one widely-reported instance , xi visited a beijing dumpling restaurant in late 2013 ; images on state media showed him lining up for his food with other patrons .
part of the story of xi s rising personality profile is about the need to bolster the perceived legitimacy of the communist party around a leader seen as being of the people , said david bandurski , co-director of the china media project .
he said the previous leadership of president hu jintao and wen jiabao had warned of a growing gap between the communist party and the rest of the country , partly epitomised by rampant corruption .
so under xi there was an immediate move to address both of these key problems of perception , bandurski said .
the answer was xi as the plain-talking man of the people .