washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump ’ s administration is set to unveil revised self-driving vehicle guidelines next week in michigan , responding to automakers ’ calls for elimination of legal barriers to putting autonomous vehicles on the road , sources briefed on the matter said on tuesday .
u.s. transportation secretary elaine chao was expected to unveil the revised guidelines next tuesday at a self-driving vehicle testing facility in ann arbor , michigan , four people briefed on the matter said .
a spokesman for chao did not immediately comment .
the white house office of management and budget approved the undisclosed transportation department changes to the guidelines on aug. 31 , according a posting on a government website .
on wednesday , the u.s. house of representatives will vote on a sweeping proposal to speed deployment of self-driving cars without human controls and bar states from blocking autonomous vehicles .
the measure could help many automakers and tech companies keep their pledges of getting self-driving cars on the market by 2020 or 2021 .
the house will vote on the bill under fast-track rules that allow no amendments .
a bipartisan group of u.s. senators working on similar legislation has not introduced a bill .
the bill , passed unanimously by a house panel in july , would allow automakers to obtain exemptions to deploy up to 25,000 vehicles without meeting existing auto safety standards in the first year .
over three years , the cap would rise to 100,000 vehicles annually .
the house measure would require automakers to provide regulators with safety assessment reports proposed in the 2016 self-driving guidelines , but would not require pre-market approval of advanced vehicle technologies .
consumer advocates have called for giving the national highway traffic safety administration quicker access to crash data and more funding to oversee self-driving cars .
automakers and technology companies , including general motors coand alphabet inc ’ s self-driving unit waymo , have sought easier federal rules for self-driving technology , while some consumer groups have pushed for more safeguards .
the obama administration issued guidelines for self-driving cars in september 2016 , calling on automakers to voluntarily submit details of self-driving vehicle systems in a 15-point “ safety assessment ” and urging states to defer to the federal government on most vehicle regulations .
automakers raised numerous concerns about the obama administration guidance , including the suggestion that automakers should submit systems to regulators for review before putting them on the market .
companies including waymo , gm , ford motor co , uber technologies inc , tesla inc and others are aggressively pursuing automated vehicle technologies .