she burst on the scene last august when she upset a 44-year incumbent democrat in the minnesota state primary elections to become the nation s first female muslim state legislator.ilhan omar , the 34-year-old community organizer who came to america as a refugee from somalia , was touted by democrats as a model success story .
from a refugee camp to the state capitol with intelligence and insight , beamed former minneapolis mayor r.t. rybak , who endorsed omar .
this is a wonderful story to tell as americans , and a great source of pride for the state of minnesota s open arms .
but on thursday omar made her mark in another way.she was one of only two members of the minnesota state house to vote against a bill that would allow life insurance companies to deny payouts to the beneficiaries of terrorists who die in violent attacks on americans.omar , who represents the heavily immigrant cedar riverside area of minneapolis , was joined by fellow democratic rep. john lesch of st. paul in voting against the bill.omar s vote sticks out because at least 42 somali refugees have been confirmed by the fbi to have left the u.s. to join overseas terrorist organizations , including al-shabab , the al-qaida affiliate in somalia , and isis in syria and iraq.dozens of other somali-americans have been tried and/or convicted of providing material support to overseas terrorists.the minneapolis-st. paul area is home to the nation s largest somali refugee community.the minnesota insurance bill was introduced by rep. joe hoppe , r-chaska , in response to syed farook s jihadist rampage in san bernardino , california , in december 2015 in which he shot and killed 14 people and injured 22 at an office christmas party .
farook made sure his life insurance policies worth $ 275,000 were valid before conducting the deadly shooting with help from his wife , tashfeen malik.after farook died in a shootout with police , his mother fought to remain the beneficiary of the life insurance policies .
the insurance company balked and the case has gone to court.democratic rep. debra hilstrom said the goal of the minnesota bill is to make certain that folks don t benefit [ from terrorism ] and this limits the beneficiary to the premiums that were paid in .
it limits the exposure for the insurance company when someone is committing an act of terrorism .
wndwatch :