rancho mirage , calif. ( reuters ) - president barack obama said on tuesday he is hearing from foreign leaders who are alarmed at republican presidential candidates ’ positions on issues such as climate change and immigration .
“ i think foreign observers are troubled by some of the rhetoric that ’ s been taking place in these republican primaries and republican debates , ” obama told reporters at the end of a summit with southeast asian leaders .
americans will choose a new president in a nov. 8 election .
republicans and democrats are currently battling in nominating contests to determine who will represent their parties in the race for the presidency .
republican presidential front-runner donald trump has made headlines for supporting a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states and controversial statements about immigrants .
but obama said the concern abroad is not limited to trump .
“ he may up the ante in anti-muslim sentiment , but if you look at what other republican candidates have said , that ’ s pretty troubling too , ” obama added .
noting that other countries rely on the united states to back sound science , obama also took aim at republican resistance to strong action on climate change as “ troubling to the international community. ” obama reiterated his confidence that ultimately americans would reject billionaire trump .
americans realize the next president will have access to the nuclear codes , have the power to send u.s. troops to war and may be tasked with keeping the banking system afloat , obama said .
“ they recognize that being president is a serious job .
it ’ s not hosting a talk show , or a reality show .
it ’ s not promotion or marketing , ” he said .
“ the american people are sensible , and i think they will make a sensible choice in the end. ” trump , a real estate mogul , was host of popular reality tv shows “ the apprentice ” and “ the celebrity apprentice ” before making his run for president .
asked about obama ’ s comments at a town hall style event in beaufort , south carolina , trump said obama had done a “ lousy job ” and would have been a one-term president if he had decided to challenge him in the last election .
“ this man has done such a bad job and set us back so far and for him to say that actually is a great compliment , ” trump said .
( additional reporting by steve holland ; writing by ayesha rascoe ; editing by eric beech and cynthia osterman ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .