there are no surprises with the results on the republican side tonight .
michigan and mississippi went for trump.but the democrat results coming in tonight are surprising for many reasons .
the most shocking is that bernie sanders is leading hillary clinton in michigan by a little over 3 % : clinton has maintained a double-digit lead in nearly all polls of michigan , the party s second-biggest state in terms of delegates to vote so far .
but sanders has visited the state repeatedly in recent weeks , believing its economically hard-hit areas should be receptive to his message of combating economic inequality .
if he can pull out a surprise victory , his campaign team believes , it will quiet the naysayers questioning his viability after clinton s sweeping wins in last week s super tuesday contests .
it would also allow him to argue that he s a truly national candidate , while most of clinton s big victory s have been in the south.another shocking item is that exit polls in michigan said 60 % of democrats believe hillary clinton is honest and trustworthy wow !
that s a crazy exit poll ! michigan presidential primaries resultsoverall michigan presidential primaries results democratic 36.7 % reporting b. sanders 51.7 % 217,424 h. clinton 46.5 % 195,306 10republican 36.3 % reporting winner d. trump 37.2 % 200,388 j. kasich 25.6 % 137,866 t. cruz 23.6 % 127,403 m. rubio 9.1 % 48,905 one of the inside baseball items that s interesting is that we re hearing many democrats in michigan crossed over to vote for kasich to try and defeat trump .
interesting because hillary is losing to bernie right now .
could those crossover votes been the demise of hillary in michigan ? detroit hillary clinton swept to a widely-expected early victory in mississippi on tuesday , but all eyes were on michigan as polls started to close there at 8 p.m. and bernie sanders jumped to a small early lead.the vermont senator whose campaign has long seen michigan as a strategically important state held a tight margin over the former secretary of state , but very few results were in from wayne county , the home of detroit , where clinton is likely to perform well .
clinton s victory in mississippi , a heavily african-american southern state , was called as soon as polls closed , following the pattern set by her easy wins across the south starting with south carolina in february .
bernie sanders barely competed in mississippi , choosing to focus on the other state voting on tuesday.neither clinton nor sanders were in michigan tuesday night , but their absence doesn t imply indifference .
both candidates have campaigned hard in the state sanders for the chance to gain ground on the former secretary of state , and clinton to close the door on his candidacy with a win in a competitive , delegate-rich state.initial exit polling in michigan showed just over three-fifths of democratic voters believed both candidates policies are about right on the ideological scale , according to abc news .
about 60 percent of voters said clinton was honest and trustworthy , versus about 80 percent who said the same of sanders .
and around 60 percent said honesty or empathy was the most important attribute for a candidate slightly more than the four-in-10 who said electability or experience was most important.read more : politico