beijing ( reuters ) - zuo aining has always been a striver , always making plans .
after excelling in high school in the rustbelt city of changchun , in northeast china , she was exempted from the country s dreaded college entrance exam when a leading business university in beijing offered her early acceptance .
after graduating from the school , university of international business and economics with a degree in business english , she got to work on her next plan .
zuo dreamed of going abroad to study , an increasingly common path for the children of the affluent families that have proliferated in china after years of breakneck growth .
she applied to george washington university in washington , d.c. , which her parents - her father is an accountant , her mother a technician for electronic instruments - were able to afford .
she was accepted , and earned a master s degree in accounting , which landed her a job as a tax consultant in washington .
her plans to stay on in the united states were threatened after she failed to get a coveted u.s. work visa for two straight years in the annual lottery .
that meant zuo had to sign up for expensive mba courses at a night school to keep her legal status as a student .
at the same time , she worked full time for an accounting firm , until she finally got her visa last year in her third attempt .
but now , after achieving her dream , zuo - the granddaughter of former soldiers in the people s liberation army - has been looking wistfully at her homeland .
she has always had clear career goals , but also a strong sense of pride in her country .
in college , she spent the summer of 2009 marching with schoolmates in preparation for a huge parade that october in beijing s tiananmen square to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the founding of the people s republic of china .
zuo and her marching cohort only flashed on tv screens around the country for a few seconds , among the tens of thousands of others also participating .
but it was a proud moment for her and her parents .
now , as she watches china s rise with equal pride , she wonders if it s time to go back .
many industries in china are developing rapidly , it is likely that china might surpass the u.s. in terms of technology and market one day , she said .
relaxing in a park in beijing , where she returned this autumn to take care of some official paperwork , zuo said she was stunned by the changes she saw in china .
the advances in financial technology , fast rendering chinese cities cashless , were surprising .
things like app-linked bike sharing , which has become ubiquitous in chinese cities , amazed her .
something new started gnawing at her .
this time back in china the feeling that i have is one of worry that it would be very easy to be left behind if i return to the u.s. , she said .
that might make her recalibrate her plans , she said .
my life is going as i planned five years ago , she said thoughtfully .
but , if there is a better platform and opportunity for me to do what i want to do , i will come back without any hesitation .