bill clinton was in philly today and got swamped by protesters holding signs about black lives matter or benghazi .
it was ugly but what was even worse is bill decided to give the blm protesters a dose of truth .
that didn t go over too well and probably didn t win hillary any votes .
it was a squirm-worthy moment in politics one sign read : hillary is a murderer clinton got in a heated argument with black lives matter protesters as he was campaigning for his wife hillary clinton in philadelphia , battling the protesters over his passage of criminal justice reform.clinton tried to address the protesters , but they continued to yell over his answer .
here s the thing , i like protesters .
but the ones who won t let you answer are afraid of the truth , he told the crowd to applause.the former president noted that hillary had nothing to do with his reforms , but defended them anyways .
because of that bill , we had a 25-year low in crime , a 33-year low in the murder rate , and listen to this , because of that and the background check law , a 46-year low in the deaths of people of gun violence .
and how do you think those lives were , that mattered ?
whose lives were saved , that mattered ?
one of the protesters yelled that bill should be charged with crimes against humanity .
ohohohoho !
clinton responded .
i don t know how you would characterize the gang leaders who got 13-year-old kids hopped up on crack and sent them out on the street to murder other african-american children , a now visibly angry clinton shot back .
maybe you thought they were good citizens you are defending the people who kill the people whose lives you say matter !
clinton continued to call out the protesters for talking over his answers .
they re afraid of the truth , he told the crowd .
they re afraid of the truth .
bill clinton getting protested hard in philly over the crime & welfare bills.this is going to get its own headlines pic.twitter.com/jmyitwujm3 andrew jerell jones ( @ sluggahjells ) april 7 , 2016via : mediate