kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian investigators fear corruption probes could get buried because the national anti-corruption bureau will soon be flooded by thousands of old cases and recently passed legislation could further hobble their work .
their comments spotlight kiev s patchy record on fighting corruption , which has delayed billions in aid from international donors who have supported ukraine since the 2014 maidan protests brought pro-western forces to power .
they come after the nabu anti-corruption bureau launched an investigation this week into an allied crime-fighting agency over extortion allegations .
from monday , 3,500 cases that were registered before december 2015 will be transferred from the prosecutor s office to nabu , which include for example investigations that may pertain to former donald trump campaign chief paul manafort .
nabu began life in late 2015 and was given an exemption on investigating cases that opened before its creation , which expires on monday .
nabu wants the exemption extended , saying its 200-strong team of detectives can not cope with the extra work .
in an interview with reuters on thursday , nabu spokeswoman svitlana olifira said there was a risk that all current investigations by ( nabu ) detectives may be blocked .
serhii horbatiuk , head of special investigations at the general prosecutor s office , said the old cases would be sent to nabu to ensure no-one looks at them .
his investigations include two cases related to manafort s work in ukraine .
they will simply lie around and not be looked at , he said in an interview at his office .
my opinion is that this is done deliberately to ensure that crimes linked to former senior officials are either simply not investigated , or obstacles are created that prevent it ( the investigation ) .
the restructuring ( of law enforcement ) is being used to ensure investigations don t take place , he added .
neither nabu nor horbatiuk accused anyone by name of trying to block investigations .
nabu appealed to president petro poroshenko to veto legislation passed in october which it believes will also harm investigations .
the law , according to nabu , will put too strict limits on the time allowed for an investigation before it can be dismissed , while also making it more cumbersome for police to obtain permission from courts to open probes .
we urge the president to examine this bill thoroughly and to refrain from signing the current version , olifira said , saying the bill could bring about the collapse of ukraine s whole law enforcement system .
the president s office did not immediately respond to a request for comment .