the children were nestled all snug in their beds when oops !
an illegal alien pedophile slipped through their window .
these worst of the worst criminals are crossing our borders every day as our us border agents are given the stand down order by a man so hell-bent on a one-party system that he will risk the safety and security of our children and grandchildren .
barack obama s kids will never have to worry about safety , because we the taxpayer will ensure that for the rest of their lives , they will be protected from the massive number of unchecked pedophiles and violent sexual offenders flowing across our open borders .
this is an outrage !
yet the political pundits on the left seem to be baffled by donald trump s popularity with the american voter go figure mcallen , texas illegal aliens with previous convictions for sexual crimes continue to be a regular sight for u.s. border patrol agents working in this border region.on wednesday , the rio grande valley sector ( rgv ) of the u.s. border patrol confirmed to breitbart texas that they had arrested five criminal aliens with a history of sexual offenses including a guatemalan man who is considered a sexually violent predator .
on sunday , agents caught a group of seven illegal aliens near the river and when they took them to the station for processing learned that one of them identified as walter leonel vasquez zacarias was a violent sexual predator , court records obtained by breitbart texas revealed.court records revealed that vasquez zacarias had been convicted of aggravated sexual battery victim under 13 years of age in march 20 , 2009 .
for that offense , vasquez was initially arrested on june 16 , 2008 in augusta county , virginia and after his conviction was sentenced to 10 years in prison , but for unknown reasons , eight years from his sentence were suspended and he was deported in march 30 , 2010 through houston.vasquez continues to be listed in various search engines as a violent sexual predator.in recent days , agents arrested four other criminal aliens with a sexually based criminal history , information provided to breitbart texas by border patrol revealed .
one of the aliens was from guatemala and he had a previous conviction for aggravated sexual battery of a victim under the age of 13 .
another of the aliens was also from guatemala and he had a conviction for aggravated criminal sexual abuse .
two other aliens from mexico had convictions for indecent liberties with a child and the other for sexual assault .
border patrol agents remain vigilant in their efforts to protect this nation from all threats including predators and convicted criminals attempting to illegally enter the country , said chief patrol agent manuel padilla jr. in a prepared statement .
thanks to the hard work of border patrol agents , these dangerous criminals were unable to make it into our communities .
via : breitbart news