sean spicer resigned today from his position in president trump s administration .
he tweeted out after his resignation a very gracious message of thanks : it s been an honor & a privilege to serve @ potus @ realdonaldtrump & this amazing country .
i will continue my service through august sean spicer ( @ presssec ) july 21 , 2017it was speculated that it was a blow when the trump administration announced yesterday that anthony scaramucci had joined the trump administration as white house communications director.a few things scaramucci move is also a blow to spicer , who has sought to have comms director report to him , as dubke did .
no chance here maggie haberman ( @ maggienyt ) july 21 , 2017nydn reported : spicer , who will stay on through august , told the president he vehemently disagreed with his choice for the top communications post , and his distaste was evident when reporters approached him about the appointment.abc news white house correspondent johnathan karl said the former press secretary slammed the door in my face when he questioned him on scaramucci , chalking it up to strange times .
the press is using this move as a sign that the trump administration is collapsing and in chaos : chris wallace : there is a game of thrones quality to this @ whitehouse ; you do have various power centers that are colliding w/ each other .
pic.twitter.com/9molvrfxep fox news ( @ foxnews ) july 21 , 2017chris wallace speculated about the move with a somewhat negative view of how this will harm communications between congress and the trump administration he s clueless ! after thanking sean spicer , scaramucci made his first announcement as communications director that sarah huckabee sanders will be the new press secretary : wh communications dir .
scaramucci : sean is a true american patriot i love the guy and i wish him well https : //t.co/zkxpkbpkew nbc news ( @ nbcnews ) july 21 , 2017rush limbaugh concluded his radio broadcast today by saying he thinks scaramucci won t work in this position .
after listening to the press conference , limbaugh said it s clear that scaramucci was appointed to make the press understand and like president trump .
not gon na happen !