johannesburg ( reuters ) - a group of investigative journalists whose slogan is digging dung , fertilizing democracy is holding south african president jacob zuma to account over his widely criticized links to a family of wealthy businessmen .
amabhungane , which means dung beetles in the zulu language , was founded by three veteran reporters to expose wrongdoing in south africa .
together with online news site the daily maverick , amabhungane in june released leaked emails and documents that they said showed allegedly improper dealings in government contracts and influence peddling by the guptas , a family with close ties to zuma .
zuma and the gupta family , which has said the emails were fake , have denied wrongdoing .
co-founder stefaans brummer said amabhungane , which was founded in 2010 , had spent several years probing zuma s family business dealings , and had verified the authenticity of the leaked documents .
our very first stories as amabhungane was a series called zuma inc and we looked at the zuma family and how its business fortunes had grown since zuma took the office of president , brummer said .
he said the gupta name popped up in several of amabhungane s inquiries into zuma s family business links and the organization was well placed to process the trove of information in more than 100,000 emails and documents .
you fight hard for every piece of information and when something like this happens it s like christmas , you suddenly have a lot of information , said brummer .
brummer said amabhungane , which mostly uses external hard drives to store documents for safety reasons , had sent a copy of the leaked gupta emails to the organized crime and corruption reporting project - a global consortium of investigative journalism centers .
reuters has not independently been able to verify the allegations in the so-called guptaleaks emails , sent between the gupta brothers and their associates .
the allegations , which came after an anti-corruption watchdog report into claims of influence peddling , opened zuma up to renewed scrutiny and deepened divisions within the ruling african national congress .
zuma survived an attempt in parliament to force him from office on aug. 8 , but he was left politically wounded after some anc members voted with the opposition .
it s quite amazing that people in south africa have woken up to state capture now in 2017 when amabhungane have been exposing this for a decade , said glenda daniels , a senior media studies lecturer at the university of the witwatersrand .
perhaps the nature of their exposes were rather intense and detailed for people to follow .
maybe they have now let some air into their writing and everyone is getting it .
as a non-profit company , amabhungane s 8 million rand ( $ 600,000 ) annual budget is funded by grants from charitable foundations and public donations .
it does not sell adverts or accept funds from the government or from companies .
sam sole , another amabhungane co-founder , said his desire to expose society s injustices drove him into journalism .
both sole and brummer started their journalism careers before the end of apartheid in 1994 .
during my subsequent conscription into the defense force i came face to face with the sharp , brutish reality of apartheid - and that was the impetus for my first piece of journalism , said sole .
journalism , for me , was a way to fight against injustice .
the third amabhungane co-founder , adriaan basson , is now editor of news24 , an online news site .
sole and brummer have won numerous journalism awards , including for their reporting on a 30 billion rand ( $ 2.3 billion ) deal to buy military equipment in the late 1990s that was plagued by allegations of fraud and corruption .
zuma was linked to the deal through his former financial adviser , who was jailed for corruption .
the president said last year that an investigation into the deal found no evidence of wrongdoing , but critics denounced the findings as a cover-up .
all charges against zuma were dropped in 2009 , but a court last year ordered a review of the decision .
zuma is appealing the ruling .
the arms deal scandal lasted much longer and was much slower burning , which gave us time to develop some of the skills we use now , sole said .
for amabhungane , the aim was to probe the link between politics and money .
we set ourselves a target of trying to find that sweet spot of where organized crime , politics and business intersect , brummer said .
politics has its good side but it has its bad side , business has its good side and its bad side , organized crime is all bad , but there is always that intersection where the three come together and that s where you get the worst wrongdoing .
but amabhungane has been accused by a group called black first land first and some on social media of being run by racist white men and not doing enough stories on white monopoly capital , a phrase used to describe the fact that the white minority still control much of the economy .
brummer said the criticism has not deterred amabhungane .
we are not going to roll over and die .
investigative journalism is what we do and what we like to do , he said .