beirut/geneva ( reuters ) - a syrian government delegation will arrive in geneva on wednesday , a day later than expected , to attend peace talks being held there this week , syrian state news agency sana said .
the delegation had delayed its planned departure for the talks , which begin on tuesday , because of the opposition s insistence that syrian president bashar al-assad step down .
\ the united nations special envoy for syria , staffan de mistura , said the government and opposition would have a chance to negotiate directly for the first time , but it was not clear if they would choose to do so .
we are going to offer it .
we will see if this takes place .
but we will be offering that , he said after meeting the opposition delegation .
de mistura has received assurances that the syrian government delegation will attend the talks , u.n. spokeswoman alessandra vellucci told a geneva news briefing .
at least we know that they are coming , she said , declining to give details on who transmitted the message from damascus .
de mistura said the government had accepted a russian suggestion of a ceasefire in the besieged rebel-held enclave of eastern ghouta near damascus .
bombardment on the area killed three people on tuesday , a war monitor said earlier .
a delegation from the newly-unified syrian opposition , which arrived in the swiss city on monday , is due to hold a first meeting with de mistura later on tuesday , she said .
in an emailed statement , the opposition negotiating committee said it was ready to meet the government side .
it ( the government ) no longer has the pretext that the opposition is fragmented .
we are one .
we are ready to negotiate directly with the other side , said yahya aridi , the head of the negotiation committee .
earlier , the pro-damascus syrian newspaper al-watan reported that the syrian government delegation to an eighth round of peace talks in geneva this week has not yet left damascus .
it had reported on monday that the delay was because of the opposition s insistence that assad step down , which he has refused to do .
nasr hariri , head of the opposition delegation , told a geneva news conference on monday night that he is aiming for assad s removal as a result of negotiations .
the government delegation will be headed by syria s u.n. ambassador and chief negotiator bashar al-ja afari , sana said .
a breakthrough in the talks is seen as unlikely as assad and his allies push for total military victory in syria s civil war , now in its seventh year , and his opponents stick by their demand he leave power .