monica crowley , conservative radio host , fox news analyst , columnist & editor of the washington times , bestselling author and loyal supporter of donald trump has been chosen as trump s senior director of strategic communications for the national security council .
we are huge fans of the brilliant , outspoken monica crowley .
she is unafraid to defend conservatism and will take on just about anyone who challenges her views even her own brother-in-law .
we have yet to see her lose a battle to a liberal .
that s probably what attracted trump to her in the first place .
but did you know who her snarky liberal brother-in-law is ?
and did you know she was sitting next to him when bill o reilly had what was considered his most explosive show in the history of the o reilly factor ? earlier today , president-elect trump announced his choice of retired army lt. gen. keith kellogg as chief of staff and executive secretary of the national security council and monica crowley as , a transition source tells washington examiner.trump s transition officially announced the appointments thursday afternoon .
the united states is an exceptional country and these are two exceptional individuals who have agreed to fulfill the president-elect s pledge of putting america first once again , mike flynn , trump s national security advisor-designate , said in a statement .
i am honored to have general kellogg and dr. crowley on the national security council team .
i am deeply honored , humbled and grateful to be asked by the president-elect to join the extraordinary national security team he is assembling , crowley said .
with vision , courage and moral clarity , he is committed fully to re-establishing america s singular place in the world .
he is also committed to selecting the best people for the jobs of keeping the american people safe and the country secure .
it will be a great privilege to serve with them .
washington examinermany of monica crowley s fans are surprised when they find out that her conservative sister is married to alan colmes , the ultra-liberal radio talk-show host who first gained attention when he co-hosted a fox news show with sean hannity called , hannity and colmes .
bill o reilly brought on alan colmes and monica crowley in 2013 to talk about president obama s seeming reticence to offer any meaningful spending cuts , but most of the segment involved o reilly getting into a shouting match with colmes over colmes not being able , as o reilly viewed it , to provide concrete examples of what obama wants to cut .
o reilly repeatedly shouted at colmes , called him a liar , and declared his claims to be bull-blank .
watch monica crowley , a hard-core advocate of conservatism sit back and let her leftist brother-in-law defend to his liberal views , of which she knew he couldn t back up with a legitimate argument.https : //youtu.be/ycbmceaokke ? t=2min30snot one to back down when she feels strongly about her position , monica crowley defended bill o reilly s attack of her whiny , liberal brother-in-law alan colmes , to imus while she was a guest on his imus in the morning show : in a world where liberals have been effectively silencing conservatives over their opposing views , it s great to see someone like monica crowley stand up for what she believes in , especially when the views are those of her outspoken liberal brother-in-law