( reuters ) - u.s. oil and gas executives bet big on 2016 republican presidential candidate jeb bush - they donated more to his white house run than to all of his rivals combined , according to a reuters review of campaign disclosures .
but that was last year .
now bush faces what party strategists and donors view as a make or break moment on saturday in south carolina ’ s republican primary , or early nominating contest .
polls show him trailing in the single digits .
if he fails to do well , there will be pressure on him to quit , strategists say , and the oil money will be looking for a new home .
the main beneficiaries in the republican race would likely be ted cruz , a u.s .
senator from texas , and marco rubio , a u.s .
senator from florida .
after bush , the two candidates received the most contributions from the oil and gas industry , according to the reuters review .
when bush entered the white house race last year , the petroleum sector saw him as their natural choice : he was the son and brother of former presidents and he came from a west texas family with historically close ties to the oil industry .
“ bush is part of a family that is a friendly face to the oil industry , ” said sarah emerson , director of energy security analysis inc. in boston .
he drew more than $ 2 million from the chief executive officers of companies like exxon mobil ( xom.n ) , halliburton ( hal.n ) , kinder morgan ( kmi.n ) , and chief oil & gas in 2015 , making up about 56 percent of all the industry ’ s contributions to the race so far , according to the review .
the review covered contributions from 75 oil and gas companies , their employees , and their political action committees to presidential candidates ’ campaigns and allied super pacs .
when counting donations only to republican candidates ’ campaigns , employees favored cruz among the republicans , with bush in second place and rubio in third .
( click here for a graphic on oil and gas money in the u.s. presidential race : tmsnrt.rs/24cw28e ) several of bush ’ s biggest oil ceo donors have links to his family .
richard kinder of kinder morgan , for example , campaigned for george h.w .
bush ’ s run for the white house in 1992 , and for george w. bush ’ s run in 2004 .
halliburton ’ s ceo , david lesar , meanwhile , succeeded dick cheney after george w. bush nominated him vice president in 2000 .
“ some of those people may be thinking support can get them a place in bush-world , ” said one washington d.c.-based oil industry lobbyist , who asked not to be named .
“ the question is , where does that money go if bush bleeds out ? ” bush is now running in fifth place among seven republicans in a national reuters/ipsos poll .
he has just 8 percent support leading into saturday ’ s primary , compared with front-runner donald trump ’ s 40 percent .
cruz and rubio came second and third in the poll with 17 percent and 11 percent , respectively .
donations directly from oil companies and their political action committees or pacs have been practically nil – suggesting that millions of dollars remain on the sidelines of the race that could be deployed once the field of candidates narrows .
this year ’ s election is particularly important to oil and gas executives because of a steep slump in energy prices that has slashed profits and worries that another democratic president could strengthen curbs on drilling and carbon emissions introduced by president barack obama .
“ there is a pronounced partisan agenda on energy , ” said robert mcnally , founder and president of the washington-based global energy consultancy the rapidan group , explaining the two parties have moved farther apart on energy policy .
“ there ’ s no middle of the road anymore , ” he said .
as a group , oil and gas company ceos have doled out nearly $ 3.2 million in support of presidential candidates so far – more than three times more than all oil company employees did in the equivalent period of the 2012 race .
one million dollars of that went to texas gov .
rick perry , who dropped out in september .
the ceos are not alone in giving big .
some families that made their cash in the oil industry have also been major donors , like the wilks brothers of texas , who have given cruz ’ s super pac $ 15 million .
the biggest oil company ceo donations to current candidates have come from the heads of kinder morgan and chief oil and gas , at more than $ 1 million each to bush ’ s campaign and his allied right to rise usa super pac , according to the filings to the federal election commission .
rubio , meanwhile , took some $ 38,000 from chief executives at devon energy ( dvn.n ) , agl ( agl.ax ) , and atmos ( ato.n ) .
cruz received no money from energy company ceos .
individual donations from oil company employees who were not ceos appeared to favor democratic hopeful hillary clinton , who took in more than $ 110,000 .
cruz was next with nearly $ 105,000 .
( editing by ross colvin ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .