if you haven t heard , donald trump jr. recently tweeted out emails between himself and rob goldstone , a right-wing opposition researcher who was acting as an intermediary between a kremlin-connected russian lawyer who promised harmful information about hillary clinton.goldstone arranged a meeting between russian government attorney natalia veselnitskaya and trump jr. at trump tower on june 9 of last year where he would receive the information as part of russia and its government s support of the trump campaign.here is page 4 ( which did not post due to space constraints ) .
pic.twitter.com/z1xi4nr2gq donald trump jr. ( @ donaldjtrumpjr ) july 11 , 2017the meeting was attended by veselnitskaya , trump jr. , ivanka trump s husband jared kushner and former trump campaign manager paul manafort .
apparently , goldstone was there too because he checked in on facebook at trump tower for the meeting : '' preparing for meeting . ''
i 'm dying !
pic.twitter.com/jc5uppuyhq shari nilsson ( @ sharicn ) july 11 , 2017he was also there in february , though the reason is yet unknown.interestingly , goldstone celebrated trump s election by posting this picture to instagram : here 's his instagram day after election pic.twitter.com/ixgjcdoado maggyresistant ( @ maggyw519 ) july 11 , 2017just for fun , here are a couple more photos of him that people have found showing him to be a truly stand-up individual : well , you are talking about this guy pic.twitter.com/qpjsab6wbe princess leah ?
( @ princessleahsh ) july 11 , 2017 pic.twitter.com/hz2vknxnqy don the con ( @ lyindonthecon ) july 11 , 2017just in case the donald tries to weasel out of this by saying that he has never personally met goldstone or veselnitskaya , here s a photo of that happening : also have to love the photographic evidence of trump and goldstone previously meeting .
here they are together .
goldstone is circled .
pic.twitter.com/fzdsgu4yeg trial lawyer richard ( @ triallawyerrich ) july 11 , 2017one thing to note that that , according to goldstone s timeline , the meeting happened at around 4 pm .
at 4:40 pm , trump tweeted about hillary s emails.how long did it take your staff of 823 people to think that up and where are your 33,000 emails that you deleted ?
https : //t.co/geclntqizq donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 9 , 2016let s be clear here : trump jr. knew the information he would receive was coming from a hostile dictatorship .
he was told that it was part of the russian government s backing of his father .
he went anyway.trump jr. recently hired a criminal defense lawyer.featured image via instagram