seoul/washington ( reuters ) - north korea has threatened to shoot down u.s. bombers flying near the korean peninsula , but it would have difficulty matching its words with action given aging air defense systems mostly dating to the cold war , military experts said .
in intensifying rhetoric between the united states and north korea during the past week , president donald trump said the u.s. would destroy the country if it threatened the u.s. or its allies .
pyongyang s foreign minister ri yong ho responded that trump had declared war and north korea reserved the right to take countermeasures , including shooting down u.s. bombers , even if they were not in its air space .
in a show of force on saturday , u.s. air force b-1b lancer bombers escorted by fighters flew east of north korea , in what the pentagon said was the farthest north of the korean demilitarized zone that any u.s. fighter jet or bomber has flown in the 21st century .
the supersonic b-1b bombers have elaborate electronic countermeasures and are usually escorted by four f-15 fighters , which are likely to prevail in any air combat with north korea s aging air force , said bruce bennett , a military expert at the rand corporation think tank .
( and ) if the north koreans try to overwhelm the f-15 escorts by sending up dozens of their fighters , the united states will know that is happening , and would have the option of flying away from north korea and heading towards japan , bennett said .
north korea could attempt to fire surface-to-air missiles at the u.s. aircraft , but its systems would barely have the range to strike targets outside of north korean airspace , missile experts said .
if u.s. planes remain off-shore , they would be reasonably safe , said michael elleman , a missile expert at the international institute for strategic studies .
much less shoot them down , it is not even clear whether north korea would be able to detect some modern-day u.s. aircraft .
in 1969 , north korea mig-21 aircraft did shoot down a u.s. navy ec-121 aircraft on a reconnaissance mission , which crashed 90 miles off the north korean coast and killed all 31 americans on board .
but that aircraft was of an aged design based on the constellation airliner dating back to the 1940s .
the latest u.s. fighter jets have stealth capability designed to avoid detection and north korea s military is known to be incapable of operating radar systems around the clock because supplies of energy are low , south korean government official said , asking not to be identified .
due to hurdles from sanctions and oil shortages , i m not sure whether fighters would be able to even return from a mission , said park dae-kwang , an expert on north korea s air defense at south korea s state-run korea institute for defense analyses .
north korea has roughly 810 fighter planes , according to south korea s 2016 defense ministry white paper .
but officials and experts say most of these , largely of old soviet and chinese origin , are severely outdated and have been plagued with accidents .
in 2014 , three aged north korean fighter jets crashed in training over the course of two months , according to south korean officials at the time .
i doubt very much that any of the north korean aircraft would be successful taking on our fighter escorts , said david maxwell of center for security studies , the walsh school of foreign service , georgetown university .
last week , north korea seemed to be unaware that the u.s. b-1b bombers had even been dispatched as it took no action to counter the u.s. patrol at that time , a south korean lawmaker who was briefed by south korea s spy agency said on tuesday .
washington appeared to have disclosed the flight path of its b-1b bombers intentionally after the non response , the lawmaker said .
a pentagon spokesman said : we won t confirm what north korea did or did not know about our b-1b flight on the 23rd , but the mission was completed without incident .
in 1981 , the north koreans tried but failed to shoot down a u.s. sr-71 blackbird spy plane with a surface-to-air missile .
north korea s best chance of shooting down a u.s. plane would likely be with its kn-06 surface-to-air missile system , which its leader kim jong un declared perfect in may after previous defects in earlier testing had been addressed .
the kn-06 appeared to be based on russia s s-300 system with a range of about 150 km ( 93 miles ) , said george hutchinson , managing editor of the international journal of korean studies , and a former u.s. air force officer .
hutchinson said it was a more advanced system and presents concerns because it is a road-mobile transportable system it can be moved around to enhance its effectiveness and survivability .
however , it is not known how reliable the system is given it has only recently gone into operation , analysts said .
another missile system , the sa-5 , has a longer range of 250 km ( 155 miles ) but it relies on old technology which u.s. aircraft could beat , rand corp s bennett said .
north korea has deployed sa-5 and sa-2 surface-to-air missile systems near the inter-korean border and on its east and west coasts , according to south korea s defense ministry .
some analysts said north korea s comments on monday may have been aimed more toward where the b-1b bombers usually come from - the u.s. military base on the pacific island territory of guam , which pyongyang has threatened to attack with its intermediate-range hwasong-12 missiles .
the pentagon said the b-1b bombers came from guam and their fighter escorts came from okinawa , japan .
they will probably try to strike u.s. aircraft if they ever enter north korean airspace , but their anti-aircraft missiles are limited , said kim dong-yub , a military expert and analyst at south korea s institute for far eastern studies .
i feel this is more closely linked to north korea s previous threat they would hit the waters near guam .
missile expert elleman said his main concern was that any north korean defensive move could quickly lead to all-out conflict .
what i worry about is north korea painting a u.s. plane with a radar as if it were about to launch a weapon , he said .
that might prompt a defensive reaction to suppress the air defenses of north korea , either electronically or kinetically .
if north korea fires something , the risks of miscalculation , escalation , grow enormously .