london ( reuters ) - just four weeks after a blind date with u.s. actress meghan markle that left him beautifully surprised , britain s prince harry took his wife-to-be on a trip to botswana to camp under the stars in his tent .
harry , 33 , queen elizabeth s grandson and fifth-in-line to the british throne , and markle , 36 , best known for her role in the u.s. tv legal drama suits , got engaged this month at their cottage in london over a roast chicken dinner .
in their first broadcast interview since announcing the news earlier on monday , harry and markle held hands as they discussed the moment of their proposal and their courtship .
it was just an amazing surprise .
it was so sweet and natural , and very romantic .
he got on one knee , markle said .
i could barely let you finish proposing .
i said , can i say yes now ?
harry said that he had not watched the show which made markle s name , and markle too was relatively unfamiliar with britain s royal family before meeting harry .
i had never watched suits , i had never heard of meghan before and i was beautifully surprised when i walked into that room and saw her .
i was like , ok well i m going to have to really up my game here , harry said .
it was i think about three maybe four weeks later that i managed to persuade her to come and join me in botswana and we camped out with each other under the stars .
harry and markle , who is a divorcee , met in july 2016 after they were introduced through a friend who set them up on a blind date .
but it was not until september that they made their first public appearance together at the invictus games in toronto , a sports event for wounded veterans .
they are due to marry in the spring of next year .
the fact that i fell in love with meghan so incredibly quickly was confirmation to me that all the stars were aligned , everything was just perfect , harry said .
this beautiful woman just tripped and fell into my life , i fell into her life .
the prince , the younger son of heir-to-the-throne prince charles and his first wife diana , publicly confirmed their relationship months later in a rebuke to the media over its alleged intrusion into markle s private life .
as she got to know harry , markle learnt about the huge amount of public scrutiny that the royals face , and she said she was not prepared for the level of attention their relationship would have .
i did not have any understanding of just what it would be like , she said , saying there was a misconception that because she was an actress she would be used to being in the media spotlight .
in his office s warning to the media , harry referred to the sexism and racism directed at markle , whose father is white and her mother african-american .
harry said he had to warn his future wife about the media attention they would face .
any the end of day i m really just proud of who i am and where i come from and we have never put any focus on that , she said .
we were just hit so hard at the beginning with a lot of mistruths .
markle said she had met queen elizabeth , who she said was an incredible woman .
harry quipped that the queen s corgis had taken to her straight away despite barking at him for years .
markle showed off her three-stone engagement ring set in yellow gold , which features a diamond from botswana and two other gems from the collection of his mother , diana , who died in a car crash in 1997 .
it s beautiful , and he designed it .
it s incredible ... obviously not being able to meet his mum , it s so important to me to know that she s a part of this with us , markle said , turning to harry as she spoke about the ring .
it s incredibly special to be able to have this , which sort of links where you come from , and botswana , which is important to us , it s perfect .