islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistan s interior ministry has called for the electoral commission to bar from politics a new party backed by an islamist with a $ 10 million u.s. bounty on his head , a government document seen by reuters showed on thursday .
in a letter dated sept. 22 , the ministry recommended that the election commission of pakistan reject the newly formed milli muslim league s ( mml ) application to become an official party as it is affiliated with lashkar-e-tayyeba ( let ) , a militant group blamed for the 2008 mumbai attacks that killed 166 people .
the registration of mml is not supported , the ministry said in the two-page document .
spokesmen for the election commission and the interior ministry acknowledged the correspondence and confirmed that the letter was authentic .
the united states has designated let founder hafiz saeed , who currently heads the jamaat-ud-dawa islamic charity , a terrorist .
it views him as the mastermind of the 2008 mumbai attacks and has offered a $ 10 million reward for information leading to his imprisonment .
saeed is currently under house arrest .
pakistan s reluctance to press charges against him has been a sore point in relations with washington and india over the past decade .
the ministry said mml is ideologically of the same hue as let and its affiliated charities jamaat-ud-dawa ( jud ) and the falah-e-insanyat foundation ( fif ) .
tabish qayyum , a spokesman for the mml , said in a statement that the ministry s letter was unlawful .
mml isn t a bus or truck which needs registration , he said , denying that mml had links with any banned militant group .
the ministry s stance appears at odds with what political sources and a retired army general have said is a plan proposed by the military s inter services intelligence ( isi ) to mainstream some pakistan-based anti-indian militant groups as part of deradicalization efforts by bringing them into politics .
the interior ministry s letter was written a week after mml caused a stir by winning 5 percent of votes in a parliamentary by-election in lahore on sept. 17 .
the document said foreign countries have raised diplomatic objections to mml s existence and the interior ministry has sought the opinions of intelligence agencies on the group .
one of the agencies , the ministry said , has warned against letting proscribed and monitored organizations enter politics with a view to gaining legitimacy .
the interior ministry said the security agency has informed it that given the clamor , philosophy , outreach and modus operandi to operate , it is difficult to believe that mml will tread its own path completely at variance with its mother organization .
therefore , they have recommended that since the registration of such groups would breed violence and extremism in politics , as such registration of such groups be avoided .
in the lahore by-election , yaqoob sheikh , who swears loyalty to saeed , stood as an independent candidate but was backed by mml and had saeed s colleagues running his campaign .
saeed s portraits adorned posters promoting sheikh , who the united states has also designated a terrorist and a senior let commander .