does anyone remember these girls ? dixie who ? just days before the release of the drug cartel thriller sicario , actress emily blunt is taking more fire for saying during an interview last weekend she regrets becoming a u.s. citizen after watching the first republican presidential debate.the star told the hollywood reporter , i became an american citizen recently , and that night , we watched the republican debate and i thought , this was a terrible mistake .
what have i done ?
during the interview , blunt also described sen. elizabeth warren ( d-ma ) 15 % as pretty impressive .
tuesday , on fox & friends , co-host anna kooiman hit back hard at blunt for those and other comments , saying , you know what , then why don t you leave hollywood , california , and let some american women take on the roles that you re getting ?
because americans are watching your movies and lining your pockets .
co-host brian kilmeade agreed , saying , i agree with you .
longtime co-host steve doocy then compared blunt s comments to those made by the country group the dixie chicks , who never rebounded after making critical , anti-war comments of president george w. bush in 2003 .
you know what emily blunt just did ?
she just dixie chicked herself .
she has alienated half the country , and now will think twice about going to one of her movies , said doocy .
i actually didn t know she was , and i ve seen a lot of movies , kilmeade said.he added , congratulations you re an american citizen and you re very unhappy .
https : //youtu.be/h3dmvsasbaublunt doubled down on the comment tuesday during a conversation with people , when the mag asked her if filming the movie scared her .
you know , what scared me was watching the republican debate after becoming a citizen , she said at a new york screening of sicario.blunt has now appeared four times in the last week to make disparaging comments about becoming an american .
the actress became a naturalized citizen on aug. 4 in los angeles , ca.her comments are being portrayed by numerous media outlets as if they were made as a joke , while a number of those outlets are discounting fox & friends for holding her accountable for making them .
via : breitbart newshere she is on the jimmy kimmel show admitting that she looks down her nose at americans .
i m not sure i m entirely thrilled about it .
people ask me about the whole day .
they were like , oh , it must have been so emotional .
i was like , it wasn t !
it was sad !
i like being british .
: