caracas ( reuters ) - venezuela s opposition said on friday the pro-government election board was seeking to skew regional elections in favor of president nicolas maduro s ruling socialists by including the names of candidates defeated in primaries on the ballot .
after street protests that led to at least 125 deaths and failed to dislodge maduro earlier in the year , the opposition has shifted its focus to oct. 15 elections for the governors of venezuela s 23 states .
the socialists currently hold 20 states , but a crushing economic crisis has dented their popularity and the opposition now has majority support , polls show .
the democratic unity coalition is targeting winning 18 governorships , but fears a confusing electronic ballot sheet could hurt its vote .
despite opposition primaries to choose a single candidate per state from the several dozen parties in the coalition , the election board is keeping all the original aspirants names on .
so instead of seeing one opposition candidate versus one socialist party candidate , voters will see various faces of opposition candidates , potentially causing confusion and diluting the vote to the benefit of the government .
that s the fraud the government wants to commit , coalition official tomas guanipa told a news conference of the election board s stance , which was ratified by the similarly pro-maduro supreme court on thursday .
we invite all venezuelans who can see how the government is trying to mock them and put up obstacles , to come out and vote massively for the unity candidate in the states .
the government s tricks will become a boomerang .
election board officials did not respond to accusations of bias , but said the ballot was now set and would not be changed .
government officials have said the rules are fair , and the opposition is simply seeking to justify possible violent actions after the vote .
while the opposition wants the oct. 15 vote to demonstrate maduro s unpopularity and undermine his power at regional level , the government is trumpeting the election as proof against growing criticism venezuela has become a dictatorship .