justice the obama way instead of investigating whether planned parenthood illegally trafficked baby body parts , obama s doj is targeting the group behind the undercover videosthe u.s. department of justice announced plans to investigate the group that produced undercover videos showing planned parenthood employees admitting that they harvest and sell organs ripped from the bodies aborted babies .
politico reported the news of the coming doj investigation earlier today : justice to probe center for medical progress while congressional committees investigate planned parenthood s practices , the justice department agreed to look into whether the group that released the sting videos obtained the footage legally .
in response to a request by house democrats , attorney general loretta lynch said wednesday afternoon that justice would review all of the information and determine what the appropriate steps moving forward would be .
planned parenthood has staunchly defended its practices and claims that the center for medical progress illegally obtained its footage , then excessively edited it to misrepresent what the organization does .
the doj investigation of the center for medical progress , which , unlike planned parenthood , is not in the business of killing healthy , viable unborn babies in order to sell their organs for cash , was announced after several democratic lawmakers called for the organization to be targeted : four democrats in congress reps. jan schakowsky , zoe lofgren , jerry nadler , and yvette clarke have written to attorney general loretta lynch and california attorney general kamala harris , asking them to open investigations into the center for medical progress .
the democrats say the videos were filmed as part of an elaborate scheme using fake identification and without the approval of the planned parenthood doctor who appears in them .
it s interesting that lynch decided so early to make a statement about the group .
there are certainly more videos to come , and if planned parenthood s panicked press releases are any indication , the footage may be far more damaging than anything that s been revealed thus far .
however , given the abject politicization of multiple agencies under obama s command including the internal revenue service , which targeted conservative non-profits , and the doj , which has been hesitant to investigate obama allies it seems unlikely that lynch and those who report to her will ever crack down on abortion , inc.via : the federalist