london ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump s revised hardline policy towards iran will have little impact on tehran s ambition to develop its vital oil industry and attract foreign investment , a senior iranian official said on tuesday .
the islamic republic hopes to signs 10 new deals with foreign companies to develop oil and gas fields by march 2018 , amir zamaninia , iran s deputy oil minister for trade and international affairs , told the oil & money conference in london .
trump s decision last friday not to certify that iran was complying with last year s international deal on its nuclear power development program will not detract from tehran s plans , he said .
i don t think any of us , or any of our partners have been surprised by this statement .
our expectations of policy formulation from washington have been very measured , he said .
the ( u.s. ) statement and policy ... has little or no effect and implication on our future plan in the oil industry , zamaninia said .
iran is negotiating 28 contracts with foreign companies , including many of europe s top oil companies , under a new development contract , he added .
france s total ( totf.pa ) became in july the first western oil major to re-enter iran following the lifting of international sanctions with an agreement to develop the giant south pars offshore gas field .
total s chief executive officer said in an interview with international oil daily the company will wait to see the impact of trump s decision and that it will try to continue with it if the united states imposes unilateral sanctions .
we have signed a contract in iran .
if we can move forward , we ll move forward .
if we can not , we will have to stop , patrick pouyanne said .
royal dutch shell ( rdsa.l ) has also signed an agreement with iran for the possible development of oil and gas fields .
iran , which holds the world s largest gas reserves , plans to boost its gas production to 1.1 billion cubic meters per day by 2021 from the current 800 million bcm per day , zamaninia said .
the opec member also aims to raise its oil production capacity to 4.7 million barrels per day by 2021 from the current 3.8 million bpd , he said .
he said that the major oilfields - azadegan , yadavaran , abteymour and mansouri - have potential to increase output by 2 million bpd combined .