this entire situation with puerto rico reminds me of the bailouts with the financial industry .
it s just like the too big to fail mantra we all heard during the financial crisis .
obama has already sent a task force to assess the situation but to what end ?
yes , this might be one of those too big to fail situations that we really can t afford but under obama it s gon na happen gov .
alejandro garcia padilla is hoping to defer debt payments while negotiating with creditors , much as detroit was forced to do .
the governor warned that puerto rico can t pay its $ 72 billion public debt as international economists release a critical report on the island s economy , delivering another jolt to the recession-gripped u.s. island as well as a world financial system already worrying over greece s collapsing finances.gov .
alejandro garcia padilla is hoping to defer debt payments while negotiating with creditors , spokesman jesus manuel ortiz said sunday night .
detroit was forced to make a similar move with the help of emergency manager kevyn orr , who went on to try and dig atlantic city out of its own financial hole.by comparison , notes cnn , detroit shed $ 7 billion in debt over the course of its attempt to turn the financial ship around .
puerto rico s state-owned power company prepa is itself $ 9 billion in the red.garcia is expected to air a pre-recorded televised address as legislators continue to debate a $ 9.8 billion budget that calls for $ 674 million in cuts and sets aside $ 1.5 billion to help pay off the debt .
the budget has to be approved by tuesday .
ortiz confirmed comments by padilla that appeared in a report in the new york times published late sunday .
there is no other option .
i would love to have an easier option .
this is not politics , this is math , garcia is quoted as saying in the times.puerto rico s bonds were popular with u.s. mutual funds because they were tax-free , but hedge funds and distressed-debt buyers began stepping in to buy up debt as the island s economy worsened and its credit rating dropped .
garcia s comments will likely not have much impact on wall street , said economist jose villamil , a former u.n. consultant and ceo of an economic and planning consulting firm .
the markets are clear that puerto rico is heading to a direction of a restructuring or default , said the economist , adding that a voluntary restructuring by bondholders might be the best option .
the last four administrations have kicked the can down the road , said villamil .
at this point , there is no more can to kick .
so we re going to take some very strict measures and some very profound measures .
it s going to hurt , but there s no way out .
read more : daily mail