a caller to british radio host katie hopkins whose name is jessica , called into katie s show to relay a story to her about her formerly bleeding heart liberal husband who has come to have a hatred of a certain demographic after helping migrants who are arriving in migrant rescue boats .
jessica told hopkins , my husband is turning into a man i don t recognize anymore because of what he has physically seen .
jessica added that it was the way male migrants behaved in particular , that led to his change of heart.she told katie : it was a really , really traumatic time for him .
he was doing three-week stints and they were picking bodies out of the sea .
babies , women , it was awful .
but at the same time , he said they were processing men , adults , in their 30s who all had phones with isis stuff on the phones , they were being separated .
when they were being handed over to the authorities with the information explaining that these guys had all this on their phones , and what their ages were , and they were just being processed through .
there was nothing , they were just being separated out , they just all went through with everything else , it broke his heart , because he was dealing with families who were in such a terrible state with young babies who so clearly needed rescuing .
and yet you had adult males that were pushing women and children to the back of the queue they felt that they were more important .
it s just an awful situation , and this was last year .
he can t handle the way these women and children are treated by these men .
there were hundreds and hundreds of women , children , men who were being picked out of the sea .
not all of them were refugees .
he came home heartbroken .
absolutely heartbroken , because he s saying i don t know how europe is going to cope .she continued : how are we supposed to process that as individuals ?
you know , he still has images that he has to deal with over a year later .
we forget about the medics who deal with this , the soldiers that are dealing with this .
the people that are processing these people .
it s not just how are we going to process all these people , but how are we going to deal with the trauma of having to process these people ?
having to make these decisions ?
who do you treat first ?
a special thank you to paul joseph watson for this video : man who helped rescue refugees said many were men with isis content on phones who shoved women & children out of the way .
pic.twitter.com/wh08tlf4xy paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) may 3 , 2017katie asked the caller how her husband is doing currently after seeing the vast number of migrants rescued this year already.jessica said : my husband is turning into , it s why i stopped him doing it , he s turning into a man i don t recognise anymore .
because my family think i m a bleeding heart liberal , and you know , i would just wave everyone in and say come on , we ll help , and my husband was of a very similar opinion that people needed help .
he s now turning into someone i don t recognise , because of what he has physically seen .
he is starting to say this is not all people looking for help , there are people here who are out for their own self interest .
she added : it s just awful .
and now he is building a hatred of a certain demograph [ ic ] , that he has been exposed to because he s seen the way they behave .
lbcis it too late for europe ?
have they allowed this unabated invasion of migrants from majority muslim nations to their once culturally distinct nations for too long ?
what will these bleeding heart nations look like in 5 years ?
how long will americans sit back and allow bleeding heart liberals to call them racists or xenophobes because they don t want to see the fundamental transformation of the united states that barack obama promised would happen if we elected him as our president .
can president trump stop this nightmare without the help of a republican majority in both the house and senate ?