madrid ( reuters ) - spain will ask the leaders of france , italy and germany to discuss cross-border counter-terrorism at a summit in paris on monday , prime minister mariano rajoy said on friday after dual attacks in catalonia .
rajoy praised the police response despite mounting questions over poor communication between different investigators and an informal tip-off from belgium which failed to prevent spain s deadliest attacks in over a decade .
he told a news conference he wanted european union partners to analyze the current cooperation mechanisms ... and look at options to boost them and improve them .
a van plowed into a crowd in barcelona last week , killing 13 people .
two others were killed during the driver s getaway and in a separate car and knife attack in the catalan coastal resort of cambrils .
the assaults have drawn scrutiny over how intelligence is shared within europe as well as within spain , where regional police operate alongside national forces .
belgium gave police in catalonia , a region in northeastern spain , a tip-off in 2016 about one of the suspects , abdelbaki es satty , in the cell behind the attacks .
but the warning was made through unofficial channels .
catalan police records turned up nothing linking es satty , a moroccan-born imam who was living in the small catalan town of ripoll , to islamist militancy at the time .
authorities are also investigating possible french links to the cell as some of the attackers visited paris in the run-up to the assaults .
of the 12 suspects linked to the attacks , six were shot dead by police and two died in an explosion before the van rampage .
two are in custody on charges of murder and membership of a terrorist organization , and two have been freed on certain conditions .
rajoy sought to play down the rift between his government and separatist leaders in catalonia who plan an independence referendum on oct. 1. that madrid says would be illegal .
in the fight against terrorism , we are stronger if we set aside our differences ...
political unity is fundamental , rajoy said .
carles puigdemont , the catalonian leader , said in an interview published on friday that the spanish government had deliberately underfunded the region s police force .
we asked them not to play politics with security ...
unfortunately , the spanish government had other priorities , puigdemont told the financial times .
spain s king felipe and politicians from both madrid and catalonia plan to attend a demonstration in barcelona on saturday .
residents and local officials in cambrils , the scene of the second attack last week , were due to march on friday under the slogan we are all cambrils .