washington ( reuters ) - the white house is vetting federal appellate judge jane kelly for a possible u.s. supreme court nomination to replace the late justice antonin scalia , the new york times reported on wednesday , citing a person with knowledge of the process .
the fbi has been conducting background interviews on kelly , the times said , citing the unnamed source .
scalia , a long-serving conservative justice , died on feb. 13 .
the white house declined to comment on the report .
kelly , a white woman and former public defender , has served on the st. louis-based 8th u.s .
circuit court of appeals since april 2013 .
she was confirmed to the post by the senate on a 96-0 vote .
she had been mentioned by legal experts as a potential nominee in part because her earlier nomination to the appeals court was supported by iowa republican senator chuck grassley , the chairman of the senate judiciary committee that would review any supreme court nomination .
grassley said at the time that kelly was “ well regarded in my home state of iowa ” and that he was “ pleased to support ” her nomination .
kelly , 51 , served as a clerk for now-retired judge david hansen , a friend of grassley who served on the 8th u.s .
circuit court of appeals .
republican leaders have so far rebuffed president barack obama ’ s appeal to hold confirmation hearings and a vote on a nominee , including in a face-to-face meeting on tuesday at the white house that failed to budge them from their vow to block anyone he offers for the job .
republicans say the decision on who to nominate should be left to the next president , who takes office next january after the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election .
republicans hope to win back the white house then .
under the u.s. constitution , the president nominates supreme court justices and the senate must confirm them .
without scalia , the court has four conservative and four liberal justices , meaning any potential obama nominee could tip the court to the left for the first time in decades .
nevada governor brian sandoval , a moderate republican , took himself out of consideration for appointment to the supreme court last week , a day after his name surfaced in connection with the scalia vacancy .