does this mean republicans in the house are finally going to start standing up for the americans who elected them to be their representatives in washington dc ?
does this action represent the change we re all desperate to see now that boehner is vacating his seat ?
house republicans on tuesday introduced a resolution to impeach irs commissioner john koskinen , accusing him of making false statements under oath and failing to comply with a subpoena for evidence.in case you ve forgotten , here are two of the most powerful testimonies exposing the tyranny of our government we have ever posted on our website : our friend becky gerritson ( who is currently running for a seat in our us congress ) : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=ue4_mt8mkiaand then there was the powerful testimony by founder and chairman of true the vote , catherine engelbrecht : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=db21aqu30xwhouse oversight committee chairman jason chaffetz , r-utah , and 18 other committee members introduced the resolution to begin impeachment proceedings .
in doing so , they followed through on a threat first made over the summer , when republicans accused the irs leader of making inaccurate statements to congress regarding the tea party targeting scandal and its aftermath .
commissioner koskinen violated the public trust , chaffetz said in a statement tuesday .
he failed to comply with a congressionally issued subpoena , documents were destroyed on his watch , and the public was consistently misled .
impeachment is the appropriate tool to restore public confidence in the irs and to protect the institutional interests of congress .
the irs issued a statement later thursday saying , the irs vigorously disputes the allegations in the resolution .
we have fully cooperated with all of the investigations .
the announcement of the impeachment resolution comes on the same day koskinen testified before the senate finance committee , and after the justice department on friday decided to close its investigation of the targeting scandal without pursuing criminal charges .
via : fox news