amman ( reuters ) - russian and syrian jets escalated strikes on rebel-held idlib and hama provinces , several days after jihadist rebels opened an offensive against government-held parts of northwestern syria , rebels and witnesses said on sunday .
the bombing campaign in heavily populated civilian areas shattered six months of relative calm .
russian-inspired ceasefires had given a temporary reprieve to tens of thousands of people living in rebel-held northwestern syria .
but now thousands of civilians who had been returning to their homes have headed back to the relative safety of refugee camps along the turkish border , which are protected under russian-turkish understandings , residents said .
people are very afraid things have gone back to what they were and returned back to camps - there is no longer any hope , ahmad thaib , a resident of jabal al zawya .
the strikes were retaliation for last tuesday s assault against hama province , which were spearheaded by tahrir al-sham , the jihadist turkistan islamic party and rebels fighting under the banner of the free syrian army ( fsa ) .
the bombing campaign also comes shortly after a tripartite deal struck by moscow , ankara and tehran to deploy an observer force in idlib , a province where the former al qaeda s syrian offshoot has cemented its control after it crushed opponents .
western-vetted rebels said the russian strikes targeted fsa groups who had signed the ceasefire agreements russia had promoted , casting doubt on whether moscow had any intention of shoring up the ceasefire .
civil defense workers and residents said dozens of strikes struck the major towns of khan sheikhoun , jisr al-shaqour , saraqeb and scores of villages .
at least five hospitals and several civil defense centers have been knocked out of action since the start of the counter offensive .
rebel sources said over fifty fighters were killed on saturday after jets believed to be russian targeted a training camp run by failaq al sham , an fsa rebel group , which is at odds with jihadist groups .
russia s defense ministry says it is attacking hard-line islamist militants .
it denies accusations it has targeted infrastructure and medical centers to force rebels into local truces that effectively restore president bashar al assad s grip on the country .
on friday , russia s defense ministry said a submarine fired kalibr cruise missiles at islamist militants , who it said had tried to trap a group of russian military policemen .
in the city of khan sheikhoun in southern idlib , jets believed to be russian destroyed the town s major power plant on friday , one witness said .
the plant feeds northern hama and southern idlib .
on the outskirts of jarjanaz , a strike barely missed a camp where hundreds of displaced people were sheltering , a resident said .
at least several people were killed near the town of kafr sajna , one of the sites where the russian missiles landed , witnesses said .
a video downloaded by activists showed a rescue worker trying to extinguish the flames on a young body charred by an incendiary bomb .