johannesburg ( reuters ) - south african politician nkosazana dlamini-zuma said on thursday it was fine if the country s white business community declined to endorse her bid to succeed president jacob zuma as leader of the african national congress ( anc ) .
her priority was to transfer wealth from the white minority to the black majority , who are generally much poorer .
those who opposed the policy were mainly white people or members of the black elite who want to preserve the status quo , she said .
if we have to choose between our people having a better life and investment , that s not a choice , she said , when asked about whether her policies could scare away businesses .
i m not afraid .
i m not afraid of them .
but i m not surprised white minority capital is not endorsing me , she said on ann7 television in a rare interview .
anc delegates will vote for a new party president next month , with dlamini-zuma expected to face deputy president cyril ramaphosa , a unionist-turned-millionaire businessman who is more popular with foreign investors .
from where i sit , it s looking good .
the campaign is going well , said dlamini-zuma , who was married to the president .
the winner of the party vote will be favorite to become the next president of south africa , either at an election in 2019 , or before if zuma stands down or is forced out by the new anc leadership next year .
apartheid in south africa ended in 1994 but much of the country s wealth resides with the white minority .
successive anc governments have said they want to empower the majority , though many black people have seen only modest economic gains .
dlamini-zuma , who has held several cabinet posts and was most recently chair of the african union , has pledged to tackle poverty and close the gaping racial inequality gap .
some investors are concerned about dlamini-zuma s proposed plan of radical economic transformation , which critics have said is a populist term that isn t backed up by solid policies .