geneva ( reuters ) - representatives of syria s warring sides sat just meters apart in separate rooms at u.n. peace talks on thursday , but mediator staffan de mistura stopped short of bringing them together in what diplomats had hoped might be a minor breakthrough .
previous rounds of talks have gone almost nowhere , with de mistura shuttling between hotels and meeting multiple delegations separately .
a newly unified opposition had raised the possibility of face-to-face talks to speed up the talks .
although the two delegations were in the u.n. building concurrently , de mistura kept them apart , dashing between their respective meeting rooms on either side of a corridor .
we are having what we would call close proximity parallel meetings , he told the opposition team , after making similar comments to the government delegation , promising to leave them in the hands of his deputy while he went to meet their enemies .
after several hours of talks , chief government negotiator bashar al-ja afari and his opposition counterpart nasr hariri left separately , without commenting to the media .
hariri told reuters on wednesday that he was ready for direct talks and was prepared to negotiate with no preconditions to end the six-year war .
he said his first words to ja afari would be : despite all of the crimes which have been done in syria , i hope that the regime can come ready to put the people of syria first .
if the two sides do meet , it will not be their first time in the same room .
in february , de mistura infuriated ja afari by inviting both sides to a ceremony to inaugurate the talks .
on that occasion , as de mistura warmly embraced the opposition delegates , whom the government of president bashar al-assad regards as terrorists , ja afari and his team walked out of the room without turning back .
one western diplomat predicted fireworks if the two sides sat down to talk at last , almost seven years into syria s war , but he said the sponsor countries backing the talks - including russia and the united states - would then force them back to the table , and the pressure would gradually be released .
a european diplomat expected the opposition to be pragmatic and flexible but there was little chance of a big breakthrough .
i think we need baby steps , and we ve made such little progress in the years gone by , largely because of the regime s reluctance to engage in this , so to make some small steps now and develop some momentum would be very helpful indeed .
hundreds of thousands of people have died in syria s civil war and more than 11 million have been driven from their homes .
previous rounds of talks have faltered over the opposition s demand that assad leave power and his refusal to go .
over the past two years , since russia joined the war on the government side , assad and his allies have recaptured all major towns and cities from the rebels .
there has been some speculation ahead of this week s round of talks that the opposition could soften its demands in light of the government s success on the battlefield .
however , at a meeting before the talks began , opposition delegates stuck by their demand that assad be excluded from any transitional government under a future peace deal .