ankara ( reuters ) - political infighting among iran s ruling elite has moved on to a new battleground - the relief effort after an earthquake that killed at least 530 people and injured thousands .
hardline media are accusing the government of pragmatist president hassan rouhani of reacting too slowly to last weekend s quake , while highlighting aid work by the revolutionary guards - a rival power center .
while the government said enough help had been sent to the thousands of people left homeless by the devastation , media affiliated to rouhani s hardline rivals painted a different picture with reports from villages where survivors complained about a lack of shelter from the bitter cold .
rouhani allies say this reflects a long-running struggle between the president and those who oppose his drive to boost the economy by improving relations with the outside world , notably through sealing a nuclear deal with world powers .
rouhani is very popular , one rouhani ally told reuters .
it is so sad to see that even under these sad circumstances when we need unity , they are attacking his government and trying to say that the government is incompetent to help people .
shortly after the magnitude 7.3 quake , iran s worst in more than a decade , state tv aired scenes from the devastated villages in the western kermanshah province .
iran has so far declined offers of foreign assistance , saying planeloads of tents , blankets , mattresses and emergency food rations had arrived in areas where at least 30,000 houses have been damaged and several villages completely destroyed .
the hardline semi-official tasnim and fars news agencies both carried reports of the role of the revolutionary guards - an elite force loyal to supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei - and its affiliated basij militia force in helping the survivors .
khamenei has called on the state agencies to speed up their efforts .
this disaster is a test for authorities to perform their duties , he said on tuesday .
his representative , cleric abdolhossein moezi , told state tv after visiting kermanshah province that more relief was needed .
editorials in hardline newspapers adopted a sharp tone , accusing the government of failing to learn the lessons of the bam earthquake in 2003 , in which 31,000 people were killed .
state tv covered how the iranian revolutionary guards corps ( irgc ) had restored some degree of normality in one of the worst hit towns , sarpol-e zahab .
immediately after the quake , the irgc rushed to the area to help , said brigadier general hossein salami , deputy head of the guards .
we set up shelters , field clinics ... we will not leave until all survivors have a permanent shelter .
our commanders have been working around the clock .
commanders of the irgc , which also runs a business empire in iran , have repeatedly criticized rouhani s failure to improve the economy despite the official lifting last year of most international sanctions under the 2015 nuclear deal .
in some areas , no building was left standing , elsewhere , survivors have left homes that remain standing , fearing they could come crashing down due to aftershocks .
houses in poor iranian villages are often made of concrete blocks or mudbrick that can quickly crumble and collapse .
many of the heavily damaged buildings in sarpol-e zahab were part of an affordable housing scheme , initiated in 2011 by rouhani s hardline predecessor , mahmoud ahmadinejad .
angry survivors said the low-quality construction in the mehr scheme had caused the high death toll in the town , nestled in the zagros mountains along the border with iraq .
rouhani has ordered an investigation .
it s clear there has been corruption in construction contracts , he told a cabinet meeting on wednesday , state media reported .
anyone responsible will be punished .
ahmadinejad s adviser ali akbar javanfekr denounced the accusations .
heavy waves of propaganda against mehr are aimed at covering up the weakness and inefficiency of the ( rouhani ) administration in helping quake-hit people , he said .
major towns and cities in the kermanshah province appeared to have escaped heavy damage , witnesses said , while many villages were destroyed .
my mother told me to buy yogurt for dinner .... as soon as i left the house everything started to collapse , 13-year-old dozan told reuters by telephone from sarpol-e zahab .
i ran back but my parents and sisters were dead - only rubble and dust and no home .
rouhani has promised more help and low-interest loans to survivors to rebuild their collapsed homes .
state tv showed iranians around the country gathering goods and warm clothes and blankets for the survivors .
we need shelter ... it is getting colder .
they have distributed some tents but it was not enough , ahmad irandust , 75 , told reuters from salas babajani village by telephone .
he said his children have slept outdoor in the freezing cold since sunday .
don t leave us alone .
don t forget us .