riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabia s public investment fund ( pif ) is forming two real estate development firms to boost the capacity of mecca and medina to receive pilgrims , in projects expected to create billions of dollars of business , it said on monday .
the plans are part of an array of commitments which the pif , the country s main sovereign wealth fund , is taking on under economic reforms designed to reduce saudi arabia s dependence on oil exports .
the government is mobilising the fund , believed to have about $ 180 billion of assets , to lead urban development and industrial projects around the country , even as the pif manages stakes in top saudi companies and makes foreign investments such as last year s purchase of a $ 3.5 billion stake in uber .
the scope of the pif s activities has caused concern among some private saudi businessmen .
the reforms aim to stimulate the private sector but with so many huge projects going to the pif , some businessmen fear they could be crowded out by the deep-pocketed fund .
the pif said the first phase of its development of an area near the grand mosque in mecca would cover 854,000 square metres ( 9.1 million square feet ) and deliver 115 buildings .
it is to include 70,000 new hotel rooms and 9,000 housing units .
construction will start this year with the first phase expected to open in 2024 .
by 2030 , the area will contribute $ 2.1 billion annually to gross domestic product , the fund said .
it also plans to develop 1.3 million square metres near the prophet s mosque in medina , adding 500 housing units and 80,000 hotel rooms .
expanding islamic tourism is a top goal of saudi reforms , which seek to develop non-oil income to offset a plunge in oil export receipts due to low crude prices .
the pif did not reveal how much money it would invest , how it would award contracts , or the extent to which private investors would be brought in .
riyadh has said it wants to involve private capital in major projects to reduce pressure on state finances , but in many cases a legal framework for such ventures has not yet been created .
most saudi real estate developers are small , so state bodies often have to be used to jump-start large projects , especially when the government wants to move quickly .
among other pif projects , the fund said last week that it would lead the $ 4.8 billion redevelopment of jeddah s waterfront corniche .
[ nl8n1m83kv ] in august , the government said it would develop resorts on about 50 red sea islands in a pif-backed project .
the fund will be the main investor in a 334 square kilometre ( 129 square mile ) entertainment city near riyadh featuring cultural and recreational facilities .