are you paying attention america ?
yesterday , the uk voted to leave the european union .
on referendum day , lord ashcroft surveyed 12,369 people after they had voted to help explain the result who voted for which outcome , and what lay behind their decision.lord ashcroft polls 70 % of muslims voted to remain in the ue .
this provides additional refutation of the claim made by our rulers that immigration doesn t change anything .
in the scottish referendum , a majority of people born in scotland voted for independence ; it was the votes of ( first-generation ) immigrants that swayed the result in favour of maintaining the united kingdom .
now , in this second referendum , the british people as a whole might well have lost their independence because of the votes of african and asian colonists who only arrived in their country within the last few decades .
in the end , this was narrowly averted .
but it shows the extent to which the demographic window is closing on the hopes for european survival.white voters voted to leave the eu by 53 % to 47 % .
two thirds ( 67 % ) of those describing themselves as asian voted to remain , as did three quarters ( 73 % ) of black voters .
nearly six in ten ( 58 % ) of those describing themselves as christian voted to leave ; seven in ten muslims voted to remain.a majority of those who backed the conservative in 2015 voted to leave the eu ( 58 % ) , as did more than 19 out of 20 ukip supporters .
nearly two thirds of labour and snp voters ( 63 % and 64 % ) , seven in ten liberal democrats and three quarters of greens , voted to remain.nearly half ( 49 % ) of leave voters said the biggest single reason for wanting to leave the eu was the principle that decisions about the uk should be taken in the uk .
one third ( 33 % ) said the main reason was that leaving offered the best chance for the uk to regain control over immigration and its own borders .
just over one in eight ( 13 % ) said remaining would mean having no choice about how the eu expanded its membership or its powers in the years ahead .
only just over one in twenty ( 6 % ) said their main reason was that when it comes to trade and the economy , the uk would benefit more from being outside the eu than from being part of it .
a small majority of those who voted to remain think that for most children growing up today , life will be better than it was for their parents ; leavers think the opposite by 61 % to 39 % .
leavers see more threats than opportunities to their standard of living from the way the economy and society are changing , by 71 % to 29 % more than twice the margin among remainers.nearly three quarters ( 73 % ) of remainers think life in britain is better today than it was 30 years ago ; a majority ( 58 % ) of those who voted to leave say it is worse .