london ( reuters ) - turkey s crucial tourism sector should see revenues grow to $ 30 billion in 2018 , helped by planned new incentives for tour operators and rising visitor numbers , the country s tourism minister , numan kurtulmus , said on wednesday .
increased security fears following an attempted coup and a series of militant attacks slashed turkey s tourism revenues in 2016 to $ 22.11 billion from $ 31.46 billion in 2015 .
but numbers turned around in april , thanks to a surge in russian tourists following an improvement in relations between moscow and ankara .
data for the third quarter of 2017 showed a rebound of nearly 40 percent year-on-year .
we are expecting 31.4 million visitors this year , and from that , revenue of $ 26 billion , kurtulmus told reuters during a visit to london .
in 2018 , this would rise to 37 million to 38 million visitors , generating revenue of $ 30 billion , he said .
turkey s finance ministry in october predicted that tourism would generate $ 20 billion of revenue in 2017 .
tourism has generated significant revenue for the $ 860 billion economy , which straddles europe and asia .
in 2016 , the government launched a plan to bolster the beleaguered sector .
reut.rs/2jbkta2 kurtulmus said the cabinet was expected to sign off later this month on proposed new incentives to tour operators , offering them as much as $ 9,000 for every planeload of tourists they brought to the country , depending on the season .
turkey also hopes to become a greater health and sports tourism destination , he said , and to revive cruise travel , which suffered after concern over security led a number of operators to cancel trips in recent years .
we are working with other countries around the mediterranean to come up with packages , to attract westerners , especially visitors from the u.s. , he said .
we are talking to greece and others .
turkey is also trying to attract visitors from asia to broaden its appeal beyond its usual markets in europe .
we are trying to open the doors of far east countries - namely china , india , japan , korea , indonesia and malaysia , kurtulmus said .
they also have new real middle classes , especially china and india .