taxes really do kill people .
eric garner is a perfect example .
this tragedy happened on donald trump s home turf , if his campaign was on top of their game , they d be all over this ahead of the pennsylvania primary bernie sanders was asked about philadelphia s proposed soda tax during a recent interview with meet the press .
hillary clinton favors the tax but bernie opposes it because he says it taxes the poor who are already struggling enough .
chuck todd didn t buy that answer and pressed sanders to explain why he opposes the soda tax but favors cigarette taxes ( which are much , much higher ) .
bernie explained that he thinks cigarettes are different than soda and that there s almost a question as to why [ cigarettes ] remain a legal product in this country .
apparently , bernie sanders doesn t realize that the cigarette taxes he favors are what got eric garner killed.unfortunately , chuck todd didn t catch that statement and moved on to other topics .
he should have jumped on it given that it s quite the hypocritical line coming from someone trying to gain the support of the black lives matter movement .
bernie sanders even has the support of eric garner s own daughter who starred in a three minute campaign ad just a couple months previous.one wonders whether or not erica garner approves of bernie sanders support of the cigarette taxes that killed her father.recall that eric garner was accused of selling un-taxed cigarettes in new york city .
the federal government already imposes a $ 1.01 tax , which the new york state government adds a $ 4.35 tax to , and the new york city government tacked another $ 1.50 onto .
that brings the total cigarette tax in new york city to more than $ 6.85 cents which is more than the cost of the cigarettes themselves .
these excessively high taxes that bernie sanders supports double the price of pack of cigarettes and creates a black market for un-taxed cigarettes.it was this black market that eric garner was accused of taking part in .
un-taxed cigarettes are a lucrative business in new york city and account for tens of millions of dollars in sales .
many people try to make a living selling these un-taxed cigarettes as eric garner was allegedly doing when he was stopped by the police.situations like this are the inevitable result of high taxes .
if people refuse to pay taxes this is how they will be enforced .
people with guns will show up .
people will die.via : a libertarian future