shawn helton 21st century wire the fbi have finally released the written transcripts from shooter omar mateen s supposed 911 call and now apparently unredacted .
meanwhile , another story of survival at pulse nightclub is called into question.will this tell us anything new about this event , or will it just prompt even more questions ?
night of terror ?
a serene setting following the orlando shooting attack on june 11th ( image source : twitter ) shaky storyline , missing detailswhile the focus on orlando shooter omar mateen s 911 transcripts is over what was included and what was not , and while the national media argue endlessly over the need for more gun control in the us the most important aspect of the fbi supplied transcript seems to have gone virtually unnoticed .
there s no discussion of an actual shooting occurring inside of the pulse nightclub.while the report has a basic outline of america s largest mass shooting it fails to account for any of the shootings said to have occurred within the pulse nightclub , with no mention of individuals being shot at or reportedly shot at in the fbi s official narrative .
it s as if they just left out the biggest piece of the puzzle.this has become an all to common theme , as media press conference rituals shape a narrative within the first hours of a mass casualty event and even if that story turns out to be mostly false , the media runs with it anyway , whether or not law enforcement information and crime scene analysis belies the original narrative pushed by media .
the most clear example of this happened during the aftermath of the wtc 1993 bombing , where major media outlets exposed it as an fbi run sting with their operators in control yet still , media anchors called it an al-qaeda led attack.so when you consider what happened in orlando , one should question the lack of shooting details- why is this aspect of the story left open for interpretation when every other part of the official timeline appears to be accounted for ? while the media conveniently overlook this important detail , the implications of this could be very significant in determining who shot who , and when.interestingly , the description of the orlando shooting even includes mention of the orlando police department pulling an air conditioning unit out of a pulse dressing room to evacuate victims , a multi-call crisis negotiation , the alleged shooter s outrageous claims of a bomb-laced vest and authorities breaching the back wall of the nightclub with an explosive charge and yet , no mention of additional shots fired at patrons inside the club ? here s a portion of the fbi s summary of events that excludes any mention of shots fired within the interior of the club itself : based on opd radio communications , there were no reports of shots being fired inside pulse between the initial exchange of gunfire between responding officers and shooter , and the time of the final breach .
during this time , the shooter communicated with an opd 911 operator and an opd crisis negotiator , and opd radio communications reported that victims were being rescued .
here s a more basic chronology of the orlando shooting , as told by the fbi : 2:02 a.m. : opd call transmitted multiple shots fired at pulse nightclub .
2:04 a.m. : additional opd officers arrived on scene .
2:08 a.m. : officers from various law enforcement agencies made entrance to pulse and engaged the shooter .
2:18 a.m. : opd swat ( special weapons and tactics ) initiated a full call-out .
2:35 a.m. : shooter contacted a 911 operator from inside pulse.3:03 a.m. : second crisis negotiation call occurred lasting approximately 16 minutes .
3:24 a.m. : third crisis negotiation call occurred lasting approximately three minutes.4:21 a.m. : opd pulled an air conditioning unit out of a pulse dressing room window for victims to evacuate.4:29 a.m. : as victims were being rescued , they told opd the shooter said he was going to put four vests with bombs on victims within 15 minutes.5:02 a.m. : opd swat and ocso hazardous device team began to breach wall with explosive charge and armored vehicle to make entry.5:14 a.m. : opd radio communication stated that shots were fired .
5:15 a.m. : opd radio communication stated that opd engaged the suspect and the suspect was reported down .
the orlando shooting details state multiple shots [ were ] fired at pulse nightclub at 2:02 am , as additional opd officers arrived on scene , at 2:04 am , with law enforcement engaging the shooter at 2:08 am there is no other mention of shots fired until police exchange fire with the alleged suspect after breaching the wall at 5:15 am.question : would it really be possible for mateen to have accurately shot over 100 people , take hostages and engage in a fire fight with officers in just a 6 minute time frame ? this scenario is hardly likely , if not impossible.additionally , what happened during the apparent crisis negotiation from 3:24 am to 4:21 am , why have the fbi chosen not to elaborate on those details ? matten s weapons of choice during the apparent attack were a sig sauer mcx .223 caliber rifle and a glock 17 9mm semi-auto pistol and according to the official story , was far more accurate than most well-trained law enforcement agents , defying statistical averages as examined by the rand corporation.let s take another look at the extensive rand study involving the nypd , here are the following statistics as it relates they firearm accuracy : according to a 2008 rand corporation study evaluating the new york police department s firearm training , between 1998 and 2006 , the average hit rate during gunfights was just 18 percent .
when suspects did not return fire , police officers hit their targets 30 percent of the time.another aspect of the orlando shooting attack was the possibility that many club goers could have been injured by authorities , something that also seemed to be absent from the official story .
here s a passage from wfaa8 , an abc affiliate discussing this point : orlando police chief john mina and other law enforcement officers offered new details about the shooting , including the possibility that some victims may have been killed by officers trying to save them .
i will say this , that s all part of the investigation , mina said .
but i will say when our swat officers , about eight or nine officers , opened fire , the backdrop was a concrete wall , and they were being fired upon .
police also used an explosive charge and a bearcat armored vehicle to breach the wall as civilians were allegedly holed up in a bathroom .
this has led some critics to consider the possibility that non-combatants could have become collateral damage during the swat siege at pulse.political fallout & media engineeringalso of note regarding the orlando shooting event , was the obvious attempt to ramrod new ready-made gun legislation ( struck down just two days ago ) just over a week after the incident.back in november of 2012 , it was reported that the white house , along with other democrats were already busy rewriting old gun-ban legislation just prior to the sandy hook shooting .
the assault weapons ban and law enforcement protection act of 2007 , otherwise known as h.r .
1022 of the 110th congress , it introduced an early list of gun-bans and restrictions but was dropped due to lack of public support .
a similar set of laws failed after the oregon campus shooting in 2015.while big media has been busy trying to sell the public on the most tragic shooting in america .
they ve also been attempting to fill in a series of unexplainable blanks by seemingly re-writing the orlando narrative , with a wave of contradictory information .
in essence , the corporate media has boiled down two choices in the motive for the orlando pulse nightclub shooting suggesting it s either a hate crime or terrorism.and since then it s become problematic to blend certain elements of the official story in the orlando shooting case , prompting attorney general loretta lynch to state the motive may never be known in the alleged crime after key aspects of the 911 transcript were redacted and a decision was made to block audio from the 911 call.no motive , no audio , redacted transcripts and conflicting reports of the shooting , isn t that convenient.the whole episode immediately recalls the much fabled death of bin laden and the political and media fiasco that followed the abbotabad raid in pakistan all of which failed to reveal any real forensic evidence , as president obama withheld post-mortem images of bin laden , including video of the sea burial of the purported terror leader.the fact is , none of the media s grandstanding or politicized hyperbole has offered anything in terms of actual evidence as the public has been deliberately steered towards multiple storylines while politicians go through another gun control/gun reform ritual on the senate floor .
quiet emergency ?
a calm scene at orlando regional medical center hospital prior to apparent pulse nightclub victims arriving for medical attention .
( image source : twitter ) orlando s staged elements & false claimsrecently here at 21wire , we discussed much of the corporate media s theatrical depiction of the orlando shooting and the widespread characterization of the event , which has been reduced to two categories that of a lone gunman and a saddened community centered on the sociopolitical ramifications of the incident , rather than an in-depth forensic analysis of the alleged crime itself.in addition , we outlined some of the various hollywood and media connections observed in the aftermath of the apparent orlando shooting attack , as it was revealed that the world s largest security firm g4s , who had employed the man named in the orlando pulse nightclub shooting , omar mateen is also client of the mass casualty and crisis actor staging company called crisiscast.as if that wasn t enough , we re also now being told that alleged pulse nightclub survivor clint lampkin s account of the shooting has been called into question by media .
the following is a youtube clip from wochit news reviewing the inconsistencies found by the cbs-affiliated television station whnt-tv the following was released by fox6 on june 21st , examining whnt-tv s findings over the weekend that have since been removed from the network s website : on saturday , hundreds of people in alabama were captivated by an impromptu speech by clint lampkin , a man who claimed to be a survivor of the pulse nightclub shooting in orlando .
i was in the bar when it all happened , lampkin told the crowd at the rocket city pride memorial service in huntsville .
it s been hard on me seeing people get shot .
lampkin said the hate he witnessed first-hand is still overwhelming .
it s really strong .
i mean not just for my friend but all the others that lost their lives .
it s hard you know .
it really is .
it s really sad , lampkin says.continuing , the recently published article outlined the contradictory nature of lampkin s comments made during a memorial service and a facebook post on his personal account on the morning after the shooting : ( left side screen shot of lampkin s strange comment after the orlando attack ) but now , lampkin s story is being called into question.one of lampkin s facebook friends sent whnt a screenshot of one of lampkin s facebook posts from june 12 , which shows he shared the story about the shooting and wrote : glad i wasn t at that one .
lampkin told whnt his facebook account was hacked and that he never made that post .
he still claims he was at the pulse nightclub the night of the shooting .
i have really bad anxiety attacks , so i just kinda , i don t know , my mind is just gone , he told whnt.whnt asked for other details surrounding the night of the shooting , and lampkin gave the same response that the trauma he witnessed has somehow erased his memory and made it difficult to remember the name of the friend who was allegedly shot dead : i did lose a friend that got shot , he told the crowd on saturday .
whnt asked lampkin for the name of his friend who died inside the club .
he answered that he had only known each other for a short time and didn t remember the victim s name .
lampkin s facebook profile states that he s an associate at tobacco warehouse and a cashier at arby s. ceo of free2be and organizer of the rocket city pride memorial service , james robinson , has subsequently fielded calls claiming lampkin s story is untrue.this again has become another unexplained and unresolved aspect in the orlando shooting event.rehearsal drills train the publicthe staging of inter-agency drills often precedes an area stricken by a tragic event .
here at 21wire , we ve documented a number of drills taking place in the days , months , years , in a nearby city leading up to a dramatic mass casualty incident.as we previously reported orlando s orange county had been running a number of mass casualty drills in recent years.as stated before , these emergency response drills often take place prior to a real-life active-shooter scenario .
the orlando sentinel reported the drill on october 2nd , 2015 , one day after the oregon shooting , an event that also saw drills prior to a shooting at umpqua community college .
here s a passage of the sentinel s report : during the emergency nurses association s annual meeting on friday , a mock shooter blew himself up , killing and injuring 100 local volunteer actors .
there was blood , screams and moans , wounds and dead people all fake to create a realistic training environment for more than 40 nurses who had signed up for the exercise.they quickly began tending to patients , assessing the extent of their injuries .
the nbc-affiliated wesh2 in orlando stated that nurses attending to mock patients knew they were in for a drill , but they had no idea it would be a mass casualty/active shooter test .
was the pulse nightclub shooting a drill gone live , with both real and unreal elements ?
heavy make-up in another plot twist , an alleged ex-lover of mateen s named miguel has re-energized the hate crime narrative pushed by media .
( image source : xaluan ) according left-leaning latin american broadcast tv outlet univision : omar mateen , the muslim gunman who committed the pulse nightclub massacre in orlando , was 100 percent gay and bore a grudge against latino men because he felt used by them , according to a man who says he was his lover for two months .
i ve cried like you have no idea .
but the thing that makes me want to tell the truth is that he didn t do it for terrorism .
in my opinion he did it for revenge , he told univision noticias anchor maria elena salinas in an exclusive interview in english and spanish on tuesday .
he said mateen was angry and upset after a man he had sex with later revealed he was infected with the hiv virus.asked why he decided to come forward with his story , he said : it s my responsibility as a citizen of the united states and a gay man .
the man said he had approached by the fbi and been interviewed three times in person by agents .
univision was unable to independently verify his account .
the fbi confirmed to univision that it had met with him .
suddenly , the alleged shooter omar mateen is a gay lover scorned , and not an isis-inspired terrorist ?
note here that miguel could be seen wearing a very expensive , complex hollywood-level make-up facade , and one could easily deduce here that miguel is an actor of sorts , if not a professional.it should also be noted that univision , who collaborate heavily with cnn on a number of sensational and politicized stories , led the way in spoiling the crime scene of the alleged shooter omar mateen s apartment in orlando accessing his property and fiddling with the suspects belongs on camera only days after the pulse nightclub event .
this media segment was clearly staged , not least of all because at that time law enforcement announced they were conducting a terrorism and mass-murder investigation .
if that were the case , then the suspect s home would have been classed as a crime scene and its contents considered as evidence.judging by univision s immediate media access to the property , it should be fairly obvious , as it was after the exact same san bernardino media fiasco last december , that the apartment would not have been deemed a real crime scene in an international or domestic terrorism investigation .
watch : for over a week , the public has been drip fed information about the orlando shooting attack much of which has led to even more questions .
to major media , the event is all but a forgone conclusion tightly wrapped up with all the fear-inducing talking points on both the left and right side of the political aisle without clearly looking at the alleged crime itself.in fact it seems , that the media has sought to draw the viewer away from the incomplete pulse nightclub story line , a narrative that as of yet has failed to explain the connection of a crisis staging company ( crisiscast ) to that of the alleged shooter s security company ( g4s ) , as well as many hollywood/acting/media connections discovered , such as luis burbano , shawn royster santiago , patience carter , omar mateen , francesca hunt and brian mitchell add to that , those who witnessed multiple shooters or any shooting within the interior of the nightclub , in addition to the mismatched tweets and facebook posts that displayed inaccurate time frames or cult of personality types such as clint lampkin , whose story just doesn t add up.we re now told that the fbi is continuing to build a timeline of mateen s whereabouts before the attack , stating he paid for entry at pulse then subsequently disappeared for a two-hour period between when he left the club and returned .
it s anyone s guess what will be next in the orlando shooting story.end of part 3stay tuned for more orlando shooting updates see also : casting crisis : orlando s actors , agents and casualty role playersread more orlando shooting news at : 21st century wire orlando fileshelp support us by becoming a 21wire member at : 21wire.tv