colombo ( reuters ) - sri lanka s parliament approved on friday a raft of tax concessions for a chinese-led joint venture which will handle the southern port of hambantota under a $ 1.1 billion deal that has sparked public anger and concerns in india and elsewhere .
the deal , signed in july , leases the port to a chinese firm for 99 years and the tax concessions include an income tax holiday of up to 32 years .
the port is near the main shipping route from asia to europe and likely to play a key role in china s belt and road initiative .
the joint venture comprises the china merchants port holdings , which holds a 70 percent stake , and the sri lanka ports authority ( slpa ) , which has the remaining 30 percent .
today the parliament approved two motions ... to grant certain tax incentives to those two companies operating the hambantota port , ports minister mahinda samarasinghe told reuters .
in the 225-member parliament 72 lawmakers backed the tax concessions and seven voted against .
many opposition deputies boycotted the vote .
the government pressed ahead with the vote despite a suggestion from opposition lawmaker dinesh gunawardena , who suggested the measures should require a two-thirds majority , or more than 150 votes , given the strategic nature of the issue .
government and diplomatic sources have told reuters that the united states , india and japan had raised concerns that china might use the port as a naval base and could be a threat to security and stability in the indian ocean .
an initial plan to give the chinese firm an 80 percent stake triggered protests by trade unions and opposition groups , forcing the government to make some revisions that limit china s role to running commercial operations while retaining for colombo oversight for broader security issues .
the government will hand over the port , built with chinese loans at a cost of $ 1.5 billion , to the joint venture on saturday and will receive $ 300 million , or around 30 percent of the deal , samarasinghe said .
he also said the slpa and the chinese firm had signed the lease agreement just before parliament s approval of the tax exemptions .
there has also been widespread public anger over plans for a 99-year lease of 15,000 acres ( 23 sq miles ) to develop an industrial zone next to the port .
this land lease is under negotiation .
the parliamentary vote came a day after sri lanka s supreme court set a date for jan. 11 to rule on three petitions against the leasing of land around the port to china .
sri lanka has said the chinese firm will invest an additional $ 600 million to make hambantota port operational and $ 1.12 billion from the deal will be used for debt repayment .
india is in advanced talks with sri lanka to operate an airport near hambantota port .