jerusalem/gaza ( reuters ) - at least two people were killed in clashes with israeli troops on friday when thousands of palestinians demonstrated against u.s. president donald trump s recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital and the palestinian president said washington could no longer be a peace broker .
across the arab and muslim worlds , thousands more protesters took to the streets on the muslim holy day to express solidarity with the palestinians and outrage at trump s reversal of decades of u.s. policy .
israeli soldiers shot dead a palestinian man near the gaza border , the first confirmed death in two days of unrest .
scores of people were wounded on the day of rage .
a second person later died of their wounds , a gaza hospital official said .
the israeli army said hundreds of palestinians were rolling burning tyres and throwing rocks at soldiers across the border .
during the riots idf soldiers fired selectively towards two main instigators and hits were confirmed , it said .
more than 80 palestinians were wounded in the occupied west bank and gaza by israeli live fire and rubber bullets , according to the palestinian red crescent ambulance service .
dozens more suffered from tear gas inhalation .
thirty-one were wounded on thursday .
as friday prayers ended at the al aqsa mosque in jerusalem , worshippers made their way toward the walled old city gates , chanting jerusalem is ours , jerusalem is our capital and we don t need empty words , we need stones and kalashnikovs .
scuffles broke out between protesters and police .
in hebron , bethlehem and nablus , dozens of palestinians threw stones at israeli soldiers who fired back with tear gas .
in gaza , controlled by the islamist group hamas , calls for worshippers to protest sounded over mosque loudspeakers .
hamas has called for a new palestinian uprising like the intifadas of 1987-1993 and 2000-2005 , which together saw thousands of palestinians and more than 1,000 israelis killed .
whoever moves his embassy to occupied jerusalem will become an enemy of the palestinians and a target of palestinian factions , said hamas leader fathy hammad as protesters in gaza burned posters of trump .
we declare an intifada until the liberation of jerusalem and all of palestine .
protests largely died down as night fell .
rocket sirens sounded in southern israeli towns near the gaza border , and the israeli military said it had intercepted one of at least two projectiles fired from gaza .
no casualties were reported .
al aqsa martyrs brigade , a militant group linked to abbas s fatah party , claimed responsibility for firing one of the rockets , and said it was in protest against trump s decision .
the military said another rocket hit the israeli town of sderot .
no casualties were reported .
israel s military said that in response to the rocket fire , its aircraft bombed militant targets in gaza and the palestinian health ministry said at least 25 people were wounded in the strikes , including six children .
the israeli military said it had carried out the strikes on a militant training camp and on a weapons depot .
witnesses said most of the wounded were residents of a building near the camp .
at the united nations , u.s. ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said washington still had credibility as a mediator .
the united states has credibility with both sides .
israel will never be , and should never be , bullied into an agreement by the united nations , or by any collection of countries that have proven their disregard for israel s security , haley told the u.n. security council .
but palestinian president mahmoud abbas appeared defiant .
we reject the american decision over jerusalem .
with this position the united states has become no longer qualified to sponsor the peace process , abbas said in a statement .
he did not elaborate further .
france , italy , germany , britain and sweden called on the united states to bring forward detailed proposals for an israeli-palestinian settlement .
trump s announcement on wednesday has infuriated the arab world and upset western allies .
the status of jerusalem has been one of the biggest obstacles to a peace agreement between israel and the palestinians for generations .
israel considers all of jerusalem to be its capital .
palestinians want the eastern part of the city as the capital of a future independent state of their own .
most countries consider east jerusalem , which israel annexed after capturing it in the 1967 middle east war , to be occupied territory .
it includes the old city , home to sites considered holy to muslims , jews and christians alike .
for decades , washington , like most of the rest of the international community , held back from recognizing jerusalem as israel s capital , saying its status should be determined as part of the palestinian-israeli peace process .
no other country has an embassy there .
the trump administration argues that the peace process has become moribund , and outdated policies need to be jettisoned for the sides in the conflict to make progress .
trump has also noted that barack obama , george w. bush and bill clinton all promised as candidates to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital .
i fulfilled my campaign promise - others didn t !
trump tweeted on friday with a video montage of campaign speeches on the issue by his three predecessors .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said on friday it would still be up to the israelis and palestinians to hammer out all other issues surrounding the city in future talks .
with respect to the rest of jerusalem , the president ... did not indicate any final status for jerusalem .
he was very clear that the final status , including the borders , would be left to the two parties to negotiate and decide .
still , some muslim countries view the trump administration s motives with particular suspicion .
as a candidate he proposed banning all muslims from entering the united states , and in office he has tried to block entry by citizens of several muslim-majority states .
in ramallah , the seat of abbas s palestinian authority , the leader s religious affairs adviser said trump s stance was an affront to islam and christianity alike .
america has chosen to elect a president who has put it in enmity with all muslims and christians , said mahmoud al-habbash .
in iran , which has never recognized israel and supports anti-israel militants , demonstrators burned pictures of trump and israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu while chanting death to the devil .
in cairo , capital of egypt , a u.s. ally which has a peace treaty with israel , hundreds of protesters who had gathered in al-azhar mosque and outside in its courtyard chanted jerusalem is arab !
o trump , you madman , the arab people are everywhere !
al azhar s imam , sheikh ahmed al-tayeb , rejected an invitation to meet u.s. vice president mike pence .
large demonstrations also took place in jordan , tunisia , somalia , yemen , malaysia and indonesia , and hundreds protested outside the u.s. embassy in berlin .
france said the united states had sidelined itself in the middle east .
the reality is they are alone and isolated on this issue , foreign minister jean-yves le drian said .