sweden is experiencing what happens when your country puts progressive politics ahead of common sense and national security .
remember to discuss this story with your liberal friends when they gush about how hillary won cnn s debate .
hillary won the hearts of progressives and the media when she attempted to brand herself the most progressive candidate on the stage .
a spate of islamist graffiti in the multiculturalist swedish city gothenburg has been compared to the harassment of the jewish community in germany in the 1930s , with christian business owners being told to convert or die .the threats are yet another conflict imported to europe from the levant , as the assyrian christian asmar family awoke to find their pizza parlour had been daubed with threats in red paint .
their experience is becoming increasingly common in the city , as legitimate asylum seekers fleeing persecution find it has followed them to northern europe , thanks to sweden s open door immigration policy.the goteborgs-posten records the remarks of the local assyrian association s president : imagine yourself having fled from persecution in a country and then to find yourself staying next door to isis sympathizers here in sweden .
it is everyday life for many people .
convert or die !
/ syrian academic foundationas well as the vandalism on the asmar pizzeria , written in swedish but unusually drawn out in a gothic script , local assyrian christians have found the message the caliphate is here and the islamic glyph for n ( ) written on their walls .
in syria and elsewhere in the arab world , the has come to be a sign of persecution , marking inhabitants out as devotees of nazareth jesus christ and thus fair targets for persecution.yusuf asmar , who operates the pizzeria , compares their situation to that of the jews in nazi germany .
he said : it feels extremely uncomfortable that this has come to gothenburg , sweden .
there is no doubt that it is directed at me as a christian and assyrian it feels like persecution of jews in the 30s when jews in germany had stars of david painted on its doors .
now it happens here .he said that under swedish law , radical islamists and isis supporters appeared free to come and go as they pleased , a situation politicians must take seriously .police inspector bertil claesson said that while they would look into the graffiti , it wouldn t be classified as a hate crime the city has yet to establish a specialist task force to look into such things but it would be difficult to investigate .
he said : no witnesses or forensic evidence that can be traced , it is almost impossible to investigate such cases .
the only possibility is if someone has seen something and we get tips from the public .this sort of inter-ethnic and religious conflict is becoming a steady hallmark of the european migrant crisis , as the continent imports wholesale human beings from destabilised parts of the world .
breitbart london reported in september on the grenade attacks now common in sweden , where different migrant groups continue conflicts with explosives imported from eastern europe.via : breitbart news london