sydney ( reuters ) - papua new guinea began dismantling a shuttered australian-run immigration detention center on thursday and warned it will use force if necessary to evict nearly 600 men if they refuse to leave within two days , according to a notice posted at the camp .
the asylum seekers have barricaded themselves inside the manus island center for the past nine days , defying attempts by australia and papua new guinea to close the camp in a standoff the united nations describes as a looming humanitarian crisis .
the men fear violent reprisals from the manus island community if they move from the camp to three transit centers , pending possible resettlement to the united states .
the camp was closed on oct. 31 and water and power have been cut off .
you may become very sick under these conditions of overflowing sewerage , heaps of rubbish , no clean running water , no electricity and no food , papua new guinea s immigration and citizenship service authority said in a two-page notice reviewed by reuters .
you are therefore instructed to vacate this compound immediately ... if necessary , force may be used to relocate those who refuse to move voluntarily for your own sake .
the men inside the camp , who include asylum seekers from afghanistan , iran , myanmar , pakistan , sri lanka , and syria , said they will continue to defy attempts to shut the camp .
they said they had exhausted their food supplies and were relying on rainwater to drink .
several of the men told reuters that nearly 100 of them had fallen sick .
the notice added that demolition of fences would begin on thursday .
behrouz boochani , a kurdish journalist from iran who has been detained on manus island for more than four years , said on twitter that workers had begun that task .
the refugees are watching them fearfully ... ( they ) are extremely scared by immigration threat but still saying we will not leave this prison camp for another prison camp , he said .
using force against ppl who ve been suffering nearly 5yrs is no solution .
if you re going to solve this problem send us to safe third country .
australia has used the manus island center , and another on the tiny pacific island of nauru , to detain asylum seekers who try to reach its shores by boat .
it says boat arrivals will never enter australia , even if they are found to be refugees , as this would encourage people smugglers in asia .
papua new guinea s high court ruled last year that the manus center , first opened in 2001 , was illegal and the camp closed on oct. 31 , when australian-funded security staff withdrew .
thursday s png government notice said the camp will soon revert to the control of the nation s military and anyone there unlawfully will be liable for arrest .
papua new guinea prime minister peter o neill on wednesday said appropriate means would be used to apprehend those responsible for disruption .
australia s immigration minister peter dutton said on thursday that the situation was unacceptable ... but the government won t be backing down .
the png supreme court rejected an application by one of the men to restore services on tuesday , despite pleas from the united nations to make food , water , medical supplies and power available .
lawyers for the asylum seekers are due to lodge an appeal against later on thursday .