washington ( reuters ) - republican mitt romney said on friday he would vote for u.s .
senator ted cruz in utah ’ s presidential nominating contest , but the party ’ s 2012 election standard-bearer stopped short of an official endorsement as he urged voters to deny the nomination to front-runner donald trump .
in a facebook post , romney said a vote for cruz in utah ’ s caucus on tuesday was the best way to prevent trump from locking down the nomination , which would give opponents a chance to select another candidate at the party ’ s july convention .
“ the only way we can reach an open convention is for senator cruz to be successful in as many of the remaining nominating elections as possible , ” romney wrote .
romney did not offer any praise for cruz , who emerged as a favorite of the party ’ s most ardent conservatives after clashing with party leaders in washington .
romney did not say whether or not he would campaign with cruz , a first-term senator from texas .
trump responded quickly .
“ mitt romney is a mixed up man who doesn ’ t have a clue .
no wonder he lost ! ” he wrote on twitter .
cruz , acknowledging the tepid nature of romney ’ s support , said the pledged vote enforces the idea that his campaign is the only one that can beat trump , likening a vote for ohio governor john kasich , the third remaining republican contender , to tacit support for trump .
“ in my book , when someone says ‘ i ’ m voting for you , and i encourage everyone else to vote for you , ’ that ’ s pretty darn good , ” cruz , a self-styled washington outsider , told reporters in arizona .
“ and i ’ ll take that and take that happily. ” arizona also holds its nominating contest on tuesday .
“ as mitt romney observed today , if you want to beat donald trump , cruz is the only campaign that can do it .
that ’ s why he ’ s voting for me in utah , ” cruz said .
romney has emerged as one of the most prominent critics of trump , the billionaire businessman and reality-tv star who has become the surprise front-runner in the battle to secure the republican nomination for the nov. 8 election .
romney , who lost to democratic president barack obama in 2012 , called trump a “ fraud ” and a dangerous demagogue who would lose to hillary clinton , the democratic party front-runner , in november .
“ today , there is a contest between trumpism and republicanism , ” romney wrote , adding that trump has encouraged racism , misogyny and violence .
“ i am repulsed by each and every one of these , ” he wrote .
kasich ’ s campaign called romney ’ s turn to cruz the result of “ bad political advice. ” “ this is just the old establishment trying again to game the political system , but john kasich ’ s defeated the republican establishment his entire career , ” the campaign said .
romney ’ s support for cruz comes a day after u.s .
senator lindsey graham threw his support behind the texas senator , saying in similar fashion that cruz has the best chance of stopping trump , even though he thinks kasich would have a better chance of winning in november ’ s general election .
trump has continued to notch victories in the state-by-state nominating process as republicans have failed to unite behind cruz or kasich .
at this point , those who oppose trump say their best bet is to prevent him from securing the 1,237 delegates he needs to lock up the nomination before the convention in cleveland .
so far , trump has won 678 delegates .
cruz would need to win 81 percent of the remaining delegates to reach a majority , according to the cook political report .
it is impossible for kasich to reach 1,237 delegates , according to the nonpartisan election tracker .
romney said kasich has a “ solid record ” as a governor and he would have voted for him in ohio last tuesday .