right before eighth grade , trump s father sent him literally up the river to new york military academy in the hudson valley .
trump would spend the next five years there.retired col. ted dobias remembers the tall , lanky kid who showed up at his dormitory .
i put [ him ] down at the end of the hall .
he didn t know how to make a bed .
he didn t know how to shine his shoes .
he had a problem , you know , with being a cadet .
you know , being a cadet , you got ta take care of yourself , dobias said.and trump the cadet didn t quite know how , at first .
dobias had a reputation for being one of the school s toughest instructors .
he was a hardened world war ii veteran who made it clear to trump he didn t care who his daddy was .
when he got out of line , he got the same treatment like everybody else .
his name was donald trump , like johnny jones .
it was all the same , dobias said .
nobody was different .
we treated everyone alike .
back in trump s day , cadets would wake up near the crack of dawn , hurry into their uniforms and march in formation to breakfast .
first-year cadets had to eat their meals squared-off lifting their forks in a right angle path into their mouths .
and after breakfast , they d scurry back to clean their rooms for inspection .
dobias said it was a place where kids who didn t like following the rules learned to like it .
it s a hell of a thing for a kid to go to a military school especially when you have to say , yes sir , no sir , have to learn how to salute , how to do about-face , how to march , how to carry a gun , said dobias.but instead of recoiling from the discipline , trump thrived under it .
in her book the trumps : three generations of builders and a presidential candidate , gwenda blair notes how donald seemed to welcome being in a place with clear-cut parameters , a place where he could focus on figuring out how to come out on top and get what he wanted .
mike kabealo , one of trump s roommates at nyma , said in the confines of the school s rigid rules , trump wanted to be a standout .
cocksure , positive and anything-you-can-do-i-can-do-better kind of stuff you know , he was very competitive , kabealo said.and friends say trump channeled that competitiveness into everything at military school .
when he was in charge of the rifle rack , he cleaned the rifles obsessively .
he was meticulous about his uniform .
when it was his turn to do inspections in the barracks , he whipped other cadets into shape .
nprgiven his success in the military academy , is it any surprise then , that president trump would choose a former general to be his chief of staff ? white house chief of staff john kelly aims to stop president trump from making policy announcements on twitter , according to a report friday night.while kelly acknowledges he can t stop trump from tweeting , the new chief of staff would like to know what the president plans to tweet before he does so .
he would prefer big policy decisions not be announced on twitter.the goal is pushing the tweets in the right direction , politico reported , citing a white house official.trump made waves on july 26 when he announced on twitter that he would ban transgender people from the military : after consultation with my generals and military experts , please be advised that the united states government will not accept or allow donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 26 , 2017 .transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the u.s. military .
our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 26 , 2017 .victory and can not be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail .
thank you donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 26 , 2017the defense department has since said it won t execute a policy based on trump s tweet until it would receives formal guidance , which the white house has not provided yet.politico reported that white house and defense department lawyers had warned trump against the transgender military ban , fearing the legal backlash that would follow .
the lawyers only learned about trump s decision when he tweeted it .
washington examiner