paris ( reuters ) - venezuela s opposition-led congress leaders met on monday with french president emmanuel macron to press for humanitarian aid to their crisis-hit nation , on the first leg of a european tour seeking support against president nicolas maduro .
maduro s government has been criticised by the united nations , washington and other governments for failing to allow the entry of foreign aid to ease a severe economic crisis , while it overrides venezuela s opposition-led congress and jails hundreds of opponents .
i stressed the urgency of opening up the door to humanitarian aid in venezuela , congress president julio borges said , adding that macron had been eager to help .
we want the government of maduro to open the door to this humanitarian help , borges said .
the opposition won control of congress in 2015 .
but maduro s loyalist supreme court has tossed out every major law it has passed as the oil-rich country slips deeper into a recession exacerbated by triple-digit inflation and acute shortages of food and medicines .
maduro has said he is facing an armed insurrection designed to end socialism in latin america and let a u.s.-backed business elite get its hands on the opec nation s massive crude reserves .
in caracas on monday , venezuela s foreign minister jorge arreaza summoned ambassadors from spain , germany italy , and the united kingdom to issue a note of protest accusing them of meddling in venezuela s internal affairs .
there has been widespread criticism of maduro around europe , with macron last week saying his administration was a dictatorship trying to survive at the cost of unprecedented humanitarian distress .
macron , who did not speak to reporters after the meeting , last week also criticised the government after human rights activist lilian tintori , the wife of venezuela s best-known detained political leader , was barred from flying out of the country to go to paris , madrid , berlin and london .
they can not silence the voice of 30 million venezuelans , tintori said on her twitter account , adding that congress vice president freddy guevara had given macron a letter from her .
arreaza said tintori was not able to leave the country because she was due in court this week to answer questions over a stash of cash that police had found in her car .
when she intended to leave on saturday , several european ambassadors accompanied her to the airport .
the situation in venezuela has a particular resonance in france , where the far-left france unbowed party , currently macron s most vocal opponent , backs maduro .
maduro is expected to address the opening day of a three-week u.n. human rights council session on sept. 11 .