phnom penh ( reuters ) - the united states has called on cambodia to reverse steps that backtracked on democracy before a general election next year , a visiting u.s. official said on wednesday .
relations between cambodia and the united states have hit their lowest in years after the arrest of a rival of long-serving prime minister hun sen , kem sokha , and the dissolution of his opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) .
hun sen accused kem sokha and his party of a u.s.-backed anti-government plot .
the opposition leader and the united states denied that .
we are advising that these steps that have taken place here that have backtracked on democracy could be reversed , said patrick murphy , deputy assistant secretary of state for southeast asia , the most senior u.s. official to visit since the cnrp was dissolved .
murphy told reporters in phnom penh that cambodia still had time before the general election in july to conduct an electoral process that is legitimate .
hun sen looks set to extend his 32-year rule easily next year after eliminating the cnrp , which had made big gains in the last general election in 2013 .
on tuesday , the european union followed a u.s. lead in suspending funding for the election .
kem sokha has been accused of plotting treason with unidentified americans and the cambodian supreme court dissolved his party last month at the government s request .
kem sokha said the charges were a political ploy .
murphy said allegations of a u.s.-backed plot were a fabrication .
we want a good relationship , he said .
there is a little bit of friction , a little bit of noise in the official bilateral relationship but we remain optimistic .
during his visit , murphy met senior officials but no government ministers .
he also met civil society groups .
ouch borith , secretary of state at the foreign ministry , who met murphy on tuesday , told reporters their talks had been about improving the relationship .
he defended his government s actions .
what we ve done is in the legal framework to defend cambodia s independence , peace and stability .
we didn t do anything illegal , he said .
reaction to the dissolution of the cnrp has been largely muted in cambodia .
rights groups have decried what they say is an increasingly repressive atmosphere in the southeast asian nation , and have condemned the detention of several reporters and closure of some media outlets .
hun sen has shrugged off criticism from the west .
china , cambodia s largest aid donor , has leant its support to hun sen saying it respects cambodia s right to defend its national security .