kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysia s growing ties to saudi arabia - and its puritan salafi-wahhabi islamic doctrines - are coming under new scrutiny as concerns grow over an erosion of traditional religious practices and culture in the multi-ethnic nation .
a string of recent events has fueled the concern .
hostility toward atheists , non-believers and the gay community has risen .
two annual beer festivals were canceled after islamic leaders objected .
a hardline preacher , accused of spreading hatred in india , has received official patronage .
the government has backed a parliamentary bill that would allow the shariah court wider criminal jurisdiction over muslims in the state of kelantan .
and after religious officials supported a muslim-only laundromat , malaysia s mostly ceremonial royalty made a rare public intervention , calling for religious harmony .
marina mahathir , the daughter of malaysia s longest serving prime minister , mahathir mohamad , publicly lashed out at the government for allowing the arabisation of malaysia .
marina , who heads the civil rights group sisters in islam , told reuters saudi influence on islam in malaysia has come at the expense of traditional malay culture .
her father , 93 , now heads the opposition alliance .
saudi arabia s fundamentalist wahhabi beliefs have strongly influenced malaysia and neighboring indonesia - for decades , but have strengthened considerably since najib became prime minister in 2009 and began cozying up to the kingdom .
the relationship came under a harsh spotlight when nearly $ 700 million wound up in najib s bank account in 2013 .
najib said it was a donation from the saudi royal family , rebutting allegations it was money siphoned from the 1mdb state investment fund he had founded and overseen .
malaysia s attorney-general cleared him of any wrongdoing .
the trend toward a politicized brand of islam in malaysia , a middle-income emerging market , has alarmed malaysia s non-muslims , including ethnic chinese who comprise a quarter of the population and dominate private sector commerce .
it is also a concern for foreign investors , who account for nearly half the local bond market and have invested $ 8.95 billion in project investments in the first nine months of this year .
the government denies actively promoting wahhabi-style islamic conservatism .
najib has been largely silent about the recent religious controversies .
critics have accused the prime minister , whose governing coalition lost the popular vote in the last general election but retained a simple majority in parliament , of playing on fears that islam and malay political power will be eroded should the opposition win .
an election is due by mid-2018 .
militancy has also been on the rise in malaysia , which from 2013 to 2016 had arrested more than 250 people with alleged ties to islamic state , many of whom were indoctrinated with hardline interpretations of islam .
after the visit of the saudi monarch this year , malaysia announced plans to build the king salman centre for international peace to bring together islamic scholars and intelligence agencies in an effort to counter extremist interpretations of islam .
the center , which is being built on a 16-hectare ( 40-acre ) plot in the administrative capital of putrajaya , will draw on the resources of the saudi-financed islamic science university of malaysia , and the muslim world league , a wahhabi saudi religious body .
saudi arabia has long been funding mosques and schools in malaysia , while providing scholarships for malaysians to study in the kingdom .
many of them find employment in malaysia s multitude of islamic agencies , said farouk musa , chairman and director of the moderate think-tank , islamic renaissance front .
one of the most worrisome doctrines they preach in multi-cultural malaysia is al-w ala wa-al-bara or allegiance and disavowal , farouk said .
this doctrine basically means do not befriend the non-believers ( al-kuffar ) , even if they are among the closest relatives .
we have never heard of islamic scholars forbidding muslims to wish merry christmas before , for example .
now , this is a common phenomenon , he said .
the adoption of arab culture and interpretations of islam is a result of greater exposure to middle eastern people and universities , said abdul aziz kaprawi , a member of the supreme council of najib s political party , the united malay national organisation .
the extensive usage of social media also accelerated the external influence on the locals , he told reuters .
the government is not promoting wahhabism but rather the doctrine of wasatiyyah , or moderation and balance , to accommodate malaysia s multi-cultural society , said abdul aziz , who is also a federal deputy minister .
karima bennoune , the united nations special rapporteur for cultural rights , expressed concern in a report after her september visit to malaysia about the deepening involvement of religious authorities in policy decisions .
she said this was influenced by a hegemonic version of islam imported from the arabian peninsula that was at odds with local forms of practice .
she also expressed concern about the banning of books , including some about moderate and progressive islam , in the country when the government extols these very concepts abroad .
marina mahathir said religious departments , staffed with saudi graduates , are now consulted on absolutely everything , from movies to health and medicine to insurance , all sorts of things that they do not necessarily have any expertise in .
the kingdom also exerts leverage over muslim-majority countries such as indonesia and malaysia through the quotas it gives to countries for the number of pilgrims they can send on the hajj , one of the five pillars of islam that all capable muslims must perform at least once in their lives .
this could all start to change if saudi arabia s powerful crown prince mohammed bin salman succeeds in returning the saudi kingdom to a moderate islam , which he says was practiced before 1979 .
he has already scaled back the role of religious police , permitted public concerts and announced women will be allowed to drive .
the kingdom has also set up an authority to scrutinize uses of the hadith accounts of the sayings , actions or habits of the prophet to prevent them being used to justify violence or terrorism .
( this story has been corrected to clarify bill on islamic law and remove reference to stoning and amputations in paragraph 3 )