phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodian prime minister hun sen won words of support from china on monday after the united states and european union condemned the arrest of his main rival and a widening crackdown on his critics before next year s election .
a day after kem sokha was arrested in a midnight raid on his house , one of his deputies said donor countries should open their eyes to cambodia s false democracy and put more pressure on hun sen .
when asked about kem sokha s arrest at a press briefing in beijing , chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said china supports the cambodian government s efforts to protect national security and stability .
opposition politicians , rights groups and independent media have come under growing pressure as next year s election approaches .
it could represent hun sen s greatest electoral challenge in more than three decades in power .
one of china s closest allies in the region , hun sen has increasingly ignored criticism from western donors , whose budget support is no longer as critical as it during the early years of his rule , when cambodia was little more than a failed state .
we can not allow foreigners to use khmers to kill khmers any more , hun sen said on monday , referring to the khmer rouge genocide that destroyed cambodia in the 1970s .
hun sen , 65 , is a former khmer rouge soldier who switched sides .
sokha was allowed to see a lawyer on monday at his prison several hours from phnom penh near the border with vietnam .
i may lose freedom , but may freedom never die in cambodia , kem sokha was quoted as saying in a post on twitter that was repeated by his daughter , monovithya kem .
the european union called for his immediate release , based on the fact that he is meant to have parliamentary immunity , as an elected lawmaker .
this arrest suggests a further effort to restrict the democratic space in cambodia , the eu said in a statement .
the u.s. state department expressed grave concern at sokha s arrest on charges it said appeared to be politically motivated .
it said in a statement it was also worried about other curbs on media and civil society .
hun sen has steadily increased his rhetoric against the united states , ending joint military exercises , expelling a u.s. pro-democracy group and on sunday accusing washington of conspiring with kem sokha .
u.n. high commissioner for human rights zeid ra ad al hussein said he was seriously concerned about the arrest , noting that it was on the basis of the video of a speech he had made in 2013 and which had been publicly available since then .
one of kem sokha s deputies , mu sochua , said the opposition had done as much as it could and would not call for demonstrations because it believed in non-violence .
she called on donors to help .
there isn t true peace .
there has always been a false democracy , said mu sochua , 63 , who is one of three deputies to kem sokha in the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) .
the international community have been willing to close their eyes and play along with it .
right now all the red lines have been crossed , she told reuters in an interview in phnom penh .
an independent newspaper that had often been critical of hun sen published its last edition on monday , saying it had been forced to close after being given one month to pay a crippling $ 6.3 million in back taxes .
its final headline , on the arrest of kem sokha , was descent into outright dictatorship .