the drip drip drip of communism leftists are stealing our rights and freedom while americans can t be bothered with politics because they re too busy watching the kardashians the florida high school athletics association recently denied a request by two christian schools to broadcast a prayer before a championship game at orlando s citrus bowl stadium.cambridge christian school in tampa and the university christian school out of jacksonville are playing in the district 2-a high school football championships today and coaches from both teams submitted a request to ensure a 30-second prayer over the loudspeaker before kickoff , bay news 9 reports.but roger dearing , director of the florida high school athletics association , denied the request for two main reasons .
the facility is a public facility , predominantly paid for with public tax dollars , makes the facility off limits under federal guidelines and precedent court cases , dearing wrote in an emailed response to the teams .
in florida statutes , the fhsaa ( host and coordinator of the event ) is legally a state actor , we can not legally permit or grant permission for such an activity .
cambridge head of school tim euler doesn t agree with dearing s ruling .
we ve played 13 football games this year , he told bay news 9 we ve prayed before every one of them .
here s the problem , euler told wtsp .
the florida legislature is opened up with prayer in a building that is paid by tax dollars .
what is the difference ?
if they can pray there , we can pray here , and i want them to be able to pray there and i want us to be able to pray here , he added .
so i think ( dearing s ) reasoning is flawed at the core of it .
euler said friday morning , hours before the game s 1 p.m. start time , that it s unlikely the teams would be able to reverse the decision , but believes it s important to highlight the problem , nonetheless .
what we really want to do is raise awareness , he told bay news 9 .
all we re asking for is an opportunity for two christian schools to pray .
wtsp attempted to contact the florida high school athletic association about the ruling , but the agency ignored its request.wtsp reporter mike deeson posted about the controversy on facebook .
i was disappointed the florida high school athletic association didn t return our calls , he wrote .
i wanted to know how the legislature opens with a prayer in a taxpayer owned building with state employees , yet fhsaa maintains a prayer couldn t be said in a taxpayer funding facility the citrus bow that was sanctioned by state employees , members of fhsaa .
something doesn t make sense when you compare the two but they never returned our calls , deeson posted .
in my opinion that was a bad pr move !
readers , of course , were enraged by the fhsaa s decision .
i think it s absolutely ridiculous that they will not let two christian schools pray before their game , mary salvatore posted to facebook .
and you wonder why we have so many mass shootings across the country !
so pc and so tolerant that you become intolerant , robert rosengarten added .
let them pray , who gives a f. if they want to pray to jesus , allah , the flying spaghetti monster , let them , who cares .
who s to stop them ?
daniel suarez questioned .
what if both teams come together before the game and pray ?
what if all in the stands begin to pray ?
who would it hurt ?
via : eag news