a couple of weeks ago , donald trump held his first cabinet meeting .
they might have discussed policy or the goals of the floundering administration , but what the world saw was like something straight out of north korea .
trump went around the room and each cabinet member heaped fawning praise on dear leader.it turns out that was far from an isolated incident .
trump s white house has a daily newsletter and its one and only purpose is to appease dear leader s fragile snowflake ego.there is already a white house newsletter called 1600 daily after the white house address of 1600 pennsylvania ave .
it s already an upbeat , full of pictures and general public relations ( and yes , propaganda ) stories , online newsletter that s available to the general public.west wing reads , though , is different .
it wasn t written by staff .
instead , it s a compilation of stories from the web mostly from right-wing sources such as breitbart and fox that are flattering to trump.on thursday , for example , a forbes contributor argued the congressional budget office was wrong in calculating that 22 million people would lose health insurance under trumpcare .
according to them , no one would lose insurance.reality check !
an analysis by forbes contributor josh archambault reveals surprising flaws in the cbo s score of the senate healthcare bill , which concludes 22 million more americans will be without health coverage by 2026 .
as archambault points out , the cbo score is based on an old , inaccurate 2016 cbo estimate of how many americans will purchase obamacare .
if you use their january 2017 update , republican legislation to repeal and replace obamacare would result in only 2 million fewer on the individual market by 2026 , and would actually result in no losses and even some gains in enrollment in the years preceding , archambault estimates .
click here to read more.on tuesday , the newsletter even quoted cnn , who trump normally calls fake news , because they had a positive write-up about his supreme court justice , neil gorsuch.and they like to say that president obama was arrogant.featured image via chip somodevilla/getty images