jerusalem/beirut ( reuters ) - five projectiles from syria set off air raid sirens in israeli towns on saturday , prompting the israeli military to say it would step up its response to stray fire from the syrian war that has repeatedly spilled over the border .
the projectiles crossed into the israeli-occupied golan heights and the military said it targeted three syrian artillery guns in response .
no damage or injuries were reported in israel .
the syrian military said it came under attack in quneitra province , which sits near the golan heights territory that israel captured from syria in the 1967 middle east war .
the israeli enemy assaulted one of our military positions this morning , which led to material damages , it said .
during syria s more than six-year-old conflict , israel has returned fire across the border , including stray shells from fighting among syrian combatants .
the israeli military statement suggested it may start escalating such retaliations .
whether errant fire or not , any future occurrences will force the israel defense forces to intensify its response , it said .
israel holds the syrian regime responsible and won t tolerate any attempt to breach israeli sovereignty , it added .
syria s foreign ministry warned of the grave consequences of such repeated aggressive acts which it called a flagrant violation in a letter to the united nations , state media said .
the syrian military said it held israel responsible .
israel has also carried out targeted air strikes in syria during the war , alarmed by the expanding influence of iran , the syrian government s ally .
the israeli air force says it has struck arms convoys of the syrian military and lebanon s iran-backed hezbollah nearly 100 times in recent years .
iran s military chief warned israel against breaching syria s airspace and territory on a visit to damascus this week .
the general signed an agreement with his syrian counterpart to further boost military cooperation , iranian state news agency irna said on saturday .
rebel factions fighting the damascus government in the multi-sided war hold swathes of quneitra , while the army and allied militias control another part of the province .
both warring syrian sides accused each other of prompting the israeli attack on saturday .
the army said militants in nearby territory fired mortar rounds into the golan heights .
a rebel official in quneitra said pro-government fighters had been shelling insurgent-held parts of the province , when some of the shells fell on the golan heights .