beirut ( reuters ) - the syrian government has denied a u.n. report accusing it of a sarin attack in april that killed scores of people , state media said on friday .
damascus sent the united nations a letter asserting that syria has not and will not use toxic gases against its people because it does not have them in the first place , state news agency sana said .
u.n. war crimes investigators said this week that syrian forces have used chemical weapons more than two dozen times during the six-year conflict .
the u.n. commission of inquiry on syria said a government warplane dropped sarin on khan sheikhoun in insurgent-held idlib province in april , killing more than 80 civilians .
the attack prompted a u.s. missile strike on a syrian government air base .
a fact-finding mission of the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons ( opcw ) previously identified the attack as containing sarin , an odorless nerve agent .
but that conclusion did not assign blame .
the syrian government has said before that air strikes in the town of khan sheikhoun hit a weapons depot belonging to rebel factions .
the u.n. investigators dismissed this .
president bashar al-assad s government has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons in the war and says it only targets militants .
in 2013 , hundreds of civilians died in a sarin gas attack in the suburbs of the capital damascus , in an attack that western states blamed on assad s government .
damascus blamed rebels .
in the wake of the atrocity , the united states and russia brokered a deal under which syria joined the international chemical weapons convention .
syria declared it had 1,300 tonnes of chemical weapons or industrial chemical stocks , surrendering it to the international community for destruction .
u.n.-opcw investigators have said that the government continued to use chlorine , which is widely available and hard to trace .
chlorine is not a banned substance , but the use of any chemical is banned under the 1997 chemical weapons convention .
a series of u.n.-opcw investigations found that various parties in the war have used chlorine , sulfur mustard gas and sarin .