to hell with the common sense voter , hillary believes she only needs americans who are okay with living in a lawless nation to lock down the presidency .
it seems to have worked pretty well for her predecessor why not ? hillary clinton wrote an op/ed piece for the arizona republic and boy is it insane .
it s sort of an anti-trump/pro-illegal alien manifesto that lays out her immigration policy if she becomes president .
two noteworthy things are that she intends to open our borders completely and establish a government agency that will spend taxpayer money to help illegal aliens become citizens.hillary starts out with a folksy story about an illegal alien who would be deported if donald trump was in charge and then lashed out at the supreme court for ruling against obama s amnesty executive order , calling it , heartbreaking and unacceptable .
and while our system fails to provide certainty to immigrant families , political figures like donald trump turn them into scapegoats for many of the challenges facing american families today .
his bigotry and fear-mongering may be an attempt to divide our country and distract from his lack of real solutions to raise incomes and create good paying jobs but it s not going to work.let s be clear : when trump talks about forming a deportation force to round up and expel 11 million immigrants he s talking about ripping apart families isn t that cute ?
hillary wants you to think there is no difference between legal immigrants and illegal aliens .
trump has never once said he plans to round up and deport legal immigrants , just that he wants to enforce existing immigration laws.when he praises local figures like gov .
jan brewer and sheriff joe arpaio , he s endorsing their heartless and divisive policies.how is enforcing the law a heartless policy as hillary says ?
the only way our immigration laws are divisive is because illegal aliens don t like them.instead of building walls , we ought to be breaking down barriers .
our country has always been stronger when we lift each other up , not tear each other down .
we re stronger together.here hillary is obviously saying that she wants open borders , which essentially would nullify our status as an autonomous country , but there s even more garbage contained within that last statement .
illegal aliens are not americans and therefore not part of us .
they are citizens of another country , which makes them not us .
they don t stand with us , they don t lift us up , and they sure as shit don t make us stronger.after proving that hillary plans to be the leader of the third world rather than the president of the united states , she outlined ways she will make that happen.first up , amnesty beyond obama s bullshit : that s why , as president , i ll fight for comprehensive immigration reform that includes a path to full and equal citizenship , starting in my first 100 days in office .
we should do everything we can to keep families together , better integrate immigrants into their communities , and help those eligible for naturalization take the last step to citizenship.then another bloated bureaucracy and massive waste of funds : second , we need to increase our focus on integration and make sure that immigrants are able to thrive in american society .
let s provide more federal resources to help immigrants learn the english language skills they need to be successful .
and because this issue cuts across all levels of government local , state and federal i ll create the first-ever office of immigrant affairs at the white house to help coordinate these policies across the nation.and finally , some more government handouts designed to make instant democrats : third , let s help the 9 million people in our country who are currently eligible for naturalization become full citizens .
they work and pay taxes yet they can not vote or serve on juries .
let s expand fee waivers so that those seeking naturalization can get a break on the costs .
and let s step up our outreach and education , because no one should miss out on the chance to be a citizen.hillary claims that her plans will strengthen our economy by flooding the country with unskilled uneducated people who will drive down wages .
i m not sure how that works and hillary certainly didn t try to explain it.no matter what donald trump says , we have always been a nation of immigrants and it is long past time we helped millions of hard-working people step out of the shadows and onto a path to a brighter future.when has trump ever denied that america was formed by immigrants ?
all he wants is the fairness that comes with upholding the law.if hillary clinton becomes president , we can pretty much kiss our country goodbye .
with no border security and zero immigration enforcement , america as we know it will cease to exist .
downtrend