washington ( reuters ) - the national rifle association is on track for record spending this year on u.s. political campaigns , including missouri ’ s u.s. senate race where a gun-owning democrat is waging a tough fight against an incumbent republican backed by the gun rights group .
democrat jason kander , an afghanistan war veteran , is running just 2.5 percentage points behind republican u.s .
senator roy blunt in opinion polls in missouri , despite the nra ’ s expenditure of $ 1.8 million so far trying to protect blunt as well as the republicans ’ u.s. senate majority .
gun violence has transfixed the united states in 2016 , from a massacre at an orlando , florida , nightclub to a rash of police shootings , fueling demands by some democrats and activists for tighter gun laws .
those efforts have been thwarted , as in years past , by the nra and its supporters , who say such measures would infringe on the right to bear arms guaranteed by the second amendment of the u.s. constitution .
congress has not approved major gun-control legislation since the 1990s .
an aug. 19 reuters/ipsos poll found 41.8 percent of respondents agreed there should be strong restrictions on firearms and 22.4 percent supported moderate regulations .
per-capita firearm ownership in the united states far exceeds any other country , according to government estimates .
in the missouri race and other senate contests in states such as north carolina , nevada , florida and new hampshire , the gun-control battle gripping washington is playing out on the campaign trail .
the nra has spent $ 23.4 million in this election cycle , with a month to go before voting on nov. 8 , compared with a previous high of $ 27 million in the entire 2014 campaign cycle , according to federal data gathered by the center for responsive politics .
the nra did not respond to requests for comment .
in addition to senate republicans , the lobbying group is also backing republican presidential nominee donald trump .
blunt , 66 , is a two-decade veteran of congress .
he accuses kander , 35 , of being soft on gun ownership rights .
blunt has an “ a ” rating from the nra .
kander has an “ f , ” which the nra says he earned by backing expanded background checks on gun buyers and legislation that failed this year in congress to bar people on “ terrorism watch lists ” from buying guns .
“ the difference between senator blunt and myself is that i want to stop criminals and suspected terrorists from having the same access to guns as the rest of us , which is why i support background checks , ” kander said in a statement to reuters on thursday .
kander , missouri ’ s secretary of state , counterpunched against blunt last month with a 30-second tv commercial that has had more than 1 million views on youtube.com .
in the ad , the former u.s. army captain assembles a military-style rifle while blindfolded .
he says he has supported gun ownership rights , but adds : “ i also believe in background checks so that terrorists can ’ t get their hands on one of these. ” a fierce debate in washington over such background checks in june led to a 25-hour sit-in by democrats on the floor of the house of representatives .
“ the reaction to that ad has reset the debate ” in the missouri senate race , said tim daly , managing director of guns and crime policy for the liberal center for american progress , a think tank in washington .
kander ’ s polling numbers were already rising when the sept. 15 ad was first broadcast .
but daly said kander planted fresh doubts over the nra position on background checks .
blunt and his campaign spokesmen were not available for comment .
the nra is blunt ’ s no .
2 financial backer in the missouri race , surpassed only by a group closely associated with u.s. senate majority leader mitch mcconnell that backs republicans .
like the blunt-kander battle , other key 2016 senate races feature intense debate over guns as republicans work to defend their control of the senate .
in north carolina , the nra has pumped in $ 2.8 million to support threatened incumbent republican senator richard burr .
the first televised debate in new hampshire this week between republican senator kelly ayotte and her democratic challenger , governor maggie hassan , began with a moderator asking how they could reduce gun violence without infringing on gun rights .
ayotte has come under attack from americans for responsible solutions for her opposition to tough gun background checks .
the group works to reduce u.s. gun violence in the united states .