benghazi , libya ( reuters ) - senior figures from across libya s political divides protested on thursday against remarks by british foreign secretary boris johnson about clearing dead bodies from the city of sirte .
johnson told members of his conservative party on tuesday that british investors had a brilliant vision to turn sirte , a former stronghold of islamic state , into the next dubai if bodies could be cleared away .
lawmakers from libya s house of representatives ( hor ) , who represent political and military factions based in the east of the country , called the comments unacceptable .
the hor s foreign affairs committee issued a statement demanding a clarification from the british prime minister and an apology to the libyan people .
the head of libya s u.n.- and western-backed government , which is based in tripoli and has been spurned by the hor , also asked for clarification during a meeting with the british ambassador in the capital .
some of what was said in ( johnson s ) statement is unacceptable , said a statement from fayez seraj , head of the u.n.-backed government .
johnson s comments led to calls for his resignation from british political opponents .
he accused them of playing politics , saying on twitter that he had been referring to the clearing of booby-trapped bodies of islamic state militants .
local libyan forces backed by u.s. air strikes fought for more than six months last year to oust militants from sirte , which islamic state had turned into its most important base outside the middle east .
the coastal city of about 80,000 was badly damaged during the campaign and is struggling to rebuild .
the hor has been based in eastern libya since 2014 when a conflict in tripoli led to the setting up of rival parliaments and governments in the capital and the east .
its cooperation is considered crucial for the progress of a new u.n. plan to stabilize libya and the ending of turmoil that began after the nato-backed uprising that toppled muammar gaddafi in 2011 .