seoul/tokyo ( reuters ) - south korean and japanese jets joined exercises with two supersonic u.s. b-1b bombers above and near the korean peninsula on thursday , two days after north korea sharply raised tension by firing a missile over japan .
the drills , involving four u.s. stealth f-35b jets as well as south korean and japanese fighter jets , came at the end of annual u.s.-south korea military exercises focused mainly on computer simulations .
north korea s actions are a threat to our allies , partners and homeland , and their destabilizing actions will be met accordingly , said general terrence j. o shaughnessy , pacific air forces commander , who made an unscheduled visit to japan .
this complex mission clearly demonstrates our solidarity with our allies and underscores the broadening cooperation to defend against this common regional threat .
north korea has been working to develop a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the united states and has recently threatened to land missiles near the u.s. pacific territory of guam .
on monday , north korea , which sees the exercises as preparations for invasion , raised the stakes in its stand-off with the united states and its allies by firing an intermediate-range missile over japan .
on thursday , its official news agency , kcna , denounced the military drills in traditionally robust fashion , calling them the rash act of those taken aback by the missile test , which it described as the first military operation in the pacific .
president donald trump , who has warned that the u.s. military is locked and loaded in case of north korean provocation , reacted angrily to the latest missile test , declaring on twitter that talking is not the answer to resolving the crisis over north korea s weapons programs .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis was quick on wednesday to stress that a diplomatic solution remained possible , but on thursday he told reporters he agreed with trump that washington should not be talking right now to a nation that is firing missiles over the top of japan , an ally .
white house spokeswoman sarah sanders reiterated at a regular briefing on thursday that all options - diplomatic , economic and military - remained on the table .
japanese defence minister itsunori onodera spoke to mattis by telephone and agreed to keep putting pressure on north korea in a visible form , japan s defense ministry said .
japanese prime shinzo abe said he and visiting british prime minister theresa may agreed to urge china , north korea s lone major ally , to do more to rein in north korea .
may and abe also discussed the possibility of adopting a new u.n. security council resolution on north korea , a british government source said .
the 15-member u.n. security council on tuesday condemned the firing of the missile over japan as outrageous and demanded that north korea halt its weapons programs .
but the u.s.-drafted statement did not threaten new sanctions .
japan has been urging washington to propose new security council sanctions , which diplomats said could target north korean laborers working abroad , oil supplies and textile exports .
however , diplomats expect resistance from russia and fellow veto-wielding power china , particularly given that new measures were only announced on aug. 5 after north korea tested its first two intercontinental ballistic missiles in july .
a u.s. ban on travel by americans to north korea comes into effect on friday , a step announced after the death of a u.s. student shortly after his release from a 15-year prison sentence in the country , where three other americans are still detained .
china repeated a call on thursday for restraint by all parties .
defence ministry spokesman ren guoqiang told a monthly briefing china would never allow war or chaos on the korean peninsula , its doorstep , and military means were not an option .
china strongly demands all sides to exercise restraint and remain calm and not do anything to worsen tensions , ren said , adding that chinese forces were maintaining a normal state of alert along the north korean border .
chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said the situation on the peninsula was serious .
the current tense situation on the peninsula isn t a screenplay or a video game , she told reporters .
it s real , and is an immense and serious issue that directly involves the safety of people from both the north and south of the peninsula , as well as peace and stability of the entire region .
for an interactive on north korea 's missile capabilities , click : here for a graphic on north korean missile trajectories , ranges , click : here for a graphic on kim 's new act of defiance , click : here