washington ( reuters ) - the obama administration ’ s plan to set federal borrowing on a sustainable path relies on stronger economic growth than what is seen by other big government agencies , which in turn have been lowering their expectations .
the administration ’ s view , laid out on tuesday in its annual budget proposal , is that gross domestic product will grow 2.3 percent each year over the long run .
the median policymaker at the federal reserve , however , sees long-term growth at 2 percent , which is the same rate seen by the non-partisan congressional budget office .
the differences are modest but show white house economists are being slower to downgrade their view of america ’ s growth potential .
while the fed and the cbo have been cutting their views on long-term growth in recent years , the white house has held steady in each budget submitted since early 2013 .
over the same period , the cbo has cut its view from 2.2 percent and the views of core fed policymakers have gone from a 2.3-2.5 percent range to a 1.8-2.2 percent range .
it is impossible to make a full apples-to-apples comparison between the administration ’ s view with those of the fed and cbo .
the administration ’ s projections are based on the assumption its budget is fully enacted , which is unlikely to happen .
proposed immigration law changes would make the workforce younger and more productive while infrastructure investments would also boost efficiency , the administration said in the budget .
prominent academics including former treasury secretary lawrence summers and northwestern university economist robert gordon have warned that u.s. growth may have shifted persistently lower in recent decades .
a stronger growth view allows the white house to project that the national debt will stay around 75 percent of gdp through 2026 .
the cbo by comparison sees debt on an upward path over the period , hitting 86 percent in 2026 .
white house economists acknowledge slower growth would put pressure on the budget , saying in tuesday ’ s proposal that a 1 percentage point slowdown in gdp growth would add $ 3.1 trillion to the deficit in the decade through 2026 .
the budget also assumes a modest pace of health care inflation , easing strains on the budget created by an aging society , while arguing that proposed investments and immigration reform will help productivity growth .
but the proposal notes that slower productivity growth and higher health care costs could result “ in a debt explosion , with debt-to-gdp reaching over 500 percent by ( around 2090 ) . ”