madrid ( reuters ) - catalonian leaders on friday appealed to the spanish government for dialogue to avert an impending political crisis over a planned referendum on independence as madrid took measures to stop state cash being used to fund the vote .
police also intervened to stop a meeting organized by a pro-independence catalan party , the first public police crackdown on the process .
the government of the wealthy northeastern region has pledged to hold a referendum on breaking away from spain on oct. 1 in defiance of prime minister mariano rajoy , who has declared the event illegal and is bringing the weight of the state to bear to prevent it .
in a letter released on friday , regional president carles puigdemont and barcelona mayor ada colau wrote to rajoy and spain s king felipe saying the state had mounted an unprecedented repression offensive .
the letter called for political dialogue , based on the legitimacy we all have , to make possible something that in a democracy is never a problem and even less a crime : listening to the voice of the people .
the government said it had not received the letter .
to talk about dialogue when the only thing the catalan government has wanted for months , years , is a referendum come what may , seems like a threat , government spokesman inigo mendez de vigo told a news conference .
shortly after puigdemont and colau s appeal , the budget ministry said the uncertainty created by the stand-off could damage the economy and push up sovereign borrowing costs .
some investors sold spanish government bonds and switched to italian debt earlier this week .
also on friday , the government passed measures to gain more control over how the regional administration spends its money in a bid to stop it from using state cash to pay for the ballot .
budget minister cristobal montoro said the catalan authorities could not be trusted to spend the money on public services rather than the planned vote .
the central government made arrangements to take over the funding of most essential public services if puigdemont failed to guarantee , within 48 hours of the measures coming into force , that public cash was not being used to fund the referendum .
in vitoria-gasteiz in northern spain , police interrupted a meeting held by the small pro-catalan independence cup party .
the cup meeting in a civic building in the capital of the basque country , which also has a separatist movement , finished early after police arrived .
participants waved ballot papers and flags as they left .
the planned referendum would be the culmination of many years of campaigning by the independence movement .
most of catalonia s 5.5 million voters want to have a say on the region s relationship with spain but the independence cause has lost support in recent years and surveys now indicate less than half the population would choose full self-rule .
the referendum would pose the question do you want catalonia to be an independent republic ?
to all spanish citizens living in catalonia .
leaders have said the assembly would declare independence within 48 hours of a yes vote .
puigdemont has said no minimum turnout will be required to make the result binding .
rajoy , who is due to attend an event for his ruling people s party ( pp ) in barcelona , spain s second-biggest city , later on friday , has said the government would come down with all the force of the law to ensure no referendum goes ahead .
two new laws passed by the catalan assembly paving the way for the vote have been suspended while state judges consider whether holding it would breach spain s constitution , which says the country is indivisible .
king felipe was widely quoted as praising spain s democracy and social harmony at an awards ceremony on wednesday , saying the constitution will prevail over any rupture in that .
mayor colau gave a boost to the referendum campaign on thursday with a message that the vote would go ahead in barcelona , without civil servants involved risking their jobs .
courts have already suspended from office and leveled millions of euros in fines at catalan politicians who organized a non-binding referendum in 2014 , which returned a yes vote on a low turnout .