brussels ( reuters ) - the european commission proposed on wednesday ideas for deeper euro zone integration in an effort to help unite the broader european union , as eurosceptic sentiment grows across the eu and britain prepares to leave the eu in 2019 .
the commission , the eu s executive arm , presented a package of proposals aimed at giving the 19 countries sharing the euro better protection against future financial crises .
but plans to tighten cooperation among the 19 euro countries have sparked concern among the eight non-euro countries that they will become second-class members of the eu , with less say - and less funds - in the future .
to alleviate those fears , the commission stressed that all their proposals were open to all eu members , even though that clashes with the thinking of some euro zone leaders , such as french president emmanuel macron .
macron has called for creating a euro zone budget of several hundred billion euros , a euro zone finance minister and a euro zone parliament .
the commission proposed creating cash incentives for countries for structural reforms and special funds for non-euro economies , all of which - except denmark - are obligated to adopt the euro at some point , to prepare for euro adoption .
but heavyweight germany was quick to pour cold water on one key part of the plans putting in doubt just how far they would get .
the commission backed the idea of setting up what it calls a euro zone stabilisation function , because the monetary policy of the european central bank can not deal with economic crises that hit only one or a few countries in the euro zone .
that would be a pool of money to protect investment with loans and a relatively limited grant component , the commission said .
to be effective and credible , it should be big enough to pay out at least 1 percent of gdp and be allowed to borrow .
access to the stabilisation function , managed by the commission , would be for those who stick to eu rules .
the money would come from loans from the eu budget , voluntary contributions from governments and loans from the euro zone bailout fund with guarantees from the eu budget .
the commission said that for this to work , a limited borrowing capacity could be constructed in the next eu budget .
germany expressed reservations though .
i don t think it makes sense to prejudge anything , but the outgoing government was not convinced that new buffers at the european level are necessary , germany s acting finance minister peter altmaier said .
instead of a euro zone finance minister , the commission called for naming a pan-european minister of economy and finance , who would also be a senior member of the european commission and chair meetings of euro zone finance ministers .
the minister would also oversee the work of the euro zone bailout fund as the chairman of its board , much like the head of euro zone finance ministers , the eurogroup , does now .
the job might be created when the next european commission starts work in november 2019 , the commission said , and whoever gets it would be accountable to the european parliament .
under the current arrangement , the chair of the euro zone finance ministers , the closest thing the bloc now has to a single finance minister , often testifies before the parliament s economic committee , but it has no power over him or her .
euro zone finance ministers have little enthusiasm for allowing the commission , which is only an observer at their monthly meetings , to chair their talks .
other euro zone integration ideas , floated by germany , include transforming the euro zone s government-owned and run bailout fund into a european monetary fund .
the commission backed that idea , but said the emf should become an eu institution , which would be overseen by the european parliament an idea officials have said would not fly with governments .
the emf , which the commission hopes to get agreement on by mid-2019 from governments and the european parliament , would also provide a 60 billion-euro backstop for the bank-funded single resolution fund .
the commission did not address the proposal of germany and backed by slovakia and the netherlands to create a sovereign insolvency mechanism that would put pressure on governments to conduct prudent fiscal policy .
economists were not impressed with the commission proposals .
a first browsing of the documents allows us to conclude that hardly anything will change , ing economist carsten brzeski wrote in a note to clients .
today s proposals go in the right direction but are not new and clearly not a game changer .