this is a shocker !
the very dry and serious chief white house correspondent ed henry has been caught in a sexual affair with a vegas beauty .
fox news announced he s taking some time off to sort things out .
a married fox news host is taking some time off after his mistress did a tell all revealing salacious details of their alleged affair.natalia lima spoke with in touch and shared how her relationship with fox news chief white house correspondent ed henry , 44 , went from innocent banter to something she claims was far more sexual over the course of the past five years .
lima , a las vegas hostess , also shared text messages she claims were exchanged between herself and henry detailing sexual acts they had performed on one another and hoped to perform in the future .
fox news said in a statement shortly after details of the alleged affair were revealed in the magazine ; we recently became aware of ed s personal issues and he s taking some time off to work things out .
soon after the story about his affair was released henry was seen smiling outside his home in his gym gear .
he was then seen wearing his wedding ring as he took a walk around his neighborhood in an under armour shirt and brooklyn dodgers baseball cap.lima also said that henry had a thing for bubble baths , and once brought over mr .
bubble when he visited her at her condo for a hookup .
he never gave me anything , but one time i was really stressed out about money so he did cover my rent , said lima.she added that he did not withdraw the money from an atm however as that would have been a red flag to his wife .
one time he said , it s not like a crazy hookup , it s like you are my girlfriend , said lima .
he never really talked about his wife he mentioned her a couple of times but i never really asked about her , either .
the relationship soured lima claims after her twitter account was hacked earlier this year , after which she said henry began acting kinda weird .
henry deleted all of his tweets prior to january 23 on his twitter account .
they last met up in february and after promising to contact her the next day she did not hear from henry again .
it s like he used me .
but i should ve know better , said lima .
prior to their relationship turning sexual henry shared photos of himself golfing or in front of air force one with lima , but an october exchange is incredibly graphic between the pair .
mmmmm yes bath w you , writes henry .
lima responds with three kissing face emojis and then writes ; why are emojis so big ?
lima followed that with emojis of a bathtub and a kissing couple .
henry then responded by sending his own emojis three unpeeled bananas and three pairs of female lips .
lima responds with an lol and three female emoji lips .
henry shoots back ; yummy woman , make me so , and then once again sends emojis of unpeeled bananas , this time upping the number to four.read more : daily mail