caracas ( reuters ) - just months ago , with crowds of protesters baying on the streets for the resignation of the dictator and murderer , venezuelan president nicolas maduro looked like a goner .
global opinion hardened against his socialist government , with washington the first to impose sanctions .
coup rumors spread amid one of the worst economic implosions in modern latin american history , and there were two botched mini-uprisings .
yet the unpopular successor to hugo chavez has not only survived , he is ending the year on a political high and is even a front-runner for the 2018 presidential election .
the upturn in maduro s fortunes began with a surprise victory in last month s gubernatorial elections , thanks to abstentionism by disillusioned opposition supporters and election conditions stacked in favor of his socialist party .
he then seized the initiative by announcing venezuela s intention to restructure its more than $ 120 billion foreign debt .
the high-stakes moves allows him to blame a u.s.-led capitalist conspiracy for hyperinflation and shortages while potentially freeing hard currency to import food and medicines ahead of next year s vote .
government sources say a buoyant maduro is now considering driving home his advantage by bringing forward the normally year-end election to february or march .
the president , so toxic last month that few gubernatorial candidates wanted to be seen with him , might now be his party s best bet to retain power against an opposition in disarray .
speculation about alternative candidates - from powerful socialist party no .
2 diosdado cabello to up-and-coming governor hector rodriguez - has quietened in recent days .
for sure maduro will be the candidate .
how can anyone challenge him ?
said dimitris pantoulas , a caracas-based consultant who tracks socialist party politics .
look at him on tv : he s bright and happy .
he even dances better than before !
chavismo has the momentum , he added , referring to the movement founded by chavez .
maduro is taking credit in government circles for pushing through a constituent assembly super-body that cemented the socialists power - albeit in an election boycotted by the opposition and marred by fraud accusations even from the company running the voting machines - and for breaking the opposition coalition .
with the main parties within the opposition democratic unity coalition boycotting next month s mayoral elections , another win looks likely at the local level .
the 55-year-old leader is already touting his potential 2018 campaign theme : no to the yankee sanctions .
some believe that was one motivation behind the proposed debt restructuring : to force creditors into pressuring washington to ease sanctions because they hinder any refinancing of venezuela s obligations .
it is also part of maduro s strategy with the opposition in talks due to start on dec. 1 in the dominican republic .
we must demand the venezuela opposition reach a pact for 2018 to have presidential elections with economic guarantees , an end to u.s. government sanctions and an end to the financial persecution of venezuela , maduro said recently .
the government will also press for the opposition-controlled national assembly to support debt refinancing , a potential way around sanctions that otherwise prevent u.s. banks from participating .
there has been no sign u.s. president donald trump would be willing to ease sanctions .
on the contrary , a u.s. official told reuters recently that washington was weighing new sanctions in response to maduro s crackdown on the opposition .
though the opposition is trying to rally venezuelans to oust the socialists once and for all in the 2018 vote , there is no hiding their woeful state .
leaders struggled to explain the october gubernatorial poll defeat , first blaming fraud then admitting they shot themselves in the foot via abstentionism .
the coalition openly split over the dec. 10 municipal elections , with major parties opting for a boycott but others deciding to run candidates .
that confused strategy - a far cry from their unity in 2015 parliamentary elections - has undercut western pressure on maduro .
given that the opposition s most popular candidates are detained or banned from running , maduro is goading veteran democratic action party leader henry ramos - a divisive figure , unpopular with many younger voters and hard-line opposition groups - to contest the 2018 poll .
with an unpopular president potentially facing an unconvincing opposition candidate , next year s election would seem to be fertile territory for a middle-ground aspirant .
this is the best time for anyone proposing a different way , said dissident former chavista nicmer evans .
putting his money where his mouth is , evans is tramping the streets of caracas to campaign for a mayorship at the dec. 10 vote with a new party called new vision for my country .
many venezuelans say the best president would be lorenzo mendoza , the billionaire head of the polar brewing and food company , whose ratings dwarf mainstream politicians .
he , however , has shown little inclination .
assuming mendoza remains on the sidelines and no socialist party faction displaces a maduro candidacy , he seems to have a real chance of retaining the presidency despite popularity levels that have been halved during his rule to around 20-25 percent .
a bigger threat than the opposition would appear to be social protests at the economic crisis , or a zimbabwe-style move from within the military .
cliver alcala , a former chavista general who is now an outspoken critic of maduro , said rank-and-file soldiers were fed up with personal penury and the politicization of their institution .
even so , he saw little appetite for an uprising and said the military top brass appeared to have a vested interest in supporting maduro due to the influence he allows them .
there is more possibility of a popular social outburst due to lack of food and medicine , and the constant abuses of authority , alcala said .
that , however , is a cycle venezuelans have lived through over and over in recent years : violent protests and national shutdowns coming at huge cost to life , property and productivity .
through it all , maduro has hung on - and for now is smiling again .