last december a report surfaced that barack obama intercepted communications between israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu and us lawmakers .
the obama white house targeted netanyahu because he opposed their insane nuclear deal with the iranian regime.last october obama ordered secretary of state john kerry and un ambassador samantha power to snub netanyahu at the un.lower level us state department officials attended the israeli prime minister s speech at the un.the obama administration spent $ 350,000 trying to oust israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu from office.in may 2011 barack obama urged israel to hand over half of jerusalem , the wailing wall , the temple mount , old jerusalem , and the tomb of jesus christ to the hamas-fatah terrorist organizations.in his deluded mind , handing over ancient christian and jewish holy sites to violent islamists will bring peace to the region.in december 2013 , barack obama again urged israel to hand over ancient christian and jewish holy sites to islamist terrorists .
gateway punditlast week , israel accused obama of colluding with palestinians at the un : an israeli official on friday accused president barack obama of colluding with the palestinians in a shameful move against israel at the u.n. after learning the white house did not intend to veto a security council resolution condemning settlement construction in the west bank and east jerusalem the day before .
president obama and secretary kerry are behind this shameful move against israel at the u.n. , the official said .
the u.s administration secretly cooked up with the palestinians an extreme anti-israeli resolution behind israel s back which would be a tail wind for terror and boycotts and effectively make the western wall occupied palestinian territory , he said calling it an abandonment of israel which breaks decades of us policy of protecting israel at the un .
apwe can not continue to let israel be treated with such total disdain and disrespect .
they used to have a great friend in the u.s. , but .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) december 28 , 2016not anymore .
the beginning of the end was the horrible iran deal , and now this ( u.n. ) !
stay strong israel , january 20th is fast approaching !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) december 28 , 2016