sydney ( reuters ) - about fifty asylum seekers departed an australian-run detention camp in papua new guinea on thursday after police moved into the complex , confiscating food , water and personal belongings from the roughly 310 who remained .
the manus island center was sealed off after a three-week standoff the united nations has called a looming humanitarian crisis as detainees defied attempts by australia and papua new guinea ( png ) to close it .
right now we have no water , one of the asylum-seekers in the camp said in a mobile telephone message .
i came back to my room and they took my laptop and money and cigarettes .
video images shot and posted on social media site facebook by sudanese refugee abdul aziz showed police using a megaphone to tell asylum seekers to leave because their stay at the camp , located on land used by the png navy , was illegal .
men boarded buses in footage he posted later on social network twitter .
the buses took the men to alternative accommodation , three sources said .
in geneva , the u.n. refugee agency unhcr said it had received reports of force being used to remove the refugees and asylum seekers and called for calm .
we urge both governments to engage in constructive dialogue , to de-escalate the tensions and work on urgent lasting solutions to their plight , the u.n. high commission for refugees ( unhcr ) said in a statement noting it lacked full access to the shuttered facility .
a police blockade of the camp was still in place , tim costello , chief advocate of aid group world vision australia , said by telephone from outside , adding that he had seen buses leave and that the accommodation he had visited was unfinished .
png immigration and police officials did not return telephone calls from reuters to seek comment .
the camp in png , and another on the tiny pacific island nation of nauru , have been the cornerstones of australia s controversial immigration policy , which has been strongly criticized by the united nations and rights groups .
australia opened the camps in a bid to stem a flow of asylum seekers making dangerous voyages by boat to its shores .
under its sovereign borders immigration policy , australia refuses to land asylum seekers arriving by sea , and sends them to the offshore camps instead .
at the camp , witnesses said officials in army fatigues led away kurdish journalist behrouz boochani , a resident for four years who posts regular social media messages on conditions there .
boochani later posted that he had been released after being handcuffed for several hours and had left the camp .
my understanding is that a number of people , a small number of people , have been arrested , including the individual , australia s minister for immigration and border protection peter dutton told sky news , referring to boochani .
pictures sent via a messaging service showed upturned boxes of food and torn packets of rice and instant noodles and smashed furniture , including broken beds .
last year png s supreme court ruled that the center , first opened in 2001 , breached its laws and fundamental human rights , leading to the decision to close it .
but the asylum seekers say they fear for their safety if moved to a transit center on the island , and risk being resettled in png or another developing nation permanently .
we don t want another prison .
we want to leave this place , but they need to give a good solution for us , the first asylum-seeker said .
we don t want another prison .
we want a third country .
most of those in the camp are from afghanistan , iran , myanmar , pakistan , sri lanka and syria .
the transit centers had food , water , security and medical services , australian prime minister malcolm turnbull said .
they think this is some way they can pressure the australian government to let them come to australia , turnbull told reporters in the capital , canberra .
well , we will not be pressured .