berlin ( reuters ) - germany s christmas markets opened on monday at the start of the holiday season , with security staff on hand and concrete barriers to protect shoppers , nearly a year after an islamist militant killed 12 people by driving a truck into crowds .
some 2,600 markets , known for their sparkling christmas trees and wooden stalls serving candied nuts , sausages , mulled wine and handicrafts , opened across germany under tighter than usual security .
the markets are beloved by germans and a major tourist attraction for visitors this time of year .
in the city of bochum in western germany , organizers decorate concrete bollards , wrapping them up as christmas presents with bows to make them appear festive .
in berlin , petra henne , who had been at the market in december last year just half an hour before tunisian militant anis amri drove a hijacked truck into the crowd , came out for the opening this year to enjoy the festivities .
the extra security was a bit oppressive , she said .
and it is awful , this violence that you can t do anything about .
but berliners are on good form and they carry on anyway .
what else can one do ?
an interior ministry spokesman said the risk of an attack in europe and germany is continuously high .
organizers and business owners had complained that the government was reluctant to share the cost of extra security measures .
what could be done was done , said berlin s mayor , michael mueller on monday , noting that those measures still could not guarantee absolute security .
the alternative for germany ( afd ) far-right party asked members of the public to share pictures showing extra security measures at their local markets and post them on social media in protest against chancellor angela merkel s decision in 2015 to open germany s borders to more than a million asylum seekers .
the afd blames merkel s immigration policy for what it says is a rise in crime and islamist attacks .
klaus schultheis , an expert in german christmas markets who collects annual national data on the subject , said he knew of only two markets that were canceled over security concerns .
christmas markets are a piece of the german culture that shouldn t disappear no matter what , he said .
it goes on .