jerusalem ( reuters ) - israel plans to appoint a new ambassador to jordan in a bid to calm amman s anger over the current envoy s handling of a shooting by an embassy guard in july that has strained relations , an israeli diplomatic source said on wednesday .
but israel has shown no sign of meeting jordan s demand that it launch criminal proceedings against the guard , who killed two jordanians in what he called self-defence .
he was repatriated along with ambassador einat schlein a day after the incident .
jordanian authorities say they suspect the shooting was unprovoked but could not investigate the guard due to his diplomatic immunity .
a televised welcome he and schlein received from israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu outraged amman .
since schlein s departure on july 24 the embassy has been shuttered , casting a pall over israel s ties with jordan , a u.s.-backed regional security partner and one of only two arab countries that recognise israel .
the 1994 peace deal with israel is unpopular among many jordanians , who often identify with the palestinians .
an israeli diplomatic source , speaking on condition of anonymity , said schlein would not return .
the jordanians don t want her back , and this has been a big obstacle in patching things up , the source said .
we re looking for a replacement .
emmanuel nahshon , spokesman for israel s foreign ministry , said : we are working on a solution that will bring the relations back on track .
israel says the guard opened fire after being attacked and lightly wounded by a workman , killing him and a jordanian bystander .
israeli officials have said they were looking into the possibility of compensating the family of the second man .
they say it is highly unlikely israel would prosecute the guard , as demanded by jordan .
his prospects of continued work in israeli diplomatic security abroad were in doubt , however , after a jordanian newspaper published his name and photograph .
israel s consulates in turkey have been handling jordanian applications for israeli visas since the incident .