beirut ( reuters ) - iran s president said on thursday its nuclear accord with world powers can not be renegotiated , after the trump administration warned it was weighing whether the deal signed by its predecessor served u.s. security interests .
under the 2015 deal , iran agreed to limit its disputed nuclear program in return for the easing of economic sanctions .
u.s. president donald trump called the deal an embarrassment during his first speech at the united nations on tuesday .
there was some discussion by some people that the nuclear deal isn t very bad but shouldn t stay as it is .
( that ) it s a deal that s good but we should sit down again and debate to see if it can be improved .
if it has flaws we can fix them , iranian president hassan rouhani said .
they were told clearly and definitively ( by us ) that the nuclear deal can not be renegotiated , he told a press conference in tehran broadcast live on state television after his return from the u.n. general assembly .
trump told reporters this week he had made a decision on what to do about the agreement , approved by his predecessor barack obama along with leaders of russia , china , britain , france and germany , but would not say what he had decided .
however , although trump does not like the deal , his speech to the united nations on tuesday did not mean washington would withdraw from the pact , nikki haley , u.s .
ambassador to the u.n. , said on wednesday .
the prospect of washington reneging on the deal has worried some of the u.s. allies that helped negotiate it , especially as the world grapples with another nuclear crisis , north korea s nuclear and ballistic missile development .
if trump does not certify next month that iran is complying with the accord , the u.s. congress will have 60 days to decide whether to reimpose sanctions waived under the deal .
u.n. inspectors have verified iranian compliance with the terms .
in contrast with obama s policy of detente with iran after decades of mutual hostility , trump called iran a corrupt dictatorship on tuesday and accused it of supporting terrorism and destabilizing the middle east .
( trump ) made big mistakes in this speech , rouhani said .
there were baseless and unfounded accusations .
it wasn t worthy of the united nations or an individual who sees himself as the president of a country .
iranian supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei , the highest authority in the islamic republic , also criticized trump during a meeting thursday with the assembly of experts , a body tasked with choosing the next supreme leader .
this speech was not a sign of power but rather a sign of anger , frustration and stupidity , khamenei said , according to a report on his official website .
in recent months , tensions have ramped up between iran and the united states in the gulf , with both sides accusing each other of provocative naval maneuvers .