austin , texas ( reuters ) - a senior texas health official who co-authored a report that criticized the state ’ s funding cuts to planned parenthood for reducing access to reproductive healthcare will retire from his post next month , a texas commission said on friday .
rick allgeyer , the texas health and human services commission ’ s director of research , faced criticism from the state ’ s republican leaders over the report published in the prestigious new england journal of medicine this month .
the report said state funding cuts to planned parenthood and its affiliates had an adverse effect on family planning for lower-income people .
allgeyer is eligible to retire and decided to do so effective on march 31 , the commission said .
allgeyer , who has been at the commission for 16 years and was one of the study ’ s five listed authors , declined to comment .
in 2011 , the texas state legislature cut planned parenthood out of one family-planning program and revamped the way another program hands out funds , placing it and other private clinics at the bottom of the list .
top texas political leaders have said after cutting off funding for planned parenthood that the state has been able to rebuild its safety net .
independent health experts dispute the claim , saying texas still has a long way to go before it can provide the level of service it did when planned parenthood was an integral part of its family planning efforts .
the texas plan has garnered attention among republicans in the u.s. congress who are looking to defund the nation ’ s largest family-planning provider at the national level .
the study said the cuts appeared to lead to an increase of unintended pregnancies among lower-income residents and a decrease in access to long-acting reversible contraception .
it also said the cuts appeared to increase the rate of childbirths covered by medicaid .
some texas republicans said it was inappropriate for a state employee to be involved in such a study and that its results were flawed , putting political pressure on allgeyer .