dera ismail khan , pakistan ( reuters ) - a pakistani activist hunted by the taliban vowed on tuesday to keep up his struggle against militancy in the northern swat valley , just a day after he narrowly escaped a car blast that killed his father and a passenger .
pakistani taliban insurgents took partial control of the valley in 2007 , before being ousted two years later in a major military operation hailed as a telling blow against islamist violence .
the group has since carried out revenge attacks against anti-taliban activists and attempted to extort money from businessmen in a region where pakistan has stationed more than 4,000 soldiers .
i lost my father , and my uncle and cousin are critically wounded , but we will fight until we have rid the area of militants , ahmed zeb , a member of a peace panel in the region , told reuters .
police officials say a remote-controlled roadside blast that targeted zeb s vehicle killed two people and injured two , although he escaped , as he was not in the vehicle at the time .
the attack was claimed by a spokesman for the tehreek-e-taliban , also known as the pakistani taliban , citing the peace committee s support for the disbelievers .
the term refers to pakistan s security forces who have been fighting taliban militants since 2001 .
i believe the militants who escaped from here after the military operation are behind these attacks , zeb said .
it s possible they have informants in the region who help them identify targets .
zeb s peace panel groups councils headed by regional leaders , working with security officials to identify militants operating in the area and provide assistance during search operations .
we will continue our work for peace and law and order in the area , zeb said , adding that the government needed to take seriously the threat of more attacks on other peace panel members and their families .
a spokesman for the country s interior ministry made no immediate comment on zeb s remarks .
more than 50 peace panel volunteers have been killed since 2009 , with the last attack in may 2016 , zeb added .
swat was the first sizeable region outside pakistan s lawless tribal regions bordering afghanistan to fall to the militants .
more than 2,000 taliban fighters have been driven out of the region , government officials say .
since 2010 , attacks have been a part of life there , such as an attempt in 2012 to assassinate nobel peace laureate malala yousafzai , although murders have stopped in the past year , following a series of arrests by police .