yangon ( reuters ) - some human rights advocates say press freedom is under attack in myanmar , even though decades of rule by a junta that tightly controlled the media has given way to a government led by nobel peace laureate aung san suu kyi .
myanmar has detained at least 29 journalists in the 20 months since suu kyi came to power .
while most have since been released on bail , the frequency of arrests - along with the detention last week of two reuters reporters - has rekindled worries among some journalists trying to cover violence in rakhine state .
there are too many risks being added to journalists , said sonny swe , chief executive officer and co-founder of yangon-based magazine frontier .
i feel that we are not moving forward , but going back in time for freedom of press and speech .
as of december , there were five reporters , including the reuters pair , behind bars .
reporters wa lone and kyaw soe oo - who had worked on reuters coverage of the crisis in rakhine - were arrested on dec. 12 in yangon .
the ministry of information said they had illegally acquired information with the intention to share it with foreign media .
they face up to 14 years in prison under the official secrets act .
myanmar authorities have said the case has nothing to do with press freedom .
there are different views , based on where you stand ...
there s press freedom in myanmar as long as you follow the rules and regulations , kyaw soe , director general of the ministry of information , told reuters by phone on thursday .
he declined to comment further .
a vibrant domestic media has sprung up since the transition from military rule began in 2011 and pre-publication censorship was lifted in 2012 .
nevertheless , this year myanmar was ranked 131 out of 180 nations for press freedom by reporters without borders - in the bottom third , but ahead of seven countries in the region : cambodia , thailand , malaysia , singapore , brunei , laos and vietnam .
the authorities continue to exert pressure on the media and even intervene directly to get editorial policies changed , reporters without borders said in a report this year .
kyaw zwa moe , editor of irrawaddy s english edition , said in a commentary last week that myanmar does have press freedom , but with an invisible line .
no one can know where that line is because it s unseen .
when you touch or cross it , you re finished , he wrote .
although she is myanmar s de facto leader , suu kyi is forced to share power with the military , which runs security-related ministries and the police .
suppression of the media has hardened , rights groups say , since october 2016 , when rohingya muslim militants attacked security posts in rakhine state , triggering a military crackdown that right groups say included killings , rape and arson .
after further strikes by insurgents on aug. 25 , the military campaign intensified , touching off a mass exodus of rohingya to bangladesh , where more than 800,000 now live in refugee camps .
some local journalists say they can not report independently from rakhine state due to harassment and threats from both the authorities and local people , while foreign reporters are denied access to the conflict zone .
when moe myint , a 29-year-old journalist for the online news site irrawaddy heard about their arrest , his first thought was : it could ve been me .
what if the police found out that i carry any controversial document ?
he said .
it s a deliberate arrest in order to muzzle media coverage on conflicts in northern rakhine .
phil robertson , deputy asia director for new york-based human rights watch , said suu kyi has shown scant understanding of the role an independent press plays in a democracy .
the ethnic cleansing in rakhine state has made the government even more intolerant , he said .
suu kyi s spokesman , zaw htay , declined to comment on myanmar s press freedom , but he told reuters on sunday : your reporters are protected by the rule of the law .
myanmar has denied most allegations against its security forces in rakhine , rejecting charges by the united nations , the united states and others that a campaign of ethnic cleansing was waged against the rohingya .
the authorities have accused international media of putting out fake news about rights abuses in rakhine and of working hand-in-glove with insurgents .
in october last year , spokesman zaw htay singled out english-language newspaper myanmar times special investigations editor fiona macgregor for criticism on his facebook page .
days later macgregor , who had written a report about alleged gang rape by soldiers , was sacked by the paper .
when contacted this week , macgregor declined to add to the comment she made in an interview with reuters last year , when she said it was unacceptable that representatives of the democratically elected government would use social media and bullying tactics to suppress stories .
zaw htay said at the time that he was sorry she had been fired .
he said he had just highlighted she didn t reach other reliable sources and it led to a one-sided news article based on unreliable sources .
rights monitors say the erosion of press freedoms has not been limited to coverage of the rakhine crisis .
since april 2016 , 21 journalists have been charged or arrested under a telecommunications law that broadly prohibits the use of telecommunications networks to extort , defame , disturb or intimidate .
critics say it is used to curb criticism of the authorities and reporting of corruption .
suu kyi s spokesman did not respond to further reuters requests for comment .