sarajevo ( reuters ) - western balkan countries aspiring to join the european union should leave the past behind and solve their mutual problems first , bulgarian prime minister boyko borissov said on friday .
the eu won t do it for them , he said .
albania , macedonia , montenegro and serbia are official candidates for eu membership while bosnia and kosovo are seeking the same status .
but past rivalries are still hurting relations between some of the countries which were embroiled in the balkan wars of the 1990s .
borissov said that bulgaria , austria and romania , the three countries which will chair the eu presidency over the next two years , were ready to support the accession of these countries into the wealthy bloc but a key for the progress was compromise by their political elites .
nobody can help unless we realize that the past needs to remain in the past and that we need to move forward , borissov said at a news conference during an official visit to sarajevo .
unresolved matters must be resolved today along with all political sacrifices that need to be made .
this can not be solved by europe , which has its problems and fears , borissov said .
the pace of serbia s integration into the 27-member bloc was made conditional on the progress of a dialogue with its former province of kosovo , which declared independence in 2008 .
in bosnia , inter-ethnic tensions have risen after bosnian serbs and bosnian croats had revived aspirations for greater territorial autonomies within the country they share with muslim bosniaks , relying on their wartime allies serbia and croatia .
borissov said that radical islam is a problem but that his bosnian counterpart denis zvizic has assured him that bosnia was not under the threat of radicalized muslims .
islam in bosnia is certainly one of most tolerant forms of islam practised in the world and any kind of radicalization has not and will not be allowed , zvizdic said at the same news conference .
in september , the eu confirmed its pledge for a credible enlargement perspective for the region , which it sees as important for issues from controlling immigration to countering security threats ranging from alleged interference of russia to radical islam .
[ id : l5n1lu2gx ]