silly parents you don t get to decide if , or when to talk to your kids about the .03 % of the population who consider themselves to be transgender .
and oh yeah your kids teacher will also inform your child that the gender they re born with doesn t matter , and that they can actually choose the gender they identify with .
because liberal educators know better than you what s best for your child.the rocklin academy school board is facing tough questions from parents concerned over a controversial incident involving transgender discussions inside a kindergarten class .
these parents feel betrayed by the school district that they were not notified , said karen england with the capitol resource institute.watch : the incident happened earlier this summer during the last few days of the academic school year.at monday night s board meeting , the teacher at the center of the controversy spoke out .
with emotions high , she addressed a packed house .
i m so proud of my students , it was never my intent to harm any students but to help them through a difficult situation , she said.the teacher defended her actions to read two children s books about transgenderism including one titled i am jazz .
she says the books were given to her by a transgender child going through a transition .
the kindergartners came home very confused , about whether or not you can pick your gender , whether or not they really were a boy or a girl , said england.and many parents say they feel betrayed and blindsided .
i want her to hear from me as a parent what her gender identity means to her and our family , not from a book that may be controversial , a parent said .
my daughter came home crying and shaking so afraid she could turn into a boy , another parent said.the issue was not on the agenda , so parents spoke out during public comment .
it s really about the parents being informed and involved and giving us the choice and rights of what s being introduced to our kids , and at what age , said parent chelsea mcquistan.many teachers also spoke out in support of what transpired inside the classroom .
they spoke about the importance of teaching students about diversity and having healthy dialogues.unlike sex education , the topics of gender identity don t require prior parental notice .
sacramento cbs