( reuters ) - the average premium for benchmark 2017 obamacare insurance plans sold on healthcare.gov rose 25 percent compared with 2016 , the u.s. government said on monday , the biggest increase since the insurance first went on sale in 2013 for the following year .
the average monthly premium for the benchmark plan is rising to $ 302 from $ 242 in 2016 , the department of health and human services said .
the agency attributed the large increase to insurers adjusting their premiums to reflect two years of cost data that became available .
the government provides income-based subsidies to about 85 percent of people enrolled , and those credits will increase with the higher premiums .
it said 72 percent of consumers on healthcare.gov will find plans with a premium of less than $ 75 per month .
large national insurers including aetna inc ( aet.n ) , unitedhealth group inc ( unh.n ) and anthem inc ( antm.n ) have said they are losing money on the exchanges , created under president barack obama ’ s national healthcare reform law , because patient costs are higher than anticipated and enrollment is lower than forecast .
both unitedhealth and aetna have pulled out of the exchanges for 2017 .
as a result , consumers will have fewer plans to choose from .
in 2017 , in five states there will be offerings from only one insurance company .
the government expects average monthly 2017 enrollment of 11.4 million people , up about 1 million from 2016 .
obama acknowledged last week that the law is not working perfectly but said the problems could be fixed if lawmakers created a government-run health insurance option that would help u.s. states where there is little or no competition .
premium increases have become fodder for the presidential race , as republican candidate donald trump calls for the repeal of the affordable care act if he is elected and democrat hillary clinton calls for expanding it .
the news “ shows why the entire program must be repealed and replaced .... mr. trump knows the only way to fix our nation ’ s failing health care system is complete and total reform , ” said trump communications adviser jason miller .
the government agency said the 2017 premium increase comes after two years of very low increases in the marketplace for the second-lowest cost “ silver ” plan , the benchmark plan used to calculate cost-sharing subsidies .
average premiums for the silver plan increased 2 percent in 2015 and were up 7 percent in 2016 , the agency said .
the figure reflects premiums on healthcare.gov , the federally run website that sells plans for about two-thirds of the states .
including four states and the district of columbia , which run their own insurance marketplaces , and those that have reported data , the average premium rose 22 percent , the agency said .