( reuters ) - shares of hospitals and health insurers fell on tuesday after the u.s. congressional budget office forecast that 14 million americans would lose medical insurance by next year under a republican plan to dismantle obamacare .
among the hospitals , hca holdings slipped 1.6 percent , tenet healthcare fell 4.2 percent , community health systems shed 1.5 percent and lifepoint health was down 1.3 percent .
the s & p 500 healthcare sector was off 0.4 percent , while the benchmark s & p 500 index slipped 0.5 percent .
“ the street is reacting to the uncertainty around ( the bill ) , and the possibility of ” more challenges ahead , said ana gupte , an analyst with leerink partners in new york .
“ there ’ s uncertainty about the potential downside , ” and whether the plan will become tougher for hospitals before it gets passed , she said .
the affordable care act of 2010 , often dubbed obamacare , expanded medical coverage , aiding hospitals by reducing the number of uninsured patients who could not pay bills .
hospital stocks fell after the nov. 8 presidential election of donald trump , who vowed to repeal the aca , former president barack obama ’ s signature domestic policy legislation .
the cbo forecast that 24 million people would be uninsured in 2026 if the plan being considered by the house of representatives were adopted .
some health policy experts and wall street analysts said the report was more draconian than expected , with the uninsured rate declining more quickly than foreseen .
“ while the cbo ’ s estimate ... is a negative headline for hospitals , we believe that in its current form , the bill ’ s chances of passing are slim , ” jefferies analyst brian tanquilut said in a research note .
tanquilut said he believed legislators “ will eventually draft a more palatable , diluted version of ‘ repeal and replace ’ that would have a smaller impact on the number of uninsured. ” health insurer stocks also fell .
unitedhealth group inc was down 0.8 percent , aetna inc also shed 0.8 percent and humana inc fell 0.7 percent .
“ what that means basically is lower volume for the health insurers .
it looks like it ’ s going to be the dismantling of the individual insurance market , which again means lower revenues and the loss of the individual market for the most part for the insurers , ” said vishnu lekraj , an equity analyst at morningstar .
the republican proposal would end obamacare expansion of the medicaid insurance program for the poor and would replace obamacare ’ s income-based subsidies with fixed tax credits for the purchase of private insurance .
medicaid-focused insurers were particularly hard hit .
centene fell 2.2 percent , molina healthcare was down 2.5 percent and wellcare health plans was 2 percent lower .