vienna ( reuters ) - austria said on wednesday it had some evidence that nine foreign oilfield workers abducted by islamist militants in libya in 2015 were killed the same year , though it was still trying to verify the information .
the four filipinos , two bangladeshis , one austrian , one czech and one ghanaian worked at the al-ghani oilfield for equipment firm vaos , which specializes in libya and has offices in austria and malta .
an austrian foreign ministry spokesman said a crisis team was trying to verify information from a militant islamist website suggesting that all or some of the hostages may have been killed in 2015 .
they were seized in march of that year .
we have some evidence that the worst is to be feared .
we are working on verifying the information .
it is still unclear what happened exactly to whom , the spokesman said .
foreign minister sebastian kurz had contacted the family of the austrian man .
even if it turns out that the evidence is correct it will be extremely difficult to retrieve bodies from the area where fighting continues , the spokesman said .
the derna mujahideen shura council , a group based in the eastern libyan city of derna , said this week that it had recovered the bodies of five of the workers in may 2015 during clashes with rival militants from islamic state .
it said it had handed the bodies over to libya s red crescent .
in a statement , the council said it later found a laptop containing a photo of one of the employees , and a video of the killing of four filipino workers , and was able to match them to images of the kidnapped employees .
the bodies were buried in marked graves and special procedures are under way to return them to their families , the group said .
the red crescent declined to comment .
at the time of the attack , islamic state militants made no financial or political demands as armed factions in libya often do , but is beheaded 11 libyan security guards it had captured .
vaos said it had received no warning from libya s state oil company advising it to evacuate personnel before the attack .
the firm said it began operating in libya in the 1980s , when the country was under muammar gaddafi s iron rule .
libya fell into widespread factional violence , hampering oil production , after rebels overthrew gaddafi in 2011 .
vaos has relied on its own security arrangements in the north african state .
its clients have included bp , repsol and austria s omv .