yangon ( reuters ) - pope francis held talks on monday with myanmar s military chief at the start of a delicate visit to a majority-buddhist country that the united states has accused of ethnic cleansing against its muslim rohingya people .
the leader of the roman catholic church will also visit bangladesh , where more than 620,000 rohingya have fled to escape what amnesty international has called crimes against humanity .
myanmar s army has denied accusations of murder , rape , torture and forced displacement that have been made against it .
the pope s first meeting in yangon was with military commander senior general min aung hlaing in st. mary s cathedral in the heart of the southeast asian nation s largest city .
they discussed the great responsibility of authorities of the country in this time of transition , vatican spokesman greg burke said after the 15 minutes of talks , which were followed by an exchange of gifts .
francis presented the general with a commemorative medal of his visit , and min aung hlaing gave the pope a harp in the shape of a boat and an ornate rice bowl , burke said .
the army chief told the pope that there s no religious discrimination in myanmar and there s the freedom of religion , according to a statement on the facebook page of min aung hlaing .
every soldier s goal is to build a stable and peaceful country , the army chief was paraphrased as saying in the statement .
members of ethnic minority groups in traditional dress welcomed francis at yangon airport , and children presented him with flowers as he stepped off his plane .
he waved through an open window at dozens of children waving vatican and myanmar flags and wearing t-shirts with the motto of the trip love and peace as he set off in a car .
only about 700,000 of myanmar s 51 million people are roman catholic .
thousands of them traveled by train and bus to yangon , and they joined crowds at several roadside points along the way from the airport to catch a glimpse of the pope .
more than 150,000 people have registered for a mass that francis will say in yangon on wednesday , according to catholic myanmar church spokesman mariano soe naing .
we come here to see the holy father .
it happens once in hundreds of years , said win min set , a community leader who brought a group of 1,800 catholics from the south and west of the country .
he is very knowledgeable when it comes to political affairs .
he will handle the issue smartly , he said , referring to the sensitivity of the pope s discussions about the rohingya .
large numbers of riot police were mobilized in yangon but there were no signs of any protests .
the trip is so delicate that some papal advisers have warned francis against even saying the word rohingya , lest he set off a diplomatic incident that could turn the country s military and government against minority christians .
the rohingya exodus from rakhine state to bangladesh s southern tip began at the end of august , when rohingya militants attacked security posts and the myanmar army launched a counter-offensive .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson last week called the military operation ethnic cleansing and threatened targeted sanctions for horrendous atrocities .
myanmar s government has denied most of the accusations made against it , and the army says its own investigation found no evidence of wrongdoing by troops .
myanmar does not recognize the rohingya as citizens nor as members of a distinct ethnic group with their own identity , and it even rejects the term rohingya and its use .
many people in myanmar instead refer to members of the muslim minority in rakhine state as illegal migrants from bangladesh .
francis is expected to meet a group of rohingya refugees in dhaka , capital of bangladesh , on the second leg of his trip .
the most tense moments of his myanmar visit were expected to be the private meeting with the army chief and , separately , with civilian leader aung san suu kyi on tuesday .
vatican sources say some in the holy see believe the trip was decided too hastily after full diplomatic ties were established in may during a visit by suu kyi .
suu kyi s reputation as a nobel peace prize laureate has been tarnished because she has expressed doubts about the reports of rights abuses against the rohingya and failed to condemn the military .
the pope has already used the word rohingya in two appeals from the vatican this year .
asked if he would say it in myanmar , burke said francis was taking the advice he had been given seriously , but added : we will find out together during the trip ... it is not a forbidden word .
a hardline group of buddhist monks , previously known as ma ba tha , said it welcomed the pope s visit but warned , without elaborating , of a response if he spoke openly about the rohingya .
i hope he doesn t touch on sensitive issues that myanmar people couldn t accept , said tawparka , a spokesman for the group , who goes by a single name .
there s no problem if he talks about islam , but it s unacceptable if he speaks about rohingya and extreme terrorists .