washington ( reuters ) - house speaker paul ryan ’ s political operation sent a cease-and-desist letter on thursday to a group that is trying to draft him as a republican presidential candidate , urging it to halt its activities and warning of legal risk .
with establishment republicans desperately searching for a way to stop real estate businessman and former reality tv personality donald trump ’ s march toward the party ’ s nomination for the nov. 8 presidential election , ryan ’ s name has been mentioned often as an alternative .
but he has said he does not want to run for president this year and has disavowed the committee to draft speaker ryan group .
the organization has continued attempts to collect 1 million signatures on an online petition to draft ryan , arguing that the very definition of a draft movement is to encourage a reluctant participant to join .
the draft ryan group was another indication of ryan ’ s rise to the republican party ’ s top ranks since he became speaker of the house of representatives last year .
ryan , a wisconsin congressman , was mitt romney ’ s vice-presidential running mate on the republicans ’ 2012 ticket .
a spokesman for draft ryan , david catalfamo , said the letter was “ a sad commentary on the state of our politics today , ” adding , “ the committee to draft speaker ryan is simply a patriotic effort to save our party and save our country. ” the group registered with the u.s. federal election commission as a super pac , an independent political action committee that may raise unlimited sums of money .
timothy kronquist , an attorney for ryan ’ s political operation , addressed the letter to the group ’ s treasurer , david satterfield .
it urged the group to immediately cease and desist from any representations that it is acting on ryan ’ s behalf or raising funds that would assist ryan ’ s campaign activities .
“ we believe the actions of your organization are not in compliance with federal law and may constitute fraudulent solicitation of funds , ” the letter said .
“ speaker ryan has repeatedly announced publicly that he is not running for president in 2016 .
...
it is in the public interest for your organization to cease potentially confusing and misleading people into supporting your organization. ” a copy of the letter , which was dated thursday , was seen by reuters .
a person close to draft ryan said the group had removed the “ donate ” button from its website to clarify that the effort is not a fund-raising exercise , and said the site would be changed so people can sign the petition without leaving their email addresses .
he said the effort so far had been funded by earle mack , a former u.s. ambassador to finland .
mack has told the new york times that he would spend up to $ 1 million on the draft ryan committee .
mack showed no sign of backing down on thursday afternoon in an interview with fox business news , saying draft ryan only sought to propose ryan as a unifying candidate in the event republicans deadlock over who should be their nominee at the party convention in july .
“ let me tell your viewers to please go to draft speaker ryan.com .
we ’ re collecting a million signatures to raise the awareness that we love the speaker , and the speaker is the right man for the job , ” mack said .
asked whether ryan might not want the nomination , mack acknowledged , “ i don ’ t even know the man. ” trump has racked up primary wins and expanded his lead this week despite attacks from the party ’ s establishment , which is trying to stop him from claiming the nomination at the republican convention in july .
ryan has abstained from endorsing any presidential candidate in the 2016 race .
( editing by kevin drawbaugh , bill trott , grant mccool and leslie adler ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .