so a woman straps an apparatus to her person , claims she s a man and expects airport security to treat her with kit gloves because she s entitled to special privileges ?
if you come through airport security with something foreign strapped to your body , why should you be entitled to special treatment ?
sorry , but most of the world is not going to side with you on this one dude in a submission to an australian senate inquiry into airport and aviation security , the national lgbti health alliance reported a climate of pervasive discrimination for lgbti people.the submission includes a lengthy complaint from an anonymous transgender person sent to one of australia s major domestic airlines about an incident early last year.the person was passing through airport security and was selected to go through a body scanner , which picked up a prosthetic worn in their underwear .
i explained to the officer at the scanner that i am trans and that i was wearing a prosthetic , to which he responded that he would need to get his supervisor , the complaint reads .
in full view of other travellers , the supervisor approached me putting rubber gloves on , the passenger wrote .
when i asked him what the gloves were for , he told me that he was going to do a private search .
after entering a small room with the two men , the passenger pulled out the prosthetic for the men to see , and the supervisor put on a second glove.when again asked what the gloves were for , the supervisor responded , you want me to touch that thing with my bare hands ?
after placing the prosthetic in a tray and undergoing a pat-down , the supervisor opened the door for the passenger to leave .
my prosthetic [ was ] still sitting in the tray .
i asked him to close the door so that i could have some privacy , the complaint reads .
he closed the door and both men stood watching me as i put it back in place .
the passenger wrote that the experience left them feeling degraded and anxious about traveling.for entire story : buzzfeed