dublin ( reuters ) - the key to british hopes of moving on to talks on trade ties with the european union after it quits the bloc lies in dublin , the european council president said on friday as ireland called for credible solutions from london for the irish border .
avoiding a return to a hard border on the island of ireland is the last major hurdle before brexit talks can advance to trade ties and a possible two-year brexit transition deal .
but european council president donald tusk that while the eu negotiating team represents the interests of the 27 other members , ireland will have the final say on the border issue .
let me say very clearly : if the uk offer is unacceptable for ireland , it will also be unacceptable for the eu , tusk said in dublin at a joint press conference with irish prime minister leo varadkar .
the key to the uk s future lies - in some ways - in dublin , at least as long as brexit negotiations continue .
tusk confirmed he had given british prime minister theresa may a deadline of monday to make a final offer on irish border conditions before eu heads of government decide whether there is sufficient progress on a uk-eu divorce settlement to merit opening talks on the future relationship .
if london meets the three key eu conditions on its financial bill for leaving , the rights of expatriate citizens and the border , then leaders could give a green light to trade talks at the summit on dec. 14-15 .
with significant headway on the financial settlement and citizen rights now apparently in the bag , a deal on the irish border appears to be the final hurdle .
the political and economic stakes are high .
the economy of ireland , north and south , has become deeply integrated since the eu single market s creation in 1993 , and only road signs now mark the frontier .
free-flowing commerce , together with the 1998 peace deal between northern ireland s protestants and catholics , has transformed previously neglected areas on both sides of the boundary .
varadkar said that while progress on the border issue had been made , the next few days would be crucial and that ireland would not be afraid to use its veto if necessary .
the uk must offer credible , concrete and workable solutions that guarantee that there will be no hard border ... whatever the future relationship between the eu and the uk is , he said .
i m an optimist by nature ... however i m also prepared to stand firm with our partners if need be ... if the uk offer falls short .
before it can sign off on the first phase , dublin wants may to spell out in writing how she intends to make good on a commitment to avoid turning the clock back to a border of customs and security checks .
it says the best way to do so is to keep regulations the same on both sides of a border that will be the uk s only land boundary with the eu after brexit .
may s government has said britain will leave the eu s single market and customs union but wants the irish border to remain open , a stance that eu officials say is contradictory .
earlier on friday irish foreign minister simon coveney said a deal on the border was doable but that the sides were not there yet .
coveney said negotiators were working to find sensible wording , drafts of which were being exchanged .
dublin , he said , will insist there will be no fudge .
may s room to offer additional concessions to dublin appeared extremely limited when the pro-brexit northern ireland party propping up her government on thursday hinted it might withdraw its support if she gives up too much .
but coveney said the irish government and the democratic unionist party ( dup ) agreed on far more than it disagreed on .
may is also under pressure from british business leaders who want confirmation of a transition deal so they have time to adapt to the new relationship .