kampala ( reuters ) - as fresh fighting looms in south sudan with the onset of the dry season , there is little chance of peace talks to end a war that has already killed tens of thousands of people and created africa s largest refugee crisis , diplomats and analysts said .
south sudan s december-to-may dry season usually intensifies clashes because travel is easier on the impoverished country s unpaved roads , which turn to mud in the rains .
it would be a miracle if they get anything done , said peter biar ajak , a civil society leader who consults with african and western diplomats on the country s stop-start peace process .
south sudan s war began in late 2013 between soldiers of president salva kiir , an ethnic dinka , and his former vice president , riek machar , a nuer , devastating the country s swampy northeast .
a third of the country s 12 million-strong population has fled their homes amid persistent reports of gang rape and ethnic violence .
an east african bloc , igad , led two rounds of peace talks over two years , culminating in a brief power-sharing agreement signed by kiir and machar in 2015 .
but even as igad urges a new ceasefire , the warring parties are preparing for more fighting .
the government plans to deploy a new force to around oil fields in the northeast , while rebels told reuters they had procured new weapons in september and are organizing in the south .
we re long past the point where power-sharing is a viable solution in south sudan , if it ever was , said payton knopf , former head of a u.n. experts panel for south sudan .
kiir s government has little reason to negotiate ; it holds the military upper hand and captured machar s main base in the northeast this year .
the rebels are disorganized : machar is under house arrest in south africa and his subordinates are scattered across six countries .
complicating matters , many new groups have cropped up over the last 18 months and want to participate in peace talks .
four parties signed the 2015 deal .
this time , igad has named more than 20 .
this is where the test is now , said alex rondos , the eu s special representative to the horn of africa .
can igad begin to exert a degree of united influence on all the parties to begin to find some degree of common ground ?
igad lost some credibility when a u.n. experts panel in september accused rival countries in the bloc of pursuing their own , conflicting interests .
the south sudanese government is also part of igad .
igad is not speaking with one voice , said rebecca garang , a prominent opposition-aligned figure .
president salva is part of the igad even when he is part of the conflict .