europe s new new take on our statue of liberty s poem : give us your sharia law enforcers , your rapists and your trained isis jihadi s unless we get a new president with a backbone and fight back against political correctness in america we re next .
we can start by exposing the lie obama told americans about the muslim invasion of the west , calling the male refugees looking for a free ride , widows and orphans !
as many as 5,000 trained jihadis are believed to be living freely in europe today , according to the head of the european union s policing agency europol.agency head ron wainwright said between 3,000 and 5,000 jihadis who have trained with the islamic state ( isis/isil ) in the middle east have been able to slip back into europe .
europe is currently facing the highest terror threat in more than 10 years , wainwright said , speaking to the germany newspaper neue osnabrucker zeitung .
we can expect [ isis ] or other religious terror groups to stage an attack somewhere in europe with the aim of achieving mass casualties among the civilian population .
however , wainwright said reports that the islamic state is using the refugee/migrant crisis to sneak jihadis into europe have been exaggerated .
there is no concrete evidence terrorists are systematically using the flow of refugees to infiltrate europe , he commented.meanwhile , in hungary , police reported an increasing number of migrants have been able to circumvent the four-meter , barbed-wire fence to enter the country illegally .
in january , 550 people were caught trying to pass the fence compared to 270 in december .
during the first 20 days of february , 1,200 people were caught.those that have succeeded have either cut the fence or climber over it.also in hungary , the central bank recently bought 112 handguns and 200,000 rounds of ammunition for its security company .
the national bank of hungary justified its purchases citing potential terrorist threats as well as the migrant crisis.the bank controls the country s monetary policy , including price stability and exchange rates , and manages hungary s foreign-exchange reserves .
its profits are paid into the government s budget and its losses are covered by taxpayers.via : clarionprojecth/t uk daily mail