moscow ( reuters ) - the head of russian state oil giant rosneft , igor sechin , will not be in moscow on wednesday where he is meant to appear in court to testify in a major corruption trial of a former minister , according to russian news agencies .
russian prosecutors accuse alexei ulyukayev of extorting a $ 2 million bribe from powerful political rival sechin in exchange for approving a lucrative business deal in what turned out to be a sting operation .
ulyukayev , who was fired by president vladimir putin from his post as economy minister shortly after being detained , denies the charges and says sechin framed him .
asked by reporters whether he would be in moscow on wednesday when the hearing is due , sechin replied that he would be still be on a visit to western siberia where on tuesday he attended the opening of a new rosneft oil field .
tomorrow i am meeting with the governor ( of the khanty-mansiiysk region ) , gathering the staff , will be summing up results of the prime minister s visit , sechin was quoted as saying by interfax news agency .
sechin has already missed two hearings in ulyukayev s trial .
he has previously said he would attend as soon as his schedule allowed .
ulyukayev s arrest a year ago came moments after sechin personally handed him the cash in a late-night meeting at the rosneft headquarters in exchange for signing off on rosneft s purchase of a stake in mid-sized oil producer bashneft , according to investigators .
the fate of bashneft , one of the most lucrative state assets to be privatized in years , was the focus of a major turf war between rival kremlin camps , sources close to the deal and in the government have said .
ulyukayev was among those who believed bashneft should go to private investors .
both he and sechin are deeply embedded in the tangle of allegiances and rivalries in russian politics and business .
ulyukayev belonged to a faction of economic liberals who argued for less state control over the economy , while sechin , a close ally of president vladimir putin , represents the opposite view .
rosneft spokesman mikhail leontyev dismissed speculation over possible reasons for sechin s likely absence at wednesday s hearing , also citing the demands of his schedule .
this is a made up problem and it was made up with only one purpose - to avoid attention from the essence of the trial , leontyev said .
this is not the first case in the human or russian history when the court wants to hear a testimony of a man with tight schedule .
ulyukayev faces up to 15 years in jail if found guilty .