beijing ( reuters ) - panama s decision to ditch long-standing ties with self-ruled taiwan and switch recognition to china had nothing to do with checkbook diplomacy , its president has told chinese state television .
panama established diplomatic relations with china in june in a major victory for beijing , as it lures away the dwindling number of countries that have formal relations with the island china claims as its own .
taiwan s government said at the time it was sorry and angry over panama s decision , and that it would not compete with china in what it described as a diplomatic money game .
china and taiwan have tried to poach each other s allies over the years , often dangling generous aid packages in front of developing nations , although taipei struggles to compete with an increasingly powerful china .
panamanian president juan carlos varela said the decision was correct and was panama s alone .
i didn t ask anything from china , varela told chinese state television s english-language channel in an interview shown late monday .
i just think it was the right thing to do for my country , for the people of panama and for the future of a strong relationship between china and panama , he said in response to a question about whether it was checkbook diplomacy .
varela said he told u.s. president donald trump about the decision a few hours before the official announcement and trump supported it , the report said .
varela also said that visits to shanghai and beijing when he was vice president in 2010 inspired his decision .
in 2010 , i went to shanghai for the world special olympic games and i was very impressed with the city and then i went to beijing and saw how china was opening its economy , i saw all these developments , he said .
china is deeply suspicious of taiwan president tsai ing-wen , who it thinks wants to push for the island s formal independence , although she says she wants to maintain peace with beijing .
china and taiwan had engaged in a diplomatic truce between 2008 and early 2016 under the leadership of taiwan s then-president ma ying-jeou from the china-friendly nationalist party .
since tsai assumed office last year , china has poached one other former taiwan ally , the tiny west african state of sao tome and principe .
gambia also established ties with china last year , although it ditched taiwan before tsai came to office .
beijing says taiwan has no right to diplomatic recognition because it is part of china .
defeated nationalist forces fled to taiwan at the end of china s civil war in 1949 .