washington ( reuters ) - u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas is getting a taste of the “ new york values ” he derided in iowa as republicans turn to the next big u.s. presidential contest in the home state of front-runner donald trump .
the new york billionaire lost the wisconsin republican primary on tuesday to cruz and is seeking to rebound in new york on april 19 .
he won the backing on thursday of former new york mayor rudy giuliani , who was irked by cruz ’ s values comments .
“ it ’ s new york city .
we ’ re family .
i can make fun of new york but you can ’ t , ” giuliani , who led the city through the trauma of the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks , told the new york post .
“ i support trump .
i ’ m gon na vote for trump , ” he said .
ohio governor john kasich , running third in the republican race , chimed in with an ad called “ values , ” part of a seven-figure ad buy in new york and pennsylvania , which votes on april 26 .
“ new yorkers aren ’ t stupid and they certainly won ’ t fall for ted cruz ’ s lame soliloquies and flattery after he slammed their values , ” said kasich spokeswoman connie wehrkamp .
trump canceled a friday trip to california to focus on new york .
he turned on cruz wednesday night during his first rally in the state since the double-digit loss in wisconsin .
“ i ’ ve got this guy standing over there , looking at me , talking about new york values with scorn in his face , with hated , with hatred of new york , ” trump said , drawing a chorus of boos .
cruz credited his feb. 1 iowa caucuses victory in part to his attacks on trump ’ s “ new york values. ” he told abc on thursday the phrase referred to the state ’ s liberal democrats .
cruz took another hit in the bronx , where a group of high school students protesting his stance on immigration threatened a walkout if their principal did not cancel his appearance .
“ most of us are immigrants or come from immigrant backgrounds .
ted cruz goes against everything our school stands for , ” destiny domeneck , 16 , told the new york daily news .
school authorities complied , the newspaper reported on thursday .