yola , nigeria ( reuters ) - a suicide bomber killed at least 50 people in northeastern nigeria on tuesday in an attack on a mosque which bore the hallmarks of a faction of the islamist militant group boko haram .
the bombing in mubi in adamawa state was one of the deadliest in nigeria s northeast since president muhammadu buhari came to power in 2015 pledging to end boko haram s eight-year insurgency and attacks by the group on civilian and military targets .
it brought to at least 278 the number of people killed in 2017 , according to calculations by reuters .
there was no claim of responsibility .
some of the dead were in pieces beyond recognition , said bayi muhammad , a worshipper who escaped the blast because he was late for early morning prayers .
abubakar othman , a police spokesman in adamawa state , said the death toll was at least 50 , but added that the tally could rise .
eight people were critically injured and more than 30 others hurt but in stable condition , said idris garga , the northeast regional coordinator for nigeria s national emergency agency .
boko haram held territory in adamawa state in 2014 .
troops pushed them out in early 2015 , and the town of mubi had itself been relatively peaceful until tuesday s bombing .
in a statement on tuesday , nigeria s president said the attack was very cruel and gave assurances his government would do everything required to secure the state from boko haram .
the militant group often mounts suicide attacks in public places such as mosques and markets .
last december , two schoolgirl suicide bombers killed 56 people and wounded dozens more at a market in adamawa .
the mosque blast bears the hallmarks of a faction led by abubakar shekau , which forces women and girls to carry out suicide bombings .
the attacks often leave only the bomber dead .
boko haram has waged an insurgency in northeastern nigeria since 2009 in its attempt to create an islamic state in the region .
it has killed more than 20,000 and forced around 2 million people to flee their homes .
the group split in 2016 and the faction under shekau is based in the sambisa forest on the border with cameroon and chad and mainly targets civilians with suicide bombers .
the other faction is based in the lake chad region and led by abu musab al-barnawi .
it mainly attacks military forces after quietly building up its strength over the past year .
most attacks focus on borno state , the birthplace of the insurgency .
the group held land around the size of belgium in borno , adamawa and yobe states until early 2015 but was forced out by nigeria s army and troops from neighboring countries .