tokyo ( reuters ) - as japan looks for a quick , resolute response to north korea s growing missile threat , some defense policy makers in tokyo say it may be time to reconsider non-nuclear pledges and invite u.s. nuclear weapons on to its soil .
japan , the only country to suffer nuclear attack , upholds three non-nuclear principles that commit it not to possess , manufacture or allow nuclear weapons on to its territory that were adopted five decades ago .
perhaps it s time for our three principles to become two , a senior defense policy maker told reuters , suggesting nuclear weapons be allowed into japan .
he asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the issue .
north korea , pursuing its weapons programs in defiance of international condemnation , fired an intermediate ballistic missile over japan last week , prompting authorities to sound sirens and advise residents to take cover .
on sunday , north korea tested a nuclear device that had a yield estimated at ten times that of the atom bomb dropped by the united states on hiroshima in 1945 .
inviting u.s. nuclear weapons would be an attempt by japan jolt china , north korea s sole major ally , to do more to rein in its neighbor by showing there are consequences to north korean provocations that threaten its neighbors and destabilize the region , the policy maker said .
a simple way to do this could be for a nuclear-armed u.s. submarine to operate from one of the u.s. navy bases in japan , he said , a move bound to infuriate china .
former japanese defense minister shigeru ishiba stoked controversy on wednesday by questioning whether japan can expect protection under the u.s. nuclear umbrella while maintaining its non-nuclear principles .
is it right that we don t discuss this ?
ishiba asked in a television interview .
in his election campaign last year , donald trump chided japan and south korea for not contributing enough to their defenses .
on tuesday , the president said he was ready to sell seoul billions of dollars in weapons and scrap a limit on the size of warheads the washington would supply .
we don t have any plan to begin discussing the three non-nuclear principles , japan chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga told reporters when asked to respond to ishiba s comment .
yet , the growing north korean threat could stifle some of the opposition , experts say .
just by raising this issue of nuclear principles , japan will push the united states and china to act , and it is something that beijing is not going to like , said takashi kawakami , a security expert at japan s takushoku university .
it s the medicine that china needs to make it act against north korea .
allowing the u.s. military to deploy nuclear weapons on japanese territory would pose a grave political risk for prime minister shinzo abe , particularly amid an influence-peddling scandal that has hit his popularity ratings .
any move toward relaxing the non-nuclear principles , however , is unlikely to lead to a home-made atomic bomb , despite japan s technical abilities , say experts .
tokyo has the civilian nuclear program , fissile materials and the weaponization technology necessary .
it could probably develop a small arsenal of nuclear devices within a year if there was motivation to do so , said emily chorley , a nuclear weapons expert at ihs janes .
but doing so would force japan to renege on its non-proliferation commitments and could severely damage washington s alliances and position of strength in asia .
this would signal that the japanese no longer have confidence in u.s. extended deterrence , said a former senior u.s. military commander who asked not to be identified because he is not authorized to talk to the media .
that would essentially mean that they no longer have confidence in the alliance .