brussels ( reuters ) - european leaders agreed on thursday to explore cuts in eu funds to turkey that are linked to ankara s stalled bid to join the bloc after german chancellor angela merkel pressed for action in response to what she described as unacceptable turkish behavior on human rights .
while praising turkey for taking in syrian refugees , merkel stuck with the tougher tone she adopted during her reelection campaign last month , although she stopped short of calling for an outright end to ankara s decade-long push to join the bloc .
we asked the commission to make recommendations on changing and reducing the pre-accession aid , merkel told reporters after the first day of an eu summit .
there is no majority for breaking off the talks immediately .
on the other hand there is a great deal of scepticism about the current situation .
i made the case tonight that we should seek dialogue with turkey .
earlier she said that the rule of law in turkey was moving in the wrong direction , in a reference to the large-scale purge that president tayyip erdogan has carried out following a failed coup attempt in july 2016 .
other countries , including the netherlands and belgium , backed a diversion of the funds that eu candidate countries receive while they are in talks to join the bloc .
everyone knows that those negotiations are de facto frozen , are de facto almost dead , belgian prime minister charles michel told a news conference .
launched in 2005 after decades of seeking the formal start of an eu membership bid , ankara s membership negotiations were always sensitive for france and germany because of turkey s status as a large , mainly muslim country .
but the scope of erdogan s response to last year s coup attempt , his detention of u.s. and european citizens including dual nationals , and his jibes at germany and the netherlands for what he has called nazi-like behavior .
aside from money that the eu gives turkey as part of its 2016 migration deal , ankara is set to receive 4.4 billion euros from the eu between 2014 and 2020 .
some northern countries say aid meant to help turkey reform politically now makes no sense because ankara has cracked down so dramatically after the failed coup .
with 50,000 people jailed pending trial , including german-turkish nationals , eu membership also looks more distant than ever , eu officials say .
turkey is set to receive almost 500 million euros next year for the eu s common budget and european governments are discussing how much to limit that while not hitting projects such as infrastructure and agriculture .
the european parliament has proposed reducing the transfer by 50 million euros next year , with another 30 million euros set aside for further cuts should the relationship with turkey deteriorate even more .
a vote is expected on wednesday .
providing turkey money for political reforms does not make sense given the situation , said siegfried muresan , a center-right eu lawmaker who is leading eu budget in the parliament .
however , eu governments are divided , with poland , britain and sweden maintaining their strong support for turkey s eu membership and countries such as austria demanding not just a freeze to accession funds but an end to membership talks .