on october 20 , 2015 , radical muslim state senator jamilah rasheed was arrested while protesting with the manufactured hands up don t shoot movement in ferguson .
the vocal anti-gun legislator was also drunk and in possession of you guessed it a gun ! you probably don t remember her arrest , or maybe you never even knew she was arrested .
the media s kinda funny when it comes to covering law-breaking democrats .
so in case you missed it , the woman on her knees with her hands up pushing a false narrative that was proven in court to be a lie has decided to join colin kaepernick in his public disdain for america.in what she calls a show of solidarity with colin kaepernick , missouri state sen. jamilah nasheed , chose to sit as her colleagues stood for the pledge of allegiance on the senate floor .
nasheed said that she wants to call attention to the issues that the 49ers player outlines and that she is not anti-american .
her seat taking was met with complete silence in the chamber.when the session ended however , lt. gov .
peter kinder , a former gop candidate for governor who presided over the senate wednesday , released a statement calling nasheed s protest an occasion for great sorrow .
he said he worried about the example she is setting , particularly for our young people .
it is indeed a sad day in this country when out nfl players , soccer players , and now even members of our government are choosing to address their own beliefs and real issues in our country by completely disrespecting parts of what make us what we are and they are doing it on the clock as we , the american people , are paying for it.how can it even be considered ethical for such protest to be acted out while on the job ?
i fully agree that each of these people do in fact have the right to protest how they see fit , but the issue here is that they are using platforms to get the attention they want that are literally funded by the very citizenship that they are showing such a huge disrespect for.use your free time to protest , not the time in which i as an american citizen am paying for.h/t [ fox ]