stockholm/beijing ( reuters ) - a swedish bookseller detained in china after publishing books on the personal lives of president xi jinping and other communist party leaders has been released , chinese authorities said on tuesday .
the whereabouts of gui minhai , a chinese-born swede , could not be confirmed , however , and he has yet to contact his family .
gui was abducted in thailand while on holiday in 2015 , one of five hong kong booksellers who went missing that year and later appeared in mainland chinese custody .
the four others have returned to hong kong .
chinese authorities say gui was involved in a traffic accident in 2003 , although that is questioned by his family .
according to what we understand , because gui minhai has served his sentence for the crime of causing traffic accident casualties , he was released on oct. 17 , the chinese foreign ministry said in an e-mailed statement to reuters .
the swedish foreign ministry said it had been informed by its chinese counterpart of gui s release and that it was working to confirm the information .
however , gui s family questioned if he really was free .
his daughter said he had made no contact with her or any other relatives .
today it has been a week since october 17 and i still do not know where my father is , angela gui said in a statement .
i am deeply concerned for his wellbeing .
the report of gui s release coincides with the end of china s 19th communist party congress which has further consolidated president xi jinping s power .
lam wing-kee , one of the other four booksellers , told reuters he did not know gui s whereabouts .
lam said he feared the government of xi would further erode the one country , two systems formula that is supposed to guarantee hong kong a large degree of autonomy under chinese rule .
he ( xi ) will continue to tighten things ( for hong kong ) .
there will be no loosening , he said .
earlier this year , gui won a prize for free speech and press freedom awarded by swedish media organization publicistklubben .