( reuters ) - hurricane irma , a deadly , devastating force of nature , rapidly coalesced from a low-pressure blip west of africa into one of the most powerful atlantic storms on record , following an unhindered atmospheric path and fed by unusually warm seas .
a combination of many factors , experts said on friday , set the stage for irma s formation and helped the storm achieve its full thermodynamic potential , creating the monster tropical cyclone that wreaked havoc on the eastern caribbean and may inflict widespread damage on florida .
it got lucky , said john knaff , a meteorologist and physical scientist for the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ) .
this storm is in the goldilocks environment for a major hurricane .
it s bad luck for whoever is in its path , but that s what going on here .
brian kahn , an atmospheric scientist and cloud specialist for nasa s jet propulsion laboratory , called the ocean conditions that spawned irma absolutely ideal .
balmy water temperatures along irma s trajectory ran deep beneath the surface and slightly higher than normal , by as much as a degree fahrenheit in places , providing ample fuel for the storm s development , scientists said .
irma also encountered little if any interference in the form of wind shear - sudden changes in vertical wind velocity that can blunt a storm s intensity - as it advanced at about 10 to 18 miles per hour , an ideal pace for hurricanes .
its fortuitous path of least resistance was essentially ordained by a well-placed atmospheric ridge of high pressure that steered the storm by happenstance through some of the caribbean s warmest waters as well as an area mostly devoid of wind shear .
the result was a gargantuan storm that rapidly grew to a category 5 , the top of the saffir-simpson scale of hurricane strength , with sustained winds of 185 miles per hour , the most forceful ever documented in the open atlantic .
it also ranks as one of just five atlantic hurricanes known to have achieved such wind speeds during the past 82 years .
irma lashed cuba and the bahamas as it drove toward florida on friday after hitting the eastern caribbean with its tree-snapping winds , torrential rains and pounding surf , killing at least 21 people and leaving catastrophic destruction in its wake .
by friday night , irma s winds had diminished to 155 miles per hour ( 250 kph ) and it was downgraded to a category 4 storm , though still considered extremely dangerous .
the tiny islands directly crossed by irma , like barbuda and st. martin , did little to weaken it , but the storm s intensity could be measurably diminished by a close encounter with a larger land mass , such as cuba , en route to the u.s. mainland , scientists said .
so powerful is irma that it may end up dampening another category 4 storm in its wake , hurricane jose , which like irma originated off the west coast of africa and was following a similar course .
waters already plied by irma could be left a bit cooler , robbing jose of potential energy , and outflows from irma could produce wind shear for jose , said scott braun , a research meteorologist for nasa s goddard space flight center .
knaff said it was no surprise that the advent of irma coincided with the precise peak of the atlantic hurricane season .
much less certain is the role of global climate from human-induced atmospheric increases in heat-trapping greenhouse gases , scientists said .
there is consensus that climate change has raised sea levels , which is likely to exacerbate hurricane storm surges .
rising ocean temperatures have been clearly documented as well .
research is divided on whether global warming will make tropical cyclones more frequent , though data from climate modeling suggests a higher probability for stronger , wetter hurricanes in the atlantic when they do occur , said tom knutson , a climate research scientist for noaa .
we think , based on model simulations that climate change is having an effect , making storms slightly more intense with higher rainfall rates , but these changes are not huge and we can not yet clearly detect them in observations , he said .