we ve noticed a trend across america that s disturbing because the communities of muslims do not assimilate but want americans to bend to their every whim .
we noticed in the last election that a non-english speaking forum was held in minneapolis for the 2016 election : ilhan omar now addressing the room .
no english so far in candidate speeches , so i can t relay what has been said pic.twitter.com/oh3jtph91i eric roper ( @ stribroper ) march 2 , 2016no english spoken at all do you call that assimilation ? quite a scene here as omar ( left ) and noor ( right ) supporters break off pic.twitter.com/o2arz18hkc eric roper ( @ stribroper ) march 2 , 2016an uptick in muslim activists running for positions in public office is noticeable so we wanted to find out who s behind it : new american leaders project recruits anyone but whites to run for officenew group in maryland is recruiting muslim candidates to run for officecandidates across america will shape policy : son of egyptian immigrants hopes to become first muslim governor in u.s will push for sanctuary state refugee to activist : deeqo jibril is giving immigrants hope a nice fluff piece by nbc on a muslim activist running for city council in massdearborn : amnesty-pushing obama muslim appointee announces run for congresswhy muslims are less likely to integrate into western nations : sharia lawyer and expert daniel akbari tells ezra levant of the rebel media why muslims are less likely to integrate into western nations .
this is one of the best interviews we ve come across on the truth in sharia law and abiding by the koran .
how can a muslim follow our laws when they are taught to follow sharia law ? wrapsnet is a great resource for anyone concerned about refugees and where they re going .
you can find out what who , what and where the refugees are going .
it s shocking to see but should be shared with everyone ! what we found : arrivals are close to 50,000 ! some of the top states receiving refugees are florida , georgia , texas , california and arizona .
please note that california is off the charts with over 4 thousand refugees !
remember that those refugees can relocate anywhere they want to and do .
pockets of mostly muslim refugees like to live separated from their community so they will seek out other muslim pods of refugees.places like minneapolis have become swamped with somali muslims .
they even have an area called little mogadishu that is flooded with smoalis : isolation of the somali muslim community and teaching sharia law in muslim schools in minneapolis are the two main reasons why we should still fear their recruitment to terrorism .
assimilation hasn t happened and that s a huge problem !
a very recent article in the minneapolis star tribune discusses a new somali mall : minneapolis council member abdi warsame pledges to build new somali mallpete hegseth goes to little mogadishu and finds out that many somali muslims don t speak english and that they actually teach sharia law in school but not sure about american law .
this all goes back to the refugee resettlement program and the huge problem with bringing over 3 million mostly muslims to the u.s. in the past 30 years .
we need to take a look at defunding this program because it s ballooned way past what it was originally intended to be .