happy labor day !
today is a day to celebrate working americans and the contribution they make to our nation and to its prosperity .
it s also a great time to consider what obama has done to help americans get jobs , improve wages , and to improve their living conditions .
have you ever wondered how much time off the average american takes for a family vacation as compared to obama , or how much time they spend on the golf course ?
how much does the average american , who can actually afford to take a family vacation spend ?
how does the average american senior who s paid taxes their entire lives fare next to michelle s 5-star , american taxpayer funded mom ? a record 94,708,000 americans were not in the labor force in may , 2016 664,000 more than in april and the labor force participation rate dropped two-tenths of a point to 62.6 percent , near its 38-year low , according to the labor department s bureau of labor statistics.when president obama took office in january 2009 , 80,529,000 americans were not participating in the labor force ; since then , 14,179,000 americans have left the workforce some of them retiring and some just quitting because they can t find work .
by almost every economic measure , america is better off than when i came here at the beginning of my presidency , president obama told the people of elkhart , indiana in june , 2016 .
we cut unemployment in half , years before a lot of economists thought we would .
while the unemployment rate in may dropped to 4.7 percent , bls reported , less than half of its obama-era high of 10 percent in october 2009 , the labor force participation rate overall , has deteriorated over obama s two terms.five fun labor day facts 1 ) obama s net worth since 2007 : barack and michelle obama s net-worth has risen 438 % since obama decided to run for office .
apparently , being a public servant and an oppressed first lady pays big dividends.according to financial disclosure reports , president obama has an estimated net worth of $ 7 million dollars.since he was worth $ 1.3 million in 2007 , that makes the millionaire 438 % more wealthy than when he first ran for office.everyday americans : the average american income in 2015 was $ 53,657 .
americans didn t get a raise last year .
in fact , they haven t gotten one in years.the typical american family income was $ 53,657 in 2014 , barely changed from $ 54,462 a year earlier , the u.s. census bureau reported wednesday.what s worse it s far below the peak set in 1999 .
that s a major reason why so many americans are still gloomy about the economy six years into the recovery.2 ) obama vacations : obama took an average of 21.5 vacations days per year in his first four years as president.judicial watch did a little digging on the travel costs of obama s vacation on the west coast back in october and found in the process that obama has now racked up over $ 73 million in travel expenses in his 7 years as president.though some of the expenses incurred while fundraising are supposed to be reimbursed by political parties and campaigns , only a small portion of the president s travel costs are actually repaid , and , unsurprisingly , the white house keeps the formula for such cost-sharing secret .
perhaps most depressing about the president s exorbitant travel expenses is that those figures do not even present the full cost of his spending on vacations , which inevitably include huge security , room and board , and entertainment ( think golf ) expenses.as for his west coast fundraising jaunts , obama used the trip as a way to promote his gun control agenda , party with kanye west , and hit up hollywood elites for big-dollar donations .
oh yeah , and he briefly squeezed in a visit with the families of victims of the san bernardino terror attack that took the lives of 14.average everyday american : private-industry workers in the united states who have at least 20 years on the job get an average of 19 days of paid vacation per year.according to american express , the average vacation expense per person in the united states is $ 1,145 , or $ 4,580 for a family of four .
more than half of americans , 56 % , have not taken a vacation in the last year , according to the insurance company allianz global assistance .
that s equivalent to 135 million people .
the survey defined vacation as a week off from work during which those surveyed travelled at least 100 miles away from home.another survey of 1,005 americans , conducted last year by skift , found that just 15 % of americans planned to take a real vacation in 2014 .
that same survey found that 33 % of americans couldn t afford a vacation , 30 % were too busy and that 22 % were going to take a short vacation over a summer weekend.3 ) obama s leisure time : barack obama has played over 300 rounds of golf , or an average of over 40 rounds per year since he took office in 2008.everyday american : the national golf foundation identifies core golfers in america as those who play an average of eight rounds per year.4 ) .
obama and michelle s luxurious taxpayer funded 5-star existence : since the beginning of barack obama s administration , the obamas have become increasingly notorious for unnecessary , luxurious travel , under the guise of official business.according to records obtained by judicial watch through foia requests and subsequent lawsuits , the obamas and bidens have spent millions of taxpayer dollars on trips , beginning with the obamas much-publicized new york city date night in 2009 up through the president s most frequent golf outings and the first lady s aspen ski jaunts.judicial watch uncovered an expensive combination of trips by the obamas to africa and honolulu , which cost taxpayers $ 15,885,585.30 in flight expenses alone .
the single largest prior known expense for accommodations was for michelle obama s side-trip to dublin , ireland , during the 2013 g-8 conference in belfast , when she and her entourage booked 30 rooms at the five-star shelbourne hotel , and where she stayed in the 1500 square-foot princess grace suite at a cost of $ 3,500 a night.the total cost to taxpayers for the obamas ireland trip was $ 7,921,638.66 .
to date , the known beyond-first-class travel expenses of the obamas and vice president joe biden exceed $ 57 million.in february , michelle obama took a weekend trip to aspen , colorado that cost taxpayers a pretty penny ; $ 57,068.80 in travel expenses alone for the 7.4 hour-round trip flight , according to u.s.air force records.5 ) the ultimate 5-star , taxpayer funded obama family free-loader : michelle obama s mother , marian robinson , has been living like a queen ever since her daughter moved into the white house .
just take a look at all of the vacations you ve paid for her to take as an extended member of the first family : tagging along with the first family doesn t come cheap , but of course , robinson isn t the one footing the bill .
that responsibility lands squarely on the shoulders of hard-working taxpayers like you and me.so why are we saddled with this extra expense at a time when the american taxpayer is already so burdened by an out-of-control national deficit ?
according to the washington examiner , it s because robinson cares for her grandchildren in the white house .
really ? ?
? the obama girls are certainly old enough to care for themselves .
at the very least , they do not need a glorified nanny to accompany them around the world , costing millions of extra dollars in travel expenses .
malia is preparing to start college ; she s definitely too old for a babysitter.perhaps the obamas are not breaking any laws by ensuring that marian robinson gets to live the high life during their years in the white house , but they are being incredibly insensitive , which honestly , we have come to expect from the self-indulgent family .
after all , the first lady is embarking on her third vacation in as many months in just a couple weeks.everyday american : the average american retiree ( or those 65 and older ) is spending about $ 3,600 per month or about $ 43,600 per year .
using the 4 % rule , that would mean a nest egg of over $ 1 million would be needed to finance the average lifestyle.more and more americans over the age of 65 are struggling with mounting debt levels , fueled primarily by mortgages and credit cards .
the average debt held by senior citizens has ballooned to $ 50,000 in 2010 , up 83 % since 2001 , according to federal reserve data crunched by the employee benefit research institute.much of this is due to an increase in housing-related debt .
families headed by someone at least 60 years old had the largest increase in average mortgage debt , in terms of percentage , between 2000 and 2012 , according to the st. louis federal reserve.of course , marian doesn t have to worry about housing , food or 5-star vacation costs .
she was quietly moved into the taxpayer funded white house in 2008 under the guise of a nanny for the obama girls .
she has somehow managed to continue living on the tax-payer dime without any media scrutiny .
even though the oldest obama daughter is now in college and the youngest daughter is perfectly capable of brushing her own teeth , taxpayer funded granny has enjoyed a lifestyle that 99 % of american seniors can only dream about .
the king and queen of extravagant vacations , free-loading grannies and golf and will be gone in 4 months and the only thing we ll have to show for it is a multi-million dollar tab.work harder america the obama s lived it up on our dime and now we have a massive tab to pay.happy labor day !