new delhi ( reuters ) - india has stepped up its lobbying effort against moves in the u. s. congress to impose curbs on visas for skilled workers that threaten the south asian nation ’ s tech sector , which employs more than 3.5 million people .
speaking to reuters , trade minister nirmala sitharaman said new delhi had reached out to the administration of president donald trump to stress the importance of india ’ s $ 150-billion it services industry to u.s. citizens .
“ india ’ s investments in the united states have provided jobs to u.s. citizens , ” she said in an interview .
“ that has to be brought to the notice of the u.s. administration. ” the comments come days after prime minister narendra modi urged washington to keep an open mind on admitting skilled indian workers .
indian software companies such as tata consultancy services , infosys ltd and wipro ltd shot to prominence in the 1990s by helping western firms stamp out the “ y2k ” bug .
trump ’ s “ america first ” rhetoric on jobs , however , has put their biggest market under threat .
a bill was introduced in the u.s. congress last month to more than double the minimum salary of h-1b visa holders , which could significantly boost costs for it companies , whose margins are already being squeezed .
new delhi has backed a move by nasscom , india ’ s high-tech industry association , to lobby u.s. lawmakers and companies to urge the administration not to crack down on allowing its skilled workers into the united states .
a nasscom delegation is now in the united states to make its case to officials on capitol hill and in the white house .
“ we will have to engage with the new administration , ” sitharaman said .
“ our engagement at every level is intact and continuing. ” the united states is india ’ s biggest trading partner , but trade in goods between the two countries has been stagnant , at around $ 67 billion , for the last three years .
indian software exports to the u.s. rose more than 10 percent , to $ 37 billion , in the last fiscal year from a year earlier .
indian nationals are by far the largest group of recipients of the 65,000 h-1b visas issued annually to new applicants under a cap mandated by congress .
more than 60 percent of the u.s. employees of infosys hold h-1b visas .
a global pact on services trade would go a long way towards settling disputes over professional visas , sitharaman said .
“ if only there is a framework ... you will know how movement can happen and how certain restrictions can or can not come , ” she said .
“ it ’ s time for countries to sit together and look at it . ”