wellington ( reuters ) - the leader of the small nationalist party that will decide new zealand s next government said on tuesday that exporters should welcome a recent fall in the local dollar following an inconclusive general election .
the new zealand dollar , or kiwi , fell to its lowest levels since late may on monday after a final tally of votes at the weekend showed the opposition labour-green bloc gaining ground over the ruling national party , although the latter still has the largest number of seats .
the final tally led to market speculation that new zealand first , whose support is needed by both parties to gain enough seats to govern under the country s proportional representation system , would be more comfortable joining forces with the center-left labour-green bloc , prompting investors to sell new zealand assets .
on tuesday , nz first leader winston peters held a third day of substantive negotiations with both labour and national , having served in coalition governments led by both parties in the past .
after the election on sept. 23 , peters had said he expected to tell the public whose coalition he would join by oct. 12 .
but by tuesday evening , peters told the stuff.co.nz media website that he wouldn t be ready to announce his choice by thursday , and refused to be drawn on whether to expect an announcement by friday either .
the new zealand dollar has dropped around 3.7 percent since the election on sept. 23 , hitting a four-month low of low of $ 0.7052 on monday .
it was trading at $ 0.7063 on tuesday afternoon .
i think exporters will be pleased , we are an export-dependent nation , nz first leader winston peters told reporters after a meeting with labour , when asked about the currency s decline .
asked whether the talks had included any policies aimed at keeping the nz dollar down , peters said : well if you re an export dependent nation why would you persist with an inflated dollar , which even the imf ( international monetary fund ) says is over-valued ?
why would you just ignore all the best advice in the world ?
but then again this is not just an economic matter .
nz first favors greater central bank intervention in the foreign currency market .
the new zealand dollar was the 11th most traded currency in the world in 2016 .
nz first has more policies in common with labour than the center-right , raising jitters in the market about a change in policies after national s decade in power .
labour supports some changes to the mandate of the rbnz , lobbying for employment to be added to the central bank s inflation-targeting mandate .
both parties also favor curbs on immigration , foreign ownership and the renegotiation of certain trade deals .
while peters has kept his cards close to his chest , he told reporters on monday that foreign ownership restrictions would constitute a large part of the talks .