abidjan ( reuters ) - three united nations soldiers from bangladesh were killed by an explosive device that detonated as they were escorting a convoy in northern mali on sunday , the west african country s peacekeeping mission and bangladesh s military said .
attacks on peacekeepers in mali , where islamist groups continue to operate in the vast desert in the north of the country , have made the u.n. mission there , minusma , the organization s deadliest .
another five u.n. troops were seriously wounded in sunday s explosion , which occurred at around 7 a.m. ( 0700 gmt ) on the main road between the towns of anefis and gao , minusma said in a statement .
our thoughts go firstly to the families and loved ones .
we pledge our complete support to them during this painful ordeal , the head of minusma , koen davidse , said .
the mission will use all means to ensure that justice is rendered .
the u.n. did not immediately release the nationalities of the soldiers .
but the bangladesh military s media department confirmed that three of its soldiers had died by an improvised explosive device during an encounter with militants , adding that four other bangladeshi peacekeepers were injured in the attack .
west africa s arid sahel region has in recent years become a breeding ground for jihadist groups some linked to al qaeda and islamic state that european countries , particularly france , fear could threaten europe if left unchecked .
despite a 2013 french-led military operation that drove back militants who had seized control of mali s north , the area remains home to groups that have staged assaults on high-profile targets in the capital bamako , burkina faso and ivory coast .
minusma , established in the wake of the french intervention , has struggled to quell the unrest .
the u.n. security council established a sanctions regime this month that allows the body to blacklist anyone who violates or obstructs a fragile 2015 peace deal signed by mali s government and separatist groups .
anyone who attacks peacekeepers , hinders the delivery of aid , commits human rights abuses or recruits child soldiers could also face sanctions , including a global travel ban or asset freeze .