bani walid , libya ( reuters ) - elders of a powerful tribe that defended the regime of former leader muammar gaddafi have a message for the united nations as it tries to broker peace in libya - talk to us or you will fail .
the u.n. launched a new round of negotiations in september to unite a country that splintered along political , ideological and tribal lines during and after the 2011 nato-backed uprising that unseated gaddafi .
western officials hope the talks will pave the way for elections next year and produce a functioning government that could curb militant activity , tackle migrant smuggling and stabilize the oil-rich nation s rapidly deteriorating economy .
but conversations with the robed elders of the warfalla tribe at their meeting in a hall in the former gaddafi stronghold of bani walid show how difficult that will be .
located 145km ( 90 miles ) southeast of tripoli , the isolated hilltop town did not accept the fall of gaddafi in 2011 and held out against rebels two months longer than the capital .
we are for dialogue ... but the u.n. has never contacted us , said muftah eftais , leader of the council of elders .
winning over losers of the 2011 revolution will be key to stabilizing the north african country .
the warfalla account for 1.5 million out of six million libyans , according to the elders council .
we are represented in all regions .
if the u.n. wants a solution for libya you need to talk ( to us ) the tribes , said eftais , drawing words of support from the assembled tribesmen .
the u.n. libya office said its envoy , ghassan salame , met a group of libyan notables including a warfalla representative from bani walid in late october , and that other members of the u.n. mission had been in touch with town officials on political , human rights , humanitarian and economic matters .
at least two warfalla delegates have also taken part in the latest talks in tunis , a u.n. official said , but eftais said the elders did not feel represented by them , highlighting libya s multi-layered divisions .
bani walid residents express their loyalty to the old regime much more openly than they did on a reuters visit to the town in 2014 .
in the main square a gaddafi-era green flag is hoisted next to pictures of martyrs killed in the 2011 violence and subsequent fighting .
the elders govern bani walid and control their own armed force , in the absence of any national authority or army .
asked if life was better under gaddafi , several exclaimed : we were in paradise .
cut off from tripoli , they said their town has suffered even more than others from late public salary payments that have left people across the country struggling to get by , and from what they say are arbitrary detentions for their support of gaddafi .
none of us 60 elders have been to tripoli since 2011 because we fear getting arrested , eftais said .
two elders died in an ambush by unidentified gun men on the way home from peace talks in a town west of bani walid .
some say claims of isolation and discrimination are exaggerated .
the problem with bani walid is that they sided with gaddafi and gaddafi lost , and they can t live with that , said abdulrahman swehli , the head tripoli s high state council who is from the rival town of misrata .
economic troubles have deepened in libya since 2014 , when a battle for the capital led to rival parliaments and governments being set up in tripoli and the east .
a 2015 agreement sought to unite the two camps but instead created a third , u.n.-selected government , led by prime minister fayez seraj .
it has struggled to make an impact after failing to win approval from military commander khalifa haftar , the dominant figure in eastern libya .
the new u.n. talks , held in tunis , were suspended last month as neither side could agree on what role haftar should play .
he is said to have presidential ambitions but is a divisive figure .
the bani walid elders say they do not support either camp .
we are neither with seraj nor with haftar .
since 2011 the same people have been ... in the gnc ( parliament ) , government , playing musical chairs , said eftais .
the elders want the talks to take place in libya , under the supervision of libyans .
after negotiations between rival parliaments , the u.n. says it is planning a national conference that would gather hundreds of representatives from across libya and make any deal as inclusive as possible , bridging deep communal rifts .
bani walid s enmity with misrata , a wealthy port city 125 km to the northeast , shows how deep such divisions can run .
historical hostility between two communities that fought in the early 20th century was reignited when misrata was shelled for weeks by gaddafi forces in 2011 .
the following year , bani walid was attacked by fighters from misrata and other towns , who daubed slogans on the walls that can still be seen today .
in 2014 misratans became the dominant force in tripoli and the main source of military opposition to haftar .
but misratan islamist-leaning armed groups have been sidelined , while haftar has managed to consolidate power in the east with help from tribal allies and foreign backers including egypt and the united arab emirates .
as in other towns that forged alliances with gaddafi during his 42-year rule , many in bani walid are nostalgic .
state employees are often unpaid , schools and hospitals have been run down , and citizens have been caught up in the intermittent conflict .
several residents said they would vote for the late gaddafi s most prominent son , saif al-islam , who made a last stand in bani walid before disappearing into the desert .
his whereabouts are not clear .
life was 100 times better under the old system .
we had security , a salary , health care , said mohamed hussein , a 40-year old who was searching with his cousin for iron in the ruins of hotel .
we are trying to sell the iron for maybe 10 dinars $ 1.2 on the black market ) because our salaries have not come through .
the hotel has not been rebuilt as a drop in oil revenues due to armed group blockades has left little spare cash in what was once one of the richest countries in the middle east .