riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabia s shura council , an influential advisory body to the government , will vote on a proposal to merge the religious police into the ministry of islamic affairs , local media reported , further curbing the force s authority .
the religious police , officially known as the commission for the promotion of virtue and prevention of vice , patrols public spaces to enforce bans on alcohol , music , prayer time , store closures and the mixing of unrelated men and women .
it also imposes strict modesty requirements on women s dress .
last year , amid a reform drive to diversify the saudi economy and open up its society , the government increased curbs on the religious police , barring it from pursuing suspects or making arrests .
saudi gazette reported late on sunday that the proposal to end the commission s autonomous status , put forward by atta al-thibaiti and two other members , is expected to see a vote next week .
king salman s approval would be needed to implement such a measure .
the promotion of virtue and prevention of vice is an islamic duty for every muslim , and the sharia tenets had never considered practicing [ that ] to be under an independent organ or an autonomous entity , the report said , citing the proposal s supporters .
the shura members were quoted as saying the merger would also help ease the state s budget deficit by avoiding duplication of efforts and cutting expenditure .
hardline conservatives say the religious police are central to imposing the kingdom s austere form of sunni islam , while aggressive enforcement of strict morality rules has drawn criticism from more liberal saudis .
the vice squad has come under fire online and in local media over several high-profile cases of car chases resulting in fatal accidents , prompting the commission s president to ban such pursuits in 2012 .
the commission stirred controversy again last year after video posted on social media showed members beating a young woman outside a riyadh mall .
the patrol had tried to force the woman to cover her face , local media reported .
saudi gazette quoted thibaiti as saying the proposal to merge the two bodies had overcome initial opposition by the shura s committee on islamic and judicial affairs .
members could not immediately be reached for comment .