juba ( reuters ) - south sudan s former army chief is being confined to his home for security reasons , the country s defense minister said on thursday .
paul malong was sacked in may by president salva kiir amid resignations by senior generals alleging military abuses and tribal bias as the country s ethnically charged civil war ground on .
he was not arrested , but he [ is ] confined .
there are no charges against him , defence minister kuol manyang juuk told reuters in an interview .
the oil-rich nation gained independence from neighboring sudan in 2011 .
the world s youngest nation plunged into civil war in 2013 when kiir , an ethnic dinka , fired his deputy , riek machar , a member of the rival nuer community .
a peace deal between the two sides signed in 2015 collapsed last year amid fighting in the capital .
machar is now in exile in south africa .
malong , a former elected civilian governor , is a member of the dinka ethnic group .
he was not immediately available for comment .
the former army chief had left juba , the capital , in a convoy of vehicles hours after he was removed from his post , sparking fears he might join a revolt .
the defense minister said malong was persuaded to come back to juba and is now back in his house .
he said government doctors will be provided in the event malong needs medical care , and that he must see those doctors before he decides to go anywhere outside the country .
the minister also said the president had granted amnesty to thomas cirillo swaka , the most senior officer to defect from the military in the last year .
cirillo , who now lives in ethiopia , says his aim is to overthrow kiir and accuses him of running a tribalist army and government .
w hope he will respond to the amnesty by the president , juuk said .
if he wants , he can come and form his own political party and then we can develop our democratic system .
east african leaders said in june they would push south sudan s warring sides to revive collapsed peace efforts and delay scheduled elections but did not set a date for that new process .
in july , donors from the european union , the united states , britain and norway said they would offer no further support to implementation of the peace deal until regional leaders find a credible way of re-launching the peace process .