can the last man/woman out of america s progressive insane asylum please turn out the lights ? thirteen years ago , south carolina man edmonds tennent brown iv bound , raped and strangled 53-year-old teacher mary lynn witherspoon to death , and now the incarcerated a-hole wants the state to pay for him to transform into a transgender woman named katheryn brown .
i truly believe my outward appearance does not match or correspond with my inner self , the delusional bastard wrote in a letter to the post and courier .
but as a female i would be complete and a productive member of society because i would actually be comfortable in my own skin .
except that you live in prison , not society , and you obtained this luxurious lifestyle courtesy your willful decision to murder this teacher , you heartless prick : this mentally disturbed ingrate also now claims that he never killed witherspoon , though the copious evidence proves otherwise : brown s father had dated the teacher from charlestowne academy several years earlier , but brown continued to show up unexpectedly outside witherspoon s home long after the relationship ended witherspoon finally pressed charges after brown , then 32 , broke into her laundry room and stole her underwear in june 2003 .
while in jail , brown put together a rambling to-do list that included plans to get a stun gun , take care of mlw and put her on ice on nov. 10 , 2003 , brown left jail to undergo outpatient mental health treatment witherspoon was apparently unaware brown was free until brown showed up at her home , investigators said .
once inside , brown reportedly bound witherspoon s hands and feet , raped and strangled her , and then left her naked body in a bathtub full of water , according to court documents .
after brown s arrest for murder , investigators discovered that the suspect had used witherspoon s credit card to purchase foam breasts and women s clothing from a shop in new york , police documents show .
at the time , brown said , [ he ] was about seven months away from having sex-reassignment surgery.even worse , brown alleges that he only plead guilty 13 years ago because he felt so uncomfortable being dressed as a man in court .
via : downtrend