madrid/brussels ( reuters ) - spain on friday issued an arrest warrant on sedition and other charges against carles puigdemont , tightening the judicial net around the former catalan leader who went brussels after his government was sacked over a declaration of independence .
a madrid high court judge asked belgium to arrest puigdemont and four associates after they ignored a court order to return to spain on thursday to answer charges of rebellion , sedition , misuse of public funds , disobedience and breach of trust relating to their secessionist campaign .
the judge rejected a request from puigdemont to testify via video conference from belgium .
in brussels , a federal prosecutor said belgian authorities would study the warrant before handing it to a judge .
we will give it to an investigative judge maybe tomorrow or the day after , eric van der sypt told reuters .
puigdemont , who is considering standing in a snap election in the region on dec. 21 , has said he did not trust spanish justice but would cooperate with the belgian courts .
embroiled in spain s gravest political crisis since the return of democracy in the late 1970s , prime minister mariano rajoy called the election when he took control of catalonia in response to last week s declaration of independence by its parliament .
belgium , where a european arrest warrant can be blocked for several mainly procedural reasons , will have a maximum of three months to decide whether to send puigdemont back to spain .
on thursday , nine members of his sacked cabinet were ordered by the high court to be held in custody pending an investigation and potential trial .
we consider ourselves a legitimate government , puigdemont told belgian state television rtbf on friday .
there must be a continuity to tell the world what s going on in spain ...
it s not with a government in jail that the elections will be neutral , independent , normal .
...
i am ready to be a candidate ... it s possible to run a campaign from anywhere .
the detention of the secessionist leaders and puigdemont s journey to belgium have given a new boost to the secessionist camp after cracks had appeared in its ranks .
in protest at the jailings , catalan civic groups asamblea nacional catalana and omnium cultural whose leaders were imprisoned last month on sedition charges called for a general strike on nov. 8 and a mass demonstration on nov. 11 .
another six catalan leaders are due to testify on nov. 9 on the same charges .
one member of the dismissed cabinet , santi vila , was released after paying bail of 50,000 euros ( $ 58,300 ) on friday .
the other eight could remain in custody for up to four years .
vila stepped down from the catalan cabinet before the independence declaration .
while he remains a supporter of an secession he has advocated a negotiated solution with the central government .
he has said he wanted to stand as the leading candidate for puigdemont s pdecat ( catalan democratic party ) in the regional election .
thousands of people staged pro-independence protests on thursday night in several catalan towns , and parties forming the current coalition junts pel si ( together for yes ) are pushing to run again on a joint ticket at the election .
an opinion poll published on tuesday showed junts pel si would win in december with 35.2 percent if the vote was held immediately and would likely reach a parliamentary majority if it stuck with its current pact with far-left party cup .
the spanish government said on friday it would have no option but to open talks within the law with those who held a majority .
we could offer a new dialogue so that we can fulfil catalans aspirations for more autonomy and look into reforming the constitution , foreign affairs minister alfonso dastis told french newspaper le figaro in an interview .
some even mention the idea of a federal model so that regions can have more autonomy , including financially .