washington/new york ( reuters ) - the trump administration will temporarily delay processing of most refugees from 11 countries identified as high-risk , while resuming refugee admissions for other countries , government officials said on tuesday .
most of the affected countries are in the middle east and africa , according to documents seen by reuters .
the administration also will place on hold a program that allows for family reunification for some refugees resettled in the united states , according to a trump administration memo seen by reuters and sent to congress on tuesday .
the resettling of so-called following-to-join refugees will resume , according to the memo , once screening “ enhancements have been implemented. ” u.s. officials said the changes were aimed at protecting u.s. national security , but refugee advocates said they amounted to a de facto ban on refugees from the 11 countries and were unnecessary , since refugees are already heavily vetted .
the changes come at the close of a 120-day ban on most refugees ordered by president donald trump to allow a review of vetting processes .
the 120 days ended on tuesday , and trump issued an executive order allowing the general resumption of the u.s. refugee program .
the memo expressed concerns about admitting refugees from the 11 countries and said the government will conduct a 90-day review “ to determine what additional safeguards , if any , are necessary to ensure ... the security and welfare of the united states. ” trump took office in january with a goal of sharply cutting refugee admissions , in line with promises he made during the 2016 election campaign .
he quickly issued temporary bans on refugees and travelers from several muslim-majority countries , which were challenged in court .
opponents of the bans argued that the policies were aimed at barring muslims from the united states .
the administration has denied any intent to discriminate and says its travel ban and security changes are meant to protect the united states from terrorist acts .
the supreme court on tuesday dismissed the last remaining challenge to an earlier version of trump ’ s travel ban .
the 11 countries to face further hurdles are those whose refugees are currently required to undergo higher-level security screening known as security advisory opinions , or saos .
as of the end of 2016 , saos were required for most adult male refugees who were nationals of egypt , iran , iraq , libya , mali , north korea , somalia , south sudan , sudan , syria and yemen , as well as palestinians who lived in those countries , according to a state department document seen by reuters .
three sources familiar with refugee processing said that list was still current .
officials declined to name the 11 countries .
a senior u.s. official told reporters on condition of anonymity that during the 90-day review period , refugees from the 11 countries can still be admitted to the united states on a case-by-case basis , “ if it ’ s deemed to be in the national interest and they pose no threat. ” but the administration ’ s memo , signed by secretary of state rex tillerson , acting department of homeland security secretary elaine duke and director of national intelligence dan coats , said the government will reallocate resources used to process refugees from sao countries to those from other locations where “ the processing may not be as resource intensive. ” refugees international , an advocacy group , said the decision amounted to “ a new and near-total ban on admission of refugees from 11 nationality groups. ” citizens of the 11 countries comprised 44 percent of the nearly 54,000 refugees admitted into the united states in the 2017 fiscal year , according to state department data .
of the countries , iraq , syria , somalia and iran sent by far the most refugees to the united states .
all but two of the countries , north korea and south sudan , are majority muslim , though many of the refugees that come from those countries are religious minorities in their own states .
of nearly 2,600 iranian refugees resettled in the united states last year , for instance , a majority were christian , according to state department data .
the “ follow-to-join ” refugee program being put on hold allows refugees who have entered the united states to apply for close family members to join them .
about 2,000 such refugee family members came to the united states in 2015 , according to dhs data .
in a separate state department memo seen by reuters and issued this week , the administration also laid out additional screening for all refugees seeking admission into the united states , including details of their whereabouts going back a decade , twice as long as before .
refugees will also have to provide more detailed information about their family members .
the new requirements could put an additional burden on refugees fleeing war , famine or ethnic cleansing , whose lives have often been upended and whose family members may be scattered across the world , refugee advocates said .