beijing ( reuters ) - china wants closer ties with myanmar s military to help protect regional peace and security , a senior chinese general told the visiting head of the southeast asian country s army .
china and myanmar have had close diplomatic and economic ties for years , including increasingly in the strategically important oil and gas sectors , and china has offered its support to its southern neighbor , also known as burma , throughout a crisis over its treatment of its rohingya muslim minority .
more than 600,000 rohingya have fled from buddhist-majority myanmar s rakhine state , most to neighboring bangladesh , since a myanmar military crackdown in response to attacks on the security forces by rohingya insurgents in august .
the united states on wednesday for the first time called the myanmar military operation against the rohingya ethnic cleansing and threatened targeted sanctions against those responsible for horrendous atrocities .
meeting in beijing , li zuocheng , who sits on china s central military commission , which runs its armed forces , told senior general min aung hlaing that china s development and prosperity were an important opportunity for myanmar s development , china s defense ministry said in a statement .
in the face of a complex and changeable regional security situation , china is willing to maintain strategic communication between the two countries militaries , li was cited as saying in the statement issued late on wednesday .
china wanted greater contacts between the two armed forces and deeper training and technical exchanges and to promote border defense cooperation to ensure peace and stability along their common border , li added .
china has been angered by fighting between myanmar s military and autonomy-seeking ethnic minority rebels close to the chinese border in recent years , which has at times forced thousands of villagers to flee into china .
the chinese ministry made no direct mention of the rohingya issue in the statement .
china built close ties with myanmar s generals during years of military rule , when western countries imposed sanctions on myanmar for its suppression of the democracy movement .
more recently , their ties have included oil and gas as myanmar pumps natural gas from the bay of bengal to china .
a new oil pipeline , opened this year , also feeds middle east crude through myanmar to a new refinery in yunnan , southwest china .
this has opened a new oil supply route to china , avoiding the strait of malacca and singapore .
the united states and other western countries have stepped up engagement with myanmar since the military began handing power to civilians in 2011 , and especially since former democracy leader aung san suu kyi won a 2015 election .
but an international outcry over myanmar s violations of the rights of the rohingya has raised questions in western countries about that engagement .
rights group amnesty international has called for a comprehensive arms embargo against myanmar as well as targeted financial sanctions against senior myanmar military officials .
china s defense ministry cited min aung hlaing as thanking china for its support in helping myanmar ensure domestic stability .