donald trump wasn t the only presidential candidate whose campaign was boosted by officials of a former soviet bloc country.ukrainian government officials tried to help hillary clinton and undermine trump by publicly questioning his fitness for office .
they also disseminated documents implicating a top trump aide in corruption and suggested they were investigating the matter , only to back away after the election .
and they helped clinton s allies research damaging information on trump and his advisers , a politico investigation found.a ukrainian-american operative who was consulting for the democratic national committee met with top officials in the ukrainian embassy in washington in an effort to expose ties between trump , top campaign aide paul manafort and russia , according to people with direct knowledge of the situation.the ukrainian efforts had an impact in the race , helping to force manafort s resignation and advancing the narrative that trump s campaign was deeply connected to ukraine s foe to the east , russia .
but they were far less concerted or centrally directed than russia s alleged hacking and dissemination of democratic emails.the ukrainian antipathy for trump s team and alignment with clinton s can be traced back to late 2013 .
that s when the country s president , viktor yanukovych , whom manafort had been advising , abruptly backed out of a european union pact linked to anti-corruption reforms .
instead , yanukovych entered into a multibillion-dollar bailout agreement with russia , sparking protests across ukraine and prompting yanukovych to flee the country to russia under putin s protection.in the ensuing crisis , russian troops moved into the ukrainian territory of crimea , and manafort dropped off the radar.manafort s work for yanukovych caught the attention of a veteran democratic operative named alexandra chalupa , who had worked in the white house office of public liaison during the clinton administration .
chalupa went on to work as a staffer , then as a consultant , for democratic national committee .
the dnc paid her $ 412,000 from 2004 to june 2016 , according to federal election commission records , though she also was paid by other clients during that time , including democratic campaigns and the dnc s arm for engaging expatriate democrats around the world.a daughter of ukrainian immigrants who maintains strong ties to the ukrainian-american diaspora and the u.s. embassy in ukraine , chalupa , a lawyer by training , in 2014 was doing pro bono work for another client interested in the ukrainian crisis and began researching manafort s role in yanukovych s rise , as well as his ties to the pro-russian oligarchs who funded yanukovych s political party.in an interview this month , chalupa told politico she had developed a network of sources in kiev and washington , including investigative journalists , government officials and private intelligence operatives .
while her consulting work at the dnc this past election cycle centered on mobilizing ethnic communities including ukrainian-americans she said that , when trump s unlikely presidential campaign began surging in late 2015 , she began focusing more on the research , and expanded it to include trump s ties to russia , as well.she occasionally shared her findings with officials from the dnc and clinton s campaign , chalupa said .
in january 2016 months before manafort had taken any role in trump s campaign chalupa told a senior dnc official that , when it came to trump s campaign , i felt there was a russia connection , chalupa recalled .
and that , if there was , that we can expect paul manafort to be involved in this election , said chalupa , who at the time also was warning leaders in the ukrainian-american community that manafort was putin s political brain for manipulating u.s. foreign policy and elections .
politiconow ukraine president poroshenko is scrambling to repair the damage : russia s meddling has sparked outrage from the american body politic .
the u.s. intelligence community undertook the rare move of publicizing its findings on the matter , and president barack obama took several steps to officially retaliate , while members of congress continue pushing for more investigations into the hacking and a harder line against russia , which was already viewed in washington as america s leading foreign adversary.ukraine , on the other hand , has traditionally enjoyed strong relations with u.s. administrations .
its officials worry that could change under trump , whose team has privately expressed sentiments ranging from ambivalence to deep skepticism about poroshenko s regime , while sounding unusually friendly notes about putin s regime.poroshenko is scrambling to alter that dynamic , recently signing a $ 50,000-a-month contract with a well-connected gop-linked washington lobbying firm to set up meetings with u.s. government officials to strengthen u.s.-ukrainian relations .
revelations about ukraine s anti-trump efforts could further set back those efforts .
things seem to be going from bad to worse for ukraine , said david a. merkel , a senior fellow at the atlantic council who helped oversee u.s. relations with russia and ukraine while working in george w. bush s state department and national security council.merkel , who has served as an election observer in ukrainian presidential elections dating back to 1993 , noted there s some irony in ukraine and russia taking opposite sides in the 2016 presidential race , given that past ukrainian elections were widely viewed in washington s foreign policy community as proxy wars between the u.s. and russia .
now , it seems that a u.s. election may have been seen as a surrogate battle by those in kiev and moscow , merkel said .
politico