ankara ( reuters ) - turkey cautioned its citizens on saturday to take care when traveling to germany , citing what it said was an upswing in anti-turkish sentiment ahead of a german national election later this month .
the advisory is likely to further exacerbate tensions between the two nato allies , whose ties have soured following last year s failed coup against turkish president tayyip erdogan and his subsequent crackdown on alleged coup supporters .
the political leadership campaigns in germany are based on anti-turkey sentiment and preventing our country s eu membership .
the political atmosphere ... has actually been under the effects of far-right and even racist rhetoric for some time , turkey s foreign mininstry said in a statement .
last weekend german chancellor angela merkel said during a televised election debate that she would seek an end to turkey s membership talks with the european union , in an apparent shift of her position that infuriated ankara .
merkel , whose conservative christian democrats ( cdu ) have long been skeptical about turkey s eu ambitions , is expected to win a fourth term in office in germany s sept. 24 election .
turkish citizens who live in , or who plan to travel to , germany should be cautious and act prudently in cases of possible incidents , behavior or verbal assaults of xenophobia and racism , the foreign ministry said .
the advisory marks a reversal of roles .
earlier this year germany warned its own citizens traveling to turkey about increased tensions and protests ahead of a turkish referendum on april 16 which considerably expanded erdogan s powers .
merkel and other eu leaders have strongly criticized erdogan s actions since the failed coup , saying his purges of turkey s state institutions and armed forces amount to a deliberate attempt to stifle criticism .
more than 50,000 people have been detained and 150,000 suspended in the crackdown , including journalists and opposition figures .
some german nationals have also been targeted .
turkey says the purges are necessary given the extent of the security threat it faces .