the leader of the worst economy on the planet is endorsing fellow socialist bernie sanders .
let that sink in yes it s a future you can believe in if you re an abject idiot who doesn t have access to a single news source .
venezuela today : the army has moved in , coca-cola has stopped production and inflation is expected to hit 500 per cent.venezuela s economic crisis has ratcheted up a gear in the last week after president nicholas maduro deployed the army to strategic areas for two days of war games designed as a show of strength to a population increasingly pitted against him.the drastic escalation follows a major deterioration in the country s finances that have seen widespread shortages of food , basic goods and power cuts , fueled by years of economic mismanagement and corruption that have seen unemployment skyrocket to 17 per cent as the oil price has plummeted.university college london s leadership professor marco aponte-moreno , who was born and raised in caracas , told news.com.au the past few days had seen the stakes raised for both corrupt officials and those dying from lack of food and medicine in his home country .
the stakes are very high [ for the government ] if they lose power , he said , adding that many involved in illegal activities could be charged and taken to trial .
the situation has become a matter of life and death for the government and also a matter of life and death for the people because people are dying because they don t have their medicines , the water they need .
it s very sad to see the country like this , especially when you take into account that this is a country that has large natural resources .
i have to admit it isn t a surprise .
corruption , shortages are things that are not new in venezuela but they have never reached this level before .
via- news.comauvenezuelan president nicolas maduro has endorsed fellow socialist bernie sanders , d-vt. , for president , calling him our revolutionary friend .
in a televised address on tuesday , maduro criticized the u.s. election system , which he called archaic , for putting sanders at a disadvantage .
if the elections were free , maduro said , bernie sanders would be president of the united states .
socialist venezuela , which has been criticized for lack of transparency in elections , frequently denounces the u.s. government and accuses it of imperialism .
the south american country is also prone to blaming its economic woes on washington , and the two countries do not exchange ambassadors.is this the america so many college students are dreaming of ? venezuela teeters on the brink of collapse , with low global oil prices contributing to massive shortage of basic goods like flour and toilet paper .
the government recently moved to a two-day work week for public employees in an effort to conserve electricity.maduro , who has publicly denounced president barack obama , said sanders ought to win in the united states .
the vermont senator trails frontrunner hillary clinton and has little chance of amassing the delegates needed to receive the democratic nomination .
via : the olympian