brussels ( reuters ) - polish reforms of its judiciary pose a systemic threat to the rule of law in the country and warsaw must change tack , the deputy head of the european commission said on monday .
poland has been locked in a deepening dispute with the european union s executive over democratic standards since the nationalist-minded , eurosceptic law and justice ( pis ) party won power in late 2015 .
many other eu member states , the polish opposition and human rights groups have also sharply criticized the pis government , but warsaw says its overhaul of the judiciary is in line with european standards .
i have to say very clearly to you today , the commission is of the opinion that these laws do create a threat to the rule of law , a systemic threat to the rule of law in poland , frans timmermans told the european parliament .
the commission says the new laws undermine the independence of the judiciary by giving the justice minister - a politician of the ruling party - the right to sack and appoint senior judges .
brussels also says the pis government violated poland s constitution in its reform of the constitutional tribunal , a court which decides whether new laws approved by the pis parliamentary majority are in line with the constitution .
the pis government accuses timmermans , who has led a legal case against it for more than a year , of waging a vendetta against poland , but the commissioner said his views were shared by a range of international bodies including the european organization of judges and the u.n. rapporteur on the judiciary .
surely , surely the polish government can not just simply ignore all of that and pretend as if there s only one guy in the commission that has a problem and there is not an issue at all apart from that , said timmermans , who is dutch .
surely the polish government knows by now there are many concerns in many member states about this ... , he said .
timmermans urged the polish government to heed the warnings .
you have so much room for maneuver with the political mandate you got from your voters without having to go after the rule of law .
there s no need to do that .
please refrain from doing that , timmermans said .
he also said eu member states were too closely linked together for violation of the rule of law in one of them not to affect others .
if we do not maintain the rule of law in europe , then we will take leave of the most fundamental values of a european cooperation .
and this will not just affect the member state poland .
it will affect all of us , he said .