peshawar , pakistan ( reuters ) - senior militant commander asad afridi has emerged as the favorite to become the new leader of a deadly pakistani taliban faction , militant sources said on friday , days after a u.s. drone strike killed the group s chief .
jamaat-ul-ahrar ( jua ) , a splinter faction of the pakistani taliban , has killed hundreds of people in bomb attacks and is considered one of the most dangerous militant groups in the nuclear-armed south asian nation .
the killing of jua chief omar khalid khorasani was a major boost for pakistan s anti-militancy campaign and is likely to help ease tension with uneasy ally the united states days ahead of a visit by u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson .
two jua commanders told reuters afridi was nominated to take over during a meeting in afghanistan by the group s shura , or leadership council .
asad afridi was close to omar khalid , who had declared him his deputy , said one jua commander .
a second jua militant , who is a member of the shura , confirmed afridi was nominated as the new chief .
khorasani was seen as ruling the group with an iron fist .
our organization used to be a one-man show .
all powers were in the hands of omar khalid khorasani , the second commander said .
khorasani was killed during a series of u.s. drone attacks this week in which at least 30 people were killed on the afghan side of the border .
his killing follows a slight thaw in relations between islamabad and washington , seemingly sparked by the pakistan army last week freeing a u.s.-canadian couple and their three children after five years in captivity .
the family was held by the haqqani network , an afghan taliban-allied militant group .
warmer words from washington have been in stark contrast to threats by u.s. officials that it would cut military aid and impose targeted sanctions if pakistan did not stop providing a safe havens to the afghan taliban and haqqani network .
pakistan denies offering sanctuary to afghan taliban fighters and has asked the united states to target pakistani taliban militants who cross the porous border and hide in afghanistan .
pakistan is investing more than $ 500 million to fence the 2,500-km frontier .
but in a sign that relations between the united states and pakistan are still difficult , the chief of the cia said on thursday the u.s.-canadian couple had been held inside pakistan for five years , contradicting pakistan s assertion they were held in afghanistan .
it is not clear if afridi would change tack if he were to be confirmed as jua leader , but there are concerns within the group about his power base among the ethnic pashtun tribes who live along the afghan border .
afridi is from the zakha khel area of pakistan s khyber region but khorasani , and most jua fighters , are from the mohmand region to the north .
the organization was basically formed in mohmand and the majority of the fighters and commanders are from mohmand therefore people would have wished someone from the same area , said the first jua commander .
he said afridi did not have a religious or formal school education but had a history of fighting and had at one point fought u.s. troops in afghanistan as part of the taliban .
on friday , a suspected u.s. drone strike killed 12 people in afghanistan s paktia province , according to a government official .
it was the fourth day this week that drone strikes were reported on the afghanistan-pakistan border region .
twelve dead bodies have been pulled out of the area where the missiles struck , laik khan , an afghan government official , told reuters .
the jua has emerged as the most deadly pakistani taliban faction over the past two years .
at one point , it allied itself with islamic state before apparently re-joining the pakistani taliban .
the group bombed an easter sunday gathering at a park in the eastern pakistani city of lahore last year , killing at least 70 people .
in august 2016 , it bombed a hospital in quetta targeting the city s most prominent lawyers , killing 74 people .
in june this year , jua targeted the provincial police chief of the pakistani province of baluchistan , killing 13 people .
the attack was also claimed by islamic state .