jerusalem ( reuters ) - israeli military officials were quoted on monday rowing back from an assertion by the defense minister that hezbollah was behind a spate of shelling from syria , which could increase tension on israel s northern frontier .
the government of prime minister benjamin netanyahu has been warning that israel , which has largely stayed out of the six-year-old syrian civil war , could step up attacks in retaliation for shelling across the frontier , or to block damascus s iranian and lebanese hezbollah reinforcements from setting up bases .
that could thrust the israelis into confrontation with syria and potential run-ins with its big-power backer , russia .
israel last battled hezbollah in lebanon in 2006 , and has occasionally fired on syria to attack what it said were hezbollah or iranian targets during the civil war , but has mainly avoided direct fighting against syria since their last war in 1973 .
twice last week , mortar rounds or rockets launched from syria hit areas of the israeli-held golan heights , causing no casualties but drawing israeli artillery fire against syrian army posts .
addressing his parliamentary faction on monday , defence minister avigdor lieberman , a far right politician , said the golan shelling was carried out by a syrian cell on hezbollah s orders without damascus having been informed , to stoke israeli-syrian fighting .
lieberman did not detail the source of his information .
there was a personal instruction by ( hezbollah leader hassan ) nasrallah to compartmentalize assad and his regime from the execution of this shooting ... with the goal of dragging us into the syrian mire , lieberman said in the televised remarks .
therefore i call here both on the assad regime ... and also on the russian forces that are present there , to restrain hezbollah .
within hours , every major israeli media outlet aired remarks attributed to unnamed military officers casting doubt on lieberman s account .
we have no information supporting lieberman s statement purporting that the ( syrian shelling ) cell was run by hezbollah personnel , the top-rated channel 2 television quoted sources in the idf ( israel defence forces ) as saying .
lieberman s office did not immediately respond to the comments contradicting him .
a lieber man confidant who requested anonymity told reuters : the defense minister spoke based on his own judgment and assessment .
hezbollah did not respond to lieberman s allegations , but its affiliated tv station al-manar noted the israeli media dissent .
in what appeared to be a reference to israel s efforts to coordinate its actions in syria with moscow , lieberman said russian military commanders in syria have received all the ( information ) that they need on this matter .
there was no immediate comment from officials in moscow .
syria s foreign ministry said after saturday s exchange of fire on the golan that israeli strikes would have grave consequences .
lieberman says israel is doing everything in its power to stave off military confrontation on the northern front .