caracas ( reuters ) - washington has asked the government of leftist nicolas maduro for access to venezuelan-american executives of u.s.-based refiner citgo detained in caracas this week , a state department official said on thursday .
five of six citgo [ pdvsac.ul ] executives arrested on graft allegations are u.s. citizens , a source familiar with the matter told reuters on wednesday .
all six men are being held in the headquarters of venezuela s military counterintelligence department in caracas , the country s state prosecutor said in a statement on thursday .
socialist maduro has said that the united states , his ideological foe , had requested the men be freed , but he vowed on wednesday they would be tried as corrupt , thieving traitors for allegedly seeking to personally profit from a financial deal that was detrimental to the nation .
the u.s. embassy in venezuela has asked that ( venezuelan ) authorities grant consular access to all u.s. citizen detainees in venezuela .
we call on the ( venezuelan government ) to do so immediately in accordance with the vienna convention on consular relations , the state department official said .
relations between caracas and washington have long been tense .
they have further soured under president donald trump since his administration imposed sanctions on venezuelan officials including maduro , and economic sanctions that have impeded the opec nation s access to international banks .
u.s.-based citgo petroleum corp ( citgo ) is a venezuelan-owned refiner and marketer of oil and petrochemical products and the arrests come amid a wider anti-corruption sweep in venezuela s oil industry .
around 50 managers at state oil company pdvsa have been arrested since august .
sources in the energy sector say the arrests owe more to maduro s move to sideline rivals and increase his control of money-making companies as the country struggles in a devastating recession .
the political opposition says pdvsa is rife with corruption , and a congressional investigation concluded that at least $ 11 billion went missing between 2004 and 2014 .
the legacy of socialism : to have destroyed pdvsa and the oil industry and turned it into a den of corruption and nepotism , opposition lawmaker jose guerra said on twitter .
they need to blame someone and some gringos are ideal , guerra later told reuters .
the arrests rid citgo of much of its top brass and have instilled fear throughout venezuela s oil industry , snarling up decision making , sources close to pdvsa have told reuters .
the arrests also come at a highly delicate time for venezuela , which was declared in selective default this month after some late payments .
but as venezuela is making efforts to pay , bondholders of some of the world s highest yielding debt have so far been tolerant of the delays .