sittwe , myanmar ( reuters ) - myanmar s army chief called on thursday for people internally displaced by violence in rakhine state to go home and rebuild communities , but he made no mention of 422,000 rohingya muslims who fled to bangladesh to escape his force s operations .
senior general min aung hlaing , in a major speech on his plans for rakhine state on his first visit there since the latest strife erupted , said the military had handled the situation as best as it could after a wave of coordinated attacks by rohingya insurgents on aug. 25 .
the united nations has said the military response to the insurgent attacks is ethnic cleansing aimed at pushing the rohingya muslim community out of buddhist-majority myanmar .
myanmar denies that , saying its forces are waging a legitimate campaign against muslim terrorists who have been attacking and torching villages of buddhists and other non-muslims , some 30,000 of whom were internally displaced .
min aung hlaing did not mention the accusation of ethnic cleansing in his speech to business people , officials and some of the displaced , in sittwe , the state capital .
regarding the rehabilitation of villages of our national races , for the national races who fled their homes , first of all they must go back to their places , he said .
national races is a myanmar term referring to members of officially recognized indigenous ethnic groups who make up the diverse nation .
the rohingya are not recognized as a national race , and are instead seen as illegal immigrants and denied citizenship .
animosity between buddhists in rakhine state and the rohingya goes back generations , but has seethed in recent years , fueled in part by a surge of buddhist nationalism since nearly five decades of strict military rule came to an end .
the important thing is to have our people in the region .
it s necessary to have control of our region with our national races , min aung hlaing said .
we can t do anything if there are no people from our national races ... that is their rightful place .
min aung hlaing did not refer to the return of muslims to their villages in the north of the state , almost half of which have been abandoned and torched .
the crisis has drawn international condemnation and calls from the united nations and u.s. president donald trump for the military to stop the violence and support diplomatic efforts for a long-term solution for the rohingya .
myanmar leader aung san suu kyi , in her first address to the nation on the crisis on tuesday , said myanmar was ready to start a verification process to take back refugees , under a 1993 arrangement with bangladesh .
refugees from this country will be accepted without any problem , she said .
min aung hlaing did not mention the return of refugees from bangladesh .