brussels ( reuters ) - the eu executive launched an unprecedented process on wednesday to suspend poland s voting rights in the european union after two years of dispute over judicial reforms that brussels says undermine polish courts independence .
the european commission , the guardian of eu law , will now ask the other eu governments to declare that poland s changes to the judiciary constitute a clear risk of a serious breach of eu values especially the rule of law .
however , it gave warsaw , where a new prime minister took office only this month , three months to remedy the situation and said it could rescind its decision if it did so .
often referred to as the eu s nuclear option , the move carries the ultimate threat of sanctions but is in fact unlikely to result in that .
the commission has today concluded that there is a clear risk of a serious breach of the rule of law in poland , the commission said in a statement .
judicial reforms in poland mean that the country s judiciary is now under the political control of the ruling majority .
in the absence of judicial independence , serious questions are raised about the effective application of eu law .
the commission s deputy head , first vice president frans timmermans , who has conducted talks with the polish government dominated by law and justice party leader jaroslaw kaczynski for the past two years , said he was acting with a heavy heart but was obliged to take action to protect the union as a whole .
we are open for dialogue 24/7 , timmermans said , saying that if prime minister mateusz morawiecki , who took office just this month , were to change tack , he would be ready to respond .
but timmermans insisted : as guardians of the treaty , the commission is under a strict responsibility to act ...
if the application of the rule of law is left completely to the individual member states , then the whole of the eu will suffer .
this decision has no merit .
it is in our opinion a purely political decision , beata mazurek , a spokeswoman for poland s ruling party , was quoted as saying by state news agency pap .
stung by britain s vote last year to leave the union , the eu institutions are battling a rise in euroskeptic nationalism across the continent and particularly in the former communist east , where poland s ally hungary has also prompted previously the commission to threaten sanctions over the rule of law .
seeking to counter warsaw s accusations of an anti-polish bias in brussels and in his own behavior , timmermans , who once worked in the soviet bloc as a dutch diplomat , praised poland s historic contribution to overcoming the cold war divide of europe but said warsaw now bore a special responsibility to prevent new rifts opening up over democratic principles .
i want to stand by the polish people in this time which is very difficult for them , and for us , he said , adding that the defending a separation of powers was of existential importance not just for the polish nation but for the eu as a whole .
the next step in the process is that eu governments , meeting in the council of the european union , will hear poland out and ask it to address their concerns .
but if 22 out of the eu s 28 countries and the european parliament are not satisfied in the end , the process will move on to the next stages , which may mean sanctions .
the sanctions can involve the suspension of the rights deriving from the application of the treaties to the member state in question , including the voting rights .
this formulation leaves open the possibility also of suspending eu financial transfers to poland , now the biggest beneficiary of european funds aimed at boosting living standards in the former communist country .
sanctions can be imposed with the backing of a majority of countries representing a majority of the eu s citizens .
but to get to that stage , eu governments have first to unanimously agree that what was initially just a risk of a serious breach of the rule of law has now become a reality .
this is unlikely to happen , because hungary has already declared that it would not support such a motion against poland .
but the mere threat of it underlines the sharp deterioration in ties between warsaw and brussels since the nationalist law and justice ( pis ) party won power in late 2015 .
the commission and council of europe legal experts , known as the venice commission , say poland s judicial reforms undermine judges independence because they give the ruling party control over the sacking and the appointments of judges , as well as the option to end the terms of some supreme court judges early .
the council of europe , europe s human rights watchdog , has compared such measures to those of the soviet system .
the pis government rejects these accusations , saying the changes are needed because courts are slow , inefficient and steeped in a communist era-mentality .
polish president andrzej duda has until jan. 5 to sign them into law .