bosasso ( reuters ) - musa bihi abdi of the ruling kulmiye party was declared the winner of somaliland s presidential election on tuesday , by the election commission of the breakaway region .
situated at the northern tip of east africa on the gulf of aden - one of the busiest trade routes in the world - somaliland broke away from somalia in 1991 and has been relatively peaceful since .
the region of 4 million people has not been internationally recognized but it has recently drawn in sizeable investments from the gulf .
in the election , abdi won just over 55 percent of the vote , while opposition leader abdirahman iro took nearly 41 percent , election commission chairman iman warsame said .
turnout was 80 percent .
in a debate before last week s vote , abdi pledged to boost women s participation in politics and introduce compulsory national service for high school and university graduates .
there was no immediate comment from iro , whose opposition party waddani had accused kulmiye of vote-rigging although it has not given evidence .
a u.k. government-funded international observer mission said the poll preserved the integrity of the electoral process and concluded irregularities were limited and did not undermine the vote .
the former british protectorate broke away from somalia in 1991 following a bloody civil war .
the poll had originally been scheduled for 2015 but was delayed by political spats and severe drought .
analysts say the region enjoys strong ties with neighboring ethiopia and djibouti as well as its growing investment from the gulf .
earlier this year the government agreed to let the united arab emirates establish a military base in its port of berbera .
that came after dubai s dp world last year signed a 30-year concession to develop the same port that will require an investment of $ 440 million .
the company is pouring further funds into a project connecting the port to landlocked ethiopia .
this month dp world said it would also develop an economic zone in the region .
[ l5n1nc3cc ]