berlin ( reuters ) - the german military s procurement agency has 1,300 unfilled jobs , accounting for about 20 percent of its entire workforce , a report by the defence ministry showed on wednesday , putting further strains on an already troubled acquisition system .
the gaps affect mainly high-level jobs in the technical and military sectors , which means the situation will remain problematic for the medium- to long-term , necessitating continued use of external consulting firms , the report said .
lack of qualified personnel affects the processing of complex weapons programs , many of which have run into delays in recent years in the wake of reforms instituted by defence minister ursula von der leyen after she took office in 2013 .
use of external support services should not be understood as the beginning of a long-term solution , but as an efficient tool to bridge the time until personnel changes can fully take effect , the report said .
von der leyen kicked off reforms to improve the transparency and efficacy of the military acquisition system , but critics say the changes have complicated the process and resulted in delays .
the ministry failed to sign contracts for two of the biggest programs , a new missile defense system and the mks180 warship , during von der leyen s first tenure in the job .
the ministry did sign a contract for five new corvettes , but faced criticism for awarding the contract without a competition .
von der leyen had argued that no competition was needed since the ships were follow-on orders for an existing design .
separately , a ministry spokesman said at-sea testing of the new f125 frigate built by thyssenkrupp and privately held luerssen , would be delayed due to unexpected repairs .
the first new f125 frigate was now expected to enter into service in early 2018 instead of december , the spokesman said .
thyssenkrupp said delays could happen with any complicated weapons program , but the ship was still expected to be delivered to the german military next year .
the first of the four new f125 warships , slated to cost 650 million euros each , was initially slated to enter service in 2014 .