cher may have gotten in early on giving mega donations to the people of flint , michigan , but pearl jam is about make the largest donation by a celebrity by far .
the detroit news reports that the band has teamed up with other partners to donate $ 300,000 to the people of flint.the detroit news breaks down where the money is coming from : on friday , the rock band pledged $ 125,000 to the united way of genesee county , according to a release from the band s management .
additionally , a network of the group s friends and partners including live nation , the group s record label republic records , universal music publishing group , william morris endeavor entertainment , glaser progress foundation , brandi carlile s looking out foundation and the group s one-time foes ticketmaster chipped in an additional $ 175,000 , bringing the total donation to $ 300,000 .
in addition to the $ 300,000 dollars the band and their partners created a new crowdfund for the people of flint that is sure to bring in incredible amounts of money .
they are trying to encourage their fans to match what has already been pledged .
that would give the united way of genesee county a fast $ 600,000 dollars .
the campaign just launched and the donations are already rolling in fast.pj & partners have pledged $ 300k to @ uwgeneseecoaid in aid of the flint , mi water crisis : https : //t.co/pxdihomawe pic.twitter.com/eu8bnqrhcz pearl jam ( @ pearljam ) january 22 , 2016the band explains how the money that gets donated will be spent .
their crowdrise page reads : monetary donations will first be used for the purchase of water filters , bottled water , emergency support services and prevention efforts in flint , michigan .
after the short-term need of flint residents has been met , any remaining funds will be directed to the flint child health and development fund .
this fund will provide aid to children and families with interventions that support positive health outcomes.100 % of donated funds are used for flint community projects and no administrative fee is assessed .
wow , this is just amazing .
it s always nice to see famous artists use their fame for a good cause .
the people of flint , michigan are in desperate need right now , and celebrities are really doing a great job of helping to rally support for the cause.featured image courtesy : crowd rise & twitter