marawi city , philippines ( reuters ) - with a grimace , brigadier general melquiades ordiales of the philippines 1st marine brigade recounted the painful gains made against islamist militants in marawi city .
it took us one week from this point to that point , to cross that street , he said , casting his eyes to the other side of a two-lane road in the heart of the southern philippines city , lined by three-storey buildings shattered by air strikes and the remaining walls riddled with bullet holes .
it was really very , very tough .
the grinding urban warfare that has destroyed much of the grandly named sultan omar dianalan boulevard shows just how much of a threat islamic state is to the philippines and potentially other countries in the southeast asian region .
but when the fighting started , philippine authorities were unfazed .
after the islamic state-backed militants took over large parts of picturesque , lakeside marawi in may , the country s defense minister , delfin lorenzana , predicted the entire conflict would be over in one week .
now , after four months of intense aerial bombardment and house-by-house battles , philippine commanders believe they are in the final stages of the operation to oust the rebels from the city .
in the past two weeks , military officials say they have conquered three militant bastions , including a mosque , and restricted about 60 remaining guerrillas to about 10 devastated city blocks in the business district .
patrols have been increased on the lake to prevent the supply of armaments and recruits to the holed-up militants .
high-powered weapons military officers who have skirmished for years with islamic insurgents in the southern philippines say the battle in marawi has been more intense and difficult than earlier encounters .
the islamic state militants are better armed , with high-powered weapons , night vision goggles , the latest sniper scopes and surveillance drones , said captain arnel carandang , of the philippines army first scout ranger battalion .
he said he has served for almost a decade in the remote jungles and mountains of mindanao , the southern philippines region that has long been wracked by insurgencies .
now , carandang says , the military is in unfamiliar urban terrain .
the militants have exploited the battlefield to their advantage and held off philippines forces despite a 10-to-1 numerical advantage for the government troops .
borrowing heavily from islamic state tactics in the iraqi city of mosul , they have surrounded themselves with hostages and used snipers and a network of tunnels .
marawi s underground drainage system and rat holes - crevices in the walls of high floors allowing access to adjacent buildings - have enabled the rebels to evade bombs and remain undetected , soldiers at the battlefront said .
we believe there have been some foreign terrorists that have been directing their operations that s why they are , how do i define this , really good , said carandang .
we have seen some cadavers of foreigners .
some are white , some are black and some tall people we guess are asians ( from outside the philippines ) .
we have been hearing in their transmissions some english speaking terrorists .
hostages - many of them christians - have been deployed to build improvised explosive devices , scavenge for food and weapons in the heat of battle and fight for the islamist rebels , according to those who escaped .
when we were first moved to the mosque , there were more than 200 of us , an escaped hostage , who asked not to be identified for safety reasons , told reuters last week .
we gradually became fewer .
people would go on errands but they wouldn t come back .
they either escaped or died .
by the time i left , there were only about 100 of us .
the account could not be verified , but military officials confirmed the man escaped from marawi in early august .
the hostage said the militants were excited by their successes in marawi , speaking often of the advantages of urban warfare and talking about some of their next possible targets , including other cities in mindanao and the philippines capital manila .
they said they could hide well in the cities .
they can get civilians to become hostages and it s more difficult in the mountains with only the soldiers , he said .
many of the fighters are young recruits , who are fanatical and accomplished fighters , the soldiers said .
by the way they move and their tactics , you can see they ve been trained , said colonel jose maria cuerpo , deputy commander of the 103rd brigade fighting in marawi .
for a description of how mindanao youngsters are recruited by militants , click on [ nl3n1kb1z5 ] much of this bloodshed could have been avoided , local political leaders told reuters .
naguib sinarimbo , a muslim leader who has negotiated between the military and islamic separatists for years , said he and other elders had urged the armed forces to allow militias and rival islamist groups to take the lead in ousting the islamic state militants .
the groups were familiar with marawi s terrain and , through family and clan links , could influence many of the fighters to lay down their weapons , they told the armed forces .
the proposal was rebuffed , sinarimbo said .
air power , the military assured them , was the path to a quick win .
zia alonto adiong , a provincial politician , said the military also had doubts about the loyalty of some of the political personalities offering to provide their militias to push out the fighters .
the result was a city in ruins , hundreds of thousands of residents displaced and emboldened islamists , sinarimbo said .
they proceeded with the aerial bombing but they didn t take the city , sinarimbo said .
the military lost authority .
in addition , the devastation of the city will play into militants hands , creating resentment and further radicalising many youngsters , he said .
marawi residents in evacuation centers or staying with relatives elsewhere are becoming increasingly frustrated , said adiong , who is a spokesman for the local government s crisis management authority .
some residents were disappointed and angry that requests for a moratorium on bank loan repayments had not been met , he told reuters .
philippines central bank governor nestor espenilla told reuters legislation would be needed for a debt moratorium and was being studied .
mindanao has long been marred by the decades of muslim hostility to rule from manila .
after years fighting insurgent groups and then long negotiations , the government signed an agreement in 2014 to give muslim majority areas in mindanao autonomy .
but the deal has been long delayed .
this part of the philippines is fertile ground to plant violent extremism , adiong said .
there is a narrative of social injustice that is strong .
young people are fed up with the peace process and nothing concrete or sustainable has developed .
[ the militants ] use this as the basis to entice people , to get support of the local people .
in marawi , some in the armed forces are hopeful that at least some militants will surrender and hand over between 45 to 50 civilian captives .
carandang , the scout rangers captain , however said indications were the rebels are preparing for a bloody final stand .
we are monitoring the enemy s transmissions and it s like during these final days they are being more fanatical , he said .
transmissions indicate they are preparing for suicide bombings .
an unused suicide vest was discovered this month in marawi s grand mosque , a former stronghold of the militants , government sources told reuters .
suicide attacks are rare in the philippines despite decades of islamist insurgency .
that s the difference between here and syria and iraq , said ordiales , the marine general .
it s almost the same war tactics and fighting tactics , the one thing that s not the same is the human bomb or the suicide bombing .
it hasn t happened , not yet .