denpasar , indonesia ( reuters ) - indonesian police are hunting for a u.s. citizen who escaped on monday from an overcrowded prison on the holiday island of bali by cutting through steel bars in a ceiling , the jail s second breakout of foreign inmates this year .
the kerobokan prison , about 10 km ( six miles ) from the main tourist beaches in the kuta area , often holds foreigners facing drug-related charges .
cristian beasley , who was a suspect in crimes related to narcotics but had not been sentenced , escaped at 4.10 a.m. ( 2010 gmt sunday ) , said badung police chief yudith satria hananta .
it is thought that the prisoner escaped ... by cutting through the steel bars above the ceiling , he said in a statement , without giving details of how beasley escaped without being detected .
beasley , 32 , from california , is believed to have then used a rope to climb down a wall before getting over a perimeter wall in an area being refurbished .
police had questioned witnesses and guards and were hunting for beasley , hananta said .
another american , paul anthony hoffman , 57 , was captured while also trying to escape , hananta said .
representatives of beasley and hoffman could not immediately be reached for comment .
in june , an australian , a bulgarian , an indian and a malaysian tunneled to freedom about 12 meters ( 13 yards ) under the prison s walls .
the indian and the bulgarian were caught soon after in neighboring east timor , but australian shaun edward davidson and malaysian tee kok king remain at large .
davidson has taunted authorities by saying he was enjoying life in various parts of the world , in purported posts on facebook .
kerobokan has housed a number of well-known foreign drug convicts , including australian schappelle corby , whose 12-1/2-year sentence for marijuana smuggling got huge media attention .
indonesia has executed several foreign drug convicts in recent years .
indonesian prisons are often overcrowded , partly because a war on drugs led by the government of president joko widodo has led to a surge in the number of people locked up .
as of june , kerobokan housed 1,378 inmates , more than four times its planned capacity of 323 , government data show .
prison escapes are fairly common in indonesia , which launched an investigation this year after about 350 inmates broke out of a prison on the island of sumatra .