we re not sure which of judge mary murguia s qualifications for becoming a u.s. supreme court justice would be more attractive to obama .
could it be the fact that she , like barack obama can claim she is responsible for dismissing charges against a terrorist ?
perhaps her it s her sister s connection as a leader of la raza , a government funded , radical activist group fighting to defend amnesty in america .
knowing barry , it s likely both.the u.s. 9th circuit court of appeals judge who previously dismissed terror charges against one of the garland , texas shooters has a connection to the controversial activist group , national council of la raza.judge mary murguia , appointed by president clinton and considered a potential nominee to the supreme court by president obama , was the judge who dismissed government charges against elton simpson for suspected terrorism in 2011 .
on sunday , simpson attacked a free speech event in garland , texas depicting the prophet muhammad in cartoons.daniel greenfield cites evidence from the 2011 case : the fbi knew that elton simpson , one of the garland jihadists , was a threat and had attempted to lock him up after amassing evidence that he intended to go to somalia as a terrorist .
they had him on tape stating that allah loves an individual who is out there fighting [ non-muslims ] and if you get shot , or you get killed , it s [ heaven ] straight away .
mr. simpson then said [ heaven ] that s what we here for so why not take that route ?
judge murguia held then that the government was unable to prove simpson mentioned violent jihad in his reasoning for traveling to somalia .
that phrase is one made up by the government , likely because it is aware that jihad in the muslim religion does not necessarily imply violence , she said , noted greenfield.however , the la times previously noted that judge murguria s twin sister janet murguia leads a controversial group known as national council of la raza , which has been criticized as a racist hate group .
it is the nation s largest latino civil rights activist organization .
la raza is closely linked to the obama administration s amnesty efforts.human events , a conservative blog , previously reported that the mainstream media views la raza no more than a hispanic rotary club .
but la raza collected roughly $ 15.2 million in federal grants in 2005 .
human events also reported that undisclosed amounts of that money were used in get-out-the-vote efforts supporting la raza political positions .
la raza has been added to congressional hearings and an anonymous senator even gave the council of la raza an extra $ 4 million in earmarked taxpayer money , supposedly for housing reform , according to human events .
moreover , judge murguria s brother , carlos murguria , helped coordinate the immigration amnesty program prior to clinton nominating him also for a judgeship , according to front page magazine.via : bretibart news