johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa s supreme court more than doubled oscar pistorius murder sentence on friday , accepting prosecutors argument that the original jail term of six years for shooting dead his girlfriend reeva steenkamp was shockingly lenient .
the gold medal-winning athlete , a double amputee known as the blade runner for his carbon-fibre prosthetics , was not in court to hear the new sentence of 13 years and five months handed down .
steenkamp s family were also absent but welcomed the revised term the minimum 15 years prescribed for murder , minus the time pistorius has already served and said it showed justice could prevail in south africa .
this is an emotional thing for them .
they just feel that their trust in the justice system has been confirmed this morning , tania koen , a family spokeswoman , told reuters .
rights groups in a country beset by high levels of violent crime against women say pistorius , 31 , received preferential treatment compared to non-whites and those without his wealth or celebrity status .
barry steenkamp , the father of the slain model , told sabc television the family could now get on with their lives .
i always , from the beginning , said justice had not been served , now it has , he said .
in the same interview , her mother june steenkamp said : we felt that we didn t have justice for reeva by that too-lenient sentence but now we have justice for her .
pistorius elder brother carl wrote on twitter : shattered .
heartbroken .
gutted .
the athlete s lawyers could not be reached for comment .
the athlete was jailed in july last year after being found guilty on appeal of murdering model and law graduate steenkamp on valentine s day 2013 by firing four shots through a locked bathroom door .
the case attracted worldwide interest .
he had originally been found guilty of manslaughter and sentenced to five years in jail .
that conviction was increased to murder by the supreme court in december 2015 and his sentence extended to six years by trial judge thokozile masipa in july last year .
masipa said in court that while the steenkamps had suffered a great loss , fallen hero pistorius life and career were also in ruins , and that a long prison term would not serve justice .
pistorius appearance during the trial without his prostheses had drawn gasps from the courtroom .
in a scathing criticism , the appeals court said masipa s ruling had erred in deviating from the prescribed minimum sentence of 15 years imprisonment for murder .
the sentence of six years imprisonment is shockingly lenient , to a point where it has the effect of trivializing this serious offence , said judge willie seriti , who read out the unanimous court decision .
i am of the view that there are no substantial and compelling circumstances which can justify the departure from the prescribed minimum sentence .
seriti also censured pistorius , saying his apology to the deceased s family during the hearing did not demonstrate any genuine remorse on his part and that he does not appreciate the gravity of his actions .
state prosecutors led by advocate andrea johnson had told the appeals hearing this month that there were no mitigating circumstances to justify pistorius six-year sentence .
defense lawyer barry roux argued that pistorius did not deliberately kill steenkamp and the appeal should be thrown out .
roux had said during the july 2016 trial that pistorius disability and mental distress following the killing should be considered as reasons to reduce his sentence .
pistorius reached the semi-finals of the 400 meters at the london olympics in 2012 and took two golds in the paralympics .
even in prison , he has been in the news .
in august , he was allowed out to attend his maternal grandmother s funeral and spent a night in hospital for what local media reports said was a suspected heart attack .
in august 2016 , the athlete denied trying to kill himself after he was treated in hospital for wrist injuries .
on pistorius birthday on wednesday , his father henke told local you magazine that although he was behind bars , it was still a special day for his family , full of love and tears .
legal analysts said pistorius could still appeal to the constitutional court , south africa s topmost legal authority but saw his chances of success as slim .
i don t think it s over .
he has one more option , said lawyer ulrich roux , who is not linked to the pistorius defense .
all the same there are few grounds of success in this venture , to be honest .
lawyer zola majavu said the constitutional court was unlikely to agree to hear the case .
in my view , that will be a very tall order .
it is pretty much the end of the road for pistorius .