beijing ( reuters ) - sri lanka is keen to reach agreement soon on a free trade deal with china , its foreign minister said on tuesday , describing beijing as a close friend and ally , despite strong local opposition to some major chinese-invested schemes .
in july , sri lanka signed a long-delayed $ 1.1 billion deal to lease its southern hambantota port to china , ignoring an appeal by opposition parties to debate the pact in parliament .
the $ 1.5-billion port , close to the main shipping route from asia to europe and likely to play a key role in china s belt and road initiative , has been mired in controversy since a chinese firm agreed to take an 80 percent stake in it .
the pact signed last year sparked widespread public anger , as chinese control of the port , which included a plan for a 99-year lease of 15,000 acres ( 23 sq miles ) to develop an adjacent industrial zone , provoked fears it could be used by chinese naval vessels .
sri lanka foreign minister tilak marapana told a reception in beijing to mark the 60th anniversary of establishing diplomatic ties that the two countries friendship went back centuries .
sri lanka is very keen to reach an early conclusion to the free trade agreement with china in the near future that would expand more trade avenues for both countries , marapana said .
china has been a reliable and important partner in our drive towards economic development and sri lanka is appreciative of the country s commitment and assistance , he added , without mentioning any specific projects .
as one of the first countries to help in sri lanka s post-war reconstruction after the 2009 end of its 26-year civil war , china s ties with sri lanka have unnerved india , traditionally the island nation s most important partner .
by 2014 , chinese navy submarines were also docking in colombo , raising alarm in new delhi and prompting a push by the administration of prime minister narendra modi to claw back influence in the region .
sri lanka is deeply appreciative of china for being a true and trusted friend and ally during our times of need , marapana said .