disrupt the inauguration .
the majority have spoken by nearly 2.7 million votes & counting !
silence is not an option https : //t.co/hsmp3prevy michael moore ( @ mmflint ) december 7 , 2016on friday , january 20 , 2017 , donald trump will be inaugurated as president of the united states.we call on all people of good conscience to join in disrupting the ceremonies .
if trump is to be inaugurated at all , let it happen behind closed doors , showing the true face of the security state trump will preside over .
it must be made clear to the whole world that the vast majority of people in the united states do not support his presidency or consent to his rule.even though he won in a landslide .
have you seen the map ? trump stands for tyranny , greed , and misogyny .
he is the champion of neo-nazis and white nationalists , of the police who kill the black , brown and poor on a daily basis , of racist border agents and sadistic prison guards , of the fbi and nsa who tap your phone and read your email.he is the harbinger of even more climate catastrophe , deportation , discrimination , and endless war .
he continues to deny the existence of climate change , in spite of all the evidence , putting the future of the whole human race at stake.the kkk , vladimir putin , golden dawn , and the islamic state all cheered his victory .
if we let his inauguration go unchallenged , we are opening the door to the future they envision.oops wrong again !
it looks like isis has the same , or similar plans : trump s success confirms the bankruptcy of representative democracy .
rather than using the democratic process as an alibi for inaction , we must show that no election could legitimize his agenda .
neither the democrats nor any other political party or politician will save us they just offer a weaker version of the same thing .
if there is going to be a positive change in this society , we have to make it ourselves , together , through direct action.from day one , the trump presidency will be a disaster .
# disruptj20 will be the start of the resistance .
we must take to the streets and protest , blockade , disrupt , intervene , sit in , walk out , rise up , and make more noise and good trouble than the establishment can bear .
the parade must be stopped .
we must delegitimize trump and all he represents .
it s time to defend ourselves , our loved ones , and the world that sustains us as if our lives depend on it because they do.somewhere in america there s a straight jacket with media whore michael moore s name on it