gharyan , libya ( reuters ) - thousands of migrants displaced by fighting on libya s northwestern coast are in urgent need of medical help , the head of a detention center in the town of gharyan said on thursday , describing their situation as tragic .
some 5,800 migrants had arrived at the center since fighting broke out last month in the coastal city of sabratha , previously a launch pad for crossings to italy .
about 2,000 people have already been sent on from gharyan to other centers in the capital , tripoli .
the situation is very tragic ... disastrous .
there s a lack of support , said abdulhameed muftah , who runs al-hamra dentition center in gharyan , about 80 km ( 50 miles ) south of tripoli .
the clashes in sabratha resulted in the withdrawal of an armed group that said it had begun blocking migrant departures from sabratha , under intense pressure from italy .
sabratha was previously the foremost smuggling hub for migrants attempting to cross the mediterranean .
u.n. agencies have been struggling to provide support for thousands of mainly sub-saharan african migrants stranded after the fighting .
many have been taken to centers such as the one in gharyan , which are nominally controlled by the u.n.-backed government but notorious for widespread abuse and poor conditions .
humanitarian workers have limited access .
al-hamra consists of about a dozen hangars , each meant to hold up to 150 people .
about 70 percent of the migrants brought to the center needed medical attention and were not receiving it , muftah said .
one migrant clinging to the bars of the door of one the hangars called out as a reporter passed , saying please .
we re dying , we re dying .
muftah said there were many children and some pregnant women in the center , several of whom had given birth since arriving .
we appeal to all international organizations and the libyan state to consider the humanitarian condition of these migrants , he said .
the condition of migrants was also raised with libyan authorities by the u.n. high commissioner for human rights , zeid ra ad al hussein , who visited libya on tuesday .
i call on the government to establish alternatives to detention in libya , to halt the practice of arbitrary detention , and to ensure accountability for the abuses perpetrated against migrants in detention centers , he said in a statement on thursday .
he called for human rights monitors to be given access to detention centers where thousands of libyans have been held for years without judicial process , citing horrific reports emerging from some of them .