washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama said he could envision republican presidential candidate donald trump giving a state of the union address - but in a comedy skit .
obama and his vice president , joe biden , spoke to nbc ’ s “ today ” show in interviews aired on tuesday hours before obama was to give the final state of the union address of his presidency .
the democratic president was asked if he could envision trump , the billionaire developer known for his bombastic style , making his own state of the union speech as president .
“ well , i can imagine it - in a ‘ saturday night ’ skit , ” obama said , referring to the nbc ’ s long-running late-night comedy show “ saturday night live. ” “ look , anything ’ s possible .
and i think , you know , we shouldn ’ t be complacent. ” biden was more wary , not ruling out a trump victory in november ’ s u.s. presidential election .
“ yes , i think it ’ s possible , ” he said .
if that were to happen , biden said , he hoped trump would get “ a lot more serious about the issues. ” “ he is divisive – i think he ’ d have to acknowledge that he ’ s very divisive – and that ’ s not healthy , ” biden said .
“ we always do best when we act as one america .
we always do poorly when we appeal to our fears and our differences. ” in the interview , which was taped on monday , obama said he regretted that he has not realized his goal of unifying americans , especially in washington .
still , he said he did not think voters would be swayed by trump ’ s divisive approach .
“ i ’ m pretty confident that the overwhelming majority of americans are looking for the kind of politics that does feed our hopes and not our fears , that does work together and doesn ’ t try to divide is that isn ’ t looking for simplistic solutions and scapegoating , ” obama said .
trump frequently uses racially charged rhetoric .
he has said he would deport all undocumented immigrants and in december called for an outright ban on muslims entering the united states .
for more on the 2016 presidential race , see the reuters blog , “ tales from the trail ” ( here )