london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may must seek parliamentary approval for a billion-pound deal with a northern irish party that propped up her government after an inconclusive election , a legal campaigner quoted government lawyers as saying on monday .
after losing her majority at the june 8 election , may s conservative party secured the support of the small democratic unionist party which allowed her to form a minority government .
northern ireland would get 1 billion pounds ( $ 1.3 billion ) extra funding as part of the deal , the government said at the time .
[ nl8n1jn0ll ] but , citing correspondence with government lawyers , campaigner gina miller , who defeated ministers in an earlier high-profile legal case over the process for triggering britain s exit from the european union , said the deal could not be executed without parliamentary approval .
alongside a statement condemning the government for not making the need for parliamentary approval public , miller released a letter from the government s legal department .
the agreement does not , and could not , involve the government providing or committing itself to any provision of additional funds to northern ireland which would not be authorised under standard procedures , including the consent of parliament , the letter said .
a spokesman from may s office said all government spending required parliamentary authorisation , and that its focus in northern ireland was on ending a political stalemate that has left it without a regional government for eight months .
any parliamentary vote would be expected to pass with the support of conservative and dup lawmakers , but could invite further unwelcome scrutiny of a deal which has been heavily criticised by political opponents .
the opposition labour party described it as a bribe and said the government needed to be clear about how it would be paid for .
in january , miller successfully challenged the government s plan to begin eu divorce proceedings without first seeking parliamentary approval .
after a supreme court ruling sided with miller in that case , may was forced to pass legislation through parliament .