geneva ( reuters ) - air strikes by the saudi-led military coalition in yemen have killed at least 136 civilians and non-combatants since dec. 6 , the u.n. human rights spokesman said on tuesday .
other u.n. officials said the coalition was maintaining tight restrictions on ships reaching yemen even though 8 million yemenis are on the brink of famine with the country relying on imports for the bulk of its food , fuel and medicine .
we are deeply concerned at the recent surge in civilian casualties in yemen as a result of intensified air strikes by the ... coalition , following the killing of former president ali abdullah saleh in sanaa on dec. 4 , human rights spokesman rupert colville told a news briefing .
incidents verified by the u.n. human rights office included seven air strikes on a prison in the shaub district of sanaa on dec. 13 that killed at least 45 detainees thought to be loyal to president abd-rabbu mansour hadi , who is backed by saudi arabia .
one can assume that was a mistake , they weren t intending to kill prisoners from their own side , colville said .
it s an illustration of lack of due precaution .
other air strikes killed 14 children and six adults in a farmhouse in hodeidah governorate on dec. 15 , as well as a woman and nine children returning from a wedding party in marib governorate on dec. 16 , he said .
air strikes verified by the u.n. rights office in sanaa , saada , hodeidah and taiz governorates also injured 87 civilians .
if in a specific event due precaution is not taken or civilians are deliberately targeted , that can easily be a war crime , colville said .
it is up to a court to make a ruling , he said , but there had been so many similar incidents in yemen , it would be hard to conclude war crimes had not taken place .
on tuesday saudi air defenses intercepted a ballistic missile fired towards the capital riyadh but there were no reports of casualties , the coalition said , the latest in a series of attacks by the iran-aligned houthi group in yemen .
the restrictions on access to yemen imposed by the coalition became a total blockade on nov. 6 though conditions were eased on nov. 25 to allow aid ships and some commercial cargoes to reach the shattered arabian peninsula country .
the u.n. world food programme has brought in enough food for 1.8 million people for two months , but far more is needed .