what do you think ?
do you agree with rick santorum , or should we allow illegal aliens to enjoy all of the same benefits as american citizens simply because they or their parents made it across our us border without getting caught ? former sen. rick santorum ( r-pa. ) can t speak to whether president-elect donald trump plans to deport undocumented immigrants en masse beginning next year , but he has made one thing clear : people who came to the u.s. illegally as children , also known as dreamers , should just leave the u.s. if they re worried about their immigration status.elizabeth vilchis , a mechanical engineer who said she came to the u.s. from mexico when she was 7 years old , asked santorum about trump s immigration plans on tuesday night during a town hall event with cnn s van jones .
she asked santorum how he would advise her to plan for her future.he began his reply by talking about his father , who left mussolini s italy to come to the u.s. when he was 7 years old even though , santorum said , he wasn t allowed to come because of the immigration laws at the time .
then he began to address vilchis specifically .
what most people in america feel is that you ve been given a tremendous benefit by being here in this country , santorum said , adding that he imagined she wouldn t have had to opportunities to accomplish what you have in her country of origin .
my final point is that you have the ability to go to any other country right now and apply those wares , and be successful , and reapply to come back to america , santorum added .
go and make the world a better place .
cnn contributor ana navarro butted in .
first of all , this is your country , she said .
no matter what he says , no matter what anybody else says , this is your country .
that s not what the law says , santorum replied .
as much as i m sympathetic to you , you should recognize the gift that america has given you and that you can give to the world .
hp @ jorgesays @ ricksantorum i 'll chip in good money to send santorum to another country .
any country .
cindy hargest ( @ cindyhargest ) december 7 , 2016no decent country would take him .
lyle ( @ lyledal ) december 7 , 2016this broke my heart .
`` you got your education , now get out . ''
this woman is as american as you rick .
dave harrell ( @ daveharrell16 ) december 7 , 2016send disgusting @ ricksantorum back to italy .
iburl ( @ iburl ) december 7 , 2016