barack and michelle obama had some unusual honored guests meet with them at the white house yesterday in honor of black history month .
first we had the first government funded ( via eric holder ) trayvon martin protests led by the radical black panthers group in florida .
next came the violent riots against cops and non-blacks over the death of thug , michael brown that left the town of ferguson in shreds .
on the heels of ferguson we saw masses of unruly protestors shutting down major bridges in nyc over the death of eric garner .
nyc will forever be known as the city where the first violent thug , inspired by the black lives matter movement , took the lives of two law enforcement officers .
the hate and violence against police officers and non-blacks only increased in baltimore as innocent business owners , like the one in this video , who was doused by lighter fluid and lit on fire by a 14 year old girl inspired by the black lives matter movement ( see video here ) .america s watched an asian reporter attacked and bullied by protestors at univ .
of missouri assigned to covering the ridiculous hunger strike protest against unfair treatment by a student , who it was later discovered is the son of multi-millionaire railroad tycoon .
we ve watched innocent families in restaurants feel threatened by black lives matter bullies during their # blacklivesmatterbrunch disruptions .
we ve watched the hypocrisy of the black lives matter movement when they were caught on video , when they shut down an asian girl after taking to the microphone to recall a story of discrimination she faced by blacks.the last straw for many was the half-time show during the 2016 super bowl featuring beyonce in a cop-hating , black panther promoting disgraceful show .
neither the nfl or our president would respond to americans after the outrage her performance made many in america feel .
instead , our president barack obama invited some of the top race agitators and black lives matter organizers to our white house where he praised their activity .
if this were a novel written eight years ago , no one would have bought it , because it would have been too unbelievable to be true .
sadly , where this president is concerned the truth is truly stranger than fiction.watch obama praise their outstanding work here :