barack obama and the democrat party were laser focused on opening the immigrant floodgates for 8 years .
they re the first ones to cry when president trump mentions budget cuts to schools and programs for the elderly , but what about the enormous burden millions of new immigrants ( mostly illegal ) have put on the backs of taxpayers ?
the democrats were only looking at immigrants as voters , they didn t consider how the massive influx of people on entitlement programs would affect our schools and social programs .
the statistics below are stunning : children of immigrants , many in the united states illegally , make up the bulk of students in 700 of the biggest school areas , a huge and unexpected wave that is changing education and society in america , according to a groundbreaking new report.using census bureau statistics and google maps , the center for immigration studies found that in areas including northern virginia , new york city and houston , children of immigrants made up to 93 percent of all students .
the number of children from immigrant households in schools is now so high in some areas that it raises profound questions about assimilation , said the report provided to secrets .
what s more , immigration has added enormously to the number of public school students who are in poverty and the number who speak a foreign language .
this can not help but to create significant challenges for schools , often in areas already struggling to educate students who come from disadvantaged backgrounds , it added.overall , 23 percent of all public school students were from an immigrant household in 2015 .
in 1990 it was 11 percent , and in 1980 it was 7 percent.and , said the cis report , between one-fourth and one-third of public school students from immigrant households were the children of illegal immigrants .
report author steven camarota said , of course , we must educate the children of immigrants .
but , added the center s director of research , the key question moving forward is whether it makes sense to continue to admit 1 million new legal permanent immigrants each year and tolerating illegal immigration without regard to the absorption capacity of our schools in terms of both educating students and assimilating them .
on a state level , he found that california has the biggest percentage of immigrant students in public schools , 48 percent , followed by nevada , 35 percent , new jersey and new york at 34 percent , and texas , 31 percent.the bulk have mexican or el salvadoran parents.he also found that many immigrant families are poor , which cuts the tax base schools have to tap for funds.for entire story : washington examiner