nevienna ( reuters ) - the u.n. nuclear watchdog s chief urged major powers on tuesday to clarify a part of their nuclear deal with iran dealing with technology that could be used to develop an atom bomb , an area russia said the agency should leave alone .
the 2015 pact between six major powers and iran restricts its nuclear activities in exchange for the lifting of sanctions against the islamic republic .
compliance with those curbs is being verified by the international atomic energy agency .
iaea director general yukiya amano has defended the deal as a major step forward while declining to comment specifically on criticism of it by the administration of u.s. president donald trump , who has called the accord - reached by predecessor barack obama - an embarrassment to the united states .
but while nikki haley , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations , has infuriated tehran by saying the iaea should widen its inspections to include military sites , diplomats say russia has been trying to restrict the agency s role by arguing it has no authority to police a broadly worded section of the deal .
that section bans activities which could contribute to the development of a nuclear explosive device .
it lists examples such as using computer models that simulate a nuclear bomb , or designing multi-point , explosive detonation systems .
unlike many other parts of the deal , the provision , known as section t , makes no mention of the iaea or specifics of how it will be verified .
russia says that means the iaea has no authority over it .
western powers and the agency disagree .
our tools are limited , amano told reuters when asked if his agency had the means to verify section t. in other sections , for example , iran has committed to submit declarations , place their activities under safeguards or ensure access by us .
but in section t i don t see any ( such commitment ) .
amano said he hoped the parties to the agreement would discuss the issue in the joint commission , a forum created by the deal , adding that even a clearer definition of terms such as the technology referred to would be an improvement .
more clarification would be helpful ... russia has a different view .
they believe that it is not the mandate of the iaea .
others have different views and discussions are ongoing .
trump has hinted that he may not recertify the agreement when it comes up for review by a mid-october deadline , in which case the u.s. congress would have 60 days to decide whether to reimpose sanctions waived under the accord , known officially as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) .
amano repeated , however , that iran was implementing its nuclear commitments under the deal .
he said complementary access - often consisting of short-notice inspections carried out under the iaea additional protocol , which iran is implementing under the accord - was going smoothly .
complementary access in iran is being undertaken without problem and the number of accesses is quite high , he said .
when asked if a successful iran deal could help encourage a political solution in nuclear-armed north korea , to which the iaea has no access , amano said the two situations were quite different .
but he added : i also do not say that there s no comparison , because in the jcpoa s case , diplomacy worked .