milwaukee ( reuters ) - republicans in wisconsin tilted district maps in their favor in order to hamper democrats and ultimately win state elections in 2012 and 2014 , a federal court said on monday in a case that could influence future rulings on gerrymandering .
the united states district court for the western district of wisconsin decided 2-1 that act 43 , a redrawing of districts approved by the state ’ s republican-led legislature in 2012 , violated the u.s. constitution , court documents showed .
“ we find that the discriminatory effect is not explained by the political geography of wisconsin nor is it justified by a legitimate state interest , ” the court wrote in its ruling .
the case has no bearing on donald trump ’ s victory in wisconsin in the presidential election on nov. 8 , in which he defeated democrat hillary clinton .
wisconsin attorney general brad schimel said in a statement that he planned to appeal , which would send the case to the u.s. supreme court .
a ruling there on gerrymandering - the practice of manipulating electoral boundaries for political advantage - could have wide implications across the country as similar cases in maryland and north carolina work their way through lower courts .
“ this is a big victory for those who want to see courts rein in partisan gerrymandering .
but it is anybody ’ s guess what happens to this when it gets to the supreme court , ” wrote richard hasen , an elections law expert at the university of california , irvine , on his blog .
since 2010 , republicans have more than doubled their control of state legislatures .
they now control both legislative chambers in a record 32 states , the new york times reported .
“ republicans win elections because we have better candidates and a better message that continues to resonate with the voters , ” said republican assembly speaker robin vos in a statement .
twelve wisconsin voters argued in their lawsuit that republicans redrew maps in 2011 to divide democratic voters so they fall short of a majority in districts and to concentrate democratic voters into districts so they win by overwhelming margins and dilute votes of democrats statewide , according to the ruling .
despite receiving 51 percent of the votes statewide in 2012 , democrats won only 39 of 99 assembly seats .
in 2014 , republicans won roughly the same percentage of votes statewide , but won 63 seats , a 24-seat disparity , judges wrote .
the wisconsin case hinged on a new way to measure the discriminatory effect of gerrymandering .
the “ efficiency gap ” measure found the redistricting in wisconsin caused democrats to waste more votes than republicans .
the measure gives judges “ a clear threshold for deciding what is acceptable ” , barry burden , the director of the elections research center at the university of wisconsin-madison , told the new york times .