our imam in chief told america he was a christian when he wanted us to elect him in 2007 .
his black liberation theology pastor of hate later revealed that barack only used the church as a way to boost his status as a community organizer .
he s been openly mocking christianity for years now and now , of all the mosques in america he feels compelled to visit , it just happens to be one with a radical imam and ties to several terrorists who have committed atrocities against americans.all is forgiven with ignorant liberals who believe terror organization cair , when they say obama just wants to send a message of inclusion and mutual respect .
president obama is set to speak next week at a mosque which was led for over a decade by an imam who justified suicide bombings in some circumstances and who helped found a mosque with ties to al qaeda.the president will visit the islamic society of baltimore on wednesday and deliver remarks there , the white house confirmed on saturday .
this will be the first time the president has paid an official visit to a mosque during his seven years as president .
however , obama has toured mosques while on overseas trips .
the president believes that one of our nation s greatest strengths is our rich diversity , white house spokesman keith maley said , confirming reports .
as the president has said , muslim americans are our friends , and neighbors ; our co-workers , and sports heroes and our men and women in uniform defending our country .
the council on american islamic relations ( cair ) which has been declared a terrorist organization in the united arab emirates and was named by federal prosecutors as an unindicted co-conspirator in the holy land foundation s hamas-funding operation welcomed obama s decision .
for a number of years we ve been encouraging the president to go to an american mosque , said cair spokesman ibrahim hooper .
with the tremendous rise in anti-muslim sentiment in our country , we believe that it will send a message of inclusion and mutual respect .
but critics of obama s decision may question his choice of the islamic society of baltimore , where mohamad adam el-sheikh , a native of sudan and former member of the muslim brotherhood , led the institution for eighteen years as its imam.before becoming imam there , el-sheikh helped found the muslim american society , an outfit created by muslim brotherhood members.in 2004 , he told the washington post , commenting on palestinian suicide bombers : if certain muslims are to be cornered where they can not defend themselves , except through these kinds of means , and their local religious leaders issued fatwas to permit that , then it becomes acceptable as an exceptional rule , but should not be taken as a principle .
el-sheikh also helped found the dar al-hijrah mosque , which was once led by the deceased infamous al qaeda terrorist anwar al awlaki.when he left the islamic society of baltimore , el sheikh became the imam of dar al-hijrah , following awlaki s escape from the u.s. after the september 11 attacks.the dar al-hijrah mosque was founded thanks , in part , to a large grant from saudi arabia s embassy in the united states , which allowed for the large facility to accommodate some 5,000 muslims.dar al-hijrah , which is located right outside washington , d.c. , is connected to several high-profile islamic terrorists who prayed there , including major nidal hassan the ft .
hood massacre jihadi , two september 11 hijackers , and an unindicted co-conspirator in the 1993 world trade center bombing.via : breitbart news