sydney ( reuters ) - australia became the 26th nation to legalise same-sex marriage on thursday , prompting cheers and singing from a packed parliament public gallery in a country where some states ruled homosexual acts to be illegal until just 20 years ago .
lawmakers , who had cast aside a conservative push to allow religious objectors to refuse service to same-sex couples , waved rainbow flags and embraced on the floor of the chamber , after the overwhelming vote in favour of the bill .
fewer than five of 150 mps voted against it .
what a day .
what a day for love , for equality , for respect , said prime minister malcolm turnbull .
it is time for more marriages .
the law , which will also recognise same-sex marriages solemnised in foreign countries , takes effect from saturday .
because a month s notice is required for the state to recognise a marriage , the first legal same-sex unions will be in january .
five-time olympic gold-medal winner , the swimmer ian thorpe , who came out in 2014 , said the law reflected contemporary australia and would support people identifying as lesbian , gay , bisexual , transsexual queer or intersex ( lgbtqi ) .
it will give each of us the sense of what modern australia is , and is , in fact , the way that most of us see this country as being , and will allow lgbtqi people in our nation to know that fairness is one of our values , he told reporters in canberra .
australians had overwhelmingly endorsed legalising same-sex marriage in a postal survey .
what a moment for the country , said christine forster , a sydney councillor and the sister of former prime minister tony abbott , standing among throngs of rainbow-clad campaigners for a yes vote , outside parliament with her female partner .
she said she planned to go to her brother s house to celebrate .
abbott , who is still a member of parliament , was one of the most prominent no campaigners .
he left the chamber before the vote .
the bill cleared the upper house last month .
during the debate in the lower house on monday , a politician proposed to his same-sex partner .
both turnbull s liberal-national coalition government and the main opposition labor party had said they wanted to pass it by dec. 7 .
but despite the support of the main parties , religious organisations and conservative lawmakers had voiced strong opposition and proposed dozens of amendments .
during the debate , they pressed for broad protections for religious objectors , among them florists and bankers , to refuse service to same-sex couples .
but their efforts were rejected .
these amendments , rather , are a shield for people and organisations that hold to a traditional view of marriage .
they are not a sword to be wielded in the service of bigotry , government mp andrew hastie said in parliament .
amendments to permit lay celebrants to decline to solemnise same-sex marriages and businesses opposed to the unions to refuse service at wedding receptions were all defeated , one after the other , during three days of debate .
love has won , and it s time to pop the bubbly , greens mp and same-sex marriage supporter adam bandt said .