the rejection of the keystone pipeline application is further evidence that obama intends to be more aggressive on his global warming and environmental agenda .
just like everything else he does , this is a political move to trap more power and redistribute wealth via the global warming scam .
obama lied when he campaigned for the pipeline yet another political move to get elected .
this guy is as dirty as they come check this bs out from 3/22/12 : president obama said today he is expediting approval of the southern end of the keystone xl oil pipeline from oklahoma to the gulf coast of texas and he criticized republicans for turning an energy and environmental issue into a political one .
the southern leg of it , we re making a priority , obama told workers during an 11-minute speech in cushing , okla. , the terminus of the pipeline project.house speaker john boehner and other republicans called obama s permit announcement meaningless because the southern end of the project is due to start construction in june anyway .
and they continued to criticize obama for blocking the northern part of keystone , connecting the u.s. to oil supplies in canada.boehner spokesman brendan buck compared obama s announcement to the governor holding a press conference to renew my driver s license except this announcement still leaves american energy and jobs behind .
just listen to this jackwagon lie , lie , lie : fast forward to today : washington ( ap ) the obama administration rejected a canadian energy giant s application to build the keystone xl pipeline on friday , three individuals familiar with the decision said , capping a seven-year saga that became an environmental flashpoint in barack obama s presidency .
obama announcement on keystone : although the project is dead for now , obama s rejection will likely not be the last word for keystone xl.the pipeline s backers are expected to challenge his decision in court , and the republican-controlled congress may try to override the president , although those efforts have previously failed .
the project could also get a fresh look in 2017 if a republican wins the white house and invites transcanada to reapply.via : the blaze