kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysian prime minister najib razak on monday likely gained ground ahead of national elections next year when the court of appeal ruled that the election commission can go ahead with a controversial redrawing of voting boundaries .
critics have called out the government over what they describe as skewing the borders in najib s favour in the redelineation process as he seeks to win a third term in an election that must be held by august .
the government denies the charge .
opponents of the redrawing process say it does not address an imbalanced distribution of voters , instead shoving opposition-inclined voters into opposition-held seats to create super-constituencies and also reshaping constituencies to have more distinct ethnic majorities .
electoral boundaries were last shifted nationwide in 2003 , and even then the undefeated barisan nasional ( bn ) coalition was accused of manipulating the process .
the commission is now seeking to redraw boundaries for more than 120 parliamentary seats , more than half of the 222 seats in total .
the court of appeal set aside a lower court s order barring the commission from the redrafting exercise amid a legal challenge by the government of the opposition-held state of selangor over the constitutionality of the process .
the election commission has until september 2018 to finish the whole process .
there is no urgency , said elizabeth wong , an executive councillor with the selangor state government , outside the court .
something is happening to ensure that the prime minister and bn have this list of delineated seats to help them win selangor , wong said in a recording heard by reuters .
the prime minister s office denied wong s charge , saying the exercise is is entirely normal , free from political interference and managed independently by the commission .
the reality is that malaysia s judiciary is free and fair .
decisions frequently go against the government , as is a matter of public record .
the opposition only complain when decisions go against them , tengku sariffuddin , najib s press secretary , said in an emailed statement .
najib is under pressure to improve on bn s disastrous election outing in 2013 , when it lost the popular vote .
while bn is widely expected to win its 14th straight polls , najib s prospects are tempered by voters angered by rising living costs and an unprecedented challenge by former prime minister mahathir mohamad , who has joined hands with jailed opposition leader anwar ibrahim and now leads the opposition .