( reuters ) - a group of lawmakers is calling on the national institutes of health and department of health and human services to step in and reduce the cost of medivation inc ’ s and astellas pharma inc ’ s prostate cancer drug xtandi .
in the letter signed by democratic u.s. presidential candidate bernie sanders and reps. lloyd doggett ( d-texas ) and peter welch ( d-vt. ) , the lawmakers urged nih to hold a public hearing to consider overriding the patent on xtandi to make the drug available at a lower price .
the medication has an average wholesale price in the united states of more than $ 129,000 but is sold in japan and sweden for $ 39,000 and in canada for $ 30,000 , according to the lawmakers ’ letter , addressed to hhs secretary sylvia burwell and nih director francis collins .
they noted federal funds supported development of the drug , which was based on research at the university of california , los angeles , conducted with taxpayer-supported grants .
“ when americans pay for research that results in a pharmaceutical , that drug should be available at a reasonable price , ” said doggett , co-chair of the house democratic caucus prescription drug task force .
“ an unaffordable drug is 100 percent ineffective. ” a spokesman for astellas said 81 percent of privately insured patients paid $ 25 or less out of pocket per month for the medication in 2015 and 79 percent of medicare patients paid nothing out of pocket .
for eligible patients who do not have insurance or are underinsured and have an annual adjusted household income of $ 100,000 or less , astellas provides xtandi for free , spokesman tyler marciniak said .
of the 20,000 men treated with xtandi last year , more than 2,000 received the drug for free , he added .
prostate cancer is one of the most common cancers in america , affecting about one in seven men , according to the american cancer society .
u.s. lawmakers and presidential candidates have in recent months stepped up criticism of u.s. drug price trends , raising investor concerns that future price cuts could hurt pharmaceutical and biotech companies .
“ the united states government should use every tool available to lower outrageously high prescription drug prices , ” sanders said .
“ nih has the power to stop this blatant profiteering and put the pharmaceutical industry on notice that the era of charging unconscionable prices must end. ” medivation could not be reached for comment .
spokesmen for the nih and hhs could not be reached .
also signing the letter were sens .
al franken ( d-minn. ) , sheldon whitehouse ( d-r.i. ) , amy klobuchar ( d-minn. ) , patrick leahy ( d-vt. ) and elizabeth warren ( d-mass .
) , as well as reps. elijah cummings ( d-md .
) , jan schakowsky ( d-ill. ) , rosa delauro ( d-conn. ) and mark pocan ( d-wis. ) .