mogadishu ( reuters ) - al shabaab fighters killed at least 15 soldiers in an attack on a military base near somalia s capital , mogadishu , the militant group and somali officials said on friday .
the militants used guns and car bombs to take control of the base and a nearby town , barire , 50 km ( 30 miles ) southwest of mogadishu , in an early-morning attack .
the fighters also took 11 pickup trucks mounted with machine guns , known as technicals , said abdiasis abu musab , al shabaab s military operation spokesman .
the other soldiers ran helter-skelter into the woods .
we now control the base and the village , he said .
a somali military officer put the number of dead at 15 ; al shabaab said 21 were killed .
the government and al shabaab often give differing accounts of death tolls .
there was a battalion of soldiers but it was a fierce fighting ; twin suicide car bombs and hand-to-hand fighting , captain osman ali told reuters .
the attacked soldiers were somali military and the special forces trained by the u.s. called danab .
there were neither amisom nor other foreigners there , ali added , referring to african union peacekeeping troops .
reinforcements were being sent , he said .
al shabaab aims to topple the government in mogadishu and impose its own strict interpretation of islam .
somalia has been at war since 1991 , when clan-based warlords overthrew dictator siad barre and then turned on each other .
the al qaeda-linked group was driven out of the capital in 2011 , but it still carries out frequent attacks on security and government targets and african union peacekeeping troops .
civilians sometimes get caught in the crossfire .
ali nur , the deputy governor of lower shabelle region where barire is situated , confirmed the fighting .
so did local residents .
first we heard two huge blasts at the base and then heavy exchange of gunfire followed .
now it looks like the fighting died down , ali farah told reuters from barire village .
two weeks ago , al shabaab attacked an army base at a town near the border with kenya .
three weeks ago they struck another in the southern port city of kismayu , killing a total of at least 43 people in the two attacks .