one man was set to testify against the clinton foundation next week .
that man was 50 year old former haitian government official klaus eberwein .
he was found dead in his miami home with a gunshot to the head that s been ruled a suicide by the miami-dade s medical examiner records supervisor .
( think vince foster ) klaus eberwein , a former haitian government official who was expected to expose the extent of clinton foundation corruption and malpractice next week , has been found dead in miami .
he was 50.eberwein was due to appear next tuesday before the haitian senate ethics and anti-corruption commission where he was widely expected to testify that the clinton foundation misappropriated haiti earthquake donations from international donors.eberwein , who had acknowledged his life was in danger , was a fierce critic of the clinton foundation s activities in the caribbean island , where he served as director general of the government s economic development agency , fonds d assistance conomique et social , for three years.according to eberwein , a paltry 0.6 % of donations granted by international donors to the clinton foundation with the express purpose of directly assisting haitians actually ended up in the hands of haitian organizations .
a further 9.6 % ended up with the haitian government .
the remaining 89.8 % or $ 5.4 billion was funneled to non-haitian organizations .
the clinton foundation , they are criminals , they are thieves , they are liars , they are a disgrace , eberwein said at a protest outside the clinton foundation headquarters in manhattan last year.the former director general of haiti , who also served as an advisor to haitian president michel martelly , was also a partner in a popular pizza restaurant in haiti , muncheez , and even has a pizza the klaus special named after him.according to the haiti libre newspaper , eberwein was said to be in good spirits , with plans for the future .
his close friends and business partners are shocked by the idea he may have committed suicide .
it s really shocking , said muncheez s owner gilbert bailly .
we grew up together ; he was like family .
your news wireamericans were warned about the crooked dealings of the clinton crime family when in september of 2016 , former senate president of haiti , bernard sansaricq , shocked a large crowd at a trump campaign event in little haiti , fl .
sansaricq stood up during the public event and relayed his account of the clinton s dirty dealings in haiti while he was still in office .
to his credit , candidate donald trump allowed sansaricq to speak his mind , and to expose the crimes of the clinton s , who were attempting to scratch and claw their way back into our white house.sansaricq claimed he begged the clinton administration not to invade haiti .
his request was followed up with a visit by an anonymous messenger from the white house who encouraged him to side with the clinton administration and he would be the richest man in haiti .
he also demanded that hillary clinton disclose the audit of all money related to the haiti earthquake crisis , as he claimed they scammed the poorest citizens of haiti out of billions of dollars through the clinton foundation .
not even 2 % of that money went back to haiti .
so mr. trump , we are asking you , begging you , the haitian community will side with you if one day , you ask hillary clinton publicly to disclose the audit of all of the money they have stolen from haiti in 2010 after the earthquake .
haiti is a very poor country .
haiti needs defenders .
you said you would champion our cause .
we welcome you sir and we will work with you .
ask hillary clinton publicly , during your next debate for an audit of all of the money they have stolen from haiti .
go to the 5 minute mark of the video to see sansaricq s comments to candidate trump :