berlin/warsaw ( reuters ) - germany on saturday sought to defuse a diplomatic row with poland , saying a call by the german defense minister to support a democratic resistance in the neighboring country had been taken out of context .
the polish government , whose judiciary reform has been met with youth protests and legal action from the european union , had accused german defence minister ursula von der leyen of interference after she called for supporting the healthy democratic resistance of the young generation in poland .
but a spokesman for von der leyen said the comments had been misinterpreted and the minister had instead praised poland s achievements since the fall of communism and called for a more inclusive approach to european integration .
the defense minister s quote was changed in social media and ripped out of context , a spokesman for von der leyen told reuters on saturday .
mrs von der leyen has emphasized that the eu is an inclusive process , which is about securing and consolidating the common values of the eu and dealing with all positions .
the polish reform of the courts would give nearly a free hand to the ruling conservatives in picking the country s top judges .
it has triggered protests by thousands of young people and others over the summer and an infringement procedure from the european union .
it comes as some european leaders call for letting some member states in the wealthier , western part of the bloc push ahead with further integration without the others following suit .
during the show broadcast thursday on zdf television , von der leyen highlighted significant efforts undertaken by the baltic states and poland to live in freedom and to be part of the european union .
precisely this healthy democratic resistance of the young people , also there in poland , must be supported , she said .
polish foreign minister witold waszczykowski called on von der leyen to withdraw her words .
this is one of the most explicit statements , which i am not sure whether it is a warning or an admission by the german side of interfering into our internal affairs , waszczykowski told the wpolitice.pl right-wing news portal .
the polish defense ministry said it would summon the defense attache from the german embassy for an explanation .
von der leyen is part of the conservative team trying to negotiate a new coalition government with the pro-business free democrats and the environmental greens .
earlier this year she sparked outrage among the armed forces after she decried what she called weak leadership in the military .