bratislava ( reuters ) - slovak government leaders agreed on friday to amend a coalition agreement to lure back a junior party which withdrew its support for the alliance three weeks ago , provoking a political crisis .
the slovak national party ( sns ) , junior member in a three-party coalition , canceled the coalition agreement on aug. 7 , calling for a new deal that would give it more say in decision-making .
now leaders of the three parties prime minister robert fico of leftist smer , ethnic-hungarian party most-hid leader bela bugar and sns s andrej danko have agreed to hold regular weekly meetings to meet the sns s appeal for better communication within the coalition .
danko also complained on thursday that co-ruling with fico s smer was difficult because both parties address the same voters .
according to opinion poll by polis agency , sns support fell to 7.2 percent in august from 8.6 percent in march 2016 election .
the government needs the votes of all three coalition parties to maintain a majority in the 150-seat parliament and fico struck a conciliatory tone on friday .
there is no alternative to this government .
we have to find new ways to communicate , to understand each other better , fico told journalists .
sns has argued for more government investment to revitalize thermal spa resorts and wants a national airline to be set up while smer says spending must not endanger reaching a balanced budget planned for 2019 .
opposition lawmakers have alleged the sns pulled out of the coalition to divert attention from a row over the distribution of 300 million euros ( $ 351.69 million ) in eu subsidies by the education ministry .
the conflict escalated last week when fico demanded education minister peter plavcan s resignation over the alleged mismanagement of the subsidies managed by his department .
slovak media have reported that the ministry chose several companies with no history in research or innovation as recipients of eu subsidies aimed at supporting science .
sns leader andrej danko said the allegations of the misappropriation of funds were unfounded but agreed to replace plavcan .