berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel will speak with russian president vladimir putin as part of high-level talks aimed at increasing pressure on north korea over its nuclear program , her spokesman said on monday .
berlin remains ready to support discussions about ways to find a peaceful solution to the crisis , spokesman steffen seibert told a regular government news conference , noting that germany is one of few countries with diplomatic ties with pyongyang .
that is why we have offered to be helpful in the search for new ways to de-escalate the situation , he said , hours before the u.n. security council was due to vote on a u.s.-drafted resolution that would impose new sanctions on pyongyang .
the only conceivable solution is a peaceful and diplomatic one .
but to achieve such a solution , the pressure on north korea must be increased .
merkel has already discussed the issue with u.s. president donald trump , french president emmanuel macron , south korean president moon jae-in and japanese prime minister shinzo abe , and also planned a telephone call with putin , he said .
north korea was condemned globally for conducting its sixth nuclear test on sept 3 , which it said was of an advanced hydrogen bomb .
merkel told the frankfurter allgemeine newspaper on sunday she was ready to become involved in a diplomatic initiative to end the north korean nuclear and missiles program , and suggested the iran nuclear talks could be a model .
germany and the five countries on the united nations security council with veto power took part in talks that led to iran agreeing a landmark deal in 2015 to curb its nuclear work in return for the lifting of most economic sanctions .
seibert said there had been no concrete request for germany s help in initiating discussions over the north korean crisis .
merkel , one of the world s longest serving democratic leaders , is expected to win a fourth term in office in a sept. 24 vote , with polls giving her conservatives a double-digit lead over their main center-left rivals .
merkel is widely seen in germany as a safe pair of hands at a time of global uncertainty such as the north korea crisis , britain s looming departure from the european union and donald trump s presidency in the united states .