just like donald trump , sean hannity has a thin skin and throws a temper tantrum on twitter whenever someone tells the truth about him.that s what happened on thursday when wall street journal foreign affairs columnist bret stephens took a shot at hannity by calling him fox news dumbest anchor for attacking republican leaders for not blindly supporting trump no matter what he does and threatened to blame them on the air repeatedly if trump loses in november.fox news dumbest anchor had a message for y all : https : //t.co/amqutldeow via @ yahoo bret stephens ( @ stephenswsj ) august 5 , 2016and that was enough to cause the fox news host to explode in rage on twitter with a series of posts attacking stephens .
wsj genius .
where were u when boehner punted on the power of the purse a added nearly 5 trillion in new debt ?
https : //t.co/oah1b92pfs sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) august 5 , 2016where were you when r party refused to use the power of the purse to defund obamacare ?
https : //t.co/oah1b92pfs sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) august 5 , 2016 where were you dumbass when in 2014 r s said the would stop obama s illegal and unconstitutional exec amnesty ?
https : //t.co/oah1b92pfs sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) august 5 , 2016it s arrogant , elitist , enablers like you that never hold r s accountable that created the opening for trump ! !
https : //t.co/oah1b92pfs sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) august 5 , 2016 if hillary wins i will hold assholes like you accountable .
you will be responsible for her supreme ct selections .. , , https : //t.co/oah1b92pfs sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) august 5 , 2016where were u when weak pathetic boehner & co allowed the potus to accumulate more debt than all 43 pres combined https : //t.co/u0lwtplzow sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) august 5 , 2016hannity s hissy fit even carried over to friday .
congress has the power of the purse .
why in 2014 did r s promise to defund exec amnesty ?
why capitulate to obama ?
https : //t.co/u0lwtplzow sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) august 5 , 2016hannity is right that congress has the power of the purse , but not funding obamacare would have resulted in a veto , which is a power the president has .
ultimately , a government shutdown would have occurred and republicans would have been blamed like they were in 2013 when ted cruz persuaded republicans to defund obamacare that october .
the standoff was a disaster for republicans who were overwhelmingly blamed in multiple polls and would have resulted in the united states defaulting on the national debt had the shutdown not been ended by republicans backing down and funding the law.furthermore , hannity didn t care about the national debt when president bush was busy adding trillions to it with two wars that lasted over a decade .
bush took a surplus left by bill clinton and turned it into a $ 1.4 trillion deficit that fox news and republicans immediately tried to blame president obama for .
and just so hannity knows , president obama s fiscal responsibility has nearly eliminated that deficit.this is the second time in a month that hannity has flown off the handle because he couldn t deal with being criticized.the first incident occurred just after the republican convention in cleveland when jon stewart took over stephen colbert s desk and delivered an epic smackdown of hannity for being hypocrite by hating on president obama for certain things while loving the same things about trump.here s the video of that epic mocking via youtube.and of course , hannity responded by losing his sh * t on his radio show.it s really no wonder why hannity supports trump .
he looks at him and sees himself.featured image via screen capture .