two weeks ago at middlebury college , charles murray needed a safe space literally.in a significant escalation of the campus speech wars , protesters hooted down the conservative scholar in a lecture hall and then roughed up a middlebury faculty member escorting him to a car.the middlebury administration commendably tried to do the right thing and stand by murray s right to be heard , but was overwhelmed by a yowling mob with all the manners and intellectual openness of a gang of british soccer hooligans.the students who brought in charles murray framed the evening as an invitation to argue , and in that spirit asked professor allison stanger , a democrat in good standing , to serve as murray s interlocutor .
when chanting students commandeered the lecture hall , stanger and murray repaired to another room for a livestreamed discussion.protesters found the room and pounded on the windows and pulled fire alarms .
when murray and stanger exited at the end of the livestream and headed for their getaway car , protesters assailed them .
they shoved and grabbed stanger , who was shaken up and later went to the hospital , and pounded on the car and tried to obstruct it .
she was recently diagnosed with a concussion that she suffered during the liberal beating by middlebury students.stanger wrote afterward that she feared for my life .
and for what offense ?
talking to someone who thinks differently than the average middleburg faculty member or student.allison stanger invited charles murray , famous for the bell curve , to speak at the school .
students were so outraged murray had to flee for his life , and stanger got beaten up .
her response ? it s trump s fault ! during the great proletarian cultural revolution , student red guards forced professors to make self-confessions .
this situation was clearly different , however , as most of the students were not chinese.stanger is smart .
she doesn t have to deal with donald trump at her school , but she does have to deal with her fellow leftist faculty members and leftist students .
she s trying to make kissy-kissy with them so they don t smack her in the head again.if i were in her position , i d probably do the same thing .
on the other hand , vermont is a concealed carry state , so maybe there could be another option when faced with a life-threatening leftist mob.exit question:1 ) when someone goes to an emergency room with throbbing head pains and a hardcore leftist worldview , how can an e.r .
doctor determine whether the patient has a head injury or simply a very rigid ideological point of view ?
american thinkerso in summary , the leftist professor who s made it her mission to indoctrinate middlebury students , is now blaming president trump because those same students she encouraged to think and behave like leftists , behaved in a way that is compatible with how leftists behave .
using violence and threatening behavior to get your way and drown out the opposing voices is nothing new for leftists , they ve just taken it a significant notch since obama took office 8 years ago .