paris ( reuters ) - a year ago , france s conservatives appeared headed for the presidency .
now the french right is more fractured than at almost any point in the modern-day fifth republic , leaving one clear winner : president emmanuel macron , a centrist .
over the weekend , a group of macron-friendly lawmakers cemented their split from the center-right the republicans party , forming a new party , agir ( act ) .
in a further blow to the republicans , three other party heavyweights defected to macron s republic on the move party .
this comes at a time the far-right national front party is riven by internal divisions and fighting a new rival movement set up by one of its own .
in two weeks , the republicans will elect a new party chief .
the task of whoever wins will be to heal divisions and rebuild a party blown apart by macron s election triumph .
the right is in the process of breaking apart ... if this goes on we will be in opposition for 20 years , mael de calan , a rising star in the republicans and candidate for party leader , told television channel france 2 .
de calan hit out at those deserting the party .
he also said the frontrunner in the party leadership race , 42-year-old laurent wauquiez , was advocating policies that would push the republicans too far to the right an outcome which could prompt others to leave .
macron , 39 , dynamited france s traditional political landscape in the summer , winning the presidency without ever having held office before and securing a commanding majority in parliament with a party just over a year old .
macron poached cabinet ministers from both the socialist party and the republicans , leaving both scrambling for an answer to the former investment banker s stunning rise to power .
the socialists of former president francois hollande were particularly hurt .
macron destroyed the left with the presidential election and now the target is the right , said frederic dabi of pollster ifop .
both far-left france unbowed leader jean-luc melenchon and far-right national front chief marine le pen are viewed as stronger opponents to macron , an odoxa poll showed at the weekend .
equally worrying to wauquiez should he become leader of the republicans is that another survey on tuesday showed one in two voters were indifferent to him .
wauquiez , who calls those quitting the party traitors , told reuters last week that he wanted to unite the party and that france needed his hardline proposals on immigration , security and europe .
we won t bring people together by being tepid , he said .
his platform has , however , left moderate party stalwarts such as valerie pecresse , leader of the wider paris region , and former prime minister alain juppe , being coy about their future .
the republicans problem is that they are not showing the french an image of unity or a ( future ) leader that embodies a solid enough opposition , said odoxa s president gael sliman , adding that wauquiez s hard-right line was not popular enough .
marine le pen , gloating , said on tuesday that the republicans faced a catastrophic situation .
they imploded in two camps , she told bfm tv .
but she too presides over a deeply divided party .
one of its eight lawmakers on monday defected to a splinter party established by her former deputy in september .