hollywood police spokeswoman miranda grossman said thursday that the body of 37-year-old beranton j. whisenant jr. was found early wednesday by a passerby on the city s beach .
she said detectives are trying to determine if the death was a homicide , suicide or something else .
wptvthe cause of death including whether whisenant was murdered was still under investigation.however , the miami herald reported that the death is being investigated as a crime by the hollywood police department.according to abc news , the 37-year-old prosecutor s body bore a head wound.in 2013 , cnn quoted an expert who called murders of prosecutors in the united states beyond rare , and reported that only 13 prosecutors have been killed in the line of duty in the past 100 years .
murders of federal prosecutors are rarer still , although it s not clear yet what happened to whisenant.whisenant worked for the u.s. attorney s office in miami in its major crimes unit .
he had joined the office in january .
court records show he had been handling several visa and passport fraud cases.the federal prosecutor s body was discovered lying on the city beach on wednesday , may 24 .
his body had washed up on the beach , and the miami herald reported that it s not clear whether he died there .
whisenant may have suffered a head wound caused by a possible gunshot or other type of trauma , the herald reported.according to abc news , whisenant was married and was a father of three .
whisenant lived in miramar with his wife , ebony , a physician who teaches at florida international university s college of medicine , reported miami herald.whisenant was handling some serious cases for the federal prosecutor s office in miami .
pacer , the federal court record website , lists him as an attorney in 39 cases .
not all of those date from his time in the u.s. attorney s office , but there are a number of may filings listed.his recent cases focused on illegal immigration issues .
for example , in one recent case , a woman was accused of re-entering the u.s. illegally from guatemala who had previously been ordered removed from the united states .
in another recent case , a man was accused of buying a fake italian passport and trying to enter miami with it.whisenant was assigned to the major crimes unit .
his linkedin page says that whisenant had only been in the u.s. attorney s office for five months.according to abc news , whisenant had been working on visa and passport fraud cases , according to court documents .
heavy