rome ( reuters ) - international humanitarian group save the children said on monday it had suspended migrant rescues in the mediterranean sea as departures from libya slow and security conditions worsen .
save the children has operated a ship , the vos hestia , since september last year , rescuing more than 10,000 migrants from dangerous and overcrowded boats launched by people smugglers .
for too long we have been the substitution for the inexistent and inadequate european policies for search and rescue and for hosting migrants , save the children director general valerio neri said in a statement .
italian police searched the vos hestia on monday as part of a wider investigation into the role non-government organizations are playing in picking up migrants off the libya coast and bringing them to italy .
save the children said its decision to halt rescues was already planned before the police search .
earlier this year , the government asked humanitarian groups to sign a code of conduct .
the government said the rescuers were providing an incentive for smugglers to put migrants to sea .
police in august seized a migrant rescue boat operated by a german aid group jugend rettet .
the chief prosecutor in the sicilian city of trapani said he had evidence of encounters between traffickers , who escorted illegal immigrants to the ngo boat , and members of its crew .
jugend rettet denied any wrongdoing .
save the children said in a statement it was not under investigation and was cooperating with authorities .
the documents seized by police on monday concerned presumed illegal actions committed by third persons , it said .
several months ago some 10 rescue ships took turns patrolling the north african coast , picking up migrants who reached international waters and bringing them to italy .
now only one large ship and a few small ones remain , with many organizations including doctors without borders pulling out for various reasons , including security concerns and unhappiness with the attitude of the italian authorities .
the libyan coast guard , funded and trained by italy , has taken a hostile stance toward the humanitarian boats in a series of incidents on the high seas .
in august , a libyan vessel intercepted a charity ship and ordered it to sail to tripoli or risk being fired on .
departures from libya have fallen dramatically since july , when an armed group that had been deeply involved in smuggling from the city of sabratha began blocking departures .
so far in october sea arrivals to italy are down more than 75 percent compared with the same month last year .