brussels ( reuters ) - belgium has given a cool welcome to catalonia s ousted leader and may not offer the safe haven from spanish justice that it once extended as it grapples with separatist troubles of its own .
carles puigdemont was not invited by the belgian government , prime minister charles michel said in a curt statement , a day after he arrived unannounced following his dismissal by madrid on charges of rebellion over catalonia s independence bid .
he will be treated like any other european citizen , michel said , noting puigdemont was entitled to move freely within the eu .
he has the same rights and duties ... no more , no less .
deputy premier kris peeters was even brusquer , saying : when you declare independence , it s better to stay with your people .
puigdemont himself told a news conference in brussels that he was there to engage with the european union which has shunned his pleas and not to exploit belgium s reputation as a place of political asylum for citizens of other eu states .
nonetheless , he traveled to a small town in western flanders on monday to hire a human rights lawyer with a successful track record of fighting extradition to spain on behalf of basque separatist sympathizers .
the lawyer , paul bekaert warned , however , that eu rules have made it harder .
he told reuters that the european arrest warrant system had removed exceptions previously made for extraditions to face political charges like sedition in other eu states .
politics , too , may play a part .
eighteen months before the next belgian federal election , there have already been tensions over catalonia within the coalition , where flemish nationalists sympathetic to the catalans are a major force and michel , a french-speaking liberal , has lately tried to mollify madrid .
on tuesday , spain s high court called puigdemont and 13 members of his sacked administration to testify on thursday .
it also said it had started processing rebellion and sedition charges against puigdemont and other catalan leaders .
bekaert said puigdemont , who faces up to 30 years in jail if spanish prosecutors follow through on plans to charge him with sedition and misuse of public funds , saw no hurry to file for asylum , a simple procedure that would halt any extradition .
however , asylum requests from eu citizens are rarely accepted nowadays and are often rejected within days .
as an eu citizen , puigdemont has to demonstrate that there is a clear risk of prosecution against him , that the sentence he could face could be disproportionate , that he doesn t have a fair trial in spain , said dirk vanheule , a law professor at antwerp university and president of belgium s refugee council .
if he fails to demonstrate that from the beginning , the asylum proceeding can be terminated within five days .
koen lemmens , a human rights lawyer and professor at leuven university , said the belgian asylum agency would not take into account potential diplomatic embarrassment .
but it would be up to puigdemont to prove he would not get a fair trial .
the belgian government looks unwilling to back him up .
michel annoyed spain by speaking out against police violence as people voted in the oct. 1 independence referendum .
but he also slapped down his flemish nationalist immigration minister for suggesting at the weekend that belgium might grant asylum .
that did not stop the french-speaking socialist opposition from accusing michel of damaging belgium s credibility abroad .
the issue may not fade quickly .
any eu citizen can stay for up to three months without permission .
and despite support for madrid from the belgian government , judges refused in 1996 and again , under new eu rules , in 2004 to extradite luis moreno and raquel garcia , whom it accused of aiding basque militants .
the n-va has soft-pedaled demands for splitting the richer , dutch-speaking half of belgium off but with elections looming it must be wary of the small , anti-immigration vlaams belang , whose leader attended puigdemont s brussels news conference .
vb leader tom van grieken called on n-va ministers to break with michel s refusal to recognize catalan independence .
mark demesmaeker , an n-va member of the european parliament , told reuters he met puigdemont in barcelona a month ago and said he did have a case for asylum as the eu looks the other way .
the fact he is coming here already says plenty enough about the situation in spain and catalonia , demesmaeker told reuters .
he has no faith in the spanish judiciary .