the stock market is setting record after record and unemployment is at a 17 year low .
so many things accomplished by the trump administration , perhaps more than any other president in first year .
sadly , will never be reported correctly by the fake news media !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) december 23 , 2017cbs news reported on the retailer s record-breaking holiday season without ever mentioning president trump : total retail sales this holiday season added up to a record $ 598 billion dollars up $ 33 billion from last year.not surprisingly , the ap also failed to mention president trump : experts have issued rosy forecasts for the season .
shoppers seemed to be in the mood with unemployment at a 17-year low and consumer sentiment at its highest level since 2000 .
shoppers have been spending at a pace not seen since the great recession , says craig johnson , president of retail consulting group customer growth partners .
the wall street journal reported sales were up for retailers like macy s and wal-mart .
the wall street journal even mentioned that spending was up in all income categories , as shoppers were encouraged by rising wages and low unemployment , but failed to attribute any of the retailer s success to president mention trump : retailers are enjoying some extra christmas cheer.fueled by high consumer confidence and a robust job market , u.s. retail sales in the holiday period rose at their best pace since 2011 , according to mastercard spendingpulse , which tracks both online and in-store spending.sales , excluding automobiles , rose 4.9 % from nov. 1 through christmas , compared with a 3.7 % gain in the same period last year , according to the mastercard inc. unit , which tracks all forms of payment .
e-commerce continued to drive the gains , rising 18.1 % .
overall , this year was a big win for retail , ms. quinlan said.that newfound buoyancy is a relief to retailers from department-store giants like macy s inc. to mall favorites like gap inc. that struggled through a difficult year of store closures , declining foot traffic and bankruptcies by chains including the sports authority , toys r us and payless shoes.investors , who have abandoned many retail stocks even as the broader stock market surged , have started to return .
shares of macy s and gap , for example , have jumped 24 % and 18 % , respectively , in the past month , compared with a 3 % gain in the s & p 500 .
wal-mart stores inc. has rallied 40 % on the year and , like online nemesis amazon.com inc. , is trading near all-time highs .
unlike in past years , when spending was driven by high-income shoppers , this holiday season a broader swath of the population opened their wallets , encouraged by rising wages and low unemployment , analysts and economists said .
fewer people are living paycheck to paycheck , said chris christopher , executive director of economic-research firm ihs markit .
there is a lot more spending from the lower- and middle-income groups , while the upper-income groups are splurging .
fox business news reported the amazing christmas season sales , but neglected to mention president trump s positive effect on the economy : retailers are finally enjoying some christmas cheer.fueled by high consumer confidence and a robust job market , u.s. retail sales in the holiday period rose at their best pace since 2011 , according to mastercard spendingpulse , which tracks both online and in-store spending.sales , excluding automobiles , rose 4.9 % from nov. 1 through christmas eve , compared with a 3.7 % gain in the same period last year , according to the mastercard inc. unit , which tracks all forms of payment .
e-commerce continued to drive the gains , rising 18.1 % .
it started with a bang in the week leading up to black friday , said sarah quinlan , a senior vice president of marketing insights at mastercard .
she added that retailers benefited this year from christmas day falling on a monday , giving shoppers a full weekend to scoop up last-minute purchases .
dec. 23 ranked next to black friday in terms of spending , according to mastercard.via : gateway pundit