warsaw ( reuters ) - a bill sponsored by poland s ruling law and justice ( pis ) party will undermine the fairness of elections , opposition deputies said in parliament on thursday .
the proposal would introduce live web feeds from polling stations , but also replace all current members of the state electoral commission , a body responsible for conducting and overseeing elections , as well as all election commissioners , giving political parties more say in naming new ones .
the pis has said its bill would make voting more transparent , but critics said the real aim is to boost the electoral prospects of the party , which has been accused by the european commission of eroding democratic standards .
this bill is a thuggish project .
this is a mine placed under elections in poland , the head of opposition psl party , wladyslaw kosiniak-kamysz said in parliament .
the socially conservative pis , in power since late 2015 , is already at loggerheads with fellow members of the european union over its push to bring the courts and state media under more direct government control , as well as over migration .
according to the 72-page long amendment that did not undergo any public consultations , seven of the nine members of the state electoral commission would be chosen by parliament for 9-year terms , with pis set to directly appoint three members and the remaining parties four .
the remaining two members would be judges chosen by the head of the constitutional tribunal and the supreme administrative court .
pis deputies have already appointed the head of the tribunal following changes in the law that opposition parties said violated the constitution , a charge pis denies .
the changes proposed in the bill will destabilize the election system and are a serious threat to the effective carrying out of the local elections in 2018 , the state election commission said in a statement last week .
head of the commission wojciech hermelinski said on thursday the amendment would also give an advantage to political parties at the expense of independent candidates .
the bill would require the newly-chosen commission to appoint nearly 400 election commissioners within 60 days of the bill coming into force , removing the requirement for the commissioners to be independent from political parties .
lawmakers are expected to initially vote on the bill early on friday .
if finally passed by the pis-dominated parliament , the bill would still have to be signed into law by president andrzej duda , who could potentially veto it .