new york ( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton launched a bid on thursday to draw young voters and small donors to her campaign , targeting the strengths of her rival , bernie sanders , as she looks ahead to the general election .
dubbed “ for45 ” - for clinton as the 45th president of the united states - the group will offer associate level membership for as low as $ 250 , according to an invitation seen by reuters for an april 25 philadelphia event .
“ we will have an opportunity to fundraise and host low-dollar events , speaking to what we are passionate about and why we support her , ” said akilah ensley , a 32-year-old clinton supporter planning to join the group .
“ it ’ s important that we engage. ” the group held its “ kick-off ” conference call on thursday , featuring the clinton campaign ’ s finance director , dennis cheng , other campaign officials , and actress lena dunham , according to an invitation to the call .
the group includes two other tiers , according to an information sheet seen by reuters - a “ member ” level with minimum fundraising of $ 2,500 and an “ advisor ” level for raising at least $ 10,000 .
the clinton and sanders campaigns did not respond to requests for comment .
the formation of the group underscores the challenge facing the former secretary of state in winning over the young people who have helped power sanders ’ run .
younger voters are a critical voting block and source of financing should she win the democratic nomination for the nov. 8 presidential election .
clinton has a commanding delegate lead over sanders , the u.s. senator from vermont , and checked his momentum by winning new york ’ s primary earlier this week .
but she has struggled to attract younger voters .
while she won new york on tuesday by 16 points , sanders took 65 percent of democratic voters aged 18 to 29 , according to exit polls conducted by edison research and published in the new york times .
younger voters have also turned out more heavily for sanders in other states .
sanders so often boasts about his average donation level of $ 27 that rally crowds now shout the number out along with him .
steve schale , a democratic strategist in florida who is not affiliated with the clinton campaign , said for45 was a “ smart way ” to begin courting sanders ’ supporters .
he compared it with the “ gen44 ” group of young voters that supported president barack obama .
“ anything that spurs people to get involved financially , it just builds more ownership in the campaign , ” he said .