manila ( reuters ) - president rodrigo duterte crooned a hit filipino love song at a dinner in manila for leaders from across asia , explaining later that it was on the orders of u.s. president donald trump .
trump and duterte were among 19 leaders at a glittering gala in the philippines capital on sunday ahead of an annual summit , and at one point duterte took the microphone to sing ikaw ( you ) , in a duet with local pop diva pilita corrales .
one of the song s verses , translated from filipino , begins : you are the light in my world , a half of this heart of mine .
ladies and gentlemen , i sang uninvited , upon the orders of the commander-in-chief of the united states , duterte said later , according to the abs-cbn news channel .
duterte , who is sometimes described as the trump of the east because of his brash style , is due to meet the u.s. president on the sidelines of the summit on monday .
the united states and its former colony , the philippines , have been strategic allies since world war two .
but their relations have been strained by anti-u.s. outbursts from duterte and his enthusiasm for better ties with russia and china .
more than 3,900 filipinos have been killed in a war on drugs that duterte declared when he took office last year .
his government says the police act in self defense , but critics say executions are taking place with no accountability .
duterte said last week he would tell the u.s. president to lay off if he raised the issue of human rights when they met .
but trump , who has been criticized at home for neglecting rights issues in dealings abroad , praised duterte in may for doing an unbelievable job on the drug problem .
trump and leaders of the 10-member association of southeast asian nations , china , russia , japan , canada , south korea , india , australia and new zealand were entertained by singers and dancers at the dinner .
each of the men sported a cream-colored barong , a traditional philippines shirt made of fiber from the pineapple plant , hand-embroidered and worn untucked .
they were served a four-course filipino-asian fusion meal curate and prepared by chef jessie sincioco , who also designed the menu for pope francis when he visited the philippines in 2015 .