manchester , england ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may s bid to reassert her dwindling authority was marred on wednesday by a calamitous keynote speech interrupted by repeated coughing fits , a prankster and even letters of her slogan falling off the stage .
may had wanted to use the conservative party s annual conference to bring her divided party together and pitch herself as the only person able to deliver brexit and keep opposition labour leader jeremy corbyn out of power .
she started by apologizing for her botched bet on a snap june election which stripped her party of its majority in parliament , then pitched a revitalized british dream for which she proposed fixing broken markets and uniting the country .
but her flow was interrupted by british comedian simon brodkin , who handed her a p45 letter , a document given to employees when they leave their job .
the document had been signed by the comedian using the name of her ambitious foreign secretary boris johnson .
then may began a coughing fit and was repeatedly forced to take drinks of water , even coughing into her glass , and was proffered a lozenge from her finance minister , philip hammond .
while she was speaking , several letters fell off the slogans behind her on the stage .
some twitter users seized on images of the missing letters to poke fun at the conservatives : one said their glue was even failing to hold the party together .
the 61-year-old may won standing ovations for pressing on with the hour-long address , in which she took a more personal tone - saying she did not mind being called the ice maiden and describing her great sadness at not having children .
her speech sought to offer party activists a renewal of conservative values while making new promises to a younger generation and those just about managing .
this is a conservatism i believe in , a conservatism of fairness and justice and opportunity for all , a conservatism that keeps the british dream alive for a new generation , she told the cheering crowd .
that s what i m in this for , she said , in a phrase she repeated at least eight times .
that s what we must all be in this for .
may , who was warmly embraced by her husband on stage after she had finished speaking , later poked fun at her coughing fit by tweeting an image of cough lozenges and medicine laid beside a paper copy of the address and her prime ministerial briefcase .
brexit minister david davis told reuters it had been a very good speech , it hit all the issues people care about .
other cabinet ministers also applauded may .
many in the audience said her coughing fit and the sudden appearance by the comedian had helped to win them over .
actually , if all that stuff hadn t happened , it would have just been another kind of wooden presentation , said pippa smith , a 26-year-old party member from london .
it was a good speech , but i think actually it did her a favor .
opponents were less kind .
nigel farage , the former leader of the united kingdom independence party , said may was so useless that if she remained as leader then labour s corbyn would soon be in power .
labour lawmaker seema malhotra said : it just couldn t get worse than this .
what a disaster .
it s a shambles , not a government .
but there are few obvious successors yet visible besides johnson , who is unpopular with some conservative lawmakers .
some activists fear that a divisive leadership contest would pave the way for an election that corbyn s labour could win .
the conference in the northern english city of manchester was a somber affair , light on policy and heavy on self-doubt .
despite coming second in the june election , the opposition labour party s annual meeting a week earlier was celebratory .
after labour s assault on some elements of capitalism , the backbone of conservative policy , may sought to make the case for free markets and fiscal prudence .
the free market - and the values of freedom , equality , rights , responsibilities , and the rule of law that lie at its heart - remains the greatest agent of collective human progress ever created , she told members .
because there has rarely been a time when the choice of futures for britain is so stark .
the difference between the parties is so clear .
she tried to compete with labour on its pledges to voters , offering 2 billion pounds to build cheaper houses , proposing a cap on what she called rip-off energy prices and to ease the burden of student debt .
labour leader corbyn said may had simply taken a few labour policies and watered them down .
business leaders reacted warily to may s plan for more government intervention in power and housing markets , and said big unanswered questions about brexit would drag on the economy .
but most party members said that , rather than policy , they wanted to see a return of may s confidence , crushed in the june election , when she earned the nickname maybot for repeating catchphrases .
we did not get the victory we wanted because our national campaign fell short , she told members .
i hold my hands up for that .
i take responsibility .
i led the campaign .
and i am sorry .
but she also told her party to unite , as divisions over brexit have come to the fore with a challenge by her foreign minister , boris johnson .
the run-up to may s speech was again overshadowed by johnson , who once more dominated the airwaves after stunning some party members at the conference by saying libya could become a new dubai if it could clear the dead bodies away .
let us shape up and give the country the government it needs , may said .
for , beyond this hall , beyond the gossip pages of the newspapers , and beyond the streets , corridors and meeting rooms of westminster , life continues the daily lives of ordinary working people go on .
and they must be our focus today .