tallinn ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may will press on friday for britain to have a new security partnership with the european union after brexit , visiting 800 british troops in northern estonia to strengthen her case .
security cooperation is seen by british government officials as one of their strongest arguments to gain leverage in the complicated talks to unravel more than 40 years of union , and may will again underline britain s role in european defense .
in a speech in florence last week , may sought to re-set the tone of talks and nudge them forward , after they all but stalled over the divorce settlement , especially over the so-called brexit bill .
but after another week of talks in brussels , eu negotiators said there had not been enough progress yet to move to the next phase of discussions on a transition period after brexit or a future trade deal .
with the largest defense budget in europe , a far-reaching diplomatic network , world-class security , intelligence and law enforcement services , and our position at the heart of nato , the uk s role in europe s defense has never been more vital , may said on the eve of an eu meeting in the estonian capital .
as we prepare for brexit , i want to build a bold , new security partnership with the eu .
a partnership that reflects our shared history , promotes our common values , and maintains a secure and prosperous europe .
the informal get-together in tallinn , arranged before a digital summit on issues ranging from data and cybersecurity to taxing online businesses , has no set agenda , allowing may another chance to pitch her brexit ideas .
she sought to re-set the tone of the negotiations , using the speech in florence to offer some concessions on the future role of the european court in britain and over the cost of the divorce , moves which were cautiously welcomed .
but by focusing on defense in tallinn , may will want to show that britain has something to offer its european neighbors and will say she is ready to share british expertise - including through the national cyber security centre ( ncsc ) - to help eu nations build up their own cyber-security capability .
we will continue to work with our nato allies , our european neighbors and the eu , to support a future partnership of unprecedented breadth and depth , she said in a statement .
that will guarantee the security and stability of the continent for generations to come .