21st century wire says for years , the united nations seems to have been embroiled in an endless string of scandals and cover-ups , and yet rarely , if ever , has anyone ever actually been held to account .
this has led a number of pundits to accuse the institution of being above the law and riddled with institutional corruption.this latest story only reaffirms these accusations independent journalist matthew russell lee ( photo , left ) founded bronx-based inner city press in 2005 and received official press accreditation to cover the united nations in new york city .
he was the first-ever independent , non-affiliated blogger to be given access to the un s inner sanctum .
since then inner city press has broken stories on a number of controversial stories : peacekeeper rapes in africa , un cholera in haiti , war crimes in sri lanka and burundi , the sudans , semg and yemen ( see a leaked letter here ) , as well as corruption within un headquarters ( cocaine shipments through its mail room and the current bribery scandals ) .apparently , it was all too much for diplomatic luminaries at the un .
last month , lee was forcibly ejected from the un headquarters.the dc-based government accountability project , which defends un and other whistleblowers , believes that the ouster of inner city press from the un s press office is retaliatory in response to independent , critical journalism .
un restricts of free presson the afternoon of february 19th , inner city press questioned un inaction in south sudan and burundi and financial irregularities , and was handed a letter from ban ki-moon s under secretary general for public information cristina gallach ordering inner city press to surrender its resident correspondent accreditation of eight years and be removed from the un by 5 pm .
in a letter that gave inner city press only two hours notice , gallach told inner city press to surrender the key to its long-time shared office .
read the un letter here .
later , while inner city press was writing up a un security council meeting on syria that went into the evening , a total of eight un security guards under deputy chief michael mcnulty tore off inner city press un id badge and grabbed inner city press laptop and camera , before throwing them on the sidewalk on first avenue as well as physically throwing journalist matthew lee on the street in freezing weather , without a coat .
audio here ; video as un security turns off inner city press periscope livestream here : ban ki-moon , whose victory tour of blood-soaked northern sri lanka inner city press covered and was never forgiven for by ban s un , was the target of a demonstration in jaffa for the ouster of inner city press .
tamils in jaffna protest the cancellation of the resident correspondent s press accreditation of inner city press from the un building in new york city : supporters of inner city press launched a petition to restore lee and inner city press to its former office space.read more un news at : 21st century wire un files