dhaka ( reuters ) - filmstar angelina jolie has condemned sexual violence inflicted on rohingya women in myanmar s rakhine state , where a military counter-insurgency operation has sent hundreds of thousands of rohingya muslim refugees across the border to bangladesh .
more than 600,000 rohingya muslims have fled buddhist-majority myanmar since late august , driven out by the military s actions that a top united nations official has described as a classic case of ethnic cleansing .
jolie , a special envoy of the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) , told a bangladesh delegation in the canadian city of vancouver that she planned to visit the rohingya victims of sexual violence .
later she mentioned accordingly in her keynote speech about the sexual violence faced by almost each female rohingya who fled to bangladesh and condemned the armed conflict in myanmar , bangladesh s foreign ministry said in a statement on thursday .
it gave no details of jolie s proposed trip .
on thursday , new york-based human rights watch accused myanmar security forces of committing widespread rape against women and girls as part of a campaign of ethnic cleansing .
the allegation echoes an accusation this week by pramila patten , the u.n. special envoy on sexual violence in conflict , who said sexual violence was being commanded , orchestrated and perpetrated by the armed forces of myanmar .
myanmar s army released a report on monday denying all allegations of rape and killings by security forces , days after replacing the general in charge of the operation .
in parliament on wednesday , prime minister sheikh hasina said bangladesh would overcome obstacles to resolve the rohingya crisis , with the help of the international community .
i strongly believe we will find a peaceful solution to the unprecedented crisis with the help of the international community , despite various obstacles , she said .
there were already about 300,000 rohingya refugees in bangladesh before the most recent exodus .