washington ( reuters ) - shortly after last november ’ s attacks on paris by a brussels-based islamic state cell , a top u.s. counter-terrorism official traveling in europe wanted to visit brussels to learn more about the investigation .
when the official tried to arrange meetings , however , his belgian counterparts were not welcoming , according to u.s. officials familiar with the events .
the belgians indicated it was a bad time to speak to foreign officials as they were too busy with the investigation , said the officials , who asked not to be identified .
belgian officials declined to comment on the incident .
the brush-off was one small sign of mounting u.s. frustration over brussels ’ handling of its worsening islamic militant threat .
concern that the small european nation ’ s security and intelligence officials are overwhelmed — and that its coordination with allies falls short — have again come to the fore following the islamic state-claimed attacks on tuesday that killed at least 31 people .
several u.s. officials say that security cooperation has been hampered by patchy intelligence–sharing by brussels and wide differences in the willingness of different agencies to work with foreign countries , even close allies .
one u.s. government source said that when american investigators try to contact belgian agencies for information , they often struggle to find which agency or part of an agency might have relevant information .
belgium has ordered a sharp increase in security budgets following the paris attacks , despite being under steady pressure to limit its debt levels under euro zone rules .
the government has promised to recruit around 2,500 more federal police , who pursue major crimes , to make up for a shortfall of close to a fifth of the full-strength force of 12,500 .
it also says it thwarted a major attack in january 2015 , and is eager to cooperate with european and u.s. counterparts .
“ these attacks show that more coordination with the united states is clearly desirable , ” guy rapaille , the president of the committee that provides oversight of belgium ’ s security and intelligence services , told belgium ’ s state broadcaster rtbf .
“ but you have to remember that big powers guard their intelligence very closely. ” u.s. officials acknowledge the recent belgian efforts to step up funding and recruitment .
yet they say belgian security services are outmatched by the threat in a country that , per capita , has supplied the highest number of foreign fighters to syria of any european nation .
“ they ’ re way behind the ball and they ’ re paying a terrible price , ” rep. adam schiff , ranking democrat on the house intelligence committee , told reuters .
asked on wednesday whether belgium was too complacent over the threat posed by islamic militancy , state department spokesman mark toner said : “ i want to stay clear of saying that belgium was somehow caught by surprise or not aware .
you know , we collaborate , we work with belgium closely. ” some u.s. counter-terrorism officials say much of the gap between washington and belgium — and some other european countries — is cultural .
europeans ’ deeper commitment to personal privacy sometimes prevents or delays sharing of information such as travel data — that is taken for granted in the united states .
after the september 11 , 2001 attacks , the u.s. government radically reshaped its counter-terrorism agencies .
it broke down walls between law enforcement and intelligence authorities , and created new coordinating institutions such as the director of national intelligence and national counterterrorism center .
belgium , by contrast , is a patchwork country divided between french and dutch speakers and with multiple levels of government .
belgian security chiefs have repeatedly complained that they can not handle up to 900 home-grown islamist militants , among the highest per-capita rates in europe .
belgium does not divulge the exact number of personnel in its security services and military intelligence , but security experts say they appear under-resourced compared to european counterparts .
“ add to that the problem of two languages ( french and flemish ) , lack of arabic speakers , and weak coordination between national and local government , you have a huge discrepancy between threat and response , ” said former cia official and white house advisor bruce riedel , now at the brookings institution .