( reuters ) - new jersey governor chris christie ’ s administration sued cash-strapped gambling hub atlantic city on monday , seeking to freeze city spending until it remits the millions of dollars it owes to its school district .
in the civil action , state education commissioner david hespe said atlantic city owed the district $ 82 million of tax revenues collected for the school year .
the city already paid $ 48 million of that , but must still remit the remaining $ 34 million by july 15 , court documents showed .
that might be impossible .
as of april 1 , the city had only $ 8 million of cash available for operations .
second-quarter tax collections that begin in may will not provide enough to fund required disbursements , the lawsuit said .
christie is seeking to stop the city from making its $ 3.2 million payroll on friday , he said in a televised press conference .
the state sued “ to protect the property tax collections that rightfully belong to the atlantic city school district and the children and families they serve , ” christie said .
in new jersey , cities must act as collection agents by collecting property taxes on behalf of school districts and transmitting the money to them .
the lawsuit is the latest in christie ’ s high-stakes game of chicken against city officials and some lawmakers over whether to take over the city ’ s operations to avoid bankruptcy .
christie and state senate leaders say city officials have not done enough to stop the bleeding .
they supported a legislative package that links a full state takeover with one that would provide immediate revenue for the city .
the nearly insolvent city has been under state oversight since 2011 .
mayor don guardian threatened to close city hall for three weeks beginning on friday afternoon because it will not have enough money to pay workers after that .
christie twice vetoed - even after winning changes he sought - legislation aimed at stabilizing the city ’ s tax base by letting casinos make fixed payments in lieu of property taxes .
the city ’ s state-approved budget relied on those revenues .
in february , christie pinned that legislation to the takeover measure , which guardian initially supported but later called a “ fascist dictatorship. ” the package is now stalled in the state assembly , where speaker vincent prieto has refused to bring it to a vote because he says its goal is to dismantle collective bargaining agreements .
on monday , moody ’ s investors service downgraded the city deeper into junk territory , to caa3 .