the students of the historically black bethune-cookman university booed the invited commencement speaker , education secretary betsy devos .
they yelled over her speech , they even turned their backs on her .
for 25 minutes the students at bethune cookman reminded us just how far obama has divided our nation.a sophomore student at bethune-cookman , a historically black university , filmed himself running around with his phone as he yelled for the seniors to stand and rebuke betsy devos during her commencement speech .
he implored the graduating seniors to disrupt her speech by yelling and standing with their backs to devos , who bravely persevered through her speech in spite of their embarrassing behavior.the student , who says his name is bobbie luke and identifies himself as a stupid nigga on his twitter account , was eventually thrown out of the venue by campus security.cnn breathlessly followed the student as he was being thrown out , hoping to get an intelligent response from the student about why he was whipping the graduating seniors into a frenzy over secretary of education betsy devos commencement speech .
what they got however , was a big disappointment.here s the video that was taken by @ bobbieluke on his cell phone of the graduating seniors responding to his pleas to disrupt and disrespect their commencement speaker : bcu17 .
we salute you all standing up for what is right and blocking out @ betsydevosed pic.twitter.com/drguu6eiyc the hbcu roundtable ( @ hbcu_roundtable ) may 10 , 2017here s another video taken from the audience that shows bobbie luke walking down the aisle encouraging the students to stand with their backs to devos : https : //twitter.com/ten_gop/status/862394519056265217here s the video taken by cnn reporter nick valencia that exposes bobbie luke s embarrassing attempt to explain why he chose to lead the disrespectful rebuke of betsy devos at the senior s graduation ceremony .
when asked by the cnn reporter what he was standing up for , luke replied : i don t like what she said and nothing at the end of the day is going to change my opinion .
basically , if you not , if you not , basically if you let money devalue your morals , i m not trying to hear .
that s all i got to say .
as bobbie luke is walking away , he can be heard saying , i like your suit .
( bobbie luke essentially ends the interview by saying he likes the cnn reporter s nice [ expensive ? ]
suit that was purchased with money , that according to luke , devalues morals lol !
) one demonstrator escorted out of @ betsydevos speech .
pic.twitter.com/vmssgmakmr nick valencia ( @ cnnvalencia ) may 10 , 2017liberal hack matt lauer , host of the today show did a story on the disrespectful behavior of the graduates .
as usual , lauer couldn t help himself from attempting to make it look like devos was the villain in the story .
listen to the emphasis lauer places on words and phrases like controversial educational secretary .
he goes on to say devos was booed , and she upset students , and some of the graduates students turned the backs on her , and she upset the students .
every word this liberal hack , who s posing as a benign host on the today show utters is planned in advance of his segments .
hosts like lauer and katie couric are some of the most dangerous people in media today , as they have influenced millions of people who watch them without realizing they ve been pushing a radical agenda for decades , while they smile and pretend to be reporting unbiased news.watch : education secretary betsy devos booed during commencement speech at bethune-cookman university https : //t.co/pzb8layirv pic.twitter.com/7p55iailgp today ( @ todayshow ) may 11 , 2017bobbie luke got a lot of support from the students on the campus of bethune-cookman on twitter .
he also got support from this goofy white dude who was so happy to see the backlash bcu gave the rich white devil .
wow a white guy railing against a wealthy white woman how self-satisfying , how empowering !
@ bobbieluke i 'm a goofy white dude from colorado but that made me so happy to see the backlash bcu gave that rich white devil .
my heroes !
alex miller ( @ mcchewrocka ) may 11 , 2017