chicago ( reuters ) - mel reynolds , a former u.s. congressman from illinois who has had numerous legal troubles , wants to plead guilty to federal income tax charges , he told a judge in a handwritten letter made public on tuesday .
“ i request to come to court at the earliest time possible to enter my plea of guilty , ” he wrote on notebook paper to u.s. district judge john darrah .
the letter was written last week and entered in the court ’ s on-line filings on tuesday .
reynolds , 64 , is being held at a detention center in kankakee , illinois .
he said he has no choice but to plead guilty because he has been unable to prepare for his case because he has been in solitary confinement due to death threats .
reynolds is representing himself after firing his lawyer in april .
his next court date is a status hearing scheduled for may 19 , and his trial is scheduled to begin june 20 .
joseph fitzpatrick , a spokesman for the u.s. attorney for the northern district of illinois , declined to comment on the court filing .
reynolds was arrested by u.s. marshals last month at an atlanta airport for violating the conditions of his pretrial release after he arrived from south africa .
reynolds pleaded not guilty in july to misdemeanor charges of failing to file income tax returns for 2009 through 2012 .
he was indicted in june and faces up to a year in prison and a $ 250,000 fine for each of the four counts against him .
a rhodes scholar and one-time promising star of the democratic party , reynolds was first elected to congress in 1992 .
in august of 1994 , he was indicted for having a relationship with a 16-year-old campaign worker but was re-elected in 1994 in his chicago district without opposition .
the case ended with a conviction on sexual assault and child pornography charges in 1995 and reynolds resigned .
before his scheduled release from prison in 1997 , reynolds was convicted of bank fraud and misusing campaign funds for personal use and sentenced to serve additional time .
he was released in 2001 .
reynolds tried politics again but in 2013 lost a bid for the u.s. house of representatives seat of jesse jackson jr. , who had resigned before pleading guilty to fraud charges .