warsaw ( reuters ) - poland s new prime minister faces a difficult balancing act trying to repair bruised relations with the european union without alienating the eurosceptic government s core voters .
a western-educated former banker who is fluent in german and english and was sworn in on monday , mateusz morawiecki boasts the credentials needed to negotiate with brussels .
but any compromises to improve relations with brussels , which sees the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party as a threat to democracy , would risk upsetting the traditional , catholic supporters who propelled it into power two years ago .
it is a gamble that could backfire , and it is not yet clear how far morawiecki , 49 , and his party , dominated by former prime minister jaroslaw kaczynski , are ready to go to please brussels .
the idea to build up international credibility seems rational , said jaroslaw flis , a sociologist at the jagiellonian university .
but such actions would have to be in complete contrast with what mateusz morawiecki would have to do domestically to prevent the pis from falling apart .
the pis government has alienated many people at home and abroad with its nationalist rhetoric and changes to state institutions which the eu says subvert the bloc s laws .
the european commission , the eu executive , opened an inquiry into the rule of law in poland in january 2016 and the european parliament has started a process that could deprive poland of its voting rights in the 28-nation bloc .
any hope in brussels that morawiecki s appointment signals a change of course by pis will have been tempered by polish parliament approving legal changes to the judiciary in defiance of the eu on friday - the day after his nomination .
the changes give parliament , where pis has a majority , de facto control over the selection of judges .
eu leaders looking for clues about morawiecki s plans will also have taken little comfort from comments he has made since being nominated , making clear he backs a tough line on the eu and believes in pis s traditional vision of the polish state .
we want to transform europe , this is my dream , to re-christianise it , morawiecki told the catholic radio maryja broadcaster .
we want poland to be strong , but also to contain ... christian values .
we will defend them against the background of laicisation and a deepening consumerism .
asked by the radio interviewer about demands by french president emmanuel macron for poland to face sanctions over a subversion of democratic rules , morawiecki said he would not bow down to blackmail .
in comments to parliament on tuesday , morawiecki suggested poland might relent in a conflict with brussels over logging in an ancient forest , which an eu court has said contravenes eu laws .
but he said poland s national interests came first in any debate over the future of the eu and that he wholeheartedly supported pis s overhaul of the judiciary .
like beata szydlo , whom he replaced as prime minister , morawiecki is likely to have to defer to pis leader and co-founder jaroslaw kaczynski .
prime minister from july 2006 to november 2007 , kaczynski is widely seen as the power behind the party and poland s main decision-maker .
how much scope that will leave morawiecki to carve out his own path remains to be seen .
former polish president lech walesa , a pis critic , has suggested that nothing of substance will change .
the circus has stayed the same , only the clowns have changed their roles , walesa , who led the solidarity trade union movement that ended communist rule , said on twitter .
the appointment of morawiecki , whose father founded and led a radical offshoot of solidarity in the 1980s , appears designed in part to present a new face of poland to the eu .
szydlo , 54 , at times responded angrily to eu criticism and relations with the bloc soured under her government .
underlining pis opposition to muslim immigration , she said last month poland wanted to be sure christian traditions were not subject to ideological censorship in the eu .
along with hungary , poland has refused to take in any of its quota of the wave of refugees from syria and elsewhere who have come to europe since 2015 , on the grounds that muslim immigrants are a threat to national security and stability .
such comments appeal to core pis voters , and szydlo s government , which promised generous welfare payouts and a dedication to traditional catholic values , was one of poland s most popular since communist rule ended in 1989 .
a relative newcomer to politics , morawiecki lacks szydlo s broad appeal .
but he has overseen significant economic achievements since becoming finance minister in 2016 , a position he has retained in the new government .
tusk has welcomed what he sees as signs that morawiecki is a liberal economist who wants better ties with the eu .
there is no doubt that ( morawiecki s ) liberal bias and some pro-western gestures could be a sign that there is a lurking desire to improve relations , tusk said last week .
but an economic stimulus plan morawiecki unveiled in 2016 has been criticized by economists who say it depends heavily on private investment , which is low in poland despite fast economic growth .
what morawiecki sees as a solution , meaning more political influence in the economy , is actually dangerous , said leszek balcerowicz , a former finance minister who coordinated the transition to a market economy after decades of communist rule .
any hint of protectionism is also likely to worry eu leaders , who seek to break down trade barriers .
morawiecki has called the privatization of state-owned companies a tragedy and said he will give more power to domestic capital at the expense of foreign investors .
in his comments to parliament on tuesday , he said economic policy should not change .