21st century wire says trump protests are getting out of hand , yet again .
this time in portland oregon .
liberal progressive protesters have taken to the streets in opposition to the president s latest controversial executive order instituting a 7 nation travel ban .
lets see how it turned out : protesters surrounded trump supporters outside the portland airport and bullhorned in their faces bumper sticker slogans like , no fear , no hate !
and then peaceful protest !
anyone who s not seen the full video at this point might still think this was a protest and not a violent mob bordering on a riot.the extreme left protestors chased the trump supporters into the portland airport and things got ugly .
one of the trump supporters was sucker punched , which seems to be an escalation of violence among protesters , similar to the recent sucker punch of alt-right leader , richard spenser in washington dc last week.as the man who was assaulted hit the ground the protestors gathered around him and proceeded to continue to taunt , chant and ridicule the injured trump supporter .
phrases like , that s how you talk to a nazi !
that s right !
were said by anti-trump activists , your boy got knocked out !
and wooo !
hunt the nazis !
the victim of the assault , grant chisholm , 39 year old from portland says that he was hit three times in the head with something metallic in the assault .
they almost killed me tonight , said chisholm.chisholm claims he dropped in and out of consciousness while other protesters attempted to kick him , according to a report at oregonlive.com , although this is not verifiable in the video footage.the extreme left has always claimed to be the tolerant and accepting of political identities , but look how they behave when they lose the election .
is this tolerance , acceptance of different views when their protests consist of violence , cowardly sucker punch assaults and hateful chants accusing anyone with a remotely conservative world view of being a nazi ? watch the assault happen in the video below : .
read more trump news at : 21st century wire trump filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv