comey will inevitably be remembered for the controversial role he played in the 2016 presidential election , where his agency conducted surveillance of the trump campaign as well as investigated the clinton camp for mishandling classified materials , giving both sides arguments for how the fbi ultimately swayed the vote.but even before the 2016 campaign , the fbi endured a number of humiliations under comey s tenure .
most damning were revelations that the fbi was generally aware of almost every terrorist who successfully struck america over the last eight years.1 .
before he bombed the boston marathon , the fbi interviewed tamerlan tsarnaev but let him go .
russia sent the obama administration a second warning , but the fbi opted against investigating him again.2 .
shortly after the nsa scandal exploded in 2013 , the fbi was exposed conducting its own data mining on innocent americans ; the agency , bloomberg reported , retains that material for decades ( even if no wrongdoing is found ) .3 .
the fbi had possession of emails sent by nidal hasan saying he wanted to kill his fellow soldiers to protect the taliban but didn t intervene , leading many critics to argue the tragedy that resulted in the death of 31 americans at fort hood could have been prevented.4 .
during the obama administration , the fbi claimed that two private jets were being used primarily for counterterrorism , when in fact they were mostly being used for eric holder and robert mueller s business and personal travel.5 .
when the fbi demanded apple create a backdoor that would allow law enforcement agencies to unlock the cell phones of various suspects , the company refused , sparking a battle between the feds and america s biggest tech company .
what makes this incident indicative of comey s questionable management of the agency is that a ) the fbi jumped the gun , as they were indeed ultimately able to crack the san bernardino terrorist s phone , and b ) almost every other major national security figure sided with apple ( from former cia director general petraeus to former cia director james woolsey to former director of the nsa , general michael hayden ) , warning that such a crack would inevitably wind up in the wrong hands.6 .
in 2015 , the fbi conducted a controversial raid on a texas political meeting , finger printing , photographing , and seizing phones from attendees ( some in the group believe in restoring texas as an independent constitutional republic ) .7 .
during its investigation into hillary clinton s mishandling of classified material , the fbi made an unusual deal in which clinton aides were both given immunity and allowed to destroy their laptops.8 .
the father of the radical islamist who detonated a backpack bomb in new york city in 2016 alerted the fbi to his son s radicalization .
the fbi , however , cleared ahmad khan rahami after a brief interview.9 .
the fbi also investigated the terrorist who killed 49 people and wounded 53 more at the pulse nightclub in orlando , fla .
despite a more than 10-month investigation of omar mateen during which mateen admitting lying to agents the fbi opted against pressing further and closed its case.10 .
cbs recently reported that when two terrorists sought to kill americans attending the draw muhammad event in garland , texas , the fbi not only had an understanding an attack was coming , but actually had an undercover agent traveling with the islamists , elton simpson and nadir soofi .
the fbi has refused to comment on why the agent on the scene did not intervene during the attack.via : grabien