bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand s prestigious chulalongkorn university has removed the head of its student council , a vocal critic of military rule , after he was accused of disrupting a royalist initiation ceremony .
but netiwit chotiphatphaisal , 20 , and the student council said they refused to accept the university order against him and four other members , and would appeal against the decision .
first-year students are required to prostrate themselves before a statue of late thai king rama v , but older students are meant to do nothing except observe from the audience .
netiwit and his colleagues , however , strode out in front of the students and bowed to the statue during the ceremony , and university authorities took that gesture as a show of defiant disrespect for the tradition .
this reflects disrespect towards rights and liberties of other people whose views differ from their own , pomthong malakul na ayudhaya , a deputy dean at chulalongkorn university , said in a statement on thursday .
pomthong said netiwit was removed for student disciplinary misconduct .
respect for the monarchy is a fundamental tenet of thai society .
in recent years , thailand has been riven by rivalry between the old , royalist-military establishment and populist forces that have arisen in conjunction with economic growth .
netiwit was elected in may to lead the student council at the university .
he rose to prominence as an anti-establishment figure after refusing to prostrate himself before the statue as a first-year student last year .
i only wanted to show there are different ways to pay respect to the king rama v , netiwit told reuters .
everyone should be able to think for themselves .
you shouldn t force or coerce anyone into doing anything .
the tradition of prostration before kings was abolished in 1873 by king rama v , the university s namesake .
but the practice was revived in recent decades and the university began its own tradition in 1997 .
the university did not comment when contacted by reuters .
netiwit has emerged as a rare critic of the military junta , which has silenced most dissent since seizing power in 2014 .
he has drawn comparisons with hong kong student activist joshua wong .
the dismissals from the student council were less about misconduct than undermining what netiwit represents , said carina chotirawe , a lecturer at chulalongkorn university s faculty of arts who disagreed with the decision .
to some their status as heroes is reinforced even more , carina said .