hong kong ( reuters ) - a british activist critical of hong kong s rights record was barred entry to the former british colony on wednesday , prompting a demand from london for an explanation , a week before a communist party leadership meeting starts in beijing .
benedict rogers , a co-founder of the conservative party s human rights commission , has been a vocal critic of chinese-ruled hong kong s treatment of human rights activists , including that of jailed student protest leader joshua wong .
after arriving from bangkok on wednesday , rogers said immigration officials who were perfectly friendly and polite took him into a room and briefly asked him non-sensitive questions .
they denied him entry about an hour later without giving a reason , rogers told reuters over the phone .
he was then escorted on to the next flight to bangkok by half a dozen officials .
hong kong , which returned to chinese rule in 1997 , is governed under a one country , two systems principle that promises it a high degree of autonomy and freedoms not enjoyed on the mainland .
but critics have accused the government of bending to the will of communist party leaders in beijing and of a gradual watering down of the territory s freedoms , including freedom of speech and right to protest .
the immigration department said in a statement it does not comment on individual cases , adding it decides whether entry will be allowed in accordance with the hong kong law and prevailing immigration policies .
the city s leader , carrie lam , also said she would not comment on individual cases when asked about it at a press conference about her maiden policy address .
british foreign secretary boris johnson said london needed an explanation from hong kong and beijing .
i am very concerned that a uk national has been denied entry to hong kong .
the british government will be seeking an urgent explanation from the hong kong authorities and from the chinese government , he said in a statement .
hong kong s high degree of autonomy , and its rights and freedoms , are central to its way of life and should be fully respected .
hong kong has , on occasion , barred entry to dissidents , including former leaders of the 1989 tiananmen square protests in beijing and a dutch sculptor who made a tiananmen sculpture , though other tiananmen activists have been allowed in for short visits .
rogers said he was shocked but he had been prepared because two days ago he had received , through an intermediary , a series of messages from the chinese embassy in london expressing displeasure with his visit .
they actually described me , to my amazement , as a grave threat to china-british relations , rogers said .
rogers said the embassy had also become aware of his private discussions with others on the possibility of visiting wong , leader of the 2014 pro-democracy protests that brought much of hong kong to a standstill for weeks , in prison , even though the plan fell through .
he said a few messages relayed to him via the intermediary subsequently became more threatening , though they were not physically threatening .
i m also shocked because one aspect of one country , two systems is hong kong people governing hong kong , rogers said .
but this decision was not made in hong kong .
this decision was from the chinese government .
this raises serious questions about that particular aspect of one country , two systems .
the chinese embassy did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
china s communist party holds a key party congress this month , a five-yearly event at which president xi jinping is expected to tighten his grip on power .