the recipient of the presidential medal of freedom from barack obama in 2012 had this to say when asked about racism : and i want to see a white man convicted for raping a black woman .
then when you ask me , is it over ?
, i will say yes .
age hasn t dimmed the fire in toni morrison , 84 .
the unwavering voice of black america talks about her latest novel and what it will take for racism to be a thing of the past.toni morrison is , without a doubt , a world-class novelist .
her work as an editor , however , has received much less attention .
morrison worked at random house for 20 years , leaving in 1983 , just before she set out to write her pulitzer prize-winning novel beloved.at her apartment in lower manhattan , i ask her about the ways in which american literature has changed , and she volunteers that she had something to do with that .
but she is not referring to her own fiction .
i said , i can t march , i have small children , she tells me .
i m not the marching type anyway .
so when i went into publishing , i thought , the best i can do is to publish the works of those who are out there like angela davis , huey newton and the literature .
and let it be edited by someone who understands the language , and understands the culture .
last summer morrison came to the hay festival and made three appearances over three days .
in the course of those conversations , she touched on this issue a number of times , spinning it out , examining it , not tub-thumping but the opposite , as if there were still nothing conclusive to say .
the question of race , she reflected , is not static .
you just have to swim in it for a bit .since then , eric garner has been strangled by white policemen on staten island , michael brown has been shot by white policemen in ferguson , walter scott has been shot by a white policeman in south carolina .
people keep saying , we need to have a conversation about race , she says now .
this is the conversation .
i want to see a cop shoot a white unarmed teenager in the back , morrison says finally .
and i want to see a white man convicted for raping a black woman .
then when you ask me , is it over ?
, i will say yes .
toni morrison who was then chloe wofford grew up understanding none of this .
in the small industrial town of lorain in ohio , where she was raised , the stories told by her southern parents seemed unreal .
her father was a welder in the shipyards .
most of their neighbours were european immigrants , and in her high-school yearbook there were only two other black students.had her father really witnessed a lynching when he was 14 ?
did they really have separate water fountains for white and coloured people in georgia ?
it was only when she went to howard university , a historically black college in washington , dc , that she began to realise how things were .
and off-campus , in the late 1940s , the city was segregated .
she stole one of the wooden bars used to keep blacks at the back of buses and sent it to her mother as a grim keepsake.morrison began to feel an affinity , a fascination .
what emerged was a career-long project to in her words turn the gaze .
she didn t want to write in order to persuade white people , as the abolitionists frederick douglass or solomon northup had .
she wasn t interested in assuming a white person s worldview , like the mid-20th century writer ralph ellison ( invisible to whom ?
she says of his famous novel the invisible man ) .
she didn t want to join in the black power cries of screw whitey .
when the revolutionary 1960s turned into the 1970s , she wanted to say , before we get on to the black is beautiful thing , may i remind you what it was like before , when it was lethal ?
so she wrote from the point of view of little black girls in her first two books , of 17th-century slaves in mercy , of a child killed by her mother to save her from suffering in beloved .
she combined the metaphorical stories of her grandparents with the facts on the ground , and arrived at what she calls imaginative resistance .
to tell a tale , you have to pick up its pieces , she once suggested , comparing storytellers to hansel and gretel .
their momma doesn t want them .
they leave a little trail .
that trail is language .
in words that are simple and cadences that are sometimes incantatory , through action that is both true to life and magical in its habits of thought , morrison has conveyed a series of black perspectives , thrown her readers into a world they had not previously met in fiction , and realigned american history by choosing the people through whom it might be told.via : telegraph uk