moscow ( reuters ) - president vladimir putin observed russia s biggest war games in years on monday , watching as his forces successfully repelled an imaginary enemy and launched a tank-led counter offensive , part of an exercise that has rattled the west .
nato officials say they are monitoring the zapad-2017 ( west-2017 ) war games with calm and confidence , but many are unnerved about what they see as moscow testing its ability to wage war against the west .
russia says the exercise is rehearsing a purely defensive scenario .
putin , commander-in-chief of russia s armed forces , sat in a command center flanked by his defense minister and the chief of his general staff , and used binoculars to peer through a cold drizzle at the simulated conflict unfolding before his eyes .
the russian leader has appeared at similar events in the past , sometimes donning a military uniform , and uses them to bolster his image among russians as a robust defender of the country s interests on the world stage .
this time , the 64-year-old president , who is widely expected to run for re-election in march , wore a dark suit and looked relaxed as the firing range in front of him , in the leningrad region , was briefly transformed into a war zone .
tracer bullets lit up the murky skyline , battle tanks churned across muddy terrain , shells exploded , helicopters fired missiles , planes roared overhead and hundreds of paratroopers and armored vehicles were dropped from the skies .
the paratroopers , inserted behind the lines of their imaginary enemy , then waged war against what the defense ministry called illegal armed formations .
the over-arching zapad war games , which began on sept. 14 and run to sept. 20 , are taking place in western russia , russia s exclave of kaliningrad , and belarus , a russian ally which borders ukraine as well as nato member states poland , latvia and lithuania .
moscow says almost 13,000 russian and belarussian service personnel are taking part , as well as around 70 planes and helicopters .
it says almost 700 pieces of military hardware are being deployed , including almost 250 tanks , 10 ships and various artillery and rocket systems .
nato officials have said they believe the exercises involve more troops than moscow has disclosed , however , and have complained about what they say is the lack of transparency about the exercise , an allegation russia rejects .
as part of the same drills , russia on monday said it had successfully test fired a ballistic missile capable of carrying a nuclear warhead , hitting a target at a firing range in kazakhstan about 480 km ( 300 miles ) away .
moscow says it is the west that threatens stability in eastern europe because nato has put a 4,000-strong multinational force in the baltics and poland , while the u.s. army has deployed 600 paratroopers to the baltics during zapad .
as a precaution , the united states has also temporarily taken over guardianship of the airspace of lithuania , latvia and estonia , which lack capable air forces and air defense systems .