manila ( reuters ) - the head of the philippines narcotics control body has resigned after just five months in the job , the second successive official to vacate the post for making statements contracting president rodrigo duterte .
retired army general dionisio santiago on tuesday said he quit as chairman of the dangerous drugs board after receiving a call from duterte s executive secretary , a few days after he publicly said the construction of a 10,000-bed mega drug rehab facility was a mistake .
countering illicit drugs is the centerpiece policy of duterte s presidency and he has repeatedly threatened to kill dealers and users and said he was willing to be jailed for it .
his crackdown has killed thousands of filipinos , but the administration insists it is committed to arresting dealers and rehabilitating users , citing the new facility and the voluntary surrender of 1.3 million addicts and pushers as a sign of its positive intent .
my rule is the boss is always right and if you think the boss is not right , refer to rule no .
1 , santiago told radyo inquirer , adding he had already submitted a two-sentence resignation letter .
santiago had said the government may have miscalculated with the rehab center and should have pursued a practical community-based rehabilitation program .
fewer than 500 people have been admitted to the facility , which was launched last year amid great fanfare and was funded by a wealthy chinese businessman .
duterte gave santiago the job in june after the former head was forced to quit after disputing the president s repeated statements that there were more than four million filipino drug addicts .
duterte has never disclosed the source of that information and some experts say it is exaggerated .
separately , duterte s new health minister , francisco duque , on tuesday voiced his approval for using marijuana only for research purposes in medicine .
he said he would prefer marijuana in pharmaceutical form if the country legalized its use .
if it is in raw form , it is uncontrolled , subject to abuse , addiction , he said at his first news conference .
that is where , i believe , the risks are more profound .
there is a pending bill in congress to legalize and regulate the medical use of cannabis .