paris ( reuters ) - president emmanuel macron , conscious of criticism of france s policy on egypt , will raise his concerns over human rights when he meets egyptian leader abdel fattah al-sisi in paris next week , his office said on thursday .
the two countries have nurtured closer economic and military ties in recent years and with sisi s rise to power that relationship has improved with both sides concerned by the political vacuum in libya and the threat from jihadist groups in egypt .
but human rights organizations at home and overseas have accused france under macron of remaining silent in the face of increasing violations of freedoms by sisi s government as the 2018 presidential elections approach .
this first meeting ... will enable them to discuss subjects of common interest such as regional crises and the fight against terrorism , but also the human rights situation which france is especially vigilant about , the presidency said in a statement referring to sisi s oct 23-25 visit .
rights groups are in particular critical of the relationship between foreign minister jean-yves le drian , who in his previous role as defense minister , developed a personal relationship with sisi , and say paris has abandoned its principles for economic and security interests .
french officials dismiss this criticism and say the new administration is following a policy of not openly criticizing countries over human rights so as to be more efficient in private and work on a case by case basis .
in a report in september , human rights watch ( hrw ) denounced widespread and systematic use of torture by egyptian security forces .
the united nations on oct. 13 condemned an anti-gay crackdown in egypt .
hrw earlier slammed french indulgence towards repression in egypt .
according to two ngo officials aware of talks between macron and human rights groups on the sidelines of the u.n. general assembly in september , macron had told them that while he acknowledged the worsening human rights situation in egypt , his priority was to ensure sisi continued to fight terrorist groups .
faced with the lack of progress in respecting human rights and on democratic standards , the united states decided in august to freeze the payment of $ 195 million in military aid .
under the previous government , france concluded several major military agreements with egypt , including the sale of 24 rafale combat aircraft , a multi-mission frigate and two mistral warships in contracts worth some six billion euros .