be aware and be ready to push back on this effort by the state department and the united nations to spread seed communities ( their term ) all over the u.s .
pretty soon we ll be covered up in refugees who are mostly ( 90 % ) muslim .
we already have millions of illegals from central america that we can not and should not support .
we now know that small towns across america like athens , ga and spartanburg , sc are being targeted for a influx of muslim refugees .
because it s very secretive ( for obvious reasons ) , you need to keep your ear to the ground and push back like athens and spartanburg .
below is a fantastic piece that will fill you in on what s really going on : with muslim immigrants streaming into the united states at a rate of 100,000 per year , some of the communities targeted for new arrivals are seeking information on their new neighbors , only to be frustrated by federal bureaucrats and their hired contractors.how does a city get on the u.s. state department s list of 190 communities selected for refugee resettlement ?
how can cities find out who will be coming and when ?
what services will they use , and what will be the cost to taxpayers ? and , the granddaddy of all questions : can the communities be assured that foreign nationals with ties to isis , al-shabab and other islamic terrorist groups won t slip through the government s porous screening process posing as refugees ? the answers to these questions are simple .
very little information is available .
and there are no guarantees that some very bad apples won t arrive in your town , says a leading expert on the refugee resettlement program .
one community that is trying to get information right now is spartanburg , south carolina.on march 16 , ann corcoran , author of the refugee resettlement watch blog , spoke at a national security summit in columbia , south carolina , hosted by former defense department analyst frank gaffney .
a few days before that conference , on march 9 , a story broke in the local spartanburg newspaper that world relief , one of the nine resettlement agencies that works under contract with the federal government , was planning to open an office in spartanburg.when an agency like world relief opens an office in a city , it means refugees will be arriving soon .
there are no public hearings or announcements in local media , corcoran said .
typically a story will appear in the local newspaper just before or after the first arrivals appear in town.corcoran met some activists at gaffney s conference who wanted to find out more about the plans for resettling united nations-certified refugees in their city .
it is like pulling teeth to get any information , corcoran said .
and these are long-term grassroots activists who know how to get information .
one of the activists is christina jeffrey , a political science professor and former u.s. house of representatives historian who ran against rep. trey gowdy , r-s.c. , in last year s republican primary .
gowdy is now chairman of the house subcommittee on immigration and refugees .
he is chair of this committee , and so they want to set up a refugee office in his home district , and we still can t get any information , corcoran said.jeffrey has asked the federal government to prepare a comprehensive impact statement , detailing the impact the refugees will have on spartanburg s public services .
schools , health facilities , housing , the job market and public welfare programs will all be affected , but so far nobody is saying to what extent.the mayor of athens , georgia , who asked for the same type of report last year , encountered the same blackout of information.st .
cloud , minnesota , residents have also inquired about how many more somali refugees will be arriving in light of recent problems with somali student protests at a local community college .
dozens of other somalis have either left the country to fight for al-shabab or isis while others have been charged and convicted with sending material support to overseas terrorist organizations .
they re trying to get information because residents have heard the rumor that there are 1,500 more somalis getting ready to be resettled there in st .
cloud , corcoran said.the resettlement agencies hold lots of meetings and place lots of phone calls with stakeholders in the targeted communities , but these collaborative efforts almost always occur outside of the public spotlight .
the term stakeholders does not apply to you , the taxpayer footing the bill for all of this , corcoran said.according to a march 8 article in the spartanburg herald-journal , a partnership of faith leaders called come closer spartanburg issued an invitation more than a year ago to world relief to open a refugee office in spartanburg .
the march 8 article was the first public revelation of this effort even though world relief had been working behind the scenes with stakeholders for a year .
an initial group of 65 refugees will arrive this year , starting in april or may , from congo , bhutan and syria.jeffrey , in a march 30 op-ed in the local newspaper , shed more light on the group , come closer spartanburg , and its goals : on its website , come closer spartanburg describes the city of spartanburg as home to what has been identified as the fifth most dangerous neighborhood in the united states .
we have extremely high rates of unemployment , poverty and domestic violence .
overall , we were recently listed as the fourth most miserable city to live in our country .
it does not take long to realize that we are a city in need of transformation .
jeffrey discovered that the objective is to plant a seed community in spartanburg that will eventually blossom and transform the city .
the federal government is creating communities within communities often pitted against each other economically and culturally.it s the same tactic that has been used for decades in europe .
looking at other u.s. cities with new refugee communities , it appears that contractors often keep sending refugees to the same place until there is a community within a community .
unassimilated communities have created problems in europe , and we are beginning to have similar problems here in the united states ( witness milwaukee , wis. , and lewiston , maine ) , jeffrey writes.corcoran said the word assimilation is no longer used by the resettlement agencies and their friends in the federal government .
rather , the new buzzword is integration .
the goal of integration is to have a multitude of diverse cultures living side by side in coexistence but never assimilating.president obama issued an executive memorandum dated nov. 21 , 2014 , to all federal agencies directing them on creating welcoming communities and fully integrated immigrants and refugees .
this sort of backroom dealing between the federal government , its hired resettlement contractors and local officials is not designed to provide information to the people who live and work in the targeted refugee cities , corcoran said .
they don t like this whole idea that their town is being secretly selected , she said .
this has been going on for over a year now in spartanburg , and the refugees are now due to start arriving in a month or so .
and these people have no information until it s actually upon them .
the mayor of athens , nancy denson , requested a plan .
the city of spartanburg is asking for the same consideration .
that s what these people in spartanburg are asking for , and they are asking that when you have a plan that you present it publicly at a public hearing , corcoran said .
they don t want to have to show any of that to the public .
they re saying it s only 65 ; well , it s only 65 for the first year .
it will continue to be more every year afterward once you become a seed community .
of the more than 500 syrian refugees brought to the u.s. so far this past year , 90 percent of them have been muslim , corcoran said.read more : wnd