berlin ( reuters ) - leading figures from angela merkel s conservatives and the social democrats ( spd ) outlined differing visions on how their possible government would approach immigration , as germany s would-be coalition partners prepared for talks in the new year .
chancellor merkel s 2015 decision to open the doors to more than a million migrants , many fleeing war in the middle east , transformed germany s demographic landscape and boosted the far right , hurting her bloc and the spd in september s election .
in separate interviews , thomas strobl , deputy leader of merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) and spd foreign minister sigmar gabriel outlined ways of winning back disenchanted supporters .
strobl told the heilbronner stimme newspaper germany should cap the number of new immigrants at 65,000 a year , the level in 2012 , and far below the limit of 200,000 that the conservatives had previously advocated .
but gabriel , whose party s restive membership would be unlikely to accept such a draconian cap , suggested municipalities around germany and europe could be compensated financially if they agreed to shelter refugees .
that way municipalities would decide themselves how many refugees to take , he told the funke newspaper group .
that would avoid citizens gaining the impression that refugees get everything and we get nothing .
germany has argued in vain for the stream of migrants fleeing war and poverty in the middle east and africa to be divided proportionately between the european union s member states , with poorer , more ethnically homogenous eastern members particularly set against the idea .
the eu could establish a program to help municipalities in poorer countries with the financing , gabriel added .
merkel , for whom a renewed conservative-spd grand coalition is her best chance of securing a fourth term as chancellor , has blamed her sept. 24 election losses on concern at migration and now favors a tougher stance on deporting migrants accused of crimes .
the spd s membership , which must ratify any government deal , is cautious about repeating the experience of a grand coalition , for which voters rewarded it with a drubbing in the polling booths .
while gabriel is not a member of the spd s negotiating team , his proposal could prove popular with the party s broadly more pro-european rank-and-file , and especially with party leader martin schulz , a former european parliament president .
in a further sign the center-left party is trying to distinguish itself from the conservatives , party deputy chairman hubertus heil said the next government should allocate 12 billion euros more to education over the next four years .
the money was needed to fund investment in digital learning methods , he told newspaper bild am sonntag , insisting that the federal government had to play a bigger role in education , traditionally a state-level competency .
exploratory talks between the parties are due to begin on jan. 7 , and merkel hopes to reach a deal by mid-january .