barack obama s legacy will be a divided , lawless , mooching , disrespectful america .
obama has been very clear about his open alliance with black lives matter terrorists and professional race baiters for hire .
ever since the death of thug trayvon martin , when obama began his first strategy meetings with al sharpton and his former ag , racist eric holder , he s been shamelessly holding closed-door meetings at our white house .
his meetings have been met with criticism by many americans for hosting unsavory characters , like the guy wearing a tracking device on his ankle for kidnapping and rappers who threaten to harm fellow americans if the election doesn t go their way at our white house .
all the while , obama has been subtly encouraging the masses to keep up the fight against law enforcement and to not let up on the oppressive white man .
these violent protests are not spontaneous .
they are happening as a result of a well planned , highly strategized and well-funded group of hard core leftists , who will stop at nothing to ensure their radical agenda is not upended by the shocking rise of the unafraid donald trump.ythis anti-trump mob began their organized disruptions last night in san jose , ca .
it all started with the typical union chant ( union influence can be found in every anti-trump rally ) that has been adopted by every leftist group in america .
here , you can see most of the protesters are hispanic ( likely illegal aliens ) : officers form line btw protesters and supporters walking to rally .
protesters now chanting against trump and police .
pic.twitter.com/fjc8xsnajh jacob rascon ( @ jacobnbc ) june 3 , 2016protesters , probably several hundred , move away from police and onto main road , blocking traffic .
do n't see any officers .
jacob rascon ( @ jacobnbc ) june 3 , 2016protesters march through downtown san jose for an hour , targeting trump supporters and evading officers .
pic.twitter.com/q4hkfelkiw jacob rascon ( @ jacobnbc ) june 3 , 2016police use megaphone to tell crowd to `` leave now or you will be arrested . ''
protester shouts back , `` we do n't follow the law ! ''
jacob rascon ( @ jacobnbc ) june 3 , 2016