albany , n.y. ( reuters ) - new york is poised to join the rest of the country in legalizing mixed martial arts ( mma ) fights , as the state assembly prepares to pass a bill to end a ban on the full-contact sport , a measure the senate has approved on multiple occasions over the years .
the lower house of the new york state assembly is expected to vote on tuesday afternoon on the legislation , long stymied by the refusal of assembly leaders to allow the measure to come to the floor despite broad support from lawmakers .
its passage will clear the way for governor andrew cuomo to enact the bill into law .
cuomo , a democrat who needs revenue generated by the sport for his proposed budget , has already said he would sign the measure .
new york is the only state prohibiting mma , a controversial sport that features kicking , punching , wrestling and other maneuvers that can leave the combatants with bloodied and sometimes unconscious .
the move to bring the bill up for a vote in the assembly comes a year after assembly speaker sheldon silver resigned in a corruption scandal .
he was replaced by a former co-sponsor of the bill , assemblyman carl e. heastie , a bronx democrat .
michael whyland , a spokesman for heastie , said in an email that the floor vote is expected to take place on tuesday .
mma fights are expected to generate $ 135 million a year for the state ’ s coffers , according to a 2013 study by the sport ’ s promoters , ultimate fighting championship .
arenas throughout new york would benefit and madison square garden in new york city is particularly well-suited to stage the competitions , the bill ’ s sponsors say .
cuomo has already penciled in $ 3 million in revenue from ticket sales and cable fees in his proposed budget for the next fiscal year .
the new york state athletic commission would have to set regulations after the governor signs the bill .
fans would have to wait until at least the fourth quarter of 2016 before seeing any bouts in the state , according to supporters .
the legislation would effectively spell an end to pending lawsuits against the state for banning mixed martial arts , its backers say .
ufc is owned by brothers lorenzo and frank fertita of station casinos , a las vegas-based hotel-casino chain , through parent company zuffa llc .