baghdad ( reuters ) - iraq stopped selling dollars to leading banks in kurdistan and banned foreign currency transfers to the autonomous region on tuesday , stepping up its retaliation for the kurds independence vote .
the financial sanctions follow a ban on direct international air travel to the region imposed by the central government on friday .
iraq s central bank informed the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) that it would stop selling dollars to four major kurdish banks and stop all foreign currency transfers to the region , banking and government sources told reuters .
businesses in need of foreign currency and foreign workers in kurdistan , whose pay and remittances are usually in dollars , will be the most affected by the new measures .
business people and expatriates were also the most directly hit by the ban on international flights to the kurdish airports of erbil and sulaimaniya .
it forces them to travel via airports in baghdad and southern iraq , increasing cost and adding delay .
the condition for ending the dollar sale prohibition is to have the kurdish banks under the central bank s control , said an iraqi official .
but a kurdish official in the krg capital erbil said the region s banks already reported to the central bank in baghdad , and the airports of the kurdish region already reported to the iraqi civil aviation authority .
iraq s parliament on tuesday said it had voted for financial sanctions which would preserve the interests of kurdish citizens and target the kurdish leadership .
the shi ite arab-led iraqi government has rejected an offer by the kurdish government to discuss independence .
it has demanded that it cancel the result of the sept. 25 referendum or face continued sanctions , international isolation and possible military intervention .
the u.s. administration strengthened its alliance with iraq s kurds during the war on islamic state , but is taking the side of baghdad in the crisis in refusing to recognize the referendum .
iraq s powerful neighbors iran and turkey are backing baghdad , fearing the spread of separatism to their own kurdish populations .