seoul ( reuters ) - by the time donald trump departed seoul on wednesday , the sometimes bellicose american president seemed to have mollified south koreans who had been bracing for more confrontational rhetoric over north korea , trade , and defense spending .
throughout his 24-hour swing through south korea , trump , who in a september speech at the united nations had threatened to totally destroy north korea and had dismissed dialogue with pyongyang as a waste of time , took a more restrained tone .
in his first trip to south korea as president , trump also significantly toned down his criticism of what he once called a horrible free trade deal with south korea .
he says now he will find a fair and reciprocal deal after earlier threatening to terminate the pact .
the apparent newfound bond between trump and liberal south korean president moon jae-in , and the u.s. president s willingness to make a deal with north korea - albeit on his terms - could begin to assuage fears of a catastrophic war with nuclear-armed north korea .
trump s willingness to talk about revising the bilateral trade agreement , rather than scrapping it entirely , could also reassure markets worried about the fallout on major exporters such as samsung , hyundai and lg electronics .
trump s speech to south korea s national assembly on wednesday , interrupted by applause about 20 times with a standing ovation at the end , praised a free and flourishing south , in contrast to the horror of life in north korea .
on south korea s largest internet portal , naver.com , some of moon s supporters welcomed the address .
they said trump displayed a greater knowledge of the two koreas than his previous statements had indicated .
far from the madman the media portrays , trump came across as perfectly normal , smart , and well-mannered , read one of the more than 1,200 posts on naver.com .
another wrote : wow , best speech ever .
i feel so safe to have such a great u.s. president who is so determined to resolve north korean issues .
naver.com blocks out the usernames on comments to keep them anonymous .
south koreans were feeling a little less safe earlier this week when the pentagon , in a letter to u.s. lawmakers , gave a blunt assessment of what war on the korea peninsula would look like .
a ground invasion would be the only way to locate and secure all north korea s nuclear weapons with complete certainty , and pyongyang could use biological and chemical weapons in any conflict , it said .
seoul , the densely populated capital with some 25 million residents , lies an hour s drive from the border .
the u.s. military presence in south korea has long been seen as a bulwark against the north and its nuclear threat .
the united states decisively intervened in the 1950-53 korean war , which has left the two korea s technically still at war , since it ended in a truce , not a peace treaty .
while the sprawling u.s. military bases housing some 28,500 troops have not been without controversy - some critics contend they undermine the country s sovereignty - the u.s. security umbrella is also deeply embedded in the national psyche .
underscoring the importance seoul attaches to the alliance at a time of increased tensions with pyongyang , south korean officials rolled out a reception fit for the first state visit by an american president in 25 years , according to the presidential blue house .
moon , who took office in may , had campaigned for more dialogue with north korea .
he appeared to be the target of criticism from trump , who said after north korea s nuclear test in september : south korea is finding , as i have told them , that their talk of appeasement with north korea will not work , they only understand one thing !
but moon led a charm offensive , proclaiming a special bond forged between president trump and myself after a lengthy meeting at the presidential blue house .
he personally joined trump during a tour of a u.s. base , as well as during an ultimately aborted visit to the demilitarized zone on the border with north korea .
i wouldn t say we didn t have any concerns , a south korean government official said .
but the fact that he received a standing ovation ( for his speech ) could mean that he dispelled such concerns , delivered the message we wanted him to deliver , and wrapped up his trip successfully , said the official who asked for anonymity , citing the sensitivity of the matter .
in his speech to the national assembly , where several lawmakers brandished signs reading no war , we want peace , trump paid homage to the 67-year-old alliance that divides the oppressed and the free .
he noted that in less than one lifetime , south korea climbed from total devastation to among the wealthiest nations on earth .
trump also reassured south koreans the korean war would not be repeated .
we will not allow american cities to be threatened with destruction .
we will not be intimidated .
and we will not let the worst atrocities in history be repeated here , on this ground we fought and died so hard to secure , he said .
and while trump painted a dystopian picture of life in north korea , he refrained from any threats of pre-emptive action against the north .
on tuesday , trump said it would in the north s interest to come to the table and to make a deal .
it all seemed reassuring to an anxious south korean public .
i think people might have felt they got to see the real trump after he visited south korea , said kim jun-seok , a political science professor at dongguk university .
and we heard many things that were positive about south korea .
it was all enough for people to think , is this the trump we know ?