newberry , s.c. ( reuters ) - pope francis forcefully injected himself into the u.s. presidential campaign on thursday , assailing republican candidate donald trump ’ s views on u.s. immigration as “ not christian ” in a sign of growing international concern at the billionaire businessman ’ s election prospects .
trump struck back .
no stranger to controversy , the longtime party front-runner in national opinion polls dismissed the leader of the world ’ s roman catholics as “ disgraceful ” for questioning his faith .
he said he was a proud christian .
francis told reporters during a free-wheeling conversation on his flight home from a visit to mexico : “ a person who thinks only about building walls , wherever they may be , and not building bridges , is not christian. ” trump has accused mexico of sending rapists and drug-runners across the united states ’ southern border and has vowed if elected president to build a wall to keep out immigrants who enter illegally .
it was not the first time u.s. allies have voiced concern over comments by trump .
more than half a million britons signed a petition to bar him from entering britain , where he has business interests , in response to his call to temporarily ban muslims from entering the united states .
british lawmakers decided against a ban as a violation of free speech .
asked if american catholics should vote for someone with trump ’ s views , francis said : “ i am not going to get involved in that .
i say only that this man is not christian if he has said things like that .
we must see if he said things in that way and in this i give the benefit of the doubt. ” it remained to be seen if the pope ’ s comments would strengthen trump in the run-up to the nov. 8 election to succeed democratic president barack obama .
trump ’ s swipes at rival candidates and heated exchanges with others have bolstered his standing in nominating contests and opinion polls .
one of trump ’ s republican rivals , former florida governor jeb bush , speaking in columbia , south carolina , said he would not question anyone ’ s relationship with god .
but bush , a catholic , said : “ it only enables bad behavior when someone from outside our country talks about donald trump. ” trump , a real estate developer and former reality tv show host , said : “ if and when the vatican is attacked by isis , which as everyone knows is isis ’ ultimate trophy , i can promise you that the pope would have only wished and prayed that donald trump would have been president. ” isis is one of the acronyms used for islamic state .
trump was in south carolina , which on saturday will hold a republican nominating contest .
at a later town hall meeting televised on cnn , trump said he had “ a lot of respect ” for francis but that the pope had been influenced by hearing only mexico ’ s side of the border issue .
the pope ’ s statement also had been exaggerated by the media , he said .
“ i think he said something much softer than it was originally reported by the media .
i think that he heard one side of the story , which is probably by the mexican government , ” he said .
“ he didn ’ t see the tremendous strain that the border is causing us with respect to illegal immigration , with the drugs pouring across the border. ” thomas groome , director of the boston college center on the church in the 21st century , said francis ’ comments were entirely in keeping with his focus on mercy .
“ the pope is commissioned to preach the gospel of jesus christ .
that ’ s his job , ” groome said .
“ so when he was asked a direct question , he gave trump the benefit of the doubt , he said we have to be sure he said this , but if he said this , it is not christian. ” groome called trump ’ s suggestion that islamic state militants would target the vatican egregious .
“ now it becomes a challenge to isis , ” he said .
patrick hornbeck , chairman of the department of theology at fordham university in new york , said francis ’ words were not surprising given the poverty he had just seen in mexico .
“ there is very little common ground between pope francis and donald trump , ” hornbeck said .
he predicted the pope ’ s words on electoral politics would have little effect on any u.s. catholics who liked trump as a candidate .
trump has said he would deport millions of illegal immigrants if he wins the white house .
last week , responding to the pope ’ s plan to visit the u.s.-mexican border , he said pope francis did not understand the issues .
“ the pope is a very political person ...
i don ’ t think he understands the danger of the open border that we have with mexico , ” trump told the fox business network .
asked about being called a “ political person , ” francis said on thursday : “ thank god he said i was a politician because aristotle defined the human person as ‘ animal politicus. ’ so at least i am a human person. ” republican catholics appear to support trump more than other republicans do , according to a reuters/ipsos opinion poll that showed 43 percent of likely republican catholic voters supported trump , compared with 38 percent of republican voters generally .
the pew research center has said 71 percent of the u.s. population identifies as christian .
that includes the 21 percent of the u.s. population that identifies as catholic .
the pope was winning the social media battle on thursday , with overall sentiment negative for trump and positive for francis , according to social media analytic firm zoomph .
author dan dicker @ dan_dicker tweeted : “ let ’ s see @ realdonaldtrump insult his way out of this. ” trump ’ s social media director , dan scavino @ danscavino tweeted : “ amazing comments from the pope - considering vatican city is 100 percent surrounded by massive walls. ” evangelical christian leader jerry falwell jr. , who has endorsed trump , described him as generous to his employees and family , adding : “ i ’ m convinced he ’ s a christian .
i believe he has faith in jesus christ. ” trump was not always at odds with the pope .
in 2013 , the year francis began his papacy , trump compared himself to the pope favorably .
“ the new pope is a humble man , very much like me , which probably explains why i like him so much ! ” trump tweeted on christmas day 2013 .
( reporting by emily flitter and steve holland in south carolina and philip pullella aboard the papal plane ; additional reporting by anjali athavaley , susan heavey , chris kahn , scott malone , emily stephenson , amy tennery , mohammad zargham and john whitesides ; writing by howard goller and john whitesides ; editing by toni reinhold and peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .