ankara ( reuters ) - turkey s main opposition called for the resignation of prime minister binali yildirim on wednesday , saying that reports his sons owned offshore companies amounted to a breach of ethics .
yildirim s two sons are shown as the owners of two malta-based companies , according to the so-called paradise papers , a series of leaked documents of offshore records that relate to global assets of wealthy individuals .
the spokesman for the main opposition republican people s party ( chp ) , bulent tezcan , said that such offshore companies deprived turkey of much-needed tax revenue .
this is not a crime from a legal standpoint , that is a different argument , but it is wrong morally .
does your country need money ?
yes , it does , he said .
the first and only thing that the prime minister needs to do , now that this has surfaced , is to resign .
the chp and the pro-kurdish hdp together submitted a motion to the parliament to investigate those named in the paradise papers , although it is unlikely to gain much traction in a legislature dominated by yildirim s ruling akp .
yildirim has said his sons , who are involved in the shipping industry , were not guilty of any wrongdoing .
shipping is a global business .
they do business all over the globe , so they have companies and contacts all over the world , he told reporters before departing for the united states on an official visit on tuesday .
he invited critics to open a financial or legal investigation , and said it was unacceptable to accuse innocent people of wrongdoing .
he also showed reporters a certificate given to his family-owned company , showing it as one of the firms that paid the most in tax in istanbul .
the paradise papers , which were obtained by germany s sueddeutsche zeitung and shared with the international consortium of investigative journalists ( icij ) and some media outlets , relate to the investments of individuals from u.s. commerce secretary wilbur ross to britain s queen elizabeth .
reuters has not independently verified them .