as anyone who remotely follows the news knows , media whore hillary has been dying for a reason to appear in photos unrelated to a story about her criminal activities .
true to form , hillary capitalizes on the birth of chelsea s campaign baby by standing alone and waving to the crowd how very grandmotherly .you won t see the other set of grandparents in any pictures however , as the royal clinton family has banned their son-in-laws family from appearing in any pictures with them chelsea clinton has emerged from hospital for the first time with her newborn son aidan.the former first daughter beamed at cameras on the steps of new york s lenox hill hospital on monday , flanked by her husband marc mezvinsky and parents bill and hillary clinton.despite the soaring temperatures , hillary wore a button-down coat , while chelsea opted for a floral mini-dress.aidan , chelsea s second child with husband marc mezvinsky , was born on saturday in the $ 1,700-a-night maternity ward.- dmwho is chelsea clinton s father-in-law and why are he and his wife banned from appearing in pictures with crooked queen hillary and her sexual predator husband ?
edward maurice ed mezvinsky , chelsea clinton s father-in-law and her daughter s grandfather , is a convicted felon .
the former democrat congressman from iowa s 1st congressional district in the united states house of representatives , served two terms , from 1973 to 1977.ed mezvinsky has known hillary clinton since the days when he served on the house judiciary committee that decided the fate of president richard nixon .
this harsh critic of president richard nixon , had called nixon a crook and a disgrace to politics and the nation , and called for nixon s impeachment.but , did you ever wonder who that allusive nigerian prince is who might be sending you those emails looking for money ?
look no farther than the clinton family tree.through a series of nigerian email scams and ponzi schemes , ed mezvinsky , chelsea clinton s father-in-law embezzled more than $ 10 million dollars .
in 2001 , ed mezvinsky was convicted of 31 ( out of 69 ! )
charges of fraud , and served five years in federal prison .
his fraud charges included bank , mail , wire , as well as other offenses involving financing bogus oil development and other trade deals in africa.but don t think ed doesn t keep it in the family .
in addition to his law clients and friends , he even bilked his own ( now deceased ) mother-in-law out of money .
to date in 2015 , the fraudster still owes over $ 9.4 million in restitution to his victims.a lot of political pundits have made allusions to the fact that the clintons and the mezvinkys behaviors are so similar , that it is what bonded the two .
be that as it may , the clintons go to great lengths to never , ever , be seen or photographed with any of chelsea s in-laws .
so afraid is the clinton dynasty of being tarnished by the mezvinkys that neither ed nor his second wife and marc s mother , marjorie sue margolies-mezvinsky , were allowed in any of chelsea s wedding pictures .
conservative america