washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama plans to lay out his vision for u.s.-cuba relations in a major speech during next week ’ s historic visit to havana aimed at making his opening to america ’ s former cold war foe “ irreversible , ” the white house said on wednesday .
previewing obama ’ s three-day trip , u.s. deputy national security adviser ben rhodes expressed hope that tuesday ’ s scheduled “ speech to the cuban people ” would be broadcast throughout the island and said cuba ’ s communist government had not raised any objections to doing so .
but rhodes could not confirm whether the event , which will take place at havana ’ s legendary gran teatro , would actually be carried by cuba ’ s state-run media , saying , “ we ’ ll see how that transpires. ” obama , who will be the first u.s. president to visit cuba in 88 years , arrives on sunday and holds talks on monday with cuban president raul castro , followed by what rhodes described as a joint “ press event ” and a state dinner .
obama ’ s meeting with cuban dissidents on tuesday will include prominent activists of his own choosing , rhodes said .
despite cuban leaders ’ view of such meetings as interference in the island ’ s internal affairs , rhodes said there was no reason to believe the government would block any invitees from participating .
“ if there are any impediments to that meeting we would be very clear about this , ” rhodes said .
he declined to name any of those who would attend .
obama will arrive just days after unveiling sweeping new measures to make it far easier for americans to visit cuba and for the island ’ s government to conduct international trade .
obama ’ s critics have accused him of giving up too much in return for too little from cuban leaders and of now taking a premature “ victory lap. ” the obama administration insists that engagement will benefit the cuban people and open up the island to u.s. business – though cuban leaders have been slow to make economic reforms .
at the same time , the decades-old u.s. trade embargo against cuba remains , with little chance congress will lift it anytime soon .
rhodes said obama ’ s speech “ will be a very important moment in the president ’ s trip , an opportunity for him to describe the course that we ’ re on , to review the complicated history between our two countries … but also to look forward to the future. ” “ we very much want to make the process of normalization irreversible , ” he told reporters on a conference call .
obama ’ s aides hope that getting more u.s companies invested in cuba and loosening up travel to the island will make it almost impossible for traditionally pro-business republicans to roll back the thaw if they win the white house in november .
traveling with first lady michelle obama and their daughters sasha and malia , the president plans to start his visit late on sunday with a tour of the cultural sites of old havana .
he will also meet cardinal jaime ortega , who played a key role in the u.s.-cuba diplomatic breakthrough in december 2014 , at havana ’ s cathedral , rhodes said .