belgrade ( reuters ) - paratroopers from serbia and the united states jumped side-by-side just north of belgrade on friday as part of a training tailored to bolster ties between the balkan country and nato .
the exercise dubbed winter 2017 , may raise eyebrows in moscow which wants to keep serbia , a slavic and orthodox christian ally under its umbrella , and is worried over possible nato expansion in the balkans .
it is also a long way from 1999 when nato bombed what was then yugoslavia because of its policies toward kosovo .
although the european union is serbia s single largest trade partner and investor , russia controls its oil and gas supplies .
moscow has also sought to bolster military ties with belgrade with the donation of six mig-29 fighter jets .
serbia is one of the few balkan countries not in the 28-member nato which is hugely unpopular there due to its 1999 bombing campaign .
alliance troops are still deployed in kosovo , serbia s former southern province , whose 2008 independence has not been accepted by belgrade , russia , china and some eu members .
but joint exercises take place anyway .
after more than 100 paratroopers from serbian elite brigades and the u.s. army 173rd airborne brigade landed on a grassy runway of a small airport near belgrade , serbian president aleksandar vucic dubbed the drill part of confidence-building activities .
the other ( goal ) is the creation of cooperation , partnerships and friendships ( in areas that ) we were not always able to boast about in the past , vucic told reporters .
in 2006 serbia , which maintains military neutrality , joined nato s partnership for peace program and in 2015 it signed the individual partnership action plan - the highest level of cooperation for countries not aspiring to join .
although it strives for a balance between moscow and the west , rejecting calls from u.s. officials to pick its side , serbia in 2017 had 13 military drills with nato or its members , seven with the u.s. and only two with russia .