name one time this reckless commander in chief has put our men and women in uniform before the war on terror just one.on monday , the obama administration announced that president obama would veto a defense authorization bill if it did not close down guantanamo bay .
white house press secretary josh earnest explained that the house funding bill would be vetoed principally because of the irresponsible way that it funds our national defense priorities , but also because of the efforts to prevent the closure [ of ] the prison at guantanamo bay .
he added that democrats would sustain obama s veto , and defense authorization would die.obama s strong stand on gitmo underscores two vital points .
first , president obama does not fear defunding america s national security .
second , obama does not fear republicans in congress.the national defense authorization act ( ndaa ) has been authorized for five decades running .
the current ndaa fully funds the military through a workaround measure , thanks to president obama s demands that a huge chunk of sequestration cuts come from defense funding .
now democrats complain that the workaround measure isn t good enough : republicans should bust open the bank again.but that s not obama s main criticism of the ndaa .
he has long had a bug in his ear with regard to gitmo , which he feels has strengthened terrorists feelings about the evils of the united states .
given his recent moves to parlay with the cuban dictatorship as well , obama may want to hand gitmo in totality back to the cuban government .
the fact that obama would be willing to dramatically cut america s military funding , even as russia takes over ukraine and syria , as iran gears up for a big regional military push , as china continues its aggressive behavior in the south china sea , demonstrates obama s top priority is doing leftist work , not protecting the united states.in fact , obama s choice to prioritize gitmo above national security isn t a choice at all : obama wants america s military slashed , and he wants gitmo closed .
senator sen. john mccain ( r-az ) agrees with obama that gitmo should be closed , but even he says that obama has manipulated the process to create an impasse .
according to roll call , mccain has said the white house promised him a plan to close the prison , but has yet to present one .
without that , he has said he wouldn t be able to find the votes to do what the white house wants .
now , normally , obama s nasty priorities would pose little threat to military funding : after all , obama would be stymied by republicans in congress .
and obama has threatened to veto the ndaa before over guantanamo ; each time , congress has called obama s bluff , and he has signed the bill into law.but this time , the feeling is that obama could be more serious .
after all , with the legacy of republicans folding on executive amnesty , the iran deal , and funding for planned parenthood , among others , obama probably feels he can leverage gitmo out of existence .
he believes that republicans fear defense defunding more than he must their constituents will hold them accountable , while he s in pure f * * * it list mode .
he also thinks that republicans are unwilling to undergo a head-to-head matchup with him under almost any circumstances.and obama is right .
in his entire tenure as commander-in-chief , obama has had to issue a grand total of four vetoes .
four .
that s less than every president since chester a. arthur , who filled out james garfield s term , serving less than four years .
obama has had a fully republican congress this year , and a republican house since 2010 .
he has issued just two vetoes this year , one with regard to keystone xl pipeline , and the other with regard to a bill related to the national labor relations board .
all of his other major policy priorities have been guarded zealously by a democratic minority or an unwilling republican majority.so why wouldn t obama try to hold republicans feet to the fire on defense authorization ? obama s mastery of congress is unprecedented in american history ; the only other candidates for that title either held congressional dominance within their own party ( franklin delano roosevelt ) or ruled a congressional rump ( abraham lincoln ) .
shutting down america s defense funding would be a crowning achievement for a president who cares more about weakening america s role in the world than defending her citizens.via : breitbart news