london/brussels ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may will only detail how big a divorce settlement britain is willing to pay the eu when the bloc gives a commitment to moving talks forward , according to a plan rubber-stamped by even her most pro-brexit ministers .
the brexit bill has become one of several hurdles to talks to unravel more than 40 years of union , with london reticent to offer too much too soon on what officials consider to be one of its strongest bargaining chips .
in brussels , british media speculation that may has won the backing of brexit hardliners to offer more cash prompted talk among eu diplomats that a deal to unblock talks on future trade relations could be in the making ahead of a crunch brussels summit in three weeks .
at a meeting on monday , may s brexit committee - made up of some of her top ministers - backed the long-held strategy that britain would honor commitments made when it was a member of the european union .
but the government will only offer any specifics when the bloc s negotiators give a commitment that talks will move to a discussion of the future relationship .
we are ready to move onto phase two , to see those talks about a deep and special partnership with the eu for the future , a comprehensive trade agreement with the eu , may said on tuesday .
i think that s in the interests of the uk and in the interests of the remaining eu-27 .
i think it s also important that the uk and the eu step forward together , she added , a turn of phrase a source said expressed her desire for coordination .
in public , brussels is standing firm on the need for britain to first make clear not a concrete euros and cents offer but a commitment to pay a share of eu spending for some items after brexit - one of three key conditions the eu has set for opening trade talks .
asked if the eu was ready to give a promise to start those talks as soon as london offers more money , european commission deputy head frans timmermans told cnn : i hear them saying that .
but as far as the eu27 is concerned , ... if we tackle the three issues ... if we deal with that satisfactorily , we can move to the next stage .
and that s been crystal clear since day one .
nonetheless , eu negotiators are willing to help may with at least the appearance of cutting a deal .
they could help fudge the amount of cash being handed over .
and the eu already has an outline of a transition and free trade accord , which may could point to as something she had secured in exchange .
we are ready to present the exit bill in a way that would make it easier for the brits to sell at home , one diplomat said .
he added that eu officials had looked at whether britain might forgo its roughly 50-percent rebate on eu budget payments during a two-year transition period after brexit , so reducing the gross amount britain would otherwise hand over in advance .
with only 16 months until britain leaves the bloc , may is under increasing pressure not only from eu officials to move on the money , but also by businesses to provide certainty by early next year so they can make investment decisions .
but she has a tightrope to walk .
many in her governing conservative party want britain to quit the talks , feeling the eu is holding the country hostage over money , which they want to spend at home rather than abroad .
her spokesman said no figures were discussed at monday s meeting and other ministers gave no details of what was discussed .
local media reported that she could increase the sum to 40 billion pounds ( $ 53 billion ) , more than double the initial estimated offer of 20 billion euros ( $ 23.5 billion ) .
the commission has cited a figure of 60 billion euros but eu officials have long said that is up for negotiation .
for many in may s own party , however , the suggestion of any increase in how much britain will pay at a time when talks had failed to move forward for five months was unpalatable .
i need to be able to look my voters in the eye and be able to say that i have backed a deal that is in the interests of britain , conservative lawmaker andrew bridgen told reuters .
if i can t do that , i will vote against a deal and we will go to wto rules of trade , rules with which we already trade with most of the world successfully .