tripoli ( reuters ) - an armed group in the libyan smuggling hub of sabratha is being targeted because it began stopping migrant boats leaving for italy , leading to heavy clashes with groups benefiting from the trade , the head of the group said .
the fighting over the past two weeks has caused dozens of casualties , displaced hundreds of families , and put sabratha s famed roman ruins at risk .
migrant crossings from libya have dropped sharply since july , a change that the armed group , the anas al-dabbashi brigade , says is due to its policing of the coast near sabratha under a deal with the u.n.-backed government in tripoli .
brigade leader ahmed al-dabbashi , also known as al-ammu ( the uncle ) and described in a u.n. report as one of libya s top smuggling facilitators , said the move had led to attacks by rivals smuggling from al-wadi , an area just east of sabratha .
we , al-dabbashi brigade , had an agreement with government of national accord ( gna ) to stop illegal migration , dabbashi told reuters by phone in an interview , referring to the tripoli administration .
then we were surprised that after stopping migration the shuhada al-wadi brigade started coming at us with their four-by-four vehicles painted in military police colors and their members started wearing military uniforms .
they started harassing us because we stopped migration and this is bad for them , dabbashi said .
a senior dabbashi member said last week that the brigade s sudden shift from smuggling to policing was motivated by a desire for legitimacy in the form of police and army jobs for its members .
it and the italian government have denied reports that dabbashi was paid by italy to stop the migrant boats .
dabbashi said the wadi brigade is aligned with the operations room , a force formed to oust islamic state jihadists from sabratha last year and that clashes began when dabbashi s cousin abubaker was killed at an operations room checkpoint .
saleh graisia , an operations room spokesman , said clashes erupted because the actions of the dabbashi brigade and the allied brigade 48 were out of control .
the operations room and its allies , which include ultra-conservative salafists and locals from al-wadi , had moved to push militias from sabratha , he said .
the room has its own conditions .
the top one is that all militias withdraw from the city and hand over their weapons so the city be under legitimacy of the police and army .
fighting has led to the evacuation of hundreds of families from central sabratha , said essam krir , head of an association of non-governmental organizations .
several civilians and at least 13 fighters have been killed , while dozens of combatants have been wounded , according to dabbashi and graisia .
fighting has raged around sabratha s hospital and its roman ruins , a unesco world heritage site .
unesco s head appealed for all parties to ensure the safeguarding of sabratha s unique cultural heritage .
we have orders to not use heavy artillery for the protection of the ruins , graisia said .
the operations room said on its facebook page it had taken control of the ruins .
the head of sabratha s antiquities department , mohamed bojela rhoma , said because of the clashes , it had not been possible to check a report of the amphitheatre being hit .
pictures posted on social media appear to show surface damage to the monument and empty bullet cases scattered in the ruins .