springfield , ill. ( reuters ) - illinois governor bruce rauner refused to step away from his stalled legislative agenda on wednesday while insisting that a spending deal remains within reach , but his words appeared to leave his democratic rivals unmoved .
republican rauner and the democratic-controlled legislature have been locked in a budget stalemate for nearly seven months .
“ to achieve a grand compromise , we must cast partisanship and ideology aside , ” rauner told the state legislature in his state of the state address .
“ we must break from the politics of the past and do what is right for the long term future of our state .
i ’ m ready , and it ’ s my genuine hope that you are too. ” rauner , a political newcomer , became governor a year ago .
the wealthy venture capitalist used last year ’ s annual speech to lay out an ambitious agenda that included business-friendly changes to workers ’ compensation , a freeze on local property taxes , curbs on public-sector collective-bargaining , and legislative term limits .
but rauner ’ s so-called turnaround hit a brick wall in the legislature , where house speaker michael madigan pronounced it “ extreme. ” the stalemate has left illinois without a budget more than halfway through fiscal 2016 .
about 90 percent of state government is being funded through court orders , an enacted spending bill for k-12 schools , and continuing appropriations for pensions and bonds .
in a nearly 40-minute speech that drew robust republican applause but only a tepid democratic response , rauner did not abandon his stalled plan and lobbed barbs at two primary democratic constituencies .
“ i understand that union leaders and trial lawyers are putting pressure on you to keep the status quo , but if we don ’ t offer a competitive environment for businesses , pretty soon the unions won ’ t have any more jobs to unionize and the trial lawyers won ’ t have any more businesses to sue , ” rauner said , producing sarcastic laughter from some democratic lawmakers .
after the speech , democrats continued to balk at the governor ’ s agenda and questioned why he made no direct reference to the casualties of the budget impasse , including the state ’ s university system , rape-crisis centers and other human-service providers that have been deprived of state funds .
“ i certainly would have appreciated it had he done that , ” madigan told reporters .
but rauner ’ s gop ally , house republican leader jim durkin , dismissed the speaker ’ s criticism .
“ today is the state of the state , not the state of the budget , ” durkin said .
the day ended with the spectacle of the lone public rauner sympathizer within madigan ’ s 71-member super-majority democratic caucus lashing out at the speaker while appearing before reporters and carrying a red sleeping bag and backpack .
state rep. ken dunkin , a chicago democrat , used his props to dramatize his willingness to stay at the capitol and even “ shower ” in the speaker ’ s private statehouse bathroom for as long as it takes to strike a budget deal .
for a deal to happen , madigan needs to “ stop holding the citizens of illinois hostage to his political maneuvering , to his political shenanigans , and actually get things done , ” dunkin said .