brussels ( reuters ) - the european union has given prime minister theresa may until monday to raise britain s offer of divorce terms if she wants eu leaders to open talks next month on a future free trade pact .
britain has moved close to the eu demands on money , eu diplomats said on wednesday , but there are concerns that differences remain on other key conditions .
these are the key points eu officials and diplomats say she must be ready to concede when she visits brussels on dec. 4 .
the eu estimated at some 60 billion euros ( $ 71 billion ) what britain should pay to cover outstanding obligations on leaving in march 2019 .
may has promised that the other 27 states will not lose out financially before the end of 2020 an indication britain will maintain its current roughly 10 billion-euro annual payment to the eu during a two-year post-brexit transition .
the eu wants may to commit to paying a fair share of two big budget lines after 2020 funds for projects approved during britain s membership but not yet disbursed , and staff pensions .
eu diplomats said negotiators had in recent days received assurances that this was the case and british newspapers put the offer at very roughly 50 billion euros .
phil hogan , ireland s eu commissioner , said britain s new proposals go very close towards meeting the requirements of the eu .
however , may s spokesman dismissed as speculation the british media reports .
both sides insist there can be no agreement on a hard figure yet and much will depend on future economic developments .
but observers will be quick to make ballpark calculations .
and eu leaders are set on binding may to a written commitment to pay specific elements of the bill to avoid haggling later on .
the second of three conditions , on all of which sufficient progress must be recorded , that may now be the least problematic .
however , the eu is still seeking further commitments from may that the rights of eu citizens in britain after brexit will be guaranteed under eu judicial supervision , not just british still a potential stumbling block to britain s agreement .
eu brexit negotiator michel barnier repeated on wednesday that european court of justice supervision was essential .
member states , some of which have taken a tougher line than the brussels negotiators , insist britain also make concessions on family reunion rules and social benefits .
the eu wants more detail on a british pledge to avoid a hard border at the new land frontier on the island of ireland that might disrupt peace in northern ireland .
london says the detail depends on the future trade agreement , which the eu will not discuss until after agreeing on sufficient progress .
but dublin has stepped up its complaints that assurances of good intentions from britain do not go far enough .
eu officials say the broad possible outlines of a trade pact are already obvious and mean that a hard border can only be avoided if commercial regulation remains identical on either side .
one solution would be for northern ireland to stay in a customs union with the eu .
but britain , and may s crucial northern irish parliamentary allies , insist there should be no new barriers between northern ireland and the british mainland .
the eu says that means the whole of the united kingdom would then have to maintain regulatory conformity , something brexit campaigners do not want .
brussels and dublin say northern ireland already has some different rules from great britain .
on friday , dec. 1 , eu national envoys expect an update from barnier and the negotiators .
on dec. 6 , two days after may meets barnier and european commission president jean-claude juncker , the eu-27 envoys meet to start drafting the conclusions for a summit on dec. 14-15 .
they may need a whole week to secure all states agreement that there is sufficient progress or not .
at the summit , if they agree to move ahead , the 27 leaders could immediately discuss the roughly two-year transition period may has asked for which the eu says will mean britain taking all eu rules but having no say in making them .
they would also ask officials to complete work on formal negotiating guidelines for a future trade deal .
there would need to be some weeks of further internal preparation in the eu before trade talks start .
even with sufficient progress , detailed negotiation on the divorce deal or withdrawal treaty will continue .
barnier hopes to have a text by october or november next year to give time for ratification by the european parliament by brexit day .
barnier has said a trade deal could be launched by january 2021 if talks start after christmas .
but many eu diplomats say britain may need further transition terms before one is ready .