havana ( reuters ) - ostracized by the government and mistrusted by much of the public , cuba ’ s dissidents are hoping to receive a clear message of support from u.s. president barack obama when he visits the island next month .
obama plans to meet dissidents during his march 21-22 visit , the first by a sitting u.s. president since 1928 .
it follows the rapprochement of december 2014 , when obama and cuban president raul castro ended more than five decades of cold war-era animosity .
cuba ’ s communist government has long considered the dissidents a tiny and illegitimate minority funded by u.s. interests , while anti-castro groups hold them up as champions of democracy .
political opponents say a public blessing from obama might improve their standing and the cause of human rights in cuba .
“ it ’ s possible the visit will help raise the hopes of the cuban people , which is important because cuba is short on many things , most of all hope , ” said elizardo sanchez , leader of the cuban commission of human rights and national reconciliation , which monitors arrests of political opponents .
sanchez said cuba is holding about 90 political prisoners , including some convicted hijackers and spies and 11 former prisoners out on parole .
cuba says it has no political prisoners .
in addition cuban officials briefly detain an average of more than 700 dissidents a month , the commission says .
obama ’ s republican critics have called the visit a capitulation , while cuban dissidents are mostly supportive .
“ any gesture of solidarity , any words or gestures , any contact with the peaceful opposition would be well received by the majority of the population , ” said jose daniel ferrer , leader of the patriotic union of cuba , which says it has about 3,000 members , making it the largest opposition group in cuba .
cuban foreign ministry official josefina vidal said cuba hoped obama would meet with “ the real cuban civil society , ” a term making a distinction between most cubans and anti-government activists .
some cuban dissidents prefer the previous u.s. policy of isolating cuba and say obama has failed them .
the ladies in white , who march each sunday in havana , say obama is unwelcome unless he responds to their request that he denounce the repression of activists and calls for amnesty for political prisoners .
“ if he makes a strong statement repudiating these human rights violations , then we will consider it an advance in human rights , ” said berta soler , leader of the group .
“ in practice , we have not seen a thing . ”