johnny carson must be rolling over in his grave to see what s happened to late night comedy where he dedicated 30 years of his life to actually making people of all political persuasions laugh .
if johnny carson had a particular political leaning , his viewers wouldn t have known what it was .
when it came to criticizing president s of the united states , he was always funny but never hateful and certainly never vile .
a lot has changed since then .
it wasn t so long ago that comedians like stephen colbert only dreamed of sitting in one of the coveted late night comedy spots like the one johnny carson created .
david letterman s hate for conservatives and republicans didn t really surfaced until he was nearing the end of his career , and although many wish he would keep his hateful opinions about our president to himself , he is a private citizen now and is not accountable to anyone for his petty remarks .
the big question is , will anyone at cbs hold his predecessor stephen colbert responsible for his vile remarks about trump having oral sex with vladimir putin ?
will colbert s advertisers pull their advertising dollars from his show like they did to fox news bill o reilly , after unproven allegations of sexual assault were made against him ? as sad as it was to the world of comedy when johnny carson passed away , it s a good thing he isn t able to see how that the hateful and spiteful liberal stephen colbert has disgraced and replaced what once was considered late-night comedy.last night , stephen colbert responded to # firecolbert backlash over a crude oral-sex joke he made about president donald trump and vladimir putin on monday , may 1 .
trump supporters and others thought the comment was inappropriate and called for the comedian to be dropped from the cbs show.the tv host , 52 , opened his wednesday , may 3 , episode by addressing the controversy .
welcome to the late show , he said .
i m your host , stephen colbert .
still ?
i am still the host ?
i m still the host !
colbert went on to explain that his scathing monologue was spurred by trump abruptly ending an oval office interview with fellow cbs correspondent john dickerson .
now , if you saw my monologue monday , you know that i was a little upset at donald trump for insulting a friend of mine , he said .
so at the end of that monologue , i had a few choice insults for the president in return .
i don t regret that .
he , i believe , can take care of himself .
i have jokes ; he has the launch codes .
so , it s a fair fight .
us magazinewatch liberal bully stephen colbert and his childish i don t regret what i said response to his viewers : for anyone who cares to watch colbert s vulgar remarks , they can be seen in the video below at around the 11:13 mark :