just another interesting discovery in a story that has already exposed a very corrupt government that favors illegal aliens over american citizens the gun used in the seemingly random slaying of a woman on a san francisco pier belonged to a federal agent , a law enforcement official briefed on the matter said tuesday.the official , who was not authorized to speak publicly about the case and spoke on condition of anonymity , said a police check of the weapon s serial number shows it belonged to a federal agent .
the official declined to elaborate further.the san francisco police department , which is investigating the case , declined to comment.the revelation was the latest dramatic twist in a tragic case that has become a new flashpoint in the country s debate over immigration policies.the suspected gunman , juan francisco lopez sanchez , has been deported to his native mexico five times and is suspected of living in the united states illegally when kathryn steinle , 32 , was gunned down last week while on an evening stroll with her father along san francisco s popular waterfront area.federal officials transferred sanchez to san francisco s jail in march to face a 20-year-old marijuana charge after sanchez completed his latest prison term for illegally entering the country.the san francisco sheriff , citing the city s sanctuary city policy , released sanchez in april after prosecutors dropped the drug charge , despite an immigration and customs enforcement request to hold him for federal authorities so deportation proceedings could begin.sanchez pleaded not guilty tuesday to first-degree murder.he told two television stations who interviewed him in jail that he found the gun used in steinle s killing wrapped in a shirt on the pedestrian pier she was walking on .
sanchez said the gun went off in his hands , and his public defender , matt gonzalez , said tuesday that the san francisco woman s death appeared accidental .
san francisco sheriff ross mirkarimi has defended sanchez s release and the city law requiring it to ignore ice detainer requests .
the sheriff said ice could have obtained a warrant or court order to keep sanchez in custody .
ice knew where he was , mirkarimi said monday .
he said he will continue to ignore ice detainer requests.state and federal republicans , meanwhile , said they would look into the matter.wisconsin sen. ron johnson , who chairs the senate s homeland security committee , criticized federal officials and demanded to know why sanchez was not deported .
does that make any sense to you ?
johnson demanded to know at a hearing tuesday .
because i ll tell you it doesn t make any sense to the american public .
republican state sen. jeff stone said he would introduce legislation in sacramento to require cities to comply with ice detainer requests.at sanchez s arraignment tuesday , prosecutor dianna garcia argued against releasing sanchez on bail , saying , this was an act of random violence , shooting an innocent victim in the back .
the judge set bail at $ 5 million , which gonzalez said will keep sanchez jailed pending trial.a downcast sanchez spent most of the hearing with his head bowed , appearing to fight back tears while the judge explained the charged to him .
sanchez was aided by a spanish-language interpreter and entered his plea in spanish.outside court , his attorney said sanchez has a second-grade education and a non-violent criminal record.he could face life in prison if convicted.via : fox carolina