united nations ( reuters ) - the united nations security council has banned four ships from ports globally for carrying coal from north korea , including one vessel that also had ammunition , but the united states postponed a bid to blacklist four others pending further investigation .
the vessels are the first to be designated under stepped-up sanctions imposed on north korea by the 15-member council in august and september over pyongyang s sixth and largest nuclear test and two long-range ballistic missile launches .
the security council north korea sanctions committee , which operates by consensus , agreed at the request of the united states , to blacklist the ships on oct. 3 for transporting prohibited items from the dprk ( north korea ) , according to documents seen by reuters on tuesday .
a u.n. diplomat , speaking on condition of anonymity , said the four blacklisted ships and the four vessels still being investigated had been linked to illicit trade in north korean coal .
in november last year , the security council capped north korean coal exports and then in august imposed a complete ban .
the 193 u.n. member states are now required to prohibit port entry to the comoros-flagged petrel 8 , st. kitts and nevis-flagged hao fan 6 , north korean-flagged tong san 2 and cambodia-flagged jie shun .
entry is only allowed in case of emergency or if the vessel is returning to its home port .
the jie shun was intercepted by egypt on aug. 11 , 2016 , carrying 30,000 rocket propelled grenades in wooden crates concealed under about 2,300 tonnes of iron ore , according to u.n. sanctions monitors .
it was the largest interdicted ammunition consignment in the history of sanctions against the democratic people s republic of korea , the independent sanctions monitors told the security council in their annual report in february .
the ship had left the north korean port of haeju on july 23 , 2016 , and was interdicted in egyptian territorial waters south of the suez canal , the experts said .
north korea is under a u.n. arms embargo and the security council has banned trade in exports such as coal , textiles , seafood , iron and other minerals to choke funding for pyongyang s missile and nuclear programs .
in an oct. 3 note to the security council s north korea sanctions committee , seen by reuters , the united states said it was withdrawing four ships it had proposed for listing - the south korean-flagged xin shen hai , the palau-flagged east glory 7 , the panama-flagged kai xiang and cheng hong .
these four ships require further study with key parties and we will revert to the committee once that process is completed , the u.s. mission to the united nations wrote .
a ninth ship , the fiji-flagged toyo maru , had been proposed for listing in an annex to the initial u.s. draft of a resolution adopted by the security council on sept. 11 .
it was not clear if the united states still planned to put the ship forward for designation .
the u.n. security council has unanimously adopted nine sanctions resolutions on north korea since 2006 .