melanija knavs-trump was born on april 26 , 1970 in the small slovenian railroad town of sevnica.her father victor was a car parts salesman .
he drove a mercedes , and by the time young melania was 16 he had built the house in the small town of sevnica population 4,500 as a weekend retreat for the family .
the property is on the banks of the river sava.meanwhile , melania s mother amalija worked as an executive in a textile factory .
she would come back from business trips to milan and paris with tales that would inspire her daughter to make her name in international fashion first as a designer before embarking on the modeling career that would lead to her meeting donald trump.school friends remember melania as a studious girl who preferred her books to playing a long way from the woman who would pose for photos in a magazine wearing the skimpiest outfits aboard trump force one her husband s customised boeing 727 ( which he has since upgraded to a 757 ) .her childhood neighbour and friend mirjana jelancic , 45 , who is now the headteacher at the primary school in slovenia which they both attended , said : she loved everything to do with art and design .
she would renovate old things to make them like new , such as old baskets .
her family put them in the living room with flowers in .
ms jelancic said that melania , now 46 , often showed off her diplomatic skills by acting as a mediator during playground disputes .
she said : she had a strong personality .
she would not be the first with an opinion , but she was intelligent and wise .
she grew up in a society when there was not so much freedom .
she knew that there was a bigger world out there because her mother had gone to fashion shows as part of her work .
she wanted something more from life , but she never told me that she wanted to be a model .
she liked knitting and making clothes .
in those times , people were more or less equal , but her family had a sense of aesthetics .
her father always had a mercedes and it was a ritual that melania and her sister ines would clean it every saturday .
she was always reading books , fashion magazines and catalogues .
kids would often call her to play , but she was busy reading .
melania , her parents and sister moved to an apartment in slovenia s capital , ljubljana , when she was about 14 , and she started at the city s secondary school of design and photography.but her family retained their links with sevnica , building their own white-painted house with a balcony and staying there at weekends.her parents , who have lived in new york in recent years , still own the house and return once or twice a year .
it even has a us-style mailbox .
the couple were last there for a week in june when neighbors noticed they had bodyguards .
dmmelania was 16 when she was spotted by fashion photographer stane jerko in ljubljana and he invited her to pose for him .
he said : i saw this tall girl with long hair and long legs so immediately introduced myself .
she was a little self-conscious when i first photographed her , but she learned very quickly and relaxed .
melania s first modeling job was for vezenine bled one of the most prominent textile factories in yugoslavia .
that was about two years before the country fell apart in a series of bloody wars .
nowadays , the vezenine bled factory grounds function as a paintball site .
she was very interested in perfecting her pose for the camera and in what kind of lighting worked best , jerko says .
she was eager to learn what it took to make a great photograph .
it didn t take long for melania to start getting regular modeling jobs , so jerko didn t see much of her from then on .
i would be delighted if she became first lady , he says .
she didn t get there because i discovered her she has worked on herself a lot .
she never went out with us , the local fashion crowd .
she always had her books with her .
she was always swimming or studying .
she knew what she wanted .
vice serbiamelania has appeared on the covers of and and on the pages of several top magazines : a young melania in her modeling days : .. ..... melania trump marries donald j. trump : melania and donald trump are expecting their first and only child : melania and donald celebrate the birth of their son barron trump : in addition to being a former model , melania was also a successful business owner before president trump made the decision to run for office .
melania hits the campaign trail : inaugural photos : first lady melania trump : the official white house portrait of first lady melania trumphappy 47th birthday first lady melania trump !