bogota ( reuters ) - two former colombian presidents will back a joint right-wing ticket in elections next year , they said on friday , focusing their platform on objections to the peace deal signed with the marxist farc rebels .
ex-presidents alvaro uribe , who is now a senator with his democratic center party and andres pastrana , who leads the conservatives , will jointly choose candidates for the presidency and vice-presidency , they said in a statement .
the two men have vehemently opposed the peace deal between the government of president juan manuel santos , who will leave office in august 2018 , and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) rebels , who have demobilized and are now a political party .
we will choose one candidate for the presidency and vice-presidency , from candidates chosen by the democratic center and the conservative base led by andres pastrana , choosing the candidate with the best chance of winning the presidency , the statement said .
the method for choosing between candidates has yet to be decided , it added .
besides changes to the peace deal , which the two men say is not harsh enough on former rebels and does not require them to pay enough for crimes including murder , kidnapping and displacement , the coalition will focus on improvements to health care and the economy .
uribe , who governed from 2002 and 2010 and managed a u.s.-backed offensive against the farc , has yet to choose a candidate for his party .
pastrana , who himself attempted a peace process with the farc during his 1998-2002 term , backs conservative candidate marta lucia ramirez , who also ran in 2014 .
corruption scandals , which have lately touched every major political party , are also expected to be a major theme in the 2018 race .
the country s constitutional court has ruled the peace deal can not be modified for the next 12 years .
other presidential candidates for next year include former vice-president german vargas lleras , former government peace negotiator humberto de la calle , ex-governor sergio fajardo and former m-19 rebel and mayor of bogota , gustavo petro .