columbia , s.c. ( reuters ) - riding high after a landslide victory in saturday ’ s south carolina primary , democratic front-runner hillary clinton has set sights on a possible face-off in the nov. 8 presidential election with donald trump , the favorite for the republican nomination .
“ despite what you hear , we don ’ t need to make america great again .
america has never stopped being great , ” she told supporters in her victory speech in south carolina , declining to mention trump by name , but taking a jab at his campaign slogan , “ make america great again. ” clinton said she was not taking anything for granted after crushing democratic rival bernie sanders on saturday by 48 percentage points , likely setting herself up for a good “ super tuesday ” night on march 1 , a key date in the nomination battle .
but if clinton and trump win big on tuesday as opinion polls suggest , the chance of a general election matchup between them increases , adding another twist to a presidential campaign that has defied convention as u.s. voters vent frustration over economic uncertainty , illegal immigration and national security threats .
some clinton backers , emboldened by the heightened chance of a trump nomination , have reaffirmed their support for the former secretary of state , saying that it is she , not sanders , who is best equipped to take down trump in a head-to-head showdown in november .
rosilyne scott , 58 , of texas , cast her vote early for clinton ahead of texas ’ s upcoming tuesday nominating contest , calling the prospect of a trump presidency “ frightening. ” “ i just think she has more support , and she ’ s been doing it a lot longer , ” she said .
“ if you get someone like donald trump in , i don ’ t know .
...
i think he ’ s a joke , a bigot , a racist. ” amid clinton ’ s renewed momentum against sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont , donors have also found resolve .
one clinton fundraiser in california said her recent victories in nevada and south carolina have prompted more people to donate to her campaign and to attend clinton events .
he said he had raised $ 10,000 for the clinton campaign in the past week alone .
a trump-clinton election would embody the outsider-versus-establishment battle in american politics .
trump has never been elected to public office , while the former first lady has been a player in washington for decades .
south carolina was clinton ’ s third victory in the first four democratic contests , raising more questions about whether sanders , a democratic socialist , will be able to expand his support beyond his base of predominantly white liberals .
exit polls showed clinton winning big in the state with almost every constituency .
she won nine of every 10 black voters , as well as women , men , urban , suburban , rural , very liberal and conservative voters .
sanders was ahead among voters between ages 18 and 29 , and among white men .
when asked which candidate they thought “ can win in november , ” an overwhelming 79 percent said clinton , with only 21 percent putting their faith in sanders to defeat the eventual republican nominee .
sanders , who has energized the party ’ s liberal wing and successfully courted many of the party ’ s youth , on sunday acknowledged he had been “ decimated ” by clinton in south carolina .
he set his sights on march 1 , where a win in a key state is crucial to keeping his hopes alive .
“ i think we ’ re going to do well on super tuesday , we ’ re going to do well in many states after that and we look forward to those state-by-state struggles , ” he said in an interview on nbc news ’ s “ meet the press. ” but sanders needs to have his breakout moment sooner rather than later , warned longtime democratic activist phil noble , who said that sanders ’ momentum in south carolina “ fell off the table ” after clinton ’ s solid victory in nevada on feb. 20 .
“ he ’ s got to pull off a surprise against clinton soon or he won ’ t have time to recover , ” he said .
( additional reporting by : alana wise in washington , luciana lopez in new york , emily stephenson in texas ; editing by alistair bell , mary milliken and jonathan oatis ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .