dubai ( reuters ) - bahrain s government has crushed dissent and violently cracked down on protests in the past year , amnesty international said on thursday , and it accused britain and the united states in particular of turning a blind eye to its abuses .
amnesty said in a report on thursday that it had documented how the bahraini government , from june 2016 to june 2017 , arrested , tortured , threatened or banned from travel at least 169 activists and opponents or their relatives .
bahraini authorities could not immediately be reached for comment .
bahrain has repeatedly denied systematic rights abuses .
entitled no one can protect you : bahrain s year of crushing dissent , the report said that at least six people were killed , including a child , in the crackdowns .
the report also accused western governments , notably the united states and britain of remaining silent .
the two countries have a particularly high level of influence in bahrain , where the u.s. fifth fleet is based and where britain s royal navy has a major facility .
amnesty said u.s. president donald trump s policy has shifted from that of his predecessor , barack obama , who had publicly criticized the authorities of the tiny gulf state .
in march 2017 , president trump told bahrain s king hamad there won t be strain with this administration : bahrain appears to have interpreted this statement as a green light to pursue its repression , the report said .
bahrain has stepped up a crackdown on critics , shutting down two main political groups , revoking the citizenship of the spiritual leader of the shi ite muslim community and jailing rights campaigners .
it denounced attempts by previous u.s. and uk governments to intervene in its campaign .
in july , a bahraini court sentenced rights campaigner and prominent activist nabeel rajab to two years in jail for allegedly making false or malicious statements about bahraini authorities .
rajab is facing another trial and risks a further 15 years in prison for tweeting .
using an array of tools of repression , including harassment , arbitrary detention and torture , the government of bahrain has managed to crush a formerly thriving civil society , philip luther , amnesty international s director for the middle east and north africa , said in a statement .
amnesty said it had received reports of nine cases of government critics being tortured in detention , eight of them in may 2017 alone .
bahrain has been a flashpoint since the sunni-led government put down arab spring protests in 2011 .
the kingdom , most of whose population is shi ite , says it faces a threat from neighboring shi ite theocracy iran .
it accuses the islamic republic of radicalizing and arming some members of its majority shi ite population in an effort to bring about the downfall of the ruling al khalifa family .
tehran denies any meddling in bahrain .