ankara/sochi ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan took swipes at u.s. and russian interventions in syria on monday and said if countries truly believed a military solution was impossible , they should withdraw their troops .
russian president vladimir putin and his u.s. counterpart donald trump said in a joint statement on saturday they would continue to fight against islamic state in syria , while agreeing that there was no military solution to the country s wider , six-year-old conflict .
i am having trouble understanding these comments , erdogan told reporters before flying to russia for talks with putin .
if a military solution is out of the question , then those who say this should pull their troops out .
then a political method should be sought in syria , ways to head into elections should be examined ... we will discuss these with putin , he said .
after more than four hours of talks with putin in the southern russian resort of sochi , erdogan said the two leaders had agreed to focus on a political solution to the conflict .
we agreed that the grounds to focus on a political solution ( in syria ) have been formed , he said .
putin said russia would continue to work on syria with turkey and their efforts were yielding results : the level of violence has definitely been reduced , favorable conditions are being created for the progression of a inter-syrian dialogue .
neither leader went into more specific detail .
asked if the two discussed erdogan s earlier comments , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov said the talks were about more complex issues which could not be made public , according to ria news agency .
turkey has been annoyed by both russian and u.s. missions in syria .
before his trip to russia , erdogan said both moscow , which backs president bashar al-assad , and washington , which armed syrian ypg kurdish forces ankara sees as allied to separatists fighting in southeastern turkey , had set up bases .
the united states said it would completely leave iraq , but it didn t. the world is not stupid , some realities are being told differently and practiced differently , he said .
he said the united states had 13 bases in syria and russia had five .
the ypg has said washington has established seven military bases in areas of northern syria .
the u.s.-led coalition says it does not discuss the location of its forces .
russia has been a strong supporter of assad , whose removal erdogan has demanded , and moscow s military intervention two years ago helped turn the conflict in the syrian president s favor .
turkish troops have also fought in syria to halt the advance of kurdish ypg forces along its frontier .
we attach great importance to the joint steps turkey and russia will take on ( the ) defense industry , erdogan said .
his remarks follow turkey s recently completed purchase of russian s-400 surface-to-air missile systems , a defense deal that turkey s western allies see as a snub to the nato alliance .
the weapon can not be integrated into nato defenses .
ankara says it is making agreements with the franco-italian eurosam consortium to develop , produce and use its own sources for air defense system .