ottawa ( reuters ) - canada , under pressure from allies to boost its commitment to peacekeeping , will propose offering helicopters for use by u.n. forces in mali and could later provide troops to work as trainers , two sources familiar with the matter said on wednesday .
prime minister justin trudeau s liberal government , which came to power in 2015 and quickly promised to make 600 soldiers available for peace operations , last year said it would consider sending soldiers to mali but has repeatedly put off a decision amid fears of casualties .
the stalling has irritated other nations , which say it could harm canada s efforts to win a seat on the security council .
canada is prepared to send six helicopters for use by the 10,000-strong u.n. force in mali , which is helping deal with a militant threat , said the sources , who requested anonymity given the sensitivity of the situation .
more than 80 members have been killed since 2013 , making mali the world s deadliest peacekeeping operation .
canada is hosting an international peacekeeping conference later this month and officials are preparing a special meeting on the sidelines to discuss the needs of the mali mission , both in terms of providing troops and helping train local forces , the sources said .
one option for canada would be to send soldiers to act as trainers , a role they are already playing in northern iraq , said one source .
they could either be based in mali or nearby nations .
although ottawa has sent three separate fact-finding missions to the mali region , canadian officials said they have yet to take a final decision on whether to send troops .
we realize there is growing impatience for a final decision , said a canadian source familiar with government thinking .
defense minister harjit sajjan told reporters that when it comes to peace support operations ... we will make sure that we take our time to make a responsible decision .
he declined to give further details .
defense experts said that given the scale of the mali challenge , they doubted whether even 600 canadian troops could make a difference on the front lines .
a senior diplomat from a nation involved in peacekeeping said the canadian government should have studied the mali mission carefully before publicly discussing the possibility of sending troops .
if soldiers start coming home in coffins , it s debatable whether sajjan could give a coherent explanation of why canada was there in the first place , said the diplomat .