of course he s a racist for defending legal american citizens unlike obama , trump s not looking to make friends with illegal aliens .
legal american citizens will reward his dedication to defending our borders with their votes donald trump , business mogul and current republican front-runner , has reiterated his stand on the issue of illegal immigration , saying that he would deport up to 11 million illegals and then build a wall on the u.s.-mexico border.trump has taken plenty of heat from democrats and his republican challengers , some of whom tried to get him to back down from his non-politically correct views .
the donald will have none of it.in nearly every recent public appearance , and in the second republican debates on sept. 16 , trump noted that the number of illegals is likely much higher than 11 million , and that he would deport the lot of them forthwith.specifically , mr. trump said he could facilitate the mass deportation and rid the u.s. of nearly all illegal immigrants within two years , and possibly as fast as 18 months .
saying we have to get them out , and we are a nation of laws , trump employed his typically colorful language when he concluded that he would deport the illegals so quickly , your head will spin .
trump s 2-year plan would deport , on average , 15,068.4 illegal immigrants per day in order to reach the 11 million mark successfully.until now , one of the starting points in most debates about illegal immigration , especially among moderate republicans and democrats , has been the notion that there are so many undocumented immigrants in the u.s. , it would be impossible to deport them all.trump proposes a fast deportation plan followed by the building of a massive border wall to keep future illegal crossers from coming over .
further , the candidate s proposal includes a provision whereby those who are deported can apply to re-enter the u.s. , but they must follow the formal , legal procedures already in place.the formal entry process is lengthy , involves a significant amount of paperwork , and is intended to keep criminals and unsavory characters ( like potential terrorists ) out of the country .
in fact , most developed nations have more stringent immigration policies than the u.s. does .
mexico , for example , is quite strict about its own southern border , where many central american immigrants attempt to sneak into the country without proper documentation .
typically those illegal entrants are caught , jailed , and then quickly deported.trump s views are not lost on african americans , many of whom responded to a recent surveyusa poll about their preferences in the upcoming general election .
one-fourth of the respondents said they would choose trump over hillary clinton if that were the matchup in november 2016 .
in most national elections , blacks vote for the democrat candidate about nine-to-one over the republican .
many blacks see illegal immigration as one of the reasons for the exceedingly high unemployment rate in their communities .
via : us world report