jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia s mount agung volcano in bali has let out a puff of black smoke and ash in a small eruption , prompting singapore to advise its citizens to be ready to evacuate the holiday island at short notice amid concern about a bigger eruption .
authorities have not changed the alert status on agung , which remains at one level below the highest and there have been no reports of flight cancellations .
singaporeans should defer non-essential travel to the affected areas of the island at this juncture , singapore s ministry of foreign affairs said in a travel notice on wednesday .
you should also be ready to evacuate at short notice .
eruptions could result in ash clouds that could severely disrupt air travel , it said .
agung looms menacingly over eastern bali at a height of just over 3,000 meters ( 9,842 feet ) .
it last erupted in 1963 , killing more than 1,000 people and razing several villages .
indonesia has nearly 130 volcanoes , more than any other country .
many of them show high levels of activity but it can be months before an eruption .
a spokesman for indonesia s national disaster mitigation agency , said via a text message that there had been a phreatic eruption late on tuesday with black smoke reaching 700 meters ( 2,300 ft ) , followed by falling ash , gravel and sand .
these types of eruptions called phreatic are the product of rock that already exists being shattered violently when water heated by the rising magma under agung quickly turns to steam , according to a blog post on the discovermagazine.com website .
the disaster agency recommended against any activity within 6-7.5 km ( 3.7-4.6 miles ) of the crater .
it said that 29,245 people were staying in 278 evacuation camps .
at one stage , after authorities put agung s alert status at the highest level of four in september , more than 130,000 people left their homes .
the alert level was lowered to three on oct. 29 .
australia left its travel advice unchanged and told citizens to monitor local media reports , follow the instructions of local authorities , and stay outside the existing exclusion zone .
bali , famous for its surf , beaches and temples , attracted nearly 5 million visitors last year , but business has slumped in areas around the volcano since september when agung s volcanic tremors began to increase .
tourism , a cornerstone of bali s economy , is indonesia s fourth-biggest earner of foreign currency after natural resources like coal and palm oil .