just confirming what anyone paying attention already knew .
the huffington post isn t interested in reporting the news they re strictly serving as a propaganda arm of the progressive left earlier this month , while political news organizations were wrestling with the rise of donald trump , washington post senior politics editor steven ginsberg offered a philosophy : in my view , making decisions solely according to who may win the nomination is the worst way to cover a presidential election , he said .
a whole lot happens on the way to the nomination and you can t explain what s happening with the candidates or the country without being on top of all of it .
since then , trump s influence in the republican primary has only grown .
he has surged to the front of the pack , leading his rivals by 3 points in the most recent fox news and usa today/suffolk polls , respectively .
he has raised issues that have resonated with conservative voters and forced other gop candidates to come forward on where they stand .
it is very likely that he will appear near center-stage at the inaugural republican debate , on aug. 6 , and lead the pile-on against jeb bush.in other words , trump is a major character in this chapter of the 2016 presidential election story .
and as ginsberg said , you can t explain what s happening with the candidates or the country without being on top of all of it .
on friday , however , the huffington post s politics team announced that they would no longer cover the candidate as a political story .
after watching and listening to donald trump since he announced his candidacy for president , we have decided we won t report on trump s campaign as part of the huffington post s political coverage .
instead , we will cover his campaign as part of our entertainment section , they wrote .
our reason is simple : trump s campaign is a sideshow .
we won t take the bait .
if you are interested in what the donald has to say , you ll find it next to our stories on the kardashians and the bachelorette .
a quick fact-check : 1 .
huffington post is taking the bait , because they re continuing to cover trump and will continue to benefit from the clicks .
2 .
trump s campaign isn t a sideshow .
he s leading the field , and is therefore a daily preoccupation for other candidates .
( hours after posting its note , huffington post sent an email clarifying that the impact [ trump is ] having on the republican party and the immigration debate is itself a real thing , which it will cover as substance , but anything that tumbles out of his mouth will land on the entertainment page .
) one might conclude that huffington post s announcement amounts to the same trump-style grandstanding they claim to condemn .
on a larger level , they seem to miss the point that all politics is theater .
countless statements have tumbled forth from the mouth of candidates top-tier and third-tier that were made precisely to rile up the base , bait an opponent , get free play in the media , etc .
the huffington post politics team has covered these stories , and will almost surely continue to do so even when they come from candidates who have a less of a shot at their party s nomination than trump.via : politico