cape town/johannesburg ( reuters ) - thousands of south africans marched in anti-corruption protests on wednesday , in a rallying cry against scandal-plagued president jacob zuma and his powerful allies three months before a new anc leader is chosen .
the african national congress will pick its next leader in december with deputy president cyril ramaphosa expected to face off against nkosazana dlamini-zuma , the former chair of the african union and zuma s ex-wife .
the congress of south african trade unions ( cosatu ) , which has backed ramaphosa and operates in an alliance with the anc , led marches in major cities across south africa .
though the demonstrations were supposed to be against corruption , it became apparent protesters had come to vent their anger at zuma and throw support behind his rivals .
throngs of protesters marched to parliament in cape town singing songs and waving zuma must go placards , although the crowds never got close to the tens of thousands promised by cosatu .
things are just going down under president zuma , textile worker florence titus told reuters .
he needs to play a president s role not just be there to fill his pockets and his family s pockets .
he must step down .
senior members of the anc have also called for zuma to quit in recent months following a swell of allegations that his friends , the gupta family , wield undue influence over the award of state contracts worth hundreds of millions of dollars .
the guptas and zuma deny wrongdoing and say they are victims of a politically-motivated witchhunt .
zuma survived an attempt in parliament to force him from office in august , but was left politically wounded after some anc members backed the opposition s no-confidence motion .
he can remain head of state until a parliamentary election in 2019 , although the next anc leader could edge him out next year .
allegations of widespread corruption and the raiding of taxpayer funds by outside interests - known locally as state capture - have further dented investor confidence in an economy which fell into a recession earlier in 2017 .
we are marching against state capture .
we are fighting the guptas who are taking our money , ongeziwe sisilana , a 26 year old teacher , said as she walked with around two thousand others in downtown johannesburg .
sisilana held up a sign reading state capture is a criminal offense while some in the relaxed crowd swigged from beer cans as idle police cordons watched on .
ramaphosa s camp has prioritized fighting corruption , boosting economic growth and winning back the trust of supporters who have become disillusioned with the party under zuma .
zuma s faction , backed by a powerful patronage network , is likely to throw its weight behind dlamini-zuma , although other candidates could still come into contention .
wednesday s series of marches and protests that target corruption and state capture are also targeting mr zuma and his succession faction in the anc , said gary van staden , political analyst at nkc research .
some analysts say an opposition coalition could unseat the anc at the next election , an unthinkable scenario a few years ago for a party that has led comfortably since it swept to power under nelson mandela at the end of apartheid in 1994 .