( reuters ) - an opposition leader who said she fled cambodia in fear of arrest called on western donors on wednesday to impose targeted sanctions on prime minister hun sen s government to save democracy in the southeast asian nation .
mu sochua , 63 , left cambodia on tuesday , saying she had been tipped off that she was among the next targets of a crackdown in which opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) leader kem sokha was arrested a month ago and charged with treason .
elections are due next year and the opposition party has accused hun sen , 65 , of arresting and harassing its leaders and other critics so he can extend over 30 years in power .
the time for statements has passed .
it s time for sanctions , targeted sanctions .
also suspension of technical aid to the government of cambodia , mu sochua told reuters .
time is up for democracy .
how long can the international community wait ?
she was speaking to reuters in southeast asia and requested that the location not be specified because of security concerns .
she said last week that around half the cnrp s members of parliament had fled cambodia .
the sanctions could include visa restrictions on top officials , mu sochua said , but should not target the exports of garments - mostly to the united states and european union - on which the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of cambodian workers depend .
responding to mu sochua s comments , government spokesman phay siphan said there was no reason for any country to impose sanctions on cambodia because it was committed to peace and pluralism and the rule of law .
this is a sovereign state and it will protect its sovereignty , he said .
he said he could not comment on any potential arrests because that would be a matter for the judiciary .
the government accuses the opposition of planning a revolution to oust hun sen , whose rule has spanned cambodia s three-decade transformation from a broken state after the khmer rouge genocide to one of the region s fastest growing economies .
hun sen has called it a color revolution , similar to movements in parts of the balkans and the former soviet union in the 2000s .
since kem sokha s arrest , mu sochua had emerged as his most outspoken deputy .
she said she grew worried at the weekend after suspected plain clothes police followed her to rallies in the countryside .
tip-off then on monday , hun sen threatened more arrests of opposition leaders .
mu sochua said a senior government official had sent her a recording of his speech .
i said , is this about me ?
he said yes .
i said is the arrest going to be this week ?
he said yes , said mu sochua , who is known internationally for decades of campaigning against sex trafficking and for women s rights .
insurrection charges over which she was detained for seven days in 2014 could easily be brought back , she said .
the government has not said it planned to charge her .
mu sochua said any international moves against hun sen should be aimed at preserving democracy .
when we talk about targeted sanctions we also talk about giving mr. hun sen time to think and to adjust and to give the opposition , civil society , free media space so that the next 10 months will be time to prepare for elections , she said .
western countries have condemned the arrest of kem sokha and the crackdown on non-governmental organizations , civil rights groups and independent media in the country of 16 million people , but they have not taken any concrete steps .
what is shocking is how the international community , especially cambodia s donors , are essentially giving hun sen a free pass at each step of this crackdown , phil robertson , deputy asia director , human rights watch , said in a statement .
western donors played an essential part in rebuilding cambodia after 1991 peace accords to end civil war , but their influence has waned as cambodia s economy has strengthened and as china has become its most important ally .
u.s .
senators john mccain and dick durbin introduced a resolution on tuesday that called on the u.s. state and treasury departments to consider putting top cambodian officials on a list that could stop them visiting the united states .
china , by far the biggest donor to cambodia , has given verbal support to hun sen. a former khmer rouge commander , he defected from the group and helped to drive it from power in 1979 after the deaths of an estimated 1.7 million people .