tokyo ( reuters ) - tokyo governor yuriko koike s new party on friday unveiled an election platform that seeks to distance her yurinomics policies from prime minister shinzo abe s aggressive stimulus , by cutting reliance on fiscal spending and monetary easing .
launched less than two week s ago , koike s party of hope will take on abe s ruling coalition in a national election called for oct. 22 .
it has made populist calls to freeze a scheduled sales tax hike in 2019 and phase out nuclear power , in an effort to set itself apart from the government on key issues , but the fresh approach on the economy was given its own catchy name .
we ll carry out yurinomics that brings out private sector vitality , without relying excessively on monetary easing and fiscal spending , the party of hope said .
while maintaining the bank of japan s massive monetary easing for the time being , the government and the boj should work together to seek a smooth exit strategy , it added .
yurinomics is a piece of political branding to counter abenomics - the name given to the aggressive monetary and fiscal stimulus measures and structural reforms abe has adopted since returning to power in december 2012 .
five years on , abe s government can point to some signs that his strategy is finally fostering stronger economic growth and defeating deflation .
appointed by abe , bank of japan governor haruhiko kuroda still wants to give his money-printing ways more time to work , whereas the hope party wants to debate a strategy to smoothly end them .
abe called the snap election last week in the hope his liberal democratic party-led coalition will secure a simple majority in parliament s lower house , from its two-thirds super majority earlier .
amid signs that voters are disillusioned with abe after nearly five years in power , koike s hope party , pitched as a reformist , conservative alternative to abe s equally conservative ldp , has clouded the outlook , however .
by putting monetary policy on the table , koike s platform could spur debate among a lot of lawmakers about the need to fix some of the things they think are wrong , and quantitative easing could be a candidate , said shuji tonouchi , senior market economist at mitsubishi ufj morgan stanley securities .
right now , the market impact is limited because the chances of her party forming a government are low .
the new party says yurinomics - derived from koike s first name - will focus on deregulation and tax firms massive internal reserves - worth around 300 trillion yen ( $ 2.66 trillion ) to encourage them to put unused cash to better use .
it will also freeze the scheduled sales tax hike in 2019 and help low-income households with a basic income policy that regularly pays a set amount of money to all citizens .
while the party of hope s conservative approach on defense and constitutional reform resembles that of abe s ldp , its economic policy has a more populist streak , analysts say .
basic income is being called for in some countries facing growing social inequality , so i m not totally rejecting the idea , said hiroshi shiraishi , senior economist at bnp paribas securities .
but without a secure source of revenue , it s simply impossible .
abe s ruling coalition has pledged to proceed with the sales tax hike and use the revenues for child care and education .
koike said her party would build on abenomics to bring the benefits of the economic recovery to more households .
we need to carry out a more meticulous economic policy and social reform that would strike people s heart , koike told a news conference , where she reiterated that she would not stand in the coming election .
her party is open to debate on a possible revision of the constitution s pacifist chapter 9 , whose literal interpretation would ban the maintenance of armed forces .
in an interview , abe told kyodo news agency he wanted to win support from other parties , including koike s , for the ldp s campaign pledge for a revision to provide a firm legal basis for japan s military , the self-defence forces .
koike , 65 , a former defense minister and member of abe s ldp , has not made clear whom her party would back as the next prime minister .
she defied the ldp to run for governor last year , defeating the ruling party candidate by a landslide before leading her small local party to a huge victory on a reformist platform in a july tokyo assembly election .
( $ 1=112.8300 yen )