tokyo ( reuters ) - russia s military chief warned on monday that military exercises by japan , the united states and south korea aimed at countering north korea only raise hysteria and create more instability in the region .
russian chief of the general staff of the armed forces general valery gerasimov , issued his warning in tokyo as the united states , japan and south korea began a two-day exercise to practice tracking missiles amid rising tension over north korea s weapons programs .
carrying out military training in regions surrounding north korea will only heighten hysteria and make the situation unstable , gerasimov said at the beginning of a meeting with japanese minister of defence itsunori onodera .
this week s exercise by the united states and its two asian allies , in which they will share information on tracking ballistic missiles , comes just days after large-scale drills by u.s. and south korean forces that north korea said made the outbreak of war an established fact .
north korea says its weapons programs are necessary to counter u.s. aggression .
on nov. 29 , north korea test-fired its latest ballistic missile , which it said was its most advanced yet , capable of reaching the mainland united states .
china has also repeatedly called for the united states and south korea to stop their exercises , which north korea sees as preparation for an invasion .
chinese foreign ministry spokesman lu kang , asked in beijing about the latest u.s. , south korean and japanese drills , said the situation was in a vicious cycle that if followed to a conclusion would not be in anyone s interests .
all relevant parties should do is still to completely , precisely and fully implement the relevant u.n. security council resolutions toward north korea , and do more for regional peace and stability and to get all parties back to the negotiating table .
not the opposite , mutual provocation , lu said .
gerasimov s visit to japan is the first by a senior russian military official in seven years and follows the resumption of two-plus-two defense and foreign minister talks in march after russia annexed crimea .
relations between russia and japan have been hampered for decades over the ownership of four islands north of japan s hokkaido , captured by soviet forces at the end of world war two .
japan has declined to sign a formal peace treaty with russia until the dispute is resolved .
gerasimov also met katsutoshi kawano , the chief of staff of japan s self defence forces .
china s defence ministry said on monday it had begun a planned joint simulated anti-missile drill with russia in beijing , which had important meaning for both countries in facing the threat from missiles .
it said the exercise was not aimed at any third party .
china and russia both oppose the development of global anti-missile systems , the ministry added in a statement .
china and russia both oppose the deployment in south korea of the advanced u.s. terminal high altitude area defense ( thaad ) anti-missile system .
china in particular fears the system s powerful radar could look deep into its territory , threatening its security .
the united states and south korea say the system is needed to defend against the threat of north korean missiles .
it is not clear if this week s exercise by u.s. , south korean and japanese forces will involve the thaad system .