new york ( reuters ) - u.s. presidential candidate ted cruz ’ s support among republicans is about even at a national level with party front-runner donald trump , according to reuters/ipsos polling , as the u.s. senator picked up a victory in wisconsin ’ s primary .
cruz ’ s gains in the polling mark the first time since november that one of trump ’ s rivals has threatened his lead in support among republicans in the race to be party nominee for the nov. 8 election .
the gains coincided with a bumpy patch for trump , who was forced to backtrack last week after saying women who had abortions should face punishment if the procedure is outlawed , and who voiced support for his campaign manager after he was charged with misdemeanor assault for allegedly grabbing a reporter .
cruz , a senator from texas , got 35.2 percent of support to trump ’ s 39.5 percent , the poll of 568 republicans taken april 1-5 found .
the numbers put the two within the poll ’ s 4.8 percentage-point credibility interval , a measure of accuracy .
cruz and trump were also briefly about even early last week .
but as recently as a month ago , when senator marco rubio was also still a candidate , cruz trailed trump in the reuters/ipsos polling by about 20 points .
ohio governor john kasich , the only other candidate left in the race for the republican party nomination , placed third in the april 1-5 poll with 18.7 percent .
trump ’ s support has faltered among women in particular in recent weeks .
more than 70 percent of likely women voters said they had an “ unfavorable ” opinion of trump , according to the rolling poll average for the five-day period ended april 5 .
in the democratic race , front-runner hillary clinton held a nationwide lead in the poll of about 7 points over u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont .
cruz and sanders easily won their wisconsin presidential primary contests on tuesday night .
sanders would still face a difficult task overtaking clinton as the nominating contest , but cruz ’ s double-digit win over trump was seen as a breakthrough for republican party forces battling to block him .