washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. state department has approved the possible sale of a thaad anti-missile defense system to saudi arabia at an estimated cost of $ 15 billion , the pentagon said on friday , citing iran among regional threats .
the approval opens the way for saudi arabia to purchase 44 terminal high altitude area defense ( thaad ) launchers and 360 missiles , as well as fire control stations and radars .
this sale furthers u.s. national security and foreign policy interests , and supports the long-term security of saudi arabia and the gulf region in the face of iranian and other regional threats , the pentagon s defense security cooperation agency said in a statement .
saudi arabia and the united states are highly critical of what they consider iran s aggressive behavior in the middle east .
iran also has one of the biggest ballistic missile programs in the middle east , viewing it as an essential precautionary defense against the united states and other adversaries , primarily gulf arab states and israel .
thaad missile systems are deployed to defend against ballistic missile attacks .
saudi-owned al arabiya television reported on thursday that the kingdom had agreed to buy russian s-400 surface-to-air missile systems , an announcement that came as saudi king salman made during his visit to russia , the first by a saudi monarch .
u.s. military sales to saudi arabia have come under increased scrutiny over the saudi-led coalition s war in yemen .
riyadh and its allies have been bombing the iran-aligned houthis in yemen since the houthis seized much of the country s north in 2015 .
riyadh says the coalition is fighting terrorists and supporting yemen s legitimate government but the office of the u.n. human rights chief has said saudi-led air strikes cause the majority of civilian casualties .
lockheed martin co ( lmt.n ) is the prime contractor for the thaad system , with raytheon co ( rtn.n ) playing an important role in the system s deployment .
the united states deployed thaad to south korea this year to guard against north korea s shorter-range missiles .
that has drawn fierce criticism from china , which says the system s powerful radar can probe deep into its territory .