washington ( reuters ) - the united states on tuesday offered multimillion-dollar rewards for two officials of the iran-backed lebanese group hezbollah as the trump administration prepared to unveil a strategy to counter tehran s growing regional influence .
washington will pay up to $ 7 million for information leading to the arrest of talal hamiyah , head of hezbollah s foreign operations , and up to $ 5 million for fuad shukr , a top hezbollah military operative , the state department said .
the rewards are the first offered by the united states for hezbollah operatives in a decade , nathan sales , the u.s. counterterrorism coordinator , told reporters .
today s rewards are another step to increase the pressure on them and their organization , said sales .
other extremists for whom the united states is offering rewards include abu bakr al-baghdadi , the head of islamic state , and mohammad jolani , the commander of al qaeda s syrian branch .
hamiyah has been on the department s foreign terrorist list since 2015 and shukr was added in 2013 .
the united states named hezbollah as a foreign terrorist organization in 1997 .
nicholas rasmussen , the head of the national counterterrorism center , blamed the group for a litany of attacks around the world , and said it maintains a presence in nearly every corner of the globe .
pointing to the arrests of two men in the united states in june for alleged activities on hezbollah s behalf , rasmussen said that u.s. intelligence agencies assess that the group is seeking an ability to strike inside the homeland .
sales signaled that as part of u.s. president donald trump s soon-to-be unveiled iran strategy , washington would press countries that have yet to designate hezbollah as an international terrorist group to do so .
additionally , some countries have chosen to designate only hezbollah s military wing , leaving its so-called political wing untouched , he said , apparently referring to the 28-member european union .
but that is a false distinction .
make no mistake .
hezbollah has no political wing .
it is a single organization , a terrorist organization , and it is rotten to its core .
designating the group as a terrorist organization is not merely symbolic , he continued .
by not doing so , he said , countries limit other governments ability to freeze hezbollah s assets , to shut down its front companies , to eliminate its fund-raising and recruiting capabilities and to prosecute hezbolah associated networks .
the united states will need allies in this fight .
but winning support for an intensified campaign against hezbollah could prove difficult for the administration .
the powerful iran-backed organization is part of lebanon s fragile coalition government and commands enormous support for the social services it provides .