is sean spicer secretly sending america a cry for help ?
that s the question on everyone s mind as the beleaguered press secretary walked up to the podium and showed off his upside down american flag pin.flying an upside down american flag is officially considered a sign of distress and the united states flag code says it should only be done in instances of extreme danger to life or property .
working for trump and having to repeat his endless font of lies on a daily basis , certainly may qualify .
he s been on the job for less than 3 months and already spicer looks like he s slowly dying from the inside out .
he s moody , he s paranoid , he seems unhappy all the characteristics of a man who is straining under the pressure of having to defend trump s nonsense with a straight face.spicer s subtle signal of distress only added to the impression that his daily press briefings have turned into thinly-veiled hostage videos .
reporters are pressing him for facts which he either can not or will not provide .
he lashes out with vague and blustering lies while trying to find the nearest exit .
it s hard to watch.here s the video : but people are having fun with this one : sean spicer 's flag pin is upside down .
pic.twitter.com/myr1xjhheg kyle griffin ( @ kylegriffin1 ) march 10 , 2017your flag is upside-down sean .. is that message ?
pic.twitter.com/bv7q12jwir jon nicosia ( @ newspolitics ) march 10 , 2017spicer 's flag pin was upside down during his press briefing until someone pointed it out .
a signal of distress .
@ seanspicer # trumprussia pic.twitter.com/7xvv9vgms5 william peace ? ?
( @ williampeace81 ) march 10 , 2017sean spicer has apparently entered the `` cry for help '' phase of trump employment .
wearing the flag upside down , very nice sean .
james petruzzi ( @ hawaiianimages ) march 10 , 2017in a bizarre twist revealing just how crazy this white house is , former reality tv star omarosa handed spicer a note while he was standing at the podium letting him know about his flag pin situation .
he quickly adjusted it .. @ presssec sean spicer fixes flag pin after @ omarosa delivers note to podium .
watch live on c-span3 https : //t.co/ob60zuqzxh pic.twitter.com/9j0hlebyxu cspan ( @ cspan ) march 10 , 2017this may be shrugged off as a small little gaffe , but we all know how seriously republicans take their flag lapels remember this ridiculous scandal conservatives freaked out about ? one might go so far as to conclude that they are raging hypocrites.featured image via twitter