new york ( reuters ) - a majority of americans say democrat hillary clinton won monday night ’ s presidential debate , but her performance doesn ’ t appear to have immediately boosted her support among likely voters , according to a reuters/ipsos national tracking poll released on wednesday .
the online poll , which gathered responses from more than 2,000 people on tuesday , found 56 percent of american adults felt that clinton did a better job than trump in the first of their three televised debates , compared with 26 percent who felt that trump did better .
of those who thought clinton emerged the victor , 85 percent were democrats and 22 percent were republicans .
u.s. presidential debates have historically been seen as a crucial test of candidates ’ poise and policies .
monday ’ s was watched by a record 84 million viewers and was billed as a rare prime-time opportunity for two unpopular candidates to convince millions of undecided voters to back them .
afterward , both candidates claimed victory .
“ “ every single online poll had me winning , ” trump said at a campaign stop in council bluffs , iowa on wednesday .
“ you sit back and you hear how well she did in the debate .
i don ’ t think she did well at all. ” clinton campaign spokesman jesse ferguson said the democrat clearly won the debate as trump “ was unprepared , became unhinged and was incoherent throughout. ” among those who are expected to take part in the nov. 8 general election , 34 percent said they felt that the debate changed their view of clinton in a positive way , compared with 19 percent who said the same of trump .
some 31 percent of likely voters said the debate improved clinton ’ s chances of winning the white house , while 16 percent said the debate benefited trump .
even so , clinton ’ s performance seemed to have little impact on her support among america ’ s likely voters .
the poll showed 42 percent supported clinton while 38 percent supported trump .
over the past few weeks clinton has maintained a lead of between 4 and 6 points over trump .
narrowing the focus to likely voters who watched the debate , clinton led trump 44 percent to 39 percent .
one possible reason for the lack of movement in her support is that it usually takes several days to measure the full impact of a single event , like a debate , said donald green , a political scientist at columbia university .
the reuters/ipsos poll is conducted every day in english in all 50 states .
monday ’ s sample of 2,036 american adults included 1,336 people who were considered to be likely voters from their voting record , registration status and stated intention to vote in the election .
among those likely voters , 1,026 said they watched some portion of the debate on live tv , online or in media clips that were circulated after the debate .
the poll has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points for the entire sample and the sample of likely voters .
it has a credibility interval of 4 percentage points for the likely voters who watched the debate .
national opinion polls have differed this year in how they measure support for clinton and trump .
some polls , like reuters/ipsos , try to include only likely voters , while others include all registered voters .
the reuters/ipsos tracking poll gathers responses every day and reports results twice a week , so it often detects trends in sentiment before most other polls .
polling aggregators , which calculate averages of major polls , have shown that clinton ’ s lead over trump has been shrinking this month to about 2 percentage points .