( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court ’ s key rulings on abortion , dating to the landmark 1973 decision that legalized the procedure nationwide , have long provoked social , religious and political tensions .
as the court majority became more conservative over the decades , it set standards that enhance states ’ ability to regulate abortion .
yet even in the most recent rulings , extending to 2007 , there have never been five votes on the nine-member court to reverse the fundamental right to abortion .
here is a look at the court ’ s major abortion rulings .
roe v. wade , 1973 , 7-2 vote the court rules that a woman ’ s constitutional right to privacy protects her decision to end a pregnancy , and only a compelling state interest can justify regulating abortion .
the decision institutes a three-part legal test , connected to a nine-month pregnancy and a fetus ’ viability , that gives states more latitude for regulation with each trimester .
planned parenthood of southeastern pennsylvania v. casey , 1992 , 5-4 vote the court affirms the right to abortion .
rather than the trimester framework , the test is whether a government regulation imposes an “ undue burden ” on a woman seeking an abortion by creating a “ substantial obstacle ” to the procedure before the fetus develops to the point at which it becomes viable .
stenberg v. carhart , 2000 , 5-4 vote the court decides that a nebraska ban on a late-term procedure critics call “ partial birth abortion ” violates a woman ’ s right to abortion .
the procedure , known medically as “ intact dilation and extraction , ” involves a physician removing most of the fetus intact rather than dismembering it .
the justices fault the nebraska ban , similar to laws in a majority of the states at the time , for its ambiguity about precisely what type of medical procedure is prohibited and for lacking an exception for the health of the mother .
gonzales v. carhart , 2007 , 5-4 vote the court decides that a federal partial birth abortion act , involving the same type of procedure as in the nebraska dispute and without an exception for the woman ’ s health , is constitutional .
the majority distinguishes the ruling from the 2000 case by noting that congress developed findings that the procedure would never be necessary for the health of the mother .
another factor in the reversed course was that in 2000 , justice sandra day o ’ connor had voted to strike down the partial-birth ban .
she was succeeded by samuel alito in 2006 , and in 2007 he cast the fifth vote in favor of the ban .
whole woman ’ s health v. hellerstedt , 2016 , 5-3 vote the court strikes down a texas abortion law imposing strict regulations on doctors and facilities , finding that the 2013 statute put an undue burden on women exercising their right under the u.s. constitution to end a pregnancy .
the court declares that both provisions of the law - requiring physicians who perform abortions to have difficult-to-obtain “ admitting privileges ” at a local hospital and requiring clinics to install costly hospital-grade facilities - violate abortion rights .
the ruling marked the firmest endorsement of u.s. abortion rights since the 1992 planned parenthood of southeastern pennsylvania v. casey ruling .