new delhi ( reuters ) - india has frozen requests to commercially release a locally developed genetically modified mustard , an environment ministry document released on tuesday showed , amid stiff opposition to lab-altered food from domestic activists and politicians .
the mustard variety would have been the first transgenic food crop to be allowed for commercial cultivation .
but the environment ministry 's genetic engineering appraisal committee ( geac ) has deferred approval despite a panel the ministry supervises giving the genetically modified ( gm ) mustard technical clearance last year .
( bit.ly/2cnuokz ) `` subsequent to receipt of various representations from different stakeholders , matters related to environmental release of transgenic mustard are kept pending for further review , '' the geac said in minutes of a meeting released on the environment ministry 's website marked `` confidential and restricted circulation '' .
( bit.ly/2yjrrlu ) cotton is the only gm crop currently allowed to be sold in the world s second most populous country where arable land is shrinking .
u.s. company monsanto co dominates the cotton seed market in india , and often faces resistance from local companies over its position .
the environment ministry told parliament on july 31 that gm mustard had been recommended by geac to it for `` consideration for environmental release and cultivation '' .
( bit.ly/2gcnc54 ) an environment ministry spokesman directed reuters to geac head amita prasad , whose office said she was not available .
another geac official named on the ministry s website , madhumita biswas , did not respond to requests for comment .
the decision on the mustard represents a setback for deepak pental and his colleagues at the delhi university , who worked on developing and testing the variety for years .
pental , who earlier acknowledged that getting a go-ahead for gm food would be difficult , declined to comment on tuesday .
gm food has been opposed by activists and politicians in india due to fears that it could compromise food safety and biodiversity .
some experts have also questioned claims that gm crops are more productive than normal varieties .
hindu nationalist group rashtriya swayamsevak sangh - hindi for `` national volunteer organization '' and the ideological parent of prime minister narendra modi 's ruling party - also opposes gm food and instead wants to promote local varieties .
( reut.rs/2y1iytl ) even the previous government , led by the current opposition congress party , in 2010 placed a moratorium on gm eggplant , also after an experts panel had given its clearance - effectively bringing the regulatory system to a deadlock before modi revived it .
( reut.rs/2gxtmgr ) ( reut.rs/2yfbgxi )