goma , democratic republic of congo ( reuters ) - suspected ugandan rebels killed at least 15 tanzanian u.n. peacekeepers and wounded 53 others in a raid on a base in congo that u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres on friday called the worst attack on the organization in recent history .
tanzania s president john magufuli said he was shocked and saddened by the deaths , which come amid rising violence against civilians , the army and u.n. troops in democratic republic of congo s eastern borderlands .
the u.n. chief said the attack constituted a war crime and called on congolese authorities to investigate and swiftly bring the perpetrators to justice .
i want to express my outrage and utter heartbreak at last night s attack , guterres told reporters at u.n. headquarters in new york .
there must be no impunity for such assaults , here or anywhere else .
the united nations security council condemned the attack on friday and held a moment of silence for the victims .
state department spokeswoman heather nauert wrote on twitter that the united states was appalled by the horrific attack .
u.n. troops were still searching for three peacekeepers who went missing during the more than three-hour firefight that broke out at dusk on thursday evening , ian sinclair , the director of the u.n. operations and crisis centre , said .
u.n. officials said they suspected militants from the allied democratic forces ( adf ) staged the assault on the base in the town of semuliki in north kivu s beni territory .
the adf is an islamist rebel group that has been active in the area .
congo s u.n. mission , monusco , said it was coordinating a joint response with the congolese army and evacuating wounded from the base .
five congolese soldiers were also killed in the raid , monusco said in a statement .
congo s army said only one of its soldiers was missing , however , while another had been injured , adding that 72 militants had been killed .
rival militia groups control parts of mineral-rich eastern congo nearly a decade and a half after the official end of a 1998-2003 war in which millions of people died , mostly from hunger and disease .
the area has been the scene of repeated massacres and at least 26 people died in an ambush in october .
the government and u.n. mission have blamed almost all the violence on the adf but u.n. experts and independent analysts say other militia and elements of congo s own army have also been involved .
in response to the growing unrest , and in an effort to protect civilians , the u.n. s under-secretary-general for peacekeeping jean-pierre lacroix said monusco had stepped up its activities in the area .
they don t want us there .
and i think this attack is a response ... to our increasingly robust posture in that region , he told reporters .
thursday s raid was the third attack on a u.n. base in eastern congo in recent months .
increased militia activity in the east and center of the country has added to insecurity in congo this year amid political tensions linked to president joseph kabila s refusal to step down when his mandate expired last december .
an election to replace kabila , who has ruled congo since his father s assassination in 2001 , has been repeatedly delayed and is now scheduled for december 2018 .
established in 2010 , monusco is the united nations largest peacekeeping mission and had recorded 93 fatalities of military , police and civilian personnel .