cairo ( reuters ) - egyptian authorities have released high-profile irish detainee ibrahim halawa following his acquittal last month of charges including murder , in a four-year mass trial criticized by human rights groups .
halawa , a student , and three of his sisters were charged along with nearly 500 others with a host of crimes including breaking into a mosque , killing 44 people , and illegal possession of firearms in violence that followed the military s overthrow of egypt s islamist president , mohamed mursi , in 2013 .
irish foreign minister simon coveney told irish national broadcaster rte on friday that halawa was likely to be able to fly home by monday following his release late on thursday .
this is a great moment for ibrahim and his family a moment for celebration , and a moment for savoring freedom , and i want to wish ibrahim halawa and his family all health and happiness for the future , coveney said in a separate statement .
egyptian rights activists say they have faced the worst crackdown in their history under president abdel fattah al-sisi , who was elected president in 2014 , a year after as armed forces commander he led the military s toppling of mursi .
halawa was 17 when he was arrested in 2013 with hundreds of others as part of the crackdown on protests .
since then he had been held in pre-trial detention , where he said he was regularly tortured .
the defendants in the case had all faced the death penalty but none received it , though hundreds were given sometimes hefty jail sentences .
rights groups welcomed halawa s release .
after four years of unjust detention , today ibrahim halawa finally walks free .
he should never have been jailed in the first place and it is utterly outrageous that he was forced to spend a single minute of his young life behind bars .
said najia bounaim , north africa campaigns director at amnesty international .
reuters was not immediately able to reach halawa s family for comment on friday , but his sister fatima told rte in a radio interview : it s beyond description ...
it s amazing to finally know that ibrahim is out and he s released and he s safe .