european nations have naively opened their borders to millions of muslim males who have no intention of assimilating .
as they make their way across europe , police forces find themselves ill-equipped to handle the extreme increase in sexual assault and violence , so citizens are now finding themselves in a position where they are being forced to take matters into their own hands.a group of young concerned germans made a video warning that they would no longer sit back and watch their culture and history being destroyed .
the video can be viewed by clicking here.on february 4 , 2015 , we reported about a fast growing group of vigilantes who call themselves the soldiers of odin .
the self-styled soldiers of odin march in a mob , wearing bomber jackets with their logo on the back .
they have vowed to take direct action to protect their wives , girlfriends and children after a migrant influx to the liberal scandinavian country .
persons linked to islamist groups in oslo say that they have formed a group called soldiers of allah .via a central source in the islamist environment , the norwegian newspaper vg has received a statement , and photographs of the planned uniform.the group has been named jundullaah which translates to soldiers of allah .
in response to the group of unbelievers in soldiers of odin , who are patrolling the streets , we muslims have chosen to create a group to patrol the streets , initially in the capital oslo , to forbid evil and call for the good , says the statement.the planned uniform , is decorated with the black flag of the terrorist organization islamic state ( is ) on the back , with a small logo on the chest.on tuesday , labour s muslim deputy chairman , hadia tajik , said that the soldiers of odin defy norway s rules on private security businesses and she tried to illustrate the problem as follows : it is as if the islamists would be the uniformed ones , take to the streets and call themselves guards or vigilantes .
it is very undesirable and unfortunate for our country , devastating , said tajik.now it s exactly what is about to happen.great tip , tajik.the information that islamists in oslo are in the process of establishing a group , is also confirmed by the temporary spokesman of the prophet s ummah who calls himself abu arijon .
he said that the plan is to start in oslo , then drammen and t nsberg.many of the people in soldiers of allah come from the environment around the islamist group the prophet s ummah , where spokesman ubaydullah hussain currently is in custody and charged with recruiting for is .
soldiers of allah inform in the statement themselves , that almost everyone in the group is on the watch list of the police security service ( pst ) .
is pst aware of the group soldiers of allah planning to patrol in oslo ?
we can not comment on individuals or individual groups , says senior adviser in pst , siv als n , to vg.so there it is .
regular street battles could soon be a reality in norway .
soldiers of odin against soldiers of allah , with the police in between .
however , it will most likely not be started by the soldiers of odin , but the rabid islamists in the soldiers of allah .
and then , even though the soldiers of odin claim to be a peaceful group , the viking has clearly awaken illustrated by the logo on the back .
and being attacked by islamists , they will have no other choice than to go berserk again , after a thousand years in hibernation.all hell is breaking loose in countries all across europe .
are americans paying attention , or has obama s manufactured race war distracted us from his plan to seed muslims in our small towns and communities across america through the us state dept .
refugee resettlement program ?