( reuters ) - michael bloomberg , the billionaire former mayor of new york city , has told his aides to draw up plans for an independent campaign for the u.s. presidency , according to a source familiar with the situation .
bloomberg has advised friends and associates that he would be willing to spend at least $ 1 billion of his own money on a campaign for the november 2016 election , according to the source , who spoke on condition on anonymity to discuss the former mayor ’ s thinking .
news of bloomberg mulling a presidential run was first reported saturday by the new york times .
bloomberg , 73 , has given himself an early march deadline for entering the race , the source said , after commissioning a poll in december to see how he would fare against donald trump and hillary clinton , the republican and democratic frontrunners .
no third-party candidate has ever won a u.s. presidential election .
but bloomberg , who has close wall street ties and liberal social views , sees an opening for his candidacy if republicans nominate trump or texas senator ted cruz and the democrats nominate vermont senator bernie sanders , the source said .
bloomberg , who has long privately flirted with the idea of mounting a presidential run , served as mayor of new york city from 2002 to 2013 .
he switched his party affiliation from republican to independent in 2007 and in recent years has spent millions on national campaigns to tighten u.s. gun laws and reform immigration .
one unnamed bloomberg adviser told the times the former mayor believes voters want “ a non-ideological , bipartisan , results-oriented vision ” that has not been offered in the 2016 election cycle by either political party .
a well-financed presidential run by bloomberg would likely disrupt the dynamics of the election , but the billionaire would face significant hurdles in a race that has been in full swing for nearly a year .
though no third-party candidate has ever claimed the white house , several previous bids have affected the overall makeup of the race .
in 1992 texas businessman ross perot ran as an independent , a decision that some believe helped democrat bill clinton defeat incumbent republican george h. w. bush .
bloomberg earned 13 percent support when facing a hypothetical three-way race against clinton and trump , according to a poll of 4,060 registered voters conducted january 14-17 by morning consult .
trump and clinton were virtually tied at 37 and 36 percent , respectively , the survey found .
part of bloomberg ’ s motivation to enter the race stems from a frustration with clinton ’ s campaign , the source said .
clinton has been dogged by questions about her honesty amid an ongoing investigation into her use of a private email server as secretary of state .
sanders , clinton ’ s chief rival , has recently surged in polling in key early voting states iowa and new hampshire .
that development has made bloomberg increasingly worried about a general election between sanders , a self-described socialist , and trump or cruz , both of whom have staked out far-right positions on issues like immigration .
at the new hampshire republican party “ first in the nation presidential town hall ” in nashua , senator rand paul , who is lagging badly in opinion polls , seemed unfazed by the possibility of a bloomberg third-party run .
he even saw a bright side for his party .
“ if he splits the democrat vote - those for gun control - that might be good for republicans , ” paul told reporters .
representatives for bloomberg declined to comment on the former mayor ’ s plans for the presidential race .
( additional reporting by alana wise in new hampshire ; editing by janet lawrence and mary milliken ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .