facebook ceo and founder , mark zuckerberg is clearly making an effort to recognize the recent deaths of two black men , who the media has determined ( without a trial ) are victims of unjustified deaths at the hands of white police officers .
the michael brown trial proved without a shadow of a doubt that he never had his hands up when he was shot , and that furthermore , he was attempting to overtake officer wilson and steal his gun when he was shot and killed .
the freddie grey case has been tried in courts and every cop has been exonerated .
but who needs facts when burning down cities and killing innocent cops who are fathers , husbands and sons is so much more effective when it comes to angering the black community into voting for hillary ?
when the ceo of social media giant facebook , who reaches billions of people around the world , openly sides with a radical , leftist , violent organization , that many consider to be a terrorist group , the whole world is in very big trouble.on friday , facebook s menlo park headquarters put up a giant sign declaring that black lives matter and held a moment of silence for the people who had died .
`` your pain is our pain . ''
# blm # blacklivesmattera post shared by trish ( @ trishytreesh ) on jul 8 , 2016 at 2:36pm pdta close-up of the sign shows that the words are formed from individuals names , including emmett till , trayvon martin , oscar grant , eric garner , oscar grant , michael brown , jordan davis , kimani gray , renisha mcbride , jonathan ferrell , and amadou diallo.when zuckerberg put this sign up in front of the facebook hq s , did he consider putting a sign up honoring the lives of the murdered cops in dallas by racist cop killer micah x. johnson ?
or how about the other cops who ve been murdered at the hands of racists inspired by the blm movement ?
oh wait .. never mind .
that wouldn t help obama s cause to agitate black voters , thereby encouraging them to turn out the vote for hillary in november .
and it s pretty clear whose team facebook is on this instagram user posts a picture of the blm sign at the facebook hq s. the first comment suggests that unless other companies get behind the obama-holder-sharpton race/cop war movement , they should stop spending money with them .
maybe no one told this person , but facebook is supposed to be a social media platform and not a social media political opinion influencer !
facebook has played a major role in capturing evidence and disseminating fury in the recent glut of police-involved violence .
after a police officer shot castile , his fiance diamond reynolds went live on facebook with damning footage of the aftermath .
the video has since racked up more than 5 million views .
( facebook briefly took the video down late wednesday night due to what it called a glitch .
) the next day , thursday , users again turned to facebook live to broadcast footage from a protest in dallas , that captured sounds of gunfire when a sniper shot multiple people , leaving five police officers dead.in the aftermath of castile s death , facebook ceo mark zuckerberg heralded the power of facebook live .
the images we ve seen this week are graphic and heartbreaking , and they shine a light on the fear that millions of members of our community live with every day , he wrote. # altonsterling and # philandocastile s lives mattered .
black lives matter .
we need racial justice now .
pic.twitter.com/mxtc0zrfqj google ( @ google ) july 7 , 2016via : fusion * these photos were posted on instagram by people who claim to work at facebook .