this is perfect.for months , donald trump has been talking about forcing muslims to put themselves on a national registry and to carry special identification with them , much like the jews were forced to do in 1930s germany before hitler used their identification to slaughter them in the holocaust.trump has since tried to back away from this idea , but that doesn t mean he won t pursue it anyway , as he has still been a total asshole towards muslims , accusing them of being anti-american and terrorists.so tayyib rashid took to twitter , which is trump s favorite place to whine , and tagged him in a post featuring a photo of the special i.d .
badge he already carries.you see , rashid is a former u.s. marine who proudly wore the uniform for this country and pledged to defend it with his life .
that s something that trump himself refused to do during the vietnam war , when he dodged the draft multiple times by using college as an excuse before getting out of serving entirely by getting a medical deferment because of an alleged bone spur in his foot .
one year ago today , rashid said this to trump.hey @ realdonaldtrump , i m an american muslim and i already carry a special id badge .
where s yours ? # semperfi # usmc pic.twitter.com/qsf2o9pti2 the muslimmarine ( @ muslimmarine ) november 19 , 2015today , rashid is apparently still waiting for trump to respond.one year ago i asked @ realdonaldtrump for his id -still waiting like all his supporters ll b waiting for him 2 make america great again .
https : //t.co/tyjoszya5f the muslimmarine ( @ muslimmarine ) november 19 , 2016rashid then explained the true meaning of islam.we are peacemakers .
we fight ignorance with education , hatred with love for humanity .
we are followers of # trueislam .
come join us and see .
https : //t.co/bnw2c2mvsf the muslimmarine ( @ muslimmarine ) november 19 , 2016donald trump is a coward who is scapegoating muslims .
a muslim registry or ban will not defeat terrorism .
it will only inflame the muslim world and help isis recruit more fighters to their cause , using america s hate and bigotry as an advertising tool .
trump is giving a gift to isis with his discriminatory policies and we must not allow him to do that.featured image : scott olson/getty images