jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesian police appealed on thursday for tolerance and respect for other people s religious celebrations after an islamist group threatened to raid businesses to check for muslims being forced to wear santa claus hats or other christmas garb .
the hardline islamic defenders front ( fpi ) said this week it would conduct sweeping operations in the world s biggest muslim-majority country , and that forcing muslims to wear christmas attire was a violation of their human rights .
indonesia is home to several religious minorities , including christians , hindus , buddhists and people who follow traditional beliefs .
the constitution guarantees freedom of religion in an officially secular state though tension between followers of different faiths can flare .
there can be no sweeping operations ... members of the public should respect other religions that are carrying out celebrations , national police chief tito karnavian told police during a security exercise in the capital , jakarta .
the fpi said it aimed to enforce a fatwa , or decree , issued by indonesia s islamic clerical council in 2016 prohibiting business owners from forcing employees to wear christmas clothing .
we will raid businesses in anticipation of them being stubborn about this and we will be accompanied by police , said novel bakmukmin , head of the fpi s jakarta chapter .
employers forcing staff to wear christmas clothes were violating their rights .
businesses should be aware that there should be no forcing , he said .
the islamic clerical council s decrees are not legally binding but serve as guidelines for indonesian muslims .
christmas is widely celebrated across indonesia and holiday decorations are ubiquitous , especially at shops , restaurants and malls where many enthusiastic workers - even muslims - don santa hats or elf costumes .
the fpi built its reputation with raids on restaurants and bars serving alcohol during the muslim fasting month of ramadan .
in recent years , it has turned its attention to christian celebrations .
the group has also said it wants the jakarta city government to stop sponsoring new year celebrations , which attract many thousands of people .
about 90,000 police officers will be on duty cross the country during the end-of-year holidays , in an operation largely aimed at preventing militant attacks .
attacks on churches in jakarta and elsewhere on christmas eve in 2000 , killed nearly 20 people .
ever since , authorities have stepped up security at churches and tourist spots for the holiday .