benghazi , libya ( reuters ) - two months after the dominant military force in eastern libya declared victory in a campaign to retake benghazi , hassan al-zawy is living rough in his home in the district that witnessed the city s last major battle .
like many other residents , he ventured back as khalifa haftar s libyan national army gradually wrested back control from islamist militants and other rebel groups .
parts of libya s second city were reduced to rubble during more than three years of fighting and , with economic crisis and political turmoil gripping the country , rebuilding is a daunting challenge .
there are flies , mosquitoes and garbage .
at night , we have absolutely nothing , zawy told reuters in mid-august in the seafront neighborhood of sabri .
we ve been here for one month and 10 days and all we want from the state is ( this ) : electricity and water , and for people to return to their homes , and stay there .
a conflict that developed after strongman muammar gaddafi was toppled in an uprising six years ago has yet to be resolved .
benghazi , where the 2011 revolution started , has seen some of the worst violence .
tens of thousands of residents , many opposed to haftar , were displaced to other libyan cities .
sabri is where haftar s rivals had their final strongholds , and was bombarded by lna heavy artillery and air strikes up until a few weeks ago .
sporadic fighting continued after haftar announced victory on july 5 .. people recover what they can from the rubble of ruined buildings .
children help with the cleanup .
afterwards , men sit outside drinking tea or coffee and guarding their streets .
one says he will stay in his home even if he has to hang towels over the doors and windows .
another sabri resident , farag mahmoud , said some people were so keen to get back to their homes that they were ignoring the risk from land mines still planted in parts of the district .
we found our homes had been flooded from broken pipes in the plumbing systems , and were submerged in water around 70 to 80 centimeters deep , he said .
some returning residents have formed citizens committees to lobby the municipal authorities on water , electricity and hygiene , said milad fadlallah , a local engineer .
most residents in the less severely damaged eastern part of sabri would be able to spend the muslim holiday of eid al-adha , which starts on sept. 1 , back in their neighborhood , fadlallah said .
but a lack of funds and political leadership in a country still divided between two rival governments will hinder reconstruction , said osama al-kaza , director of projects at benghazi s municipality .
in benghazi , the conflict has also had left deep physical and psychological scars .
achieving an outstanding and modern image for the city will have to be done in stages , will take years and cost billions , he said .
( story refiles to add dropped s in second paragraph . )