beijing/hanoi ( reuters ) - china urged vietnam on friday to take a calm and rational view of its military drills in the south china sea , after vietnam expressed opposition , as tension between the neighbors worsens over the disputed strategic waterway .
china has appeared uneasy at vietnam s efforts to rally southeast asian countries over the busy waterway as well as at its neighbor s growing defense ties with the united states , japan and india .
in july , under pressure from beijing , vietnam suspended oil drilling in offshore waters that are also claimed by china .
vietnam was deeply concerned about the exercises in the gulf of tonkin area , at the north end of the south china sea , foreign ministry spokeswoman le thi thu hang said in a statement , but did not make clear what drills were being referred to .
vietnam proposes china to cease and refrain from repeating acts that complicate the situation in the east sea , hang said , employing vietnam s name for the south china sea .
all foreign activities in vietnamese waters must comply with vietnamese and international laws , she added .
vietnam s foreign ministry conveyed its position to a chinese embassy representative on thursday , the statement added , without saying when china s announcement was made or when any drill might take place .
in beijing , chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said the drills were routine annual exercises and were being carried out in the northwestern part of the south china sea .
the relevant sea is under china s jurisdiction , she told a daily news briefing on friday , adding that china had the right to carry out such drills in the waters there .
we hope the relevant side can calmly and rationally view it , she added .
last month , the maritime safety administration of china s southern province of hainan , which oversees the south china sea , said military drills would take place south of the province and east of vietnam from aug. 29 until sept. 4 .
there would be live fire drills around the paracel islands , which vietnam claims , until sunday , it added .
china claims nearly all the south china sea , through which an estimated $ 3 trillion in international trade passes each year .
brunei , malaysia , the philippines and taiwan also have claims .