bogota ( reuters ) - colombia must maintain eradication and substitution of coca crops as a long-term policy across the andean nation s isolated jungle and mountain zones to permanently defeat drug trafficking and consolidate peace , the defense minister told reuters .
a new government , which will be elected next year , must keep up the policy if the nation hopes to stamp out the illegal drugs industry , which has funded colombia s half century war that has killed more than 220,000 and displaced millions .
there can be no interruption to this policy because there s a new government , not in 2018 , nor in 2022 or 2026 , defense minister luis carlos villegas , 60 , said in an interview .
it has to be a process of at least a generation so that it bears fruit and that there s true peace .
since signing a peace accord last year with the revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) , the government has focused efforts on clearing coca from areas once controlled by the rebels .
coca , the raw material that makes cocaine , is cultivated in about 188,000 hectares across colombia by subsistence farmers who have few other opportunities to feed their families .
criminal gangs , right-wing paramilitaries and marxist rebels form the purchasing chain that has helped make colombia one of the biggest producers of cocaine .
cocaine seizures reached 300 tons so far this year and may exceed the record 362 tons seized last year , said the minister , who formed part of the government s peace negotiating team with the farc .
as part of the policy , the government plans to invest in development programs - building schools , health centers and roads - to allow poor farmers to improve their social conditions and sell legal crops like cacao , fruits , coffee and palm oil .
colombia s vast rural expanse lacks roadways , so villegas said infrastructure that brings communities closer to market are vital for eradication to work .
it s not enough to plant cacao to replace coca ... thousands of miles of tertiary roads are needed , he said .
colombia wants to manually eradicate 100,000 hectares of coca this year , with farmers voluntarily destroying half of it .
the united states has raised concerns about the increase in coca production and cultivation , which has reached levels seen a decade ago , arguing that the increase is a result of colombia s ban on aerial fumigation .
despite pressure to resume spraying , using glyphosate , a chemical linked to cancer , villegas ruled out the possibility .
it s off the radar , he said .