bernie sanders likes to talk about how everyone will be equal using other people s money .
it s the most asinine concept and it s not like it hasn t been tried before .
we love larry elder s personal take on equality and the common sense reasons there will never be total equality especially income equality : is there a more brain-dead concept than to empower the government to fight income inequality ?
what sane , normal , rational human being thinks that human talent , drive , interests and opportunity can or should result in equal outcomes ? despite my love of athletics , i knew in third grade that my friend , keith , could run much faster than i could .
for two years i played little league ball , and i got better at it .
but no matter how hard i tried or how many hours i spent , i could not hit , run or throw as well as my friend benji.later in life , i started playing tennis , and i became quite passionate about it .
but most of the people i played against had started playing years earlier , and most had taken lessons for years .
i got better , but given my competitors head start , the gap remained.financial planners advise clients to start early and stick to some sort of game plan .
is there any wonder that those who do so will have more net worth than those who started later , or who lacked the discipline to follow and stick to a plan ?
how is government supposed to address these unequal outcomes ? most entrepreneurs experience failure before hitting on an idea , concept or business that makes money .
even then , it takes 20 to 30 years of long hours and sacrifice , along with occasional self-doubt and a dollop of luck , to become a multimillionaire.i recently saw a movie starring cate blanchett .
she is a very good actress , but she is also strikingly beautiful .
is there any doubt that her good looks , over which she had no control , are a factor in her success ?
is it unfair that an equally talented actress , but with plain looks , will likely have an unequal career compared with that of blanchett ? speaking of acting , most who venture into that field do not become successful , if success is defined as making a living as an actor .
these overwhelming odds still do not deter the many young people who flock to hollywood every year to make it .
had a would-be actor dedicated that same drive and personality to some other profession , success would have been more likely , if less enjoyable .
should the government intervene and take from the successful non-actor and give to those who unsuccessfully pursued a long-shot acting career ?
an ex-actor told me of her recent lunch with a friend she had met when they both left college and pursued acting .
while the ex-actor moved on to a different , successful career , her friend stuck to acting , through thick and thin .
the actor informed her friend that she recently turned down a commercial .
why ?
what struggling actor turns down this kind of work ?
turns out , through some sort of assistance program , said the friend , the state of california is assisting with her mortgage .
she has no obligation to repay the money , and she will continue to receive the assistance as long as her income is not above a certain level .
how does this strengthen the economy ?
the ex-actor , through her taxes , subsidizes the lifestyle of the actor , who admits turning down work lest she be denied the benefits.but this is exactly the world sought by bernie sanders a government that taxes the productive and gives to the less productive in order to reduce income inequality .
in the real world , two individuals , living next door to each other , make different choices about education , careers , spouses , where to live , and if and how to invest .
even if they make exactly the same income , one might live below his or her means , prudently saving money , while the other might choose to regularly buy new cars and fancy clothes and go on expensive vacations .
is there any question that the first person will end up with a higher net worth than the latter ?
is their inequality something that government should address ? although beyonce is a good singer , is there any question that there are others with superior voices ?
but beyonce is also blessed with unequally good looks , charisma and perhaps better management maybe better than the other two ladies in her musical trio , destiny s child , whom she once sang with .
three singers , in the same group , have had unequal outcomes.communism , collectivism and socialism rest on the same premise that government possesses the kindness , aptitude , judgment and ability to take from some and give to others to achieve equality .
karl marx wrote , from each according to his ability , to each according to his needs .
and that s the problem .
the statement implicitly acknowledges that some have more aptitude , drive , energy and ability than others .
to take from some and give to others reduces the initiative of both the giver and the givee.this is the fundamental flaw with income redistribution , the very foundation of communism , socialism and collectivism .
one would think that bernie sanders would have figured this out by now .
but wisdom among 74-years-olds , like outcome , is not distributed equally.larry elder is a best-selling author and radio talk-show host .
to find out more about larry elder , or become an elderado , visit www.larryelder.com .
follow larry on twitter @ larryelder.via : black community news