washington - donald trump proposed on tuesday forcing mexico to pay for his planned border wall by threatening to block remittances from illegal immigrants , which he said amounts to “ welfare ” for poor families in mexico that their government does not provide .
the republican presidential candidate ’ s campaign said in a memo that if elected in november , trump would use a u.s. anti-terrorism law to cut off such money transfers unless mexico made a one-time payment of $ 5 billion to $ 10 billion for the wall .
trump ’ s pledge to build the wall has been a much-touted highlight of a platform targeting illegal immigration in the united states that has helped make him the front-runner to be the republican nominee for the nov. 8 election .
it is unclear how much a wall along the nearly 2,000-mile ( 3,200-km ) u.s.-mexico border would cost , and mexico has been adamant it would not pay .
the memo elaborated on an idea trump floated in august , when he suggested seizing all remittances tied to “ illegal wages. ” it said that upon taking office a trump administration would propose a rule mandating companies such as western union co wu.n to require customers to prove they were legally in the united states .
if mexico agreed to fund the wall , trump would drop the proposed rule , it said .
“ it ’ s an easy decision for mexico , ” his campaign said , adding the country receives about $ 24 billion a year in remittances from mexicans in the united states , most of them in the country illegally .
“ it ( remittances ) serves as de facto welfare for poor families in mexico .
there is no significant social safety net provided by the state in mexico , ” it said .
according to the world bank remittances project , flows from the u.s. to mexico in 2014 , the last full year for which it has data , were nearly $ 24 billion although it is unclear what portion comes from mexicans living in the country illegally .
democratic president barack obama called the remittance-blocking idea impractical and possibly self-defeating .
“ the notion that we ’ re going to track every western union bit of money that ’ s being sent to mexico , you know , good luck with that , ” he told reporters .
if mexico ’ s economy collapses , it would just drive more immigrants to the united states , obama added .
mexican president enrique pena nieto appeared to dismiss the proposal as campaign rhetoric .
“ the ( mexican ) presidency has no comment on any opinion made in the heat of the electoral process to choose candidates for the u.s. presidency , ” the president ’ s office said in a text message to reuters .
any move to target payments sent home by people living in the united states could have a crushing financial effect in mexico , the leading recipient of u.s. remittances .
trump ’ s proposal could also affect banks and companies that handle wire transfers , which also include moneygram international inc ( mgi.o ) and paypal holdings inc ’ s ( pypl.o ) xoom .
the companies did not respond to requests for comment .
in addition to his wall proposal , trump has accused mexico of sending rapists and drug runners to the united states .
democrats and many republicans have repeatedly condemned his comments as inflammatory , but his remarks have been enthusiastically received by his supporters , especially by white working-class voters .
in the memo , first reported by the washington post , trump ’ s campaign repeated its pledge to target visas .
it also cited imposing trade tariffs or enforcing existing trade rules as a way of forcing mexico to pay .
trump supporter benjamin proto , a connecticut lawyer , acknowledged the remittance plan was unrealistic but praised the candidate for “ looking at different ways to do things. ” the memo emerged as republican candidate ted cruz appeared set to beat trump in wisconsin ’ s primary contest on tuesday , a win he would hope would mark him as the best alternative to the new york billionaire .