( reuters ) - while the new seven-member politburo standing committee unveiled on wednesday by china s ruling communist party was not packed with people regarded as close to president xi jinping , his allies dominate the new politburo - the second tier in beijing s power structure .
of the 25 members of the politburo , at least 14 were known to be close to xi , according to sources with ties to the leadership and foreign diplomats in beijing .
in five years time , some of them could be promoted to the standing committee , china s pinnacle of power .
the 14 exclude xi himself , who heads the politburo .
by comparison , the new standing committee included just one close xi ally , although the other members are not seen as rivals .
xi s known allies on the politburo , in alphabetical order : cai qi , beijing party boss chen miner , chongqing party boss chen xi , who is likely to become minister of the party s organization or personnel department ding xuexiang , who is expected to become xi s chief of staff as director of the party s general office huang kunming , expected to become the party s propaganda minister li hongzhong , tianjin party boss li qiang , jiangsu party boss li xi , liaoning party boss li zhanshu , who is tipped to become head of parliament having been appointed the third ranked member of the standing committee liu he , economic adviser wang chen , a vice chairman and concurrently secretary-general of parliament general xu qiliang , a vice chairman of the central military commission yang xiaodu , minister of supervision and deputy secretary of the anti-corruption watchdog , the central commission for discipline inspection zhang youxia , a vice chairman of the central military commission the average age of the new politburo is 62.48 compared with 61.16 five years ago the oldest member is general xu qiliang , a vice chairman of the central military commission .
xu and five others are at the cusp of retirement at 67 and can only serve one five-year term .
the youngest is guangdong party secretary hu chunhua , who was born in 1963 .
two others were born in the 1960s , chen miner and ding xuexiang , 1960 and 1962 respectively .
a fourth , li qiang , was born in 1959 .
sun chunlan , minister of the party s united front work department , is the lone woman in the new politburo .
the previous politburo had two women .
top diplomat yang jiechi surprisingly made it to the politburo and could become one of four vice premiers , the first diplomat to hold that post since qian qichen , who was vice premier from 1993 to 2003 .
qian was instrumental in breaking china out of diplomatic isolation after the military crackdown on the 1989 tiananmen pro-democracy protests .
general zhang youxia , a close xi ally , is a politburo newcomer .
he is one of two vice chairmen of the central military commission , and his promotion confirms a reuters report on oct. 17 .
vice president li yuanchao , outgoing propaganda minister liu qibao and former xinjiang party boss zhang chunxian have not reached retirement age but did not retain their politburo seats .
shanghai mayor ying yong is not on the new politburo , most likely dashing his chances of becoming party boss of china s financial capital .
china s top cop , politburo member guo shengkun , is expected to become security chief .
there are no ethnic minorities on the new politburo .