bangkok ( reuters ) - somber crowds began gathering to pay final respects to thailand s late king bhumibol adulyadej , braving a tropical downpour to camp out along the funeral procession route for a monarch who died last year and was revered by some as a demi-god .
the five-day buddhist ceremony , which begins on wednesday , has taken nearly a year to prepare and 3 billion baht ( $ 90 million ) has been set aside to pay for the funeral .
arriving a day early to guarantee their place for a funeral that is expected to draw 250,000 people , mourners pitched flimsy tents in the middle of bangkok s old quarter to provide some protection from the torrential rain .
hotels in the old town neighborhood have been booked up weeks in advance , and a national holiday has been declared for oct. 26 , the day of the cremation .
although he was a constitutional monarch , king bhumibol adulyadej has been credited with reviving the prestige of the monarchy .
aged 88 when he died , the king was viewed by many people a pillar of stability in the politically turbulent southeast asian country , where a military junta currently holds power .
the king s cremation site , which features gold-tipped pavilions built for the occasion , is a stone s throw from the grand palace , popular with foreign tourists .
even though the funeral had yet to begin , many of the people gathering had tears in their eyes and were visibly emotional .
hunched beneath a makeshift tent made of cloth and string , chalermporn paebutr , a 72-year-old woman from northern thailand , described her determination to bid farewell to a much-loved monarch .
i traveled here two days ago so that i could be the first to get a good spot , she told reuters .
we only have to brave the rain for a few days .
this is worth it if we can be near him one last time .
around 1,000 people had camped overnight in the downpour , police said on tuesday .
some only had their plastic raincoats for protection .
thailand has suffered floods since oct. 10 .
nine people have died , and 19 of the country s 77 provinces have been hit affected .
the floods will not affect the cremation ceremony in any way , interior minister anupong paochinda told reporters .
new king maha vajiralongkorn , the late king s only son , will lead the cremation ceremony .
thailand has a harsh law , known as article 112 , against insulting the monarchy , and prosecutions have skyrocketed since the junta came to power following a coup in 2014 .
the united nations has voiced concern over the use of the law to clamp down on free speech and has repeatedly called on thailand to amend it .