london ( reuters ) - tehran vowed on tuesday to stand alongside baghdad and ankara against the outcome of an independence referendum staged by kurdish authorities in northern iraq , a day after thousands of iranian kurds marched in support of the vote .
state media also quoted an army commander as saying that new missile systems were installed on tuesday , a day after the referendum , in western provinces that border iraqi kurdish areas to firmly respond to any invasion .
iran , iraq and turkey - countries with kurdish minorities - have all denounced the referendum as a threat to the stability of a region already beset by conflict , while the united states has expressed similar disquiet .
ali akbar velayati , the top adviser to iran s supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei , stepped up the pressure as the iraqi government ruled out talks on possible secession for kurdish-held northern iraq and turkey threatened sanctions .
the iraqi people won t stand silent .
iran and turkey and other regional countries won t stand silent and will stand against this abhorrent deviation , velayati was quoted as saying by isna news agency .
the muslim nations will not allow the creation of a second israel .
velayati did not say what action iran had in mind .
however , the country s media have compared the kurds desire for a homeland with the 1948 creation of israel .
the islamic republic regards the jewish state as its greatest enemy along with the united states .
initial referendum results indicated 72 percent of eligible voters had taken part and an overwhelming majority , possibly over 90 percent , had said yes , kurdish tv channel rudaw said .
final results are expected by wednesday .
undaunted by years of official suppression of dissent , residents in a number of mainly kurdish cities in northwestern iran danced in circles as night fell on monday , chanting slogans praising kurdish nationalist movements .
videos posted on social media showed drivers beeping their car horns in celebration and people clapping in the cities of marivan and baneh .
many wore masks so as not to be identified by the security forces .
about 30 million ethnic kurds are scattered across the region but have no country of their own .
with 8 to 10 million living in iran , tehran fears pressure for secession will grow among a minority which has a long history of struggle for its political rights .
a strong police presence tried to control the celebrating crowd .
there were reports of clashes between the demonstrators and security forces in the cities of mahabad and sanandaj .
in sanandaj the crowd waved the flag of kurdistan , a banned symbol for the kurds desire for independence .
this referendum will encourage iranian kurds to be more determined to seek their rights , said zaribar , a marivan resident and member of the democratic party of iranian kurdistan , a secular armed group which launches periodic attacks in iran .
this referendum was not a threat to iraq s neighbors , but it s a starting point to resolve the issues of kurds , especially in iran , added zaribar , who declined to give his full name .
tehran announced a ban on direct flights to and from iraqi kurdistan on sunday at the request of the central government in baghdad and called for a land blockade of the autonomous region by all neighboring countries .
media gave no further details of the newly-installed missile systems .
however , iranian fighter jets flew in a show of force over western provinces of iran as part of a military drill , including the kurdish cities of sardasht and oshnavieh .
although many iranian kurds would like to copy the referendum model , the road to autonomy or independence would be more difficult under the islamic republic s theocratic rule and its military might .
the revolutionary guards have put down unrest in kurdish areas for decades , and the hardline judiciary has sentenced many activists to long jail terms or death .
iran sent guards commander qassem soleimani to northern iraq last week in a failed final effort to persuade the kurdistan regional government from holding the referendum .
one kurd from baneh , who gave his name as arbaba , said he was exhilarated from the bottom of my heart for victory in the referendum .
however , he was worried it would increase pressure on iranian kurds to prevent them from going down the same path .
the iranian regime will militarize the kurdish areas even more , arbaba said .
for the iranian state the referendum of the kurds demand for state of their own was a zionist plot aimed at bringing instability to the region .
this view that a wandering scattered nation would only find peace if they find a homeland , was the core philosophy for creation of israel , wrote the kayhan , a hardline newspaper closely associated with supreme leader .
israel has backed kurdish independence .
it has maintained discreet military , intelligence and business ties with kurds since the 1960s , viewing the minority as a buffer against shared adversaries .