lahore ( reuters ) - in campaigning for a pakistan by-election seen as a test of support for ousted prime minister nawaz sharif , the most visible figure is not on the ballot : sharif s daughter , maryam , widely touted as his political heir-apparent .
this past weekend , crowds mobbed maryam s car and threw rose petals as she crisscrossed the eastern city of lahore campaigning for her mother , kulsoom , who is the ruling pakistan muslim league-nawaz ( pml-n ) party s candidate to contest the seat nawaz was forced to vacate by a supreme court ruling in july .
with kulsoom in london for cancer surgery , accompanied by nawaz , 43-year-old maryam has led the campaign with fiery speeches denouncing nawaz s opponents and the supreme court .
her influence within the pml-n has grown in recent years , with senior party figures crediting her with nawaz s move to embrace relatively more pro-women and liberal causes in a staunchly conservative nation of 208 million people .
in a rare interview with foreign media , maryam outlined to reuters what drives her political ambitions as she emerges from her father s shadow to become a prominent figure in the ruling party he still controls .
i m proud to be the torch bearer of ideology which pml-n has , maryam said at the weekend in punjab s provincial capital lahore , her father s electoral power base .
i am ( nawaz s ) reflection , i am his extension .
i have grown up espousing his agenda , his ideology .
maryam has framed the election as a chance for voters to protest the supreme court s verdict against her father and help the pml-n flex its electoral muscle .
your vote was disrespected and disregarded , will you answer to this disrespect on sept. 17 ?
maryam asked at a recent rally .
the by-election is seen as a litmus test for the pml-n s political fortunes in the wake of nawaz s ouster , and an early indicator of voter sentiment ahead of a general election next year .
opposition leader imran khan , on the ascendancy after nawaz s ouster , and eager to make inroads into the pml-n s political heartlands in punjab , has accused maryam of benefiting from alleged corruption swirling around her father , and cast the by-election as a plebiscite on corruption .
this election will decide where the people of pakistan stand , khan , the leader of the pakistan tehreek-e-insaf ( pti ) party , told crowds in lahore last week .
the pml-n made maryam - a telegenic but inexperienced politician - the face of the campaign despite a supreme court-appointed panel accusing her of signing forged documents to obscure ownership of offshore companies used to buy upmarket london flats .
she denies any wrongdoing but the supreme court has ordered the national accountability bureau ( nab ) to launch a criminal investigation into her , nawaz and other family members .
ahead of another rally on sunday , maryam hinted at military interference in pakistani politics , a source of instability since independence in 1947 , and portrayed herself as a campaigner for democracy .
our history is marred with dictatorships and repeated attacks on democracy , so this is what i struggle for , she told reuters .
maryam says her father s dismissal by the supreme court is a conspiracy , noting his success in reinvigorating the economy - with a pro-business focus on infrastructure spending to boost development - and overall popularity sent alarm bells ringing for those who don t want pakistan to have a strong leader .
this was the main reason he was being targeted , she said , before adding : that s all i can say .
such coded talk is a familiar dance in pakistan , where politicians speak between the lines to imply that the hidden hand of the powerful military is behind unfolding events .
asked if she is talking about elements of the military being involved in her father s ouster , as some senior pml-n figures have hinted , maryam paused before saying : it s not my place to comment .
maryam was coy when asked whether she has ambitions to be prime minister one day , saying she was not eyeing anything and was for now happy with love and affection that i m getting .
but senior pml-n officials expect her to at least become a minister in the next cabinet if the party holds on to power after the 2018 poll .
others have suggested she may become a leader soon .
maryam was more forthcoming when asked about comparisons with slain female leader benazir bhutto , the daughter of former premier zulfikar bhutto who vied for power with nawaz during two decades of political turmoil and tussles with the military .
i have a lot of respect for the lady , but ... the only thing which is common between us is gender , she said .