ankara ( reuters ) - a u.s. consulate employee in istanbul was arrested on charges of links to a cleric blamed for last year s failed coup , turkish authorities said on thursday , a move condemned by washington as baseless and damaging to ties between the nato allies .
president tayyip erdogan s spokesman said the locally-recruited consulate worker had been in contact with adil oksuz , a theology professor dubbed the imam of the air force for his alleged close links to coup plotters high up in the military .
the arrested u.s. consulate worker was found to have had frequent communication with the feto suspect adil oksuz , ibrahim kalin told reporters , using erdogan s acronym for the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen that erdogan accuses of engineering the coup attempt .
the u.s. embassy in ankara said it was deeply disturbed by the arrest of the locally employed staff member .
baseless , anonymous allegations against our employees undermine and devalue ( the ) longstanding partnership between the united states and turkey , the embassy said in a statement .
turkey s foreign ministry said the arrested individual was not on the official list of registered personnel for the u.s. consulate and therefore had no diplomatic or consular immunity .
u.s.-turkish tensions have risen over u.s. military support for kurdish ypg fighters in syria , considered by ankara to be an extension of the banned pkk which has waged an insurgency for three decades in southeast turkey .
turkey has also pressed , so far in vain , for the united states to extradite gulen over the july 2016 putsch , in which more than 240 people were killed .
gulen denies any involvement .
authorities say oksuz , the theology professor , helped orchestrate the bombing of parliament by rogue air force pilots during the coup bid .
he was detained near an ankara air base hours after the coup was put down , only to be released by a judge two days later .
he has been on the run since .
the state-run anadolu news agency identified the consulate employee as a male turkish citizen and said he was arrested late wednesday on charges of espionage and attempts to damage the constitutional order and turkey s government .
since the coup attempt , more than 50,000 people have been jailed pending trial over alleged links to gulen , while 150,000 people have been sacked or suspended from jobs in the public and private sectors .
human rights groups and some of turkey s western allies have voiced concern about the crackdown , fearing erdogan is using the coup as a pretext to quash dissent .
the government says only such a purge could neutralize the threat represented by gulen s network , which it says deeply infiltrated institutions such as the army , schools and courts .
friction with the united states has also arisen from the indictment last month by a u.s. court of turkey s former economy minister zafer caglayan .
caglayan and the ex-head of a state-owned turkish bank were charged with conspiring to violate u.s. sanctions on iran by illegally moving hundreds of millions of dollars through the u.s. financial system on tehran s behalf .
turkey says caglayan acted within international law and that charges against him amounted to a coup attempt through american courts .