kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysia is negotiating with u.s.-based seabed exploration firm ocean infinity to resume the search for malaysia airlines mh370 , which vanished three years ago in the southern indian ocean with 239 people aboard .
the disappearance of the aircraft en route to beijing from kuala lumpur ranks among the world s greatest aviation mysteries after australia , china and malaysia ended a fruitless a $ 200-million ( $ 157-million ) search effort in january .
this week , malaysia said it had received proposals to continue the search from ocean infinity , dutch firm fugro and an unidentified malaysian company .
ocean infinity beat out the competition and the government has begun negotiations with it , malaysia s deputy transport minister aziz kaprawi said on thursday .
yes , we are negotiating with ocean infinity , but the agreement has not been finalised , he told reuters , but declined to comment on the potential reward for the plane s discovery .
it was an offer on an open basis , that we will only honor if the aircraft is found .
the firm had made an offer on a no-cure , no-fee basis , according to a letter , seen by reuters , that was sent to passengers families on thursday .
australia and china were informed of the negotiation process , but only australia had informally agreed to malaysia s choice , aziz said .
it is still under discussion with china , he added , but declined to elaborate on china s possible concerns .
australian and chinese authorities did not immediately respond to reuters requests for comment .
ocean infinity could not confirm the award of a contract , but good progress has been made , a spokesman said in a statement .
calvin shim , whose wife was one of the mh370 crew , said he was relieved authorities were considering resuming the search .
grateful this step is finally being officially taken , he told reuters in a text message .
relatives of others on board voiced concern over the lengthy talks , however .
families were told of ocean infinity s offer in march , said grace nathan , a lawyer whose mother was aboard .
the best weather for the search is spring and summer , said nathan .
we worry they will lose that window if they take too long to decide .