what a unique way for a president of the united states to spend his memorial day weekend apologizing to a nation who wanted to destroy us , but were defeated because of those brave men who gave all to defend our nation against evil every visit our repulsive apologist president makes to a foreign country is calculated .
it s hard to imagine any reason other than campaigning for un secretary general for his visits , as he makes his way around to communist and former enemy nations apologizing for america s transgressions .
will america survive the 7 months that still remain in this traitor s term ?
president barack obama delivered a pious anti-war address in hiroshima highlighting humanity s core contradiction of war , lamenting that humanity tried to justify war because of religion .
how easily we learn to justify violence in the name of some higher cause , he said .
every great religion promises a pathway to love and peace and righteousness , and yet no religion has been spared from believers that have claimed their faith has a license to kill .
obama blamed religious zeal or nationalist fervor for inspiring humankind to war throughout history , but urged the world to seek a future filled with peace.watch here at the 7:50 mark : https : //youtu.be/iki0f7wvomothe president did not explicitly apologize for america using the nuclear bomb to end world war ii but rhetorically painted a vivid scene of the bomb that wasted the entire city .
death fell from the sky and the world was changed , he said , pointing to the wall of fire that ended the lives of thousands of people .
their souls speak to us , they ask us to look inward , to take stock of who we are and what we might become , he said.the president delivered his speech at the hiroshima peace memorial park in hiroshima after he laid a wreath of memorial at the and met with survivors of the nuclear attack.obama wrestled with mankind history of using science and technological innovation to destroy each other , asserted that the nuclear bombs that ended world war ii proved the horror that mankind possessed the means to destroy itself .
yet , in the image of a mushroom cloud that rose into these skies we are most starkly reminded of humanity s core contradiction , he said.he argued that it was time for the united states and other countries with nuclear weapons to disarm their stockpiles .
we must have the courage to escape the logic of fear and pursue a world without them , he said .
via : breitbart news