shawn helton 21st century wire jfk files conspiracy still shrouds the jfk assassination .
( photo illustration shawn helton ) the assassination of us president john f. kennedy , is one of the most infamous crimes of the 20th century .
like the enigmatic attacks of 9/11 , it was an act that will forever be shrouded in conspiracy , intrigue and mystery despite the lone gunman theory implicating lee harvey oswald.new reports indicate that classified documents pertaining to the assassination of the 35th us president will be allowed to be released by us president donald trump.the ny times reports : the release of the information being held in secret at the national archives including several thousand never-before-seen documents was mandated to occur by oct. 26 under a 1992 law that sought to quell conspiracy theories about the assassination.mr .
trump has the power to block the release of the documents , and intelligence agencies have pressured him to do so for at least some of them .
the agencies are concerned that information contained in some of the documents could damage national security interests.in a statement to reporters , the white house left open the possibility that mr. trump might halt the release of some documents .
while word of a possible release of never-before-seen jfk files has spread like wildfire throughout mainstream media and alternative media alike , one should remain skeptical and cautious , as the likelihood of the military industrial complex , the cia and other clandestine agencies releasing any conclusive inter-agency conspiracy related details about the jfk assassination is next to zero.the globalist deep state machine that has ruled the us and the world since wwii would have too much to lose if anything larger came out of america s most infamous conspiracy .
it would be like opening pandora s box .
( image source : circololettori.it ) here s one theory in the mystery surrounding jfk s assassination that includes some uncanny historical and hollywood associations that we are not likely to hear about in 1980 , after a six-hour suicidal standoff with police , a contract killer linked to organized crime named charles harrelson , admitted to killing us district judge john h wood , and in the process , while apparently high on cocaine also claimed to have been involved in the assassination of president john f. kennedy.the father of hollywood star woody harrelson was convicted in the murder of a grain dealer named sam degelia jr in 1968 and in 1981 , charles received two life sentences for the murder of john wood.throughout 1981 , more questions materialized regarding the assassination of judge wood in a upi article : defense lawyers maintained [ charles ] harrelson was framed by police and the informant .
charles an ex-felon , said a friend , hampton robinson iii , who failed to show up to testify , had driven the car .
he suggested someone , possibly federal agents , had planted the guns so he could be arrested .
he denied telling [ department of public safety agent ] pagel he carried a gun .
three tramps charles harrelson ( id d by forensic experts on the left ) is believed to be one of three arrested in dealey plaza after jfk s assassination in 1963 .
( image source : jfkmurdersolved ) when considering the harrelson-kennedy connection , the 1989 book crossfire comes to mind.crossfire , written by the recently deceased well-known researcher jim marrs , was also adapted for the highly controversial and successful oliver stone film jfk .
below is a passage from crossfire , as it relates to the apparent harrelson-kennedy link : aside from being twice convicted of murder for hire , harrelson the father of actor woody harrelson had a long history of involvement with dallas underworld characters linked directly to jack ruby .
continuing , the crossfire also stated : the late fort worth graphics expert jack white , who testified before the house select committee on assassinations , already had noticed the resemblance of harrelson to the youngest tramp .
in a 1981 interview with chuck cook , harrelson claimed to have the biggest story the reporter would ever have , when questioned about kennedy s death .
additionally , jo ann harrelson noted the similarities between the tramp photos and her husband .
all this coupled with the fact diane lou oswald ( the mother of woody harrelson ) , who had also been married to charles harrelson in midland , texas , made for a strange background concerning the jfk saga.in a kdfw-tv interview in 1982 below , charles harrelson back tracks somewhat on his claims of killing kennedy but does point directly to a larger conspiracy concerning the us government s involvement in the death of kennedy as well as their alleged link to drug trade in america.the interview is a startling revelation , adding to the enigmatic jfk mystery and in the process provides another strange backdrop to a captivating case .
21st century wire says today , president donald trump announced he plans to release the tens of thousands of classified documents on the assassination of president john f kennedy held at the national archives and records administration .
the president believes that these documents should be made available in the interests of full transparency unless agencies provide a compelling and clear national security or law enforcement justification otherwise , a white house official told reuters .
subject to the receipt of further information , i will be allowing , as president , the long blocked and classified jfk files to be opened , trump tweeted on saturday.subject to the receipt of further information , i will be allowing , as president , the long blocked and classified jfk files to be opened .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) october 21 , 2017days before trump s announcement , the washington post claim that their national security council source told deep state media oracle that federal government agencies have warned the president not to release some of the documents for fear they could somehow comprise national security , although this rationale is hard to justify as the event took place nearly 55 years ago unless of course , some legacy parties still in power today were implicated in the remaining documents.it s difficult to know if trump is referring to all of the remaining cia and fbi documents , or just some of them , or whether or not these documents will be redacted ( presumably to protect any important names involved in the jfk murder , or possible cover-up ) .
however , trump appears to have left open the possibility that if government agencies feel the documents should not to released , then he would heed their advice .
trump added that his decision was subject to the receipt of further information .
according to phil shenon , a professional researcher and author on the warren commission : it s great news that the president is focused on this and that he s trying to demonstrate transparency .
but the question remains whether he will open the library in full every word in every document , as the law requires , shenon said .
and my understanding is that he won t without infuriating people at the cia and elsewhere who are determined to keep at least some of the information secret , especially in documents created in the 1990s .
the scheduled date of the release is meant to be on october 26 , 2017.stay tuned for more updatesread more jfk news at : 21st century wire jfk filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv