chicago ( reuters ) - a 39-hour democratic filibuster in the missouri senate ended on wednesday when republicans forced a vote and approved a proposal to prohibit sanctions against groups and wedding vendors that discriminate against same-sex couples for religious reasons .
the resolution to amend the state ’ s constitution passed 23-9 after the majority republican caucus used a parliamentary maneuver to end the filibuster , which began at 4:00 p.m. cst on monday , said lauren hieger , communications director for the missouri senate majority caucus .
the amendment must be voted on again in the senate next week before passing to the lower house , where republicans have a majority , and then to the state ’ s voters , hieger said .
missouri governor jay nixon , a democrat , applauded the effort by the senate minority to block the resolution .
“ rewriting our state ’ s constitution to condone discrimination would be contrary to our values and harmful to our economy , ” nixon said in a statement on wednesday .
the legislation is among a series of measures introduced around the country by conservatives in response to last year ’ s u.s. supreme court legalization of same-sex marriage .
the measures seek to protect religious groups and companies from being fined or punished if they decline to provide services such as wedding cakes or flowers to same-sex couples .
republicans who backed the amendment said it was about religious freedom , but democrats said it would enshrine discrimination in the state ’ s constitution .
given their minority position in both chambers of missouri ’ s general assembly , democrats chose to filibuster , debating overnight on monday and tuesday to block the initiative .
“ inspired by senators ’ heroic stand against discrimination in # mo .
the nation is watching & cheering you on ! ” nixon tweeted on tuesday night .
“ in our pluralistic society , we should have room to respect the religious freedom of missourians , ” republican senator bob onder , who sponsored the bill , told reporters at a news conference on wednesday morning .
he said the language of the bill was modified in a compromise on tuesday to narrowly define wedding vendors .
the american civil liberties union civil rights group said it would work to fight the bill in missouri ’ s house of representatives .
“ this amendment raises serious constitutional concerns because it singles out same-sex couples for discrimination , ” jeffrey mittman , executive director of aclu of missouri , said in a statement .