barack hussein obama has been in over his head since he first stepped foot in the white house .
our community organizer in chief just found out how unwelcome his chicago style politics are in the uk uk independence party ( ukip ) leader nigel farage told breitbart that the visit by president obama , where he threatened to send britain to the back of the queue if the public voted to leave the european union ( eu ) , backfired and caused a brexit bounce , swaying britons to vote for brexit.comparing the outcome to the american independence day , mr. farage said : you [ americans ] have your independence day where in july you celebrate being your own country , governing yourself , having your own courts , controlling your own borders and that s what happened to us yesterday .
we have broken away from a political union where our power was being overruled , our courts were being overruled , and we had a complete open border for anybody from southern and eastern europe , so this is a major historic step .
on the eu post-brexit , he said : we ve not just changed british history .
i m sure that the eu project itself will now come tumbling down .
i would like to think and hope that right across the globe what we ve done is to prove that people power can beat the establishment .
the european union project has failed .
it is dying before your very eyes .
it is unwanted , it is unloved , and people across the country are saying what ukip has been saying for years : we want our country back , we want our democracy back , we want the closest possible relationship with our neighbours .
we re happy to have a nafta kind of agreement with free trade , but we don t want political union .
asked of any lessons drawn from his own experiences that could be applied during the american presidential elections , mr. farage advised : threatening people insults their intelligence .
don t threaten people repeatedly because if you do in the end they think you re crying wolf and they won t believe you .
it s project fear , or in the end when obama came it was project threat.citing mr. obama s visit to the uk at the request of prime minister david cameron : the lessons learnt from the obama visit are fascinating .
here is the most powerful man in the world coming from a country that we have always had huge regard for .
and people in britain listening to obama said : how dare the american president come here and tell us what to do and it backfired.and i think we got an obama brexit bounce , because people do not want to be told how to think and how to vote .
breitbartwatch here to see how citizens reacted to obama s threat : https : //youtu.be/w-dsgtfwgegrepublican lawmakers warned us president barack obama his controversial intervention into the british eu referendum debate threatens to harm the special relationship .
during a visit timed to coincide with queen elizabeth ii s 90th birthday earlier this year , obama warned that the united states would be in no hurry to agree a bilateral trade deal with a britain outside the eu .
i think it s fair to say that maybe at some point down the line there might be a uk-us trade agreement , but it s not going to happen any time soon because our focus is in negotiating with a big bloc , the european union , to get a trade agreement done .
and the uk is going to be at the back of the queue , he said.obama s comments caused furore among leave campaigners , with uk independence party ( ukip ) leader nigel farage accusing obama of talking britain down .
former defense minister liam fox dismissed the president s intervention , calling his views largely irrelevant , as he will soon be leaving the white house .
via : rt