seoul ( reuters ) - on an icy december day in 2011 , north korea s new leader kim jong un was accompanied by seven advisers as they escorted the hearse that carried his father , kim jong il , through the streets of pyongyang .
none of the men remain with the young kim .
this october , he demoted the last of his father s aides , both men in their nineties .
they were among around 340 people he has purged or executed , according to the institute for national security strategy , a think tank of south korea s national intelligence service ( nis ) .
kim , obviously a madman in the eyes of u.s. president donald trump , has completed a six-year transition to what the south calls a reign of terror .
his unpredictability and belligerence have instilled fear worldwide : after he tested a breakthrough missile earlier this week , he pronounced north korea a nuclear power capable of striking the united states .
but a closer look at his leadership reveals a method behind the madness .
at 33 , kim jong un is one of the world s youngest heads of state .
he inherited a nation with a proud history , onto which a socialist state had essentially been grafted by cold war superpowers to create a buffer between communist china and the capitalist south .
under kim s father , the economy was mismanaged , and the collapse of communism in the soviet union eliminated an important source of support .
up to three million people starved .
to consolidate a weak position , the young leader has been cultivating three main forces : military and nuclear power , a tacit private sector market economy , and the fear and adoration of a god .
to this end , he has executed two powerful men and promoted one young woman kim yo jong , his younger sister , who korea-watchers say is also kim s chief propagandist .
she is kim s only other blood relative to be involved in politics : his elder brother , kim jong chol , was rejected by their father as heir .
over the five years to december 2016 , kim spent $ 300 million on 29 nuclear and missile tests , $ 180 million on building some 460 family statues , and as much as $ 1 billion on a party congress in 2016 including $ 26.8 million on fireworks alone , according to the institute , which employs high-level defectors .
yes , he has replaced many top commanders and officials so easily and ruthlessly killed some of them , which could make you wonder if he s sane , said lee sang-keun , a north korean leadership expert at the institute of unification studies at ewha womans university in seoul .
but this is a historical way of governing that can put you in power for a long time .
( graphic - kim family tree : tmsnrt.rs/2ajm8f1 ) ( graphic - purge and launch : tmsnrt.rs/2apsfhc ) in ancient days , pyongyang was the capital of a mighty empire , koguryo , the root of the modern word korea .
going back through history , the great leader concept is a blend of several ideas handed down through time : an almighty god , the confucian worship of a parent , and a king with the mandate of heaven , according to lee seung-yeol , a senior researcher at the national assembly research service in seoul .
lee , a leading north korea leadership researcher , said the state s theory of succession means kim the younger s rise should have been completed while his father was alive : kim s father was anointed 20 years before he took over , giving him time to build allies and a leadership system .
kim jong un had just three years as leader-in-waiting .
born in 1984 , he was third in line for power and a fractious , competitive child , according to kenji fujimoto , a japanese chef who worked for the family and one of the few people to recount meetings with the young kim .
in his memoirs published in 2010 , fujimoto , who now runs a sushi restaurant in pyongyang , said kim once snapped at his aunt ko yong suk for calling him little general .
kim wanted to be called comrade general .
when kim jong il knew his young son would soon succeed him , researchers have said , the father took several measures to protect the boy .
lee said these included shifting the country s power base to create rivalry between the elites so kim the younger could play one group off against another .
kim jong il had declared the military the country s supreme power a policy known as songun , which means military first .
at a party conference in 2010 , he changed the setup so the military had to compete with the party administration for the leader s favour .
military strategy was the first thing kim changed .
his father had used the promise of nuclear disarmament as a bargaining chip for aid , and in february 2012 , young kim started in his father s footsteps , promising to freeze north korea s nuclear program in return for food aid from the united states .
but weeks later he changed tack , saying north korea would fire a long-range rocket .
the negotiations were carried on as the legacy of kim jong il , said wi sung-lac , a former south korean envoy to talks in 2011 that contributed to the february deal .
since then his strategic thinking has shaped up .
in kim s view , saddam hussein of iraq and muammar gaddafi of libya were fatally weakened by not having nuclear weapons , north korean media say .
history proves that powerful nuclear deterrence serves as the strongest treasured sword for frustrating outsiders aggression , the official kcna news agency said in an editorial in january 2016 .
north korea is racing to achieve a nuclear deterrent because the state feels threatened , worrying particularly that kim may face a fate like gaddafi .
the libyan leader agreed in 2003 to eliminate his weapons of mass destruction ; in 2011 , he was killed by rebels that the united states and its allies had supported .
months after kim s accession , north korea updated its constitution to declare itself a nuclear weapons state .
one leading pallbearer at kim jong il s funeral was ri yong ho , chief of the general staff of the korean people s army .
kim sacked him in july 2012 .
south korean intelligence later confirmed that ri had been executed .
by december 2012 , north korea had carried out another , successful , rocket test .
in 2013 , kim outlined a new policy : the byungjin line , or parallel development , to combine the nuclear buildup and economic growth .
a nuclear deterrent is essential to that , says thae yong-ho , north korea s former deputy ambassador to london , who staged a high-profile defection to south korea in 2016 .
the threat of absolute destruction makes a nuclear bomb a poor man s weapon with which to tighten control of the country and ensure long-term rule , thae said .
once he has assumed control of usable nuclear weapons , he has more room to allocate resources more flexibly , and allocate the military forces for civilian construction , said thae .
north korea spends about a quarter of its gdp on defense : russia s president vladimir putin has said kim jong un would have his people eat grass rather than give up its nuclear program .
but with a legacy of famine , kim also says he wants to boost people s prosperity .
the former chef , fujimoto , said that on one summer break from school in switzerland in 2000 , the young kim was preoccupied with a visit to beijing his father had made .
let s talk , fujimoto recalled the future leader saying over drinks on his father s private train .
i hear from higher up that china seems to be succeeding on many fronts engineering , commerce , hotels , agriculture - everything , kim said .
in many ways , don t we need to take them as a model example for us ?
in 2012 , shortly after taking power , kim went a small way to mimic reforms china made in the 1980s .
farmers were allowed to keep most of the harvest .
state enterprises were given the right to buy and sell at market prices and to hire and fire workers .
private entrepreneurs and traders were encouraged to invest in state projects or with party and military entities .
kim also began to turn a blind eye to informal markets a force his father tried in vain to contain .
that april , kim addressed the nation - the first time in 17 years north koreans had heard the voice of their leader .
it is the party s steadfast determination to ensure that the people will never have to tighten their belt again , he said .
outsiders hoped the reform signaled a new political openness as kim drove to promote the north in the world : in 2012 antonio razzi , an italian senator for forza italia who calls himself the only italian to have met the leader , said kim had asked him to find training facilities for soccer players in italy .
i have talked with many ( north korean ) local leaders , razzi said .
they have no plan to attack anybody .
north korea is interested in nuclear only as a form of defense .
kim worked to ensure the economic freedom would not unseat him .
also escorting his father s funeral car in 2011 was jang song thaek , an administrator at the vanguard of the reforms .
he was married to kim jong il s sister , was a special envoy to china and had overseen a host of new special economic zones all over the country .
in december 2013 , jang was hauled out of the politburo in front of the cameras and accused of plotting a coup .
jang dreamed such a foolish dream , state media said , adding jang hoped his reformist plans would help him get recognized by foreign countries .
jang was shot dozens of times by an anti-aircraft gun and his remains removed with a flamethrower , according to south korea s national intelligence service ( nis ) an account no one has confirmed .
from that point on , kim honed his personality cult .
on the day jang s purge was announced , north korea s official daily the rodong sinmun unveiled a song dedicated to kim jong un , titled we know nothing but you .
more were to follow .
the next year , kim also ordered school textbooks be revised to focus on idolization of himself and include images of nuclear weapons and missiles , according to the nis-affiliated institute for national security strategy .
the idolization campaign kicked into high gear in 2016 , focused on pop culture and youth : kim s chosen female singers , the moranbong band , staged a series of musical performances and plays calling for loyalty to the leader , while the shock brigade , a crew of young north koreans in charge of major economic construction , produced about 1,200 poems and other literary works , the institute said .
he has linked his own legitimacy to improving the economic situation in the country , said john delury of seoul s yonsei university .
kim jong un wants to become a development dictator .
at home , he casts himself as a bringer of plenty .
in 2015 , almost half the times he was photographed were at economic events , data from seoul s unification ministry shows .
only this year , as his weapons tests multiplied and met an angry response in the united states , have military appearances come back into prominence .
standing tearfully behind kim jong un at their father s funeral was his younger sister , 28-year-old kim yo jong .
on the same october day that kim dropped the last two of his father s aides , he included her in his politburo .
kim jong chol , their elder brother , leads a quiet life in pyongyang where he plays guitar in a band , according to former ambassador thae .
i think kim jong un has been making good use of the existing system , while strengthening his power base and dictator regime in a very shrewd manner , said lee su-seok , a research fellow at the institute for national security strategy .