the protesters win by scaring people into silence which is known in the law as the heckler s veto .
when the hecklers scream so loudly , or in this case advertised their intention to scream that the speaker can t speak .
when this happens on property owned by the government a prima fascia case has been made i m afraid we are in danger of losing free speech .
judge napolitanothis is what happened when pro-trump supporters held a peaceful rally in berkeley : the birthplace of free speech is now officially a place of oppression berkeley students came together to shut down the free speech rights of gay , conservative activist milo yiannopoulis in february .
students violently attacked fellow students who tried to attend milo s scheduled speech , random fires were lit , windows were broken and rocks were thrown .
using violence , threats and intimidation to shut down opposing views is not only un-american it should be illegal .
but we re not talking about just any college or city in america , we re talking about uc berkeley , the former home of free-speech uc berkeley has now banned conservative commentator and author ann coulter , citing security threats.according to young america s foundation , student organizers of an upcoming ann coulter event at the university were emailed by berkeley administrators who claimed they were unable to find a safe suitable venue for coulter .
uc-berkeley , a publicly-funded university , first imposed a series of ridiculous requirements on the speech allegedly in the name of safety .
coulter , we were informed , would be required to deliver her speech in the afternoon ; only students would be allowed to attend ; and the speech location would not be announced until close to the event , they continued .
against our advice , coulter agreed to all these requirements .
in return , she requested two measures , which actually had something to do with safety .
this is as clear-cut a case as it gets that public universities are using taxpayer dollars to shut down conservative speech , while allowing liberal speech only , young america s foundation proclaimed .
uc-berkeley has for example , welcomed the corrupt former president of mexico , vicente fox , who has cursed at and mocked donald trump , currently the president of the united states .
the university , and u-c chancellor janet napolitano personally , have revealed themselves to be using taxpayer money for an unconstitutional purpose .
even after coulter went along with their ruses and guises to shut down her speech , they simply announced , like kim jung un , that it was cancelled .
we have no intention of acceding to these unconstitutional acts , the organization concluded .
the ann coulter lecture sponsored by young america s foundation will go forward .
ron robinson , the president of young america s foundation , further declared in a quote that berkeley disappoints anyone who really believes in free speech .
their actions to ban conservatives while giving leftists a platform reinforces this fact , robinson claimed .
it s a shame that berkeley is robbing its students of the opportunity to receive a well-rounded education .
breitbart