new york/london ( reuters ) - bettors on both sides of the atlantic are ramping up wagers in niche online markets over whether donald trump will serve out a full term as u.s. president in the wake of controversies surrounding the dismissal of fbi director james comey .
some , such as the online political stock market predictit , have seen record volume during the last two days on contracts focused on whether trump will be impeached .
others based in the united kingdom are drawing bets on the less-specific question of whether trump remains in office until his term expires in january 2021 .
the contract on predictit titled “ will donald trump be impeached in 2017 ? ” saw volume of more than 100,000 contracts in the last 24 hours after reports of a memo written by comey that said trump had asked him to end the federal bureau of investigation ’ s probe into ties between former white house national security adviser michael flynn and russia .
at one point early on wednesday , the price of a “ yes ” contract on the impeachment question jumped to a record 33 cents , implying a 33 percent probability that trump would be impeached .
that compares with only 7 percent just over a week ago .
by late in the day , however , the price had slid back to 27 percent , just above where it ended late tuesday at 24 percent .
predictit is jointly run by washington political consultancy aristotle and victoria university in wellington , new zealand .
all of its users are registered u.s. voters .
the bookmaker paddy power betfair ( ppb.i ) ( ppb.l ) said bettors there had laid out more than 5,000 pounds ( $ 6,470 ) on an early departure for trump in the hours after it was reported trump had asked comey to shut down the fbi ’ s investigation of russia ties .
in all , the question of whether trump will make an early exit has drawn more than $ 270,000 in wagers , while a related question on whether trump will leave in 2017 , 2018 , 2019 or 2020 or later has garnered more than $ 480,000 .
british betting firm ladbrokes ( lcl.l ) cut the price of a trump impeachment to odds-on at 4-5 from 11-10 , equivalent to about 56 percent probability that trump will be removed from office .
“ political punters are wondering how many more scandals can trump overcome , ” said ladbrokes spokeswoman jessica bridge .
“ and despite the short price on offer , money has poured in for the president to be impeached , leaving us with little option but to cut the odds . ”