as it turns out , 67 year old hillary cinton used to hear her grandparents talk about the immigrant experience when she was a young girl , so she just thought they were immigrants mission accomplished .
no more clarification is necessary.on wednesday in iowa , hillary clinton invented three immigrant grandparents to push for more foreign workers .
all my grandparents , you know , came over here and you know my grandfather went to work in lace mill in scranton , pennsylvania , and worked there until he retired at 65 , she reportedly said .
so i sit here and i think well you re talking about the second , third generation .
that s me , that s you .
but according to a buzzfeed report , three of her grandparents were born in the united states while her paternal grandfather was an immigrant from england .
last year , clinton also falsely claimed that her paternal grandmother , hanna jones rodham , immigrated with her family as a young girl to scranton .
as buzzfeed noted , according to census records , hanna jones rodham , clinton s paternal grandmother ( the wife of hugh rodham sr. ) was born in pennsylvania in 1882 , according to the 1910 census while her paternal grandfather , hugh rodham sr. , was born in england and immigrated with his parents as a child .
clinton s maternal grandparents were both born in illinois , according to census records.a clinton spokesperson told buzzfeed that clinton s grandparents always spoke about the immigrant experience and , as a result she has always thought of them as immigrants .
as has been correctly pointed out , while her grandfather was an immigrant , it appears that hillary s grandmother was born shortly after her parents and siblings arrived in the u.s. in the early 1880s , he added.clinton invented her immigrant grandparents while pushing for more foreign workers , which may not resonate with the everyday americans who have not recovered from the recession and are trying to move up the economic ladder .
we are turning down people who really want to work .
i mean they are here to work and a lot of them now have children who are american citizens , and they are doing the best they can to try to make a good life for themselves and their families , she reportedly said at a campaign event at capital city fruit .
and we are saying to all these other people who want the same dreams and the same aspirations and the willingness to work hard just like our families did that no , we re not going to make it easy for you , we re not going to make it legal for you .
and i just think that s such a short term , unfortunate outcome for us and well as for them .
via : breitbart news