no worries fbi director james comey is has assured everyone that crooked hillary told the truth .
she s been lying and under criminal investigation for most of her adult life , and now we re supposed to believe that she is suddenly telling the truth ?
hillary clinton did not swear an oath to tell the truth before meeting with the fbi for three and a half hours last weekend , and the interview was not recorded , fbi director james comey told house lawmakers on thursday.the lack of a sworn oath does not remove the possibility of criminal penalties against clinton if she lied to the fbi , though he said he had no basis to conclude that she was untruthful .
still a crime to lie to us , comey told the house oversight committee .
fbi policy is not to record interviews as part of its investigations.yet the revelations will nonetheless raise questions among republicans , who have been skeptical of the fbi s investigation and have demanded to see the transcript of the former secretary of state s interview in downtown washington on saturday .
well , that s a problem , rep. john mica ( r-fla. ) told comey when the fbi chief explained the terms of the interview .
it s pretty clear that the american people would like to see what hillary clinton said to the fbi , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell ( r-ky. ) told reporters on wednesday , a day before comey s appearance before house lawmakers.under fbi policy and to the dismay of civil libertarians and staunch transparency advocates the bureau does not conduct electronic recordings of interviews .
under the current policy , agents may not electronically record confessions or interviews , openly or surreptitiously except in rare circumstances , the bureau said in a 2006 memo.the fbi did , however , complete a federal form summarizing the interview , known as an fd-302 , comey said.comey himself was not among the five or six agents who interviewed clinton , he testified on thursday .
but he assured lawmakers that clinton told the truth throughout the session.via : the hill