washington ( reuters ) - a u.s. congressional panel has asked pharmaceutical entrepreneur martin shkreli to testify at a jan. 26 hearing about his company ’ s decision to raise the price of a life-saving prescription drug , according to a republican committee staffer .
shkreli , who became known as “ pharma bro , ” created a fire storm last year after his company turing pharmaceuticals hiked the price of a drug called daraprim by more than 5,000 percent .
last month , shkreli was forced to step down as turing ceo amid criminal and civil securities fraud charges alleging he ran a ponzi-like scheme during his tenure at the hedge fund msmb capital management and while he was the ceo of retrophin , another drug company he previously headed .
the securities fraud charges are unrelated to the drug pricing probe by the committee .
the hearing before the house of representatives committee on oversight and government reform will primarily focus on turing ’ s price spike of daraprim , and price hikes for two of valeant pharmaceutical ’ s heart medications - isuprel and nitropress .
a democratic committee staffer told reuters on friday that valeant ’ s interim ceo howard schiller is also expected to appear at the hearing .
a valeant spokeswoman confirmed that schiller will attend , and said he looks forward to testifying and that the company is cooperating with the ongoing congressional probe .
an attorney for shkreli declined to comment .
earlier this month , house oversight chairman jason chaffetz and ranking member elijah cummings jointly sent document requests to valeant , turing and shkreli .
in their requests , the lawmakers asked for documents showing each company ’ s gross revenues and profits from the sales of the drugs in question , as well as communications by the ceos in connection with the drugs .
since then , turing has given tens of thousands of documents to u.s. congressional investigators ahead of the hearing , according to a democratic committee staffer .
a spokeswoman for turing did not have an immediate comment .
the committee is expected to review another batch of documents from valeant in the near future .
the deadline for submission is jan. 22 .
the house oversight panel ’ s interest in drug pricing was sparked by cummings , who for more than a year has called for the republican-led panel to probe prescription drug pricing .
in a statement , cummings said he is glad there is now bipartisan support for an investigation .
he said americans are “ fed up with watching major drug companies rake in record profits while they continue to struggle to afford their medicines . ”