oslo ( reuters ) - a survivor of the hiroshima atomic bombing and the leader of the group that won this year s nobel peace prize on saturday urged the united states and north korea to tone down their rhetoric and negotiate together to avoid a nuclear strike .
tensions have risen markedly in recent months over north korea s development , in defiance of repeated rounds of u.n. sanctions , of nuclear-tipped missiles capable of reaching the united states .
a missile test last week prompted a u.s. warning that north korea s leadership would be utterly destroyed if war were to break out .
the pentagon has mounted repeated shows of force after north korean tests .
the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons ( ican ) was awarded this year s nobel peace prize by a nobel committee that cited the spread of nuclear weapons by countries like north korea and the growing risk of an atomic war .
graphic of nobel laureates : tmsnrt.rs/2y6atvw setsuko thurlow , an 85-year-old survivor of the hiroshima bombing on aug. 6 , 1945 , and beatrice fihn , ican s executive director , will receive the prize together on sunday at oslo city hall in front of king harald and queen sonja .
no human being should suffer what we suffered , thurlow , who was 13 at the time of the attack and is now an ican campaigner , told reporters on saturday .
i deeply and strongly urge the leaders of north korea and the u.s. never to use nuclear weapons ...
negotiate .
a diplomatic solution is the only solution .
ican s fihn said that the risk of a nuclear war had increased over the past year .
there is an urgent threat right now , she told reporters .
i would very strongly urge the leaders ( of north korea and the u.s. ) to back down from their very dangerous rhetoric .
stop threatening to use weapons of mass destruction .
engage in a diplomatic solution .
ican is a coalition of grassroots non-governmental groups in more than 100 nations that began in australia .
it has campaigned for a u.n. treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons , which was adopted by 122 nations in july .
it needs to be ratified by 50 states to come into force .
so far only three have done so : the holy see , thailand and guyana .
the treaty is not signed by - and would not apply to - any of the states that already have nuclear arms , which include the u.s. , russia , china , britain and france , as well as india , pakistan and north korea .
israel is also widely assumed to have nuclear weapons , although it neither confirms nor denies it .
the u.s. , britain and france are sending second-rank diplomats to the award ceremony , which fihn said was some kind of protest .