( reuters ) - democrats in the senate made a concerted push on tuesday during a confirmation hearing for nominees to the securities and exchange commission to require corporations to disclose political contributions .
senator charles schumer of new york threatened to vote against confirming the nominees , lisa fairfax and hester peirce , if they did not clearly state support for requiring corporations to make their political donations public .
“ the sec is certainly not responsible for patching that hole in our campaign finance system , but you can help prevent that hole from being ripped any wider , ” schumer said .
“ shareholders remain in the dark as executives of public corporations funnel money into our political system with no transparency or accountability. ” other democrats , including senator robert menendez of new jersey and senator jeff merkley of oregon , made similar comments .
the securities regulator has faced mounting pressure to require contributions disclosure from corporations since the supreme court struck down strict limits on campaign finance in its 2010 citizens united decision .
menendez said 1.2 million people have written to the sec about the disclosure requirement .
budget legislation passed by the republican-majority congress at the end of 2015 blocked the sec from creating a rule on political spending .
peirce , a republican who is a senior fellow at the marcatus center at george mason university , noted the sec is charged with carrying out laws and said she would not undermine the budget legislation if she is confirmed .
fairfax , a democrat who is a law professor at george washington university , said she would uphold the budget law .
she added , though , that she believes political spending could be material information to shareholders making investment decisions .
peirce and fairfax were nominated by president barack obama in october , and tuesday ’ s hearing was the first step in confirming the nominations .
republican senator richard shelby of alabama , the committee ’ s chairman , said he expected the nominations to come to the floor for a vote .
still , the confirmations could stretch on for a while given the political divide in congress and the debate about financial regulation in the presidential election .
the divide has made confirming nominees difficult .
senator sherrod brown , a democrat from ohio , noted obama sent the committee 19 nominations to consider in the past 15 months and it approved only one .
meanwhile , the hearing turned to issues that are taking center stage in the presidential campaigns .
senator elizabeth warren , a massachusetts democrat who advocates for financial regulation , pressed peirce about her public criticism of the dodd-frank wall street reform law put in place after the financial crisis .
many republicans consider the law a regulatory overreach , while some democrats view it as a way of preventing another crisis .
“ what you propose , from what i can tell in your writings , is less oversight of big banks , fewer efforts to reign them in , more chances for them to take on big risks to boost their profits and , if things go wrong , come crying to the government for another bailout , ” warren said .
“ the question is whether someone should be put in charge of enforcing laws that they think are unnecessary or counterproductive. ” peirce said she would implement the law as a commissioner .
she added that she made her critiques as an academic and not a regulator .
senator mike rounds , a republican from south dakota , brought up the issue of gun ownership and pushed fairfax about an amicus brief she signed that questioned walmart ’ s gun sales .
fairfax said she was not sending “ a signal about the underlying issue ” but signed the brief to say companies must communicate corporate policies to investors .