jay dyer 21st century wiredemonstrating where bad hermeneutics and theology lead , plus evidence of a continued conspiracy against historic orthodox christianity.pastor john hagee of the the large cornerstone church in san antonio , texas has recently published a book , in defense of israel , in which he outlines in detail his own total apostasy from the most basic of christian beliefs that christ was the messiah !
see our posted video where he states it plain as day .
but what is the root of this problem ?
i say several things .
aside from his own dubious character and obvious bad will , the cause can be found in bad hermeneutics .
hermeneutics is the science of interpretation how we interpret he texts of sacred scripture.see also : the holy business : end-times buffoonery in a modern worldwhen i saw hagee on the glenn beck show a couple weeks ago talking about israel non-stop , i knew something was going on .
i used to use john hagee s prophecy study bible as an idiot evangelical when i was 18 ( several years ago ) , so i can speak from experience concerning hagee ( also having read some of his books and watched his prophecy lectures ) .
end times 2.0 : pastor john hagee attempting to rapture his flock ( donor base ) to the promise land after a possible nuclear armageddon .
let s examine some errors of the false hermeneutic of the premillennialists and evangelicals .
the first error this entire system is built upon is the idea that israel is still god s chosen covenant nation .
god s promises to abraham s descendants were purely literal and never able to be revoked , this view holds .
god is bound in his eternal love to the literal nation of israel , even though they have rejected christ for the most part for the past 2000 years .
however , historic orthodox christianity has always taught that the church of christ is the new israel , the true bride of christ , that faithfully keeps the testimony of christ ( apoc .
12:17 ) .
let s look at some texts that show this point:1 .
when we examine christ s parable of the wicked vinedressers , we see an explicit statement from our lord concerning the possession of the kingdom of god .
keep in mind , hagee and all his evangelical & liberal friends think god has never , in any sense , revoked the old covenant with israel , and that they are still the possessors or future possessors of his kingdom : matt .
21:33 : hear another parable : there was a certain landowner who planted a vineyard and set a hedge around it , dug a winepress in it and built a tower .
and he leased it to vinedressers and went into a far country .
34 now when vintage-time drew near , he sent his servants to the vinedressers , that they might receive its fruit .
35 and the vinedressers took his servants , beat one , killed one , and stoned another .
36 again he sent other servants , more than the first , and they did likewise to them .
37 then last of all he sent his son to them , saying , they will respect my son .
38 but when the vinedressers saw the son , they said among themselves , this is the heir .
come , let us kill him and seize his inheritance .
39 so they took him and cast him out of the vineyard and killed him.40 therefore , when the owner of the vineyard comes , what will he do to those vinedressers ?
41 they said to him , he will destroy those wicked men miserably , and lease his vineyard to other vinedressers who will render to him the fruits in their seasons .
42 jesus said to them , have you never read in the scriptures : the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone .
this was the lord s doing , and it is marvelous in our eyes.43 therefore i say to you , the kingdom of god will be taken from you and given to a nation bearing the fruits of it .
44 and whoever falls on this stone will be broken ; but on whomever it falls , it will grind him to powder .
45 now when the chief priests and pharisees heard his parables , they perceived that he was speaking of them .
46 but when they sought to lay hands on him , they feared the multitudes , because they took him for a prophet .
the parable is quite clear , and is explained by our lord himself .
this was fulfilled when the romans sacked jerusalem in 70 a.d. , and destroyed the temple and its administration .
this was the definitive end of the old testament dispensation , and fulfilled also the predictions of luke 21 .
in response to the jews , christ says the kingdom of god will be taken from them because of the fact that they are going to murder him .
christ states unequivocally that the kingdom will be transferred to the gentiles because of the rejection of christ by the jews.2 .
our lord commissioned the 12 apostles to be the foundation stones of the new israel , replacing what st. paul calls flesh israel or israel after the flesh .
luke 22 : 28 but you [ apostles ] are those who have continued with me in my trials .
29 and i bestow upon you a kingdom , just as my father bestowed one upon me , 30 that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom , and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of israel.so , our lord has conferred upon the 12 the possession of the kingdom , and it is they and their successors ( luke 10:16 , 1 tim .
1:3-4 ) , who will sit on thrones judging in this spiritual kingdom .
those who sit on these thrones are also their successors , the bishops of the church .
this is why st. paul can write in eph .
2 : 19 now , therefore , you are no longer strangers and foreigners , but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of god , 20 having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets , jesus christ himself being the chief cornerstone , 21 in whom the whole building , being fitted together , grows into a holy temple in the lord , 22 in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of god in the spirit .
3 .
isn t it ironic that hagee s church is named cornerstone .
it makes one wonder whether he meant christ , the true cornerstone , or the masonic cornerstone ceremony performed by masons at the erecting of a new lodge .
and in case you think this is far fetched , consider what wikipedia states about hagee in the entry under his name : hagee was awarded the humanitarian of the year award by the san antonio b nai b rith council .
it was the first time in the history of san antonio that this award has been given to a gentile .
dr. hagee was presented the zoa israel award by u.n .
ambassador jean kirkpatrick .
this award was given by the jewish community of dallas , texas .
he was presented the zoa service award by texas governor mark white .
houston mayor kathy whitmire issued a special proclamation in his honor declaring pastor john c. hagee day .
hagee has received numerous honors and accolades from national jewish organizations for his support of israel .
for those that don t know , b nai b rith equates with jewish freemasonry .
could hagee be a zionist agent ?
it seems so.4 .
in response , it is the catholic church , and she alone , that is the building of god , the temple of god , the new jerusalem , that is the kingdom of god built upon the foundation stones of all the apostles , and it is this kingdom which can never fall .
she alone has lasted 2000 years without changing her doctrines and without committing massive apostasy .
this is why we see the name of an apostle and the name of a tribe on each of the 12 foundation stones of the new jerusalem in st. john s apocalypse ( apoc .
21 ) .
the cathoic church has never repealed , though it has qualified the meaning of the inspired words of st. paul in 1 thess .
2 : 14 for you , brethren , became imitators of the churches of god which are in judea in christ jesus .
for you also suffered the same things from your own countrymen , just as they did from the judeans , 15 who killed both the lord jesus and their own prophets , and have persecuted us ; and they do not please god and are contrary to all men , 16 forbidding us to speak to the gentiles that they may be saved , so as always to fill up the measure of their sins ; but wrath has come upon them to the uttermost .
and christ himself has no fear of being labelled anti-semitic ( though he was , of course a semite ! )
when he calls judaism a synagogue of satan , in apoc .
2:9 & 3:9 ) .5 .
is this racism ?
anti-semitism ?
absolutely not .
arabs are semites as much as jews , and there are and have been millions of arab christians .
what we are concerned with opposing here is an occult , racist philosophy zionism , which is just as bad as white supremacy or the black panthers ideology .
only by being incorporated into the god-man and his body , the church , can these petty , fleshly divisions be overcome , as st. paul writes in galatians 3:28-29 .
there we learn that the true descendants of abraham are those who operate with the faith of abraham , not racist pride .
john hagee is , in fact , the racist , who now worships the nation of israel .
without christ , there is no salvation .
the flesh nation of israel is cut off from the covenant and can not attain to heaven without faith in jesus .
let us look at an important allegory from st. paul on this matter.galatians 4:21 tell me , you who desire to be under the law , do you not hear the law ?
22 for it is written that abraham had two sons : the one by a bondwoman , the other by a freewoman .
23 but he who was of the bondwoman was born according to the flesh , and he of the freewoman through promise , 24 which things are symbolic .
for these are the two covenants : the one from mount sinai which gives birth to bondage , which is hagar 25 for this hagar is mount sinai in arabia , and corresponds to jerusalem which now is , and is in bondage with her children 26 but the jerusalem above is free , which is the mother of us all .
27 for it is written : rejoice , o barren , you who do not bear !
break forth and shout , you who are not in labor !
for the desolate has many more children than she who has a husband .
28 now we , brethren , as isaac was , are children of promise .
29 but , as he who was born according to the flesh then persecuted him who was born according to the spirit , even so it is now .
30 nevertheless what does the scripture say ?
cast out the bondwoman and her son , for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the son of the forewoman .
31 so then , brethren , we are not children of the bondwoman but of the free .
6 .
so , you see , there are only two covenants , and there have only ever been two covenants .
one , symbolized by mt .
sinai , which represents judaism , and which can not give life to those who seek to externally fulfill its precepts , and the new covenant , which is the eternal covenant ( heb .
13:20 ) , confirmed in the counsels of the persons of the trinity before the foundation of the world ( apoc .
13:8 ) .
this new covenant is the covenant confirmed in christ s blood , which is the eucharist celebrated at every mass and divine liturgy throughout the world ( luke 22:20 with jer .
31:31 ) .
the old testament saints themselves put their faith christ not in judaistic observances , as jesus states in john 5:45-46 , 8:56 .
thus , he is the only way for jew and gentile alike ( acts 4:12 ) .
and , he only has one church on earth that has faithfully maintained the traditions of the apostles , both in word and in epistle ( 2 thess .
2:15 ) .
unfortunately , hagee , like those who for a time believed in christ in the first century and fell away as the writer of hebrews mentions , hagee has also has apostatized into judaism because he is blind to the spirit of christ operative in the old testament .
in other words , in this bad hermeneutic , one fails to understand typology .
this is why st. paul writes : 7 but if the ministry of death , written and engraved on stones , was glorious [ the old covenant ] , so that the children of israel could not look steadily at the face of moses because of the glory of his countenance , which glory was passing away , 8 how will the ministry of the spirit not be more glorious ?
9 for if the ministry of condemnation had glory , the ministry of righteousness exceeds much more in glory .
10 for even what was made glorious had no glory in this respect , because of the glory that excels .
11 for if what is passing away was glorious , what remains is much more glorious .
12 therefore , since we have such hope , we use great boldness of speech 13 unlike moses , who put a veil over his face so that the children of israel could not look steadily at the end of what was passing away .
14 but their minds were blinded .
for until this day the same veil remains uplifted in the reading of the old testament , because the veil is taken away in christ .
15 but even to this day , when moses is read , a veil lies on their heart .
16 nevertheless when one turns to the lord , the veil is taken away .
17 now the lord is the spirit ; and where the spirit of the lord is , there is liberty .
18 but we all , with unveiled face , beholding as in a mirror the glory of the lord , are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory , just as by the spirit of the lord .
what could be clearer ?
the old covenant has been brought to fulfillment and fruition by the new .
it ( the law alone ) can not save ( and never could ) , and those who still adhere to it as the proper way to approach god are unfortunately blind to the types of christ which are found throughout the law ( luke 24:44 ) .
christ is the true high priest ; christ is the true moses ; christ is the true inheritor of the abrahamic promises ; christ is the fulfillment of the promise to david concerning a kingdom , and on and on .
and , all of this is actualized at christ s first advent not at some fictitious , literal millennial kingdom in jerusalem or illinois .
thus , the kingdom is now ( col. 1:13 ) , and it is the church , and is ruled by his faithful bishops abnd priests ( matt .
16:18 with 18:18 ) .7 .
consider the first century writer , st. clement of rome , who was ordained by st. peter wrote : through countryside and city [ the apostles ] preached , and they appointed their earliest converts , testing them by the spirit , to be the bishops and deacons of future believers .
nor was this a novelty , for bishops and deacons had been written about a long time earlier .
.
.
.
our apostles knew through our lord jesus christ that there would be strife for the office of bishop .
for this reason , therefore , having received perfect foreknowledge , they appointed those who have already been mentioned and afterwards added the further provision that , if they should die , other approved men should succeed to their ministry ( letter to the corinthians 42:4 5 , 44:1 3 [ a.d. 80 ] ) .
that s apostolic succession .
or consider what st. ignatius , bishop of antioch , wrote in his letter to the smyrneans ( ca 100 a.d. ) : chapter viii .
let nothing be done without the bishop.see that ye all follow the bishop , even as jesus christ does the father , and the presbytery as ye would the apostles ; and reverence the deacons , as being the institution of god .
let no man do anything connected with the church without the bishop .
let that be deemed a proper eucharist , which is [ administered ] either by the bishop , or by one to whom he has entrusted it .
wherever the bishop shall appear , there let the multitude [ of the people ] also be ; even as , wherever jesus christ is , there is the catholic church .
it is not lawful without the bishop either to baptize or to celebrate a love-feast ; but whatsoever he shall approve of , that is also pleasing to god , so that everything that is done may be secure and valid .
st. cyril of jerusalem , in his catechtical lectures , lectures 4 and 18 , warns : fall not away either into the sect of the samaritans , or into judaism : for jesus christ henceforth has ransomed you .
stand aloof from all observance of sabbaths , and from calling any indifferent meats common or unclean .
but especially abhor all the assemblies of wicked heretics ; and in every way make your own soul safe , by fastings , prayers , almsgivings , and reading the oracles of god ; that having lived the rest of your life in the flesh in soberness and godly doctrine , you may enjoy the one salvation which flows from baptism ; and thus enrolled in the armies of heaven by god and the father , may also be deemed worthy of the heavenly crowns , in christ jesus our lord , to whom be the glory for ever and ever .
amen .
25 .
of old the psalmist sang , bless ye god in the congregations , even the lord , ( ye that are ) from the fountains of israel .
but after the jews for the plots which they made against the saviour were cast away from his grace , the saviour built out of the gentiles a second holy church , the church of us christians , concerning which he said to peter , and upon this rock i will build my church , and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it matthew 16:18 .
and david prophesying of both these , said plainly of the first which was rejected , i have hated the congregation of evil doers ; but of the second which is built up he says in the same psalm , lord , i have loved the beauty of your house ; and immediately afterwards , in the congregations will i bless you , o lord .
for now that the one church in judea is cast off , the churches of christ are increased over all the world ; and of them it is said in the psalms , sing unto the lord a new song , his praise in the congregation of saints .
agreeably to which the prophet also said to the jews , i have no pleasure in you , says the lord almighty malachi 1:10 ; and immediately afterwards , for from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same , my name is glorified among the gentiles .
concerning this holy catholic church paul writes to timothy , that you may know how you ought to behave yourself in the house of god , which is the church of the living god , the pillar and ground of the truth 1 timothy 3:15 .
st. athanasius , in his first festal letter , sec .
8 , writes : 8 .
now observe ; that city , since the coming of our savior , has had an end , and all the land of the jews has been laid waste ; so that from the testimony of these things ( and we need no further proof , being assured by our own eyes of the fact ) there must , of necessity , be an end of the shadow .
and not from me should these things be learned , but the sacred voice of the prophet foretold , crying ; behold upon the mountains the feet of him that brings good tidings , and publishes peace nahum 1:15 ; and what is the message he published , but that which he goes on to say to them , keep your feasts , o judah ; pay to the lord your vows .
for they shall no more go to that which is old ; it is finished ; it is taken away : he is gone up who breathed upon the face , and delivered you from affliction .
now who is he that went up ?
a man may say to the jews , in order that even the boast of the shadow may be done away ; neither is it an idle thing to listen to the expression , it is finished ; he is gone up who breathed .
for nothing was finished before he went up who breathed .
but as soon as he went up , it was finished .
who was he then , o jews , as i said before ?
if moses , the assertion would be false ; for the people were not yet come to the land in which alone they were commanded to perform these rites .
but if samuel , or any other of the prophets , even in that case there would be a perversion of the truth ; for hitherto these things were done in judea , and the city was standing .
for it was necessary that while that stood , these things should be performed .
so that it was none of these , my beloved , who went up .
but if you would hear the true matter , and be kept from jewish fables , behold our savior who went up , and breathed upon the face , and said to his disciples , receive the holy ghost john 20:22 .
for as soon as these things were done , everything was finished , for the altar was broken , and the veil of the temple was rent ; and although the city was not yet laid waste , the abomination was ready to sit in the midst of the temple , and the city and those ancient ordinances to receive their final consummation .
similarly , the 8th canon of the seventh ecumenical council ( 787 a.d. ) states : since certain , erring in the superstitions of the hebrews , have thought to mock at christ our god , and feigning to be converted to the religion of christ do deny him , and in private and secretly keep the sabbath and observe other jewish customs , we decree that such persons be not received to communion , nor to prayers , nor into the church ; but let them be openly hebrews according to their religion , and let them not bring their children to baptism , nor purchase or possess a slave .
but if any of them , out of a sincere heart and in faith , is converted and makes profession with his whole heart , setting at naught their customs and observances , and so that others may be convinced and converted , such an one is to be received and baptized , and his children likewise ; and let them be taught to take care to hold aloof from the ordinances of the hebrews .
but if they will not do this , let them in no wise be received .
in conclusion , bad theology leads to worse theology , and often this is based in a faulty hermeneutic with false presuppositions .
with hagee , its a serious failure to recognize christ in the old testament and typology .
both he and the zionists are united in rejecting the teaching of the historic orthodox fathers .
heresy is like a virus that compounds itself .
premillennialism , dispensationalism , and its offshoot , the virtual worship of israel , are serious errors that , when worked out to their illogical conclusions , end up denying christ s divinity and/or necessity of faith in him for salvation .
hagee demonstrates that.read more shadow government news at : 21st century wire shadow government filesto hear jay s full podcasts , see more information and learn how you can become a subscriber to jaysanalysis.jay dyer is the author of the forthcoming title , esoteric hollywood : sex , cults and symbols in film from trine day .
focusing on film , philosophy , geopolitics and all things esoteric , jaysanalysis and his podcast , esoteric hollywood , investigates the deeper meanings between the headlines , exploring the hidden aspects of our sinister synthetic mass media matrix .