ivanka trump is catching hell right now for being a hypocrite when it comes to women s healthcare.in 2016 , ivanka trump campaign for her dad by claiming that his administration would support a variety of women s issues including maternity leave.however , donald trump s desperate effort to repeal the affordable care act would wipe out maternity care , mammograms , contraception , and would make the cost of healthcare for women skyrocket because insurance companies would be allowed to once again classify being a woman as a pre-existing condition.in short , for all of ivanka s claims that her dad will be a champion for women , he is proving her to be a total liar .
and what s worse is that she is doing nothing to stand up for women.and that s why planned parenthood ceo cecile richards called out ivanka on friday and warned her not to betray women .
it s time for ivanka to stand for women , richards said before calling ivanak s silence on the bill deafening .
currently , ivanka is on a swanky ski trip in aspen while republicans prepare to gut healthcare for millions of women across the country .
this is going to be a catastrophe for women in this country , richards continued .
any woman who votes for this bill is betraying every woman in america .
women will lose not just their healthcare , but lose their lives over this bill .
here s the video via youtube.ivanka s refusal to help women by standing up to her dad has also created a firestorm on her twitter feed as even more people called her out on social media for being a hypocrite in response to her praise of a paid leave speech delivered by actress anne hathaway .
@ ivankatrump now that you ve got an office in the west wing , how about you stand up for women in the current healthcare discussion ?
ocean pleasant ( @ oceanpleasant ) march 24 , 2017 @ ivankatrump really ?
posting this today just as your father is fighting to take away maternity support and coverage from millions of women ?
kyrielle ( @ thezenpuppy ) march 23 , 2017 @ ivankatrump if you really cared about women you would speak out against the healthcare bill that takes away maternity care .
# complicit melissa joy ( @ mjkpnp ) march 23 , 2017 @ ivankatrump so glad u r having fun in aspen as essential health benefits for women are on the line .
the cost of 100 secret serv .
for ur .. justice johnson ( @ acjjustice ) march 24 , 2017 @ ivankatrump .. 1 wk .
of fun could pay for 1 yr. healthcare for thousands of ppl in need .
your entire family is the epitome of corruption .
justice johnson ( @ acjjustice ) march 24 , 2017 @ ivankatrump pic.twitter.com/2gp8torted justice johnson ( @ acjjustice ) march 24 , 2017 @ ivankatrump this is sarcasm for sure !
you do not speak for women , most find you to be an enabler of a sexual predator .
you re complicit .
lyndal ( @ lyndahalbert ) march 23 , 2017 @ ivankatrump this is confusing to say the least .
you can t honor women & simultaneously be complicit in yanking their essential healthcare jessica lyons ( @ jessglyons ) march 24 , 2017 @ ivankatrump that s just hysterical .
isn t your dad trying to take away maternity ?
linda ( @ linda_schildman ) march 23 , 2017 @ ivankatrump how can i worry about paid leave when i may not have health insurance ?
christine fugate ( @ christinefugate ) march 24 , 2017 @ ivankatrump dont be a hypocrite , ivanka .
don t pretend to support women while your father tries to take away maternity care w/ trumpcare .
wendy rosen ( @ rsvp2wendy ) march 23 , 2017 .
@ ivankatrump complicit as you sit back & let men take away women s healthcare pic.twitter.com/p0l9qvqlm0 tracey kent ( @ traceykent ) march 24 , 2017ivanka trump doesn t give a shit about any woman except herself .
she s an enabler and she is complicit in what her dad is doing .
donald trump s healthcare bill is a death sentence to women and we all need to remember that when the next election in 2018 rolls around.featured image via joe scarnici/getty images