marawi city , philippines ( reuters ) - with vehicles crushed and overturned and buildings reduced to skeletons of mangled steel and rubble , the philippine city of marawi resembles the aftermath of a war that lasted years , rather than months .
except for small clusters of troops dotted amid the ruins and skinny cats and dogs scavenging for food , the heart of marawi is a ghost town , all but destroyed by the philippines biggest and fiercest urban battle in recent history .
hundreds of rebels claiming allegiance to islamic state seized large areas of the city of 200,000 people in may and clung on through unrelenting government air strikes and artillery bombardments , right until the last remaining gunmen were killed three days ago .
the military escorted media on wednesday through the ravaged streets of the once picturesque lakeside town , showing for the first time the front lines of a devastating conflict that has stoked fears of islamic state s extremist agenda taking root in the region .
the scale of the damage was stark as a convoy of vans carrying reporters and cameramen followed an army truck through one district after another , stopping off at key intersections recently cleared of unexploded munitions and booby traps .
wide boulevards in the city were lined by crumbling homes and shop fronts missing higher floors , with fragments of chairs , children s toys and household appliances wedged into piles of crumbled concrete .
tattered pieces of clothing poking above banks of rubble provided the only color in the mass of gutted grey buildings blackened by smoke .
vans , pickup trucks and cars were turned over , coated in rust or torn apart by bomb blasts .
the militants planning , stockpiling of weapons and their combat capability stunned government forces , who had to fight street by street to take back the city and were often pinned down by snipers and homemade bombs .
at first our forces can not press them , they moved from one building to the next .
our concept was to restrict them - it took time , but we constricted them , said lieutenant colonel sam yunque , a special forces commander deployed in marawi since the beginning of the conflict .
we innovated to suppress their techniques .
they were not better than us , that s why they lost .
the philippines announced the end of combat operations in marawi city on monday after troops killed 42 remaining militants , including some foreign fighters .
more than 1,100 people , including 165 troops and 45 civilians , died in the conflict .
the government has said the rest were militants .
senior officers said they took pains to protect the multitude of mosques in what is the only designated islamic city in the mainly catholic philippines .
although many escaped the pounding of daily air strikes , domes and walls were peppered with holes from heavy machine gun fire as troops sought to flush out rebels hiding within .
earlier on wednesday , u.s. defense secretary jim mattis praised filipino soldiers for defeating the militants without attracting allegations of human rights violations .
the united states provided critical tactical intelligence in the marawi combat operation , deploying surveillance planes and drones , thermal imaging and eavesdropping equipment .
the walls were blasted away at marawi s police headquarters where the armory was looted , and in the adjacent jail where more than 100 prisoners were freed .
close by , a mosque minaret had fallen into a mash of metal and rock .
behind it was a lone , leafless tree with only a few branches left .
the militants smashed through thick layers of concrete to turn drainage channels into trenches , doubling as tunnels for fighters to move between buildings and elude surveillance drones and army snipers .
rebel-held buildings were covered with graffiti , including one of an arrow through a heart , with the message i love isis , an acronym for islamic state .
but there was no love for the rebel alliance among the hundreds of jubilant soldiers at send-off ceremonies held this week as troops gradually return home .
colonel corleto vinluan , the commander of joint special operations , described the enemy as rats .
he said the military had gained valuable experience in urban combat and chose a strategy that took time , but ultimately paid off .
we couldn t just enter the area , it was very big , we did not know where the leaders were , we had to surround them and the area became smaller .
it was that time when we really took control , vinluan told reuters .
we didn t expect they ll last that long , their ammunition their firearms and their food .
we learned a lot from this event , we adjusted our strategies .
they were tough fighters , some of them , but not all .