yangon ( reuters ) - myanmar s army said on monday that security forces have discovered a mass grave on the edge of a village in rakhine state , and have launched an investigation .
a violent crackdown by the security forces in response to attacks by militants in the state has caused around 650,000 rohingya muslims to flee to bangladesh in recent months .
in a statement posted on the facebook page of the military s commander-in-chief , senior general min aung hlaing , the army said the unidentified bodies had been found at the cemetery in the village of inn din , about 50 km ( 30 miles ) north of state capital sittwe .
it did not say how many bodies were uncovered .
a preliminary investigation was done by the security forces following a report , by someone who asked not to be named , of people being killed and buried , the army said .
as a result of the investigations , unidentified bodies were found at the inn din village cemetery and a detailed investigation is being conducted to get to the truth , according to the statement on facebook , which the army often uses to make announcements .
when contacted by reuters , military spokesman colonel myat min oo declined to give further details .
the village is in maungdaw township , one of the areas worst affected by the violence that has prompted the united nations top human rights official to allege that myanmar s security forces may have committed genocide against the rohingya .
myanmar s armed forces launched what they termed clearance operations in northern rakhine , where many of the stateless muslim minority lived , after rohingya militants attacked 30 police posts and an army base on aug. 25 .
rights monitors have accused troops of atrocities , including killings , mass rape and arson during those operations .
the united states has said it amounted to ethnic cleansing .
the myanmar military has said its own internal investigation had exonerated security forces of all accusations of atrocities .
myanmar s civilian leader , aung san suu kyi , has faced fierce international criticism for failing to do more to protect the rohingya .
the civilian government , which has no control over the military , has said the army was engaged in legitimate counter-insurgency operations .
it has promised to investigate allegations of abuses in rakhine if it is given evidence .