manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte voiced rare praise for the united states on thursday , calling it an important security ally , and dismissing historic grievances and his slew of past tirades against washington as water under the bridge .
duterte s anti-american outbursts have become notorious and baffling for one of washington s closest asian allies since the nation gained independence from the united states in 1946 .
he was speaking on the 116th anniversary of one of the bloodiest battles in the american-philippines war on the central island of samar , where 39 filipino civilians were killed in retaliation for the deaths of 48 soldiers killed by rebels .
last year , at his first international summit in laos , the maverick leader stunned regional leaders when he showed them pictures of that massacre .
then u.s. president barack obama canceled a bilateral meeting there with duterte , who had called him a son of a bitch days earlier for expressing concern about his bloody war on drugs .
on thursday , duterte said he had been advised to tone down his anti-american rhetoric and had positive words for the u.s. military , with which he has repeatedly threatened to sever ties , besides accusing it of supplying ineffective combat hardware and of making the philippines a potential target for war .
this is all water under the bridge , i was under advice by the department of foreign affairs , that i would temper my language and avoid cursing , which i am prone to do if i get emotional , duterte said in a speech .
i would not say they were our saviours , but they are our allies and they helped us .
even today , they provide crucial equipment to our soldiers in marawi to fight the terrorists , he said , referring to a city where islamic state loyalists have been holed up for four months .
duterte was speaking in balangiga , a town burned down in 1901 by u.s. soldiers , who seized two church bells as war trophies .
duterte has demanded the return of the bells and the two countries are now discussing the terms .
since donald trump replaced obama as president , duterte s attacks on the united states have decreased , though he vowed never to go there and last week passed up the opportunity to attend the united nations general assembly in new york .
duterte sprang a surprise last month with a warm reception for visiting u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson , describing himself as a humble friend of the united states .
some commentators have attributed his softer tone to the trump administration refraining from criticism of duterte s signature war on drugs .
duterte s foreign minister alan peter cayetano , who met tillerson in washington on wednesday , said the philippines was open to receiving foreign observers to examine its human rights record and war on drugs , which has killed thousands .
we made it clear that we have nothing to hide and are ready to work with experts or observers as long as they are independent and fair , cayetano said in a statement .