beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon has identified the bodies of 10 of its soldiers found along the syrian border in a zone taken back from islamic state last week , state news agency nna said on wednesday .
an offensive against the enclave ended with the evacuation of islamic state militants and their families to eastern syria under a hezbollah-brokered deal .
syria s government and lebanon s hezbollah allowed a convoy of about 300 lightly armed fighters and 300 relatives to evacuate , surrendering their border enclave .
as part of the agreement , is militants identified where they had buried the soldiers , lebanon s army chief said .
dna tests confirmed that all 10 bodies found in the mountainous border region were lebanese soldiers , security sources and local media said on wednesday .
islamic state had held territory along the border for years , and took lebanese troops captive in 2014 when they briefly overran the town of arsal with other militants , one of the worst spillovers of the syrian conflict into lebanon .
lebanese justice minister salim jrayssati said a military court would look into whether any civil or military authorities played a role in their capture .
president michel aoun called for an investigation last week .
at a conference on wednesday , the families of the soldiers demanded an inquiry to punish anyone who led to the deaths during the fighting and negotiations since 2014 .
for three years , they had protested in the streets and met with many government officials to find out the fate of their relatives .
there is immense and deep sadness in our hearts .
but in our minds , there is pride and dignity , hussein youssef , the father of a soldier , said at the government headquarters in beirut .
prime minister saad al-hariri declared friday a national day of mourning after meeting with the families .
they were martyred defending this country , said nizam mougheit , whose brother died in islamic state captivity .
anyone who had a hand in their martyrdom should be held accountable , whoever it is .