boston ( reuters ) - maine voters have made the state the eighth in the united states to legalize the recreational use of marijuana , state officials said on wednesday , following a recount of votes on a ballot initiative .
the measure passed by 3,995 votes with the support of 381,768 people , maine secretary of state matthew dunlap said in a statement .
that was a slightly narrower margin of victory than the 4,073 vote gap reported following the nov. 8 election .
the measure now goes to governor paul lepage , who has 10 days under maine law to issue a proclamation of the vote results .
it would take effect 30 days later , setting the stage for the drug to become legal for adults over 21 beginning late next month .
the result makes maine the second state in the northeast to legalize recreational use of the drug , as voters in nearby massachusetts approved a similar measure last month .
marijuana became legal to use and posses in limited quantities , but not yet to buy , in that state last week .
lepage , a republican , said earlier this week during a radio interview that he intended to seek legal advice before signing the proclamation , since the drug remains illegal under federal law .
president-elect donald trump , who takes office on jan. 20 , has sent mixed signals about his views on it .
during the campaign , trump , a republican , said that marijuana legalization was best left to the states .
his pick for attorney general , u.s .
senator jeff sessions of alabama , has criticized democratic president barack obama ’ s administration for not enforcing the federal ban aggressively enough .
an october opinion poll by gallup showed that 60 percent of americans now support the legalization of recreational use of marijuana .
even more approve of the idea of legalizing marijuana for medical use , a step that 28 states have taken .
in addition to maine and massachusetts , voters in colorado , washington , alaska , oregon , california , nevada and the district of columbia have legalized recreational use of the drug .