american citizens should be more concerned about the left and the leftist media s attempt to hide the brutal truth about sharia in america , than a billboard that gives readers an opportunity to learn the truth.in a state that doesn t tolerate any discussion of what the massive influx of somali refugees has done to their neighborhoods and schools , this billboard will likely be a hot topic in minnesota .
recently , the minnesota governor told his constituents to leave the state if they don t like the massive influx off muslims .
watch the incredible video here .
[ video ] a billboard of a woman in a niqab went up on i-94 in rogers at the beginning of june , prompting calls to the sign company from the public .
copy was added to the billboard in july , which now reads should america fear sharia ?
the billboard is sponsored by the center for security policy , a washington , d.c. based national security think tank .
the site shouldamericafearsharia.org consists mostly of links to videos discussing different topics about islam and islamic extremism.the billboard was contracted out by the center with franklin outdoor advertising , a billboard company in minnesota and wisconsin .
the billboard went up the beginning of june , franklin salesperson chris barta said , last friday we switched it out and put up the one with the website .
the website advertisement billboard will be up from july 1st through the end of the month when the advertisement contract expires.the center for security policy s website contains articles and videos on national security threats of islamic terrorism.in the wake of the pulse nightclub shooting in orlando , the center s executive vice president jim hanson called the attack , completely in keeping with totalitarian islamic code called shariah .
franklin outdoor advertising received a number of calls from the public regarding the billboard according to barta , mostly in june when there was no text accompanying the image on the sign .
alphanewsh/t refugee resettlement watch