on saturday , donald trump truly became the president with his latest in a series of dumbass attacks against msnbc host mika brzezinski.for days , the donald has been hammering brzezinski in a nonsensical act of revenge because she laughed at the fake time magazine covers trump hangs all over his golf courses .
crazy joe scarborough and dumb as a rock mika are not bad people , but their low rated show is dominated by their nbc bosses , trump whined .
too bad !
crazy joe scarborough and dumb as a rock mika are not bad people , but their low rated show is dominated by their nbc bosses .
too bad !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 1 , 2017on thursday , the donald began his series of assaults against low i.q .
crazy mika whom he says he refused to meet with at the mar-a-lago because she was bleeding badly from a face-lift .
after trump s attack , mika and her husband-to-be , joe scarborough , revealed that the donald had threatened them with a negative story in the national enquirer if they didn t stop saying mean things about him something commonly recognized by even the world s most prolific idiots as blackmail.trump confirmed this story in his friday morning toilet tweets : watched low rated @ morning_joe for first time in long time .
fake news .
he called me to stop a national enquirer article .
i said no !
bad show donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 30 , 2017apparently , mister 45 s latest outburst was yet another childish attack spurred by the morning show couple s blackmail revelation and americans are f * cking sick of it : don t you have a country to run ?
actually i take that back stick to tweeting .
you ll do less damage w/ your petty internet tantrums .
john kinnear ( @ askdadblog ) july 1 , 2017it s # saturdaymorning , do you know where your president is ? ? ?
yep putting out another tweet storm .
rob szczerba ( @ rjszczerba ) july 1 , 2017hmm you create fake time covers and hang them in your hotels and resorts and then you go crazy when someone teases you about it ?
sad !
rob szczerba ( @ rjszczerba ) july 1 , 2017have you thought about getting a grown-up to help you tweet ?
or just giving it up ?
you re doing yourself terrible damage worldwide .
pic.twitter.com/4lqshujj0e jack schofield ( @ jackschofield ) july 1 , 2017if you defected to russia , you wouldn t have to worry about the # trumprussia scandal , and putin says they have the world s best prostitutes .
pic.twitter.com/jikljhmif5 jack schofield ( @ jackschofield ) july 1 , 2017are all of your horrible tweets supposed to be examples for melania to use in her campaign on cyber-bullying ?
tommy campbell ( @ mrtommycampbell ) july 1 , 2017you are a disgrace to the office and this country .
jamie grayson ( @ thebabyguynyc ) july 1 , 2017how s your wife s cyber bullying campaign going ?
kara vallow ( @ teenagesleuth ) july 1 , 2017i ll put money on the fact that that rock has a higher iq than you .
prove it ?
of course not .
coward .
angel goulet ( @ angelgoulet ) july 1 , 2017it s almost depressing to think that it could be three and a half more years before we have someone in the oval office who isn t a complete embarrassment to himself ( or herself ) and country.featured image via getty images/screengrab