rasmussen polling wrote a commentary last year outlining ten factors that will determine who the next president will be .
among those was , of course , the candidates themselves and their rung mates , the state of the economy , the ongoing culture wars , and how vigorously the candidates fight in swing states .
but one factor , which seems to have an influential and historical trend in elections , is the current president s approval rating .
as rasmussen found : postwar history suggests that when a president has weak approval , his party pays a price in the next election .
harry truman ( 1952 ) , lyndon johnson ( 1968 ) , gerald ford ( 1976 ) , jimmy carter ( 1980 ) , george h.w .
bush ( 1992 ) , and george w. bush ( 2008 ) all had mediocre-to-poor approval ratings , and the opposing party won all of those elections ( defeating incumbents ford , carter , and h.w .
bush , and winning open-seat races in the others ) .when president obama was elected in november 2008 , george w. bush s approval rating was a dismal 19 percent .
in july 1992 , when george h.w bush was campaigning against bill clinton , his approval rating fell to a record low 29 percent.well if this is a precedential factor that helps determine who the president will be , democrats should be breathing a sigh of relief.a new nbc news/wall street journal poll shows president obama s approval rating is 51 percent , while his disapproval rating is 46 percent .
the last time president obama had the majority of approval from the country ( in this poll ) , was during his second inauguration in january 2013.the numbers , nbc shows , could be beneficial to hillary clinton : the president s relative political strength could be a significant boon for hillary clinton , whose 2016 candidacy is largely focused on preserving key aspects of his democratic policy-making.the poll shows that clinton , despite her own high negative ratings as an individual candidate , could enjoy some other structural advantages as well in the 2016 contestastoundingly , 54 percent of independents ( remember , president obama lost independents in 2012 ) approve of the job he s doing.that s good news for democrats , who are relying on a large turnout of independent voters to counter donald trump s right-wing populism.similarly , gallup polling shows the president s approval rating stands at 52 percent , up two points from the previous week .
the last time president obama had an approval rating of 52 percent ( according to their polling ) , was in february 2013.this is good news for democrats .
clinton , who is well on the way of becoming the nominee , has made continuing the obama legacy a staple in her campaign .
that resounds well with democrats and apparently should with independents.featured image via drew angerer/getty images