only a liberal man who works for a magazine that made a fortune by exploiting women would complain that president trump s female deputy press secretary isn t giving him enough respect .
yesterday a 56-year-old reporter representing playboy magazine had an epic meltdown in the white house press briefing room after white house deputy press secretary sarah huckabee-sanders put him in his place following the release of an undercover bombshell video by project veritas that exposed cnn as a network that fabricates news for ratings.brian karem complained about journalists being called out as fake news when they report falsehoods , and protested on behalf of the honor of all white house journalists .
conservative treehousein an effort to capitalize on his moment in the sun , today 56-year-old brian karem runs to the associated press and claims sarah sanders and sean spicer ( white house press secretaries ) are bullying him and not giving him enough respect : ap the reporter who accused white house spokeswoman sarah huckabee sanders of inflaming the public against the media at a press briefing says he did it because he s tired of being bullied by the administration .
there s a time and a place for everything and the time has come to stand up and be counted , karem told the associated press on wednesday .
i m tired of taking it .
i want friendly relationships , but those who want respect , show respect .
we have shown that man and shown the administration respect for six months , and all we re getting in return is a lack of respect , derision and bullying .
karem , 56 , is not a representative of the large national media organizations repeatedly described as fake news by the president .
besides his editing , he writes for playboy , where his first-person account of the confrontation was posted late tuesday .
note to brian karem : when a woman like sarah huckabee sanders stands her ground and defends a man she respects and admires that s been unjustly accused of wrongdoing , is not called bullying she s simply not allowing herself to be steamrolled by the bullies in the media booom sarah huckabee sanders advises all to watch veritas video where cnn producer admits they realize trump/russia is a hoax but dont care !
pic.twitter.com/tng5dumkq3 stock monster ( @ stockmonsterusa ) june 27 , 2017