of course emily s list is going to support hillary , because democrats have been doing their part to keep the unwanted or undesirable babies from making it out of the womb alive for decades .washington , d.c. today emily s list , the nation s largest resource for women in politics , endorsed hillary clinton for president .
clinton is on track to become the first woman to win the democratic nomination , and if elected , the first woman president of the united states .
hillary clinton is a lifelong champion for women and families and the most qualified candidate to be president , said stephanie schriock , president of emily s list .
with roots in the middle class , hillary s top priority is changing the economic reality for american families .
her focus is on strengthening the middle class , creating jobs , and making sure hardworking families get a fair shot .
no one will work harder than hillary .
she knows how to lead so washington fights for all americans .
as president , hillary will create more opportunities than ever for women and girls ( give them access to on demand abortions ) and for all hardworking americans across the country , just as she has done throughout her exceptional career .
the emily s list community now more than three million members strong is proud to endorse hillary clinton for president .
hillary clinton has devoted her entire career to fighting for women and families ( supporting the killing of unborn babies ) .
instead of going to a big law firm after graduating from yale law school , she took her first job going door to door for the children s defense fund .
she helped lead the fight for the children s health insurance program as first lady of the united states , and she put emphasis on women s rights as a cornerstone of american foreign policy as secretary of state.a visionary leader who s always worked to create opportunity for others , hillary has said she believes our challenge is to be clear-eyed about the world as it is while never losing sight of the world as we want it to become .
when she is elected president , it will mean more opportunities for women , more opportunities for girls , and more opportunities for hardworking americans across the country.via : weasel zippers