washington ( reuters ) - the afl-cio , the largest u.s. federation of labor unions , will launch digital attack ads targeting republican front-runner donald trump next week as part of a multi-pronged effort to derail the new york billionaire ’ s bid for the white house and dampen union workers ’ enthusiasm for him .
officials at the afl-cio , an umbrella group of 56 unions representing 12.5 million workers , told reuters the ads will depict trump as anti-union , and will appear on facebook and twitter .
the officials said the anti-trump advertising effort would likely expand over the coming months .
at the same time , an afl-cio affiliate organization will ramp up a door-to-door campaign to undermine the candidate in ohio and pennsylvania , key battleground states in the nov. 8 presidential election .
“ donald trump has tapped into the very real and understandable anger of working people .
but while he says he ’ s with america ’ s working people , when you look close , it ’ s just hot air , ” afl-cio president richard trumka told reuters .
“ donald trump is nothing but a house of cards , and once we educate people , the house of cards comes crashing down , ” he said .
union leaders are increasingly concerned about trump ’ s appeal to labor , typically a stronghold of the democratic party , because of his promises to scrap free trade deals that have led to manufacturing job losses in the united states .
the afl-cio is entering the political fray several months earlier than in past elections , given the “ unique cycle ” created by trump ’ s candidacy , spokesman josh goldstein said .
the initial ads will be modeled after a text message blast that began thursday featuring an image of trump with a statement he made supporting “ right-to-work ” laws , which weaken organized labor by limiting their ability to collect membership dues .
several states have passed such laws , and the u.s. congress has considered a similar measure .
“ i like right to work .
my position on right to work is 100 percent , ” trump said in a radio interview in south carolina last month .
the text campaign on which the ads will be modeled featured a quote from trumka , hitting trump on right-to-work , and characterizing him as racist : “ donald trump ’ s bigoted comments are bad enough .
now , he supports right to work .
tell him right to work is wrong for working people. ” trump has been widely criticized for describing mexican illegal immigrants as rapists and criminals , and for proposing a temporary ban on muslims seeking to come to the united states .
the afl-cio declined to say how much the initial digital ads would cost , but the federation spent nearly $ 9 million in the 2012 election cycle on outside spending in addition to money given directly to candidates , according to open secrets data .
the afl-cio typically waits to endorse a presidential candidate until there is a de facto democratic nominee .
but trumka , a former coal miner and leader of that union , has made clear he believes trump in particular would be a disastrous candidate for workers .
in a speech last week he called him a “ bigot ” and “ anti-american. ” an official representing trump ’ s campaign was not immediately available to comment , but trump has said repeatedly that he has support within unions .
national unions nearly always endorse democratic presidential candidates but trump has built his insurgent campaign in part on a mission that many unions share : scrapping international trade deals .
there are some signs trump ’ s message is resonating beyond the 20 to 30 percent of rank-and-file union members that vote republican , attracting political independents and even some frustrated democrats .
at a recent picket outside a steel plant near canton , ohio , workers cited former president bill clinton ’ s support of the north american free trade agreement more than 20 years ago as a reason why they may support trump over democratic front-runner hillary clinton in a general election .
“ for a lot of us , it ’ s abc - anybody but clinton , ” mike newbold told reuters .
clinton has said she evaluates every trade deal to make sure it protects workers and that she opposes one being finalized by the obama administration .
her campaign said they are confident her plan to help struggling manufacturing areas will earn her support from union members .
afl-cio ’ s affiliate , working america , has noticed trump ’ s inroads with working-class americans , and recently sent canvassers to talk to 1,689 likely voters with household incomes of $ 75,000 or less in cleveland , ohio , and pittsburgh , pennsylvania , to learn more about trump ’ s appeal .
“ working-class voters are up for grabs this time in a really significant way .
these folks need good information , and we ’ ll fill that gap , ” said karen nussbaum , executive director of working america .
according to nussbaum , workers said they were frustrated with politics and worried about the economy .
of those who had already settled on a candidate , 38 percent chose trump .
but more than half were still undecided .
she said the results of that initial canvas would be used to guide a massive door-to-door campaign to have more than half a million one-on-one conversations with ohio voters during 2016 , to help them “ make decisions that actually solve their problems as opposed to phony solutions. ” working america is adding staff to its offices in columbus and cleveland to support the operation , and will open another soon in cincinnati , she said .
labor strategist steve rosenthal said that in every presidential election there is a sense that white , working-class union men could desert the democratic party .
“ but i think when all is said and done , when unions put their programs into gear , in person and one-on-one in homes and in their communities , union members will vote overwhelmingly for the democratic nominee , ” rosenthal said .
“ trump might have some appeal right now , but once you start to peel away his record - his manufacturing in china , his relationships with unions - he ’ s a pretty good target. ” ( additional reporting by tim reid in ohio ; editing by richard valdmanis and alistair bell ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .