berlin ( reuters ) - the three parties exploring a possible coalition in germany face an early test of their willingness to compromise on thursday when they try to hammer out a common stance on deeply divisive immigration and asylum policy .
german chancellor angela merkel is trying to patch together a tricky three-way coalition after her party suffered bruising losses in a national election three weeks ago - losses that even some of her allies blame on her refugee policies .
germany s demographic landscape changed overnight in 2015 with her decision , in the face of refugee flows on a scale not seen since world war two , to open the borders to over a million migrants fleeing war in the middle east and africa .
while some hailed the move as a humanitarian act , it was less popular in her own conservative camp , where many blame her for the subsequent surge in the anti-immigration alternative for germany party , which took seats from her bloc .
within her conservative bloc , the bavarian christian social union ( csu ) is demanding a cap on refugee numbers , rejected by merkel as unconstitutional .
to her left , the greens oppose what they see as a populist-driven tightening of asylum rules .
with parties far apart , christian lindner , leader of the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) warned that talks could rapidly descend into conflict with greens on the sensitive matter of allowing family members to join migrants in germany .
the csu s talk of an upper limit is empty , lindner told der spiegel magazine .
but i have sympathy for the csu s calls for a change in immigration policy given the need for order , he added , warning merkel against compromising with the greens .
once control has been re-established , then we can be more open again on family reunification , he said .
until then it must be strictly limited to cases of hardship and to the core family - parents and children .
in the first two round of coalition talks , the three parties defied expectations by finding substantial common ground on fiscal policy .
but politicians from all parties have said it could take months to clinch agreement on what would be germany s first three-way coalition for decades .