dubai ( reuters ) - bahrain s public prosecutor charged two leaders of the country s banned main opposition party of spying for qatar on wednesday , months after cutting ties with the neighboring gulf monarchy amid a regional diplomatic row .
sheikh ali salman , secretary general of al-wefaq party , and sheikh hassan sultan are accused of colluding with qatar to carry out hostile acts in bahrain and damage its national interests and prestige , according to a statement on state news agency bna .
the men met qatari officials as well as affiliated agents inside lebanese shi ite militia hezbollah , the statement said .
it accused them of transferring confidential information and receiving financial support from qatar .
the prosecutor ordered that both men be taken into custody .
salman s wife alya radhi wrote on twitter that she had spoken by phone with her husband , who denied all charges .
there was no immediate comment from al-wefaq .
salman is already serving a four-year prison sentence for inciting hatred and insulting the interior ministry , after he was arrested in 2015 .
he was summoned and interrogated about the new accusations in the presence of his lawyer , the statement said .
it did not elaborate on whether sultan was detained .
bahrain , saudi arabia , the united arab emirates and egypt cut diplomatic , transport and trade ties with qatar in june , accusing it of financing terrorism .
bahrain and close ally saudi arabia believe qatar is fomenting unrest in the island kingdom by supporting protests and sporadic attacks against security forces , backed by arch-rival iran .
both countries deny the charges and say the boycott is an attempt to rein in support for reform in bahrain .
the sunni-ruled kingdom , where the u.s. fifth fleet is based , has been on edge since 2011 arab spring protests led by its shi ite majority were put down by the government with the help of fellow gulf arab states .
the government banned al-wefaq and revoked the citizenship of the country s top shi ite muslim cleric as part of a crackdown on the opposition .
human rights groups accuse bahrain of clamping down on dissent and violently cracking down on protests , charges the government rejects .