( reuters ) - u.s. health insurer unitedhealth group inc on tuesday said it would largely exit the obamacare individual insurance market in 2017 , citing expectations for mounting losses from the program .
unitedhealth is the largest u.s. health insurer and one of the biggest sellers of plans on the exchanges , which were created as part of president barack obama ’ s national healthcare law .
unitedhealth sells these plans in 34 states this year , up from 25 states last year .
“ next year , we will remain in only a handful of states , ” unitedhealth ceo stephen hemsley said in prepared remarks as part of the company ’ s first-quarter earnings report .
the company warned investors late last year that it was losing money on the new plans and might exit the market .
on tuesday , the company raised its 2016 expectation for losses on the exchanges by $ 125 million to $ 650 million .
unitedhealth ’ s hemsley said that the shorter term , higher risk profile of the new members , as well as the smaller than expected enrollment , suggested unitedhealth could not offer plans on a sustained basis .
for the first quarter , united health ’ s profit was better-than-expected and unitedhealth shares rose 1.9 percent to $ 130.29 in early new york stock exchange trading .
other health insurers including aetna inc and anthem inc are also large players on the exchanges .
in recent months they said they will continue to sell exchange plans .
the company has 795,000 customers from the exchanges , more than half of them new to unitedhealth , it said .
it expects about 650,000 members by year end .
the government said in february that more than 12 million people had signed up for obamacare-related insurance through healthcare.gov or a state-based exchange as of jan. 31 .
previous government expectations had been for more than 20 million people .
unitedhealth raised its expectations for 2016 profit , in part because of a more favorable tax rate that also helped it beat wall street expectations for the first quarter .
lower sales and administrative costs and a decline in amortization of intangible assets also helped its first quarter results .
on an adjusted basis the health insurer earned $ 1.81 per share , compared with wall street analyst expectations for earnings of $ 1.72 per share , according to thomsonreuters i/b/e/s .
net profit rose to $ 1.61 billion , or $ 1.67 per share , from $ 1.41 billion or $ 1.46 per share , a year earlier .
the company now expects 2016 adjusted net earnings of $ 7.75- $ 7.95 per share , up 15 cents per share from its previous estimate .