strasbourg ( reuters ) - european commission chief jean-claude juncker urged european union governments on wednesday to use economic recovery and brexit as springboards toward a closer union , built on an expanded euro zone and a pivotal role in world trade .
in his annual state of the european union speech , juncker sketched out a vision of a post-2019 eu where some 30 countries would be using the euro , with an eu finance minister running key budgets to help states in trouble .
tax and welfare standards would converge and europe , not the united states , would be the hub of a free-trading world .
the eu chief executive stressed his wish to heal divisions between eastern and western states .
he sees that as vital to countering a drive , including by founding powers france and germany , to set up new structures within the bloc that would exclude some poorer , ex-communist members in the east .
the wind is back in europe s sails , junker told the european parliament , citing economic growth and the easing of a succession of crises greek debt , refugee inflows , the rise of eurokcepticism reflected in brexit - that seemed to threaten the eu s survival .
now we have a window of opportunity , but it will not stay open for ever , he said , emphasizing a need to move on from and even profit from the british vote to leave the bloc in 2019 .
we will keep moving on because brexit isn t everything , it is not the future of europe , he said in a speech that brexit supporters said showed they were right to take britain out of a bloc set on creating more powerful , central institutions french , german and eastern european officials made positive comments , but several said juncker would face stiff opposition .
in a carefully balanced , hour-long discourse in strasbourg , he called on nationalist eastern leaders though not by name to stop defying eu courts over civil rights , and on westerners to drop attempts to keep out cheaper eastern workers or palm off inferior food in poorer national markets .
but his core proposal for countering what is known as a multispeed europe by encouraging all states to join the euro and other eu structures faces resistance in both non-euro zone countries and potentially in paris and berlin , where the newly elected president emmanuel macron and about-to-be-re-elected chancellor angela merkel are readying their own plans .
macron plans to present his ideas for reforming the 19-nation euro zone on sept. 26 , two days after the german election , a french diplomatic source said .
eu officials hope leaders may discuss the issues at a dinner on sept. 28 before a summit in estonia .
if we want the euro to unite rather than divide our continent , then it should be more than the currency of a select group of countries , juncker said .
the euro is meant to be the single currency of the european union as a whole .
he noted that only long-standing eu members britain and denmark have a legal right not to adopt the euro .
eu officials say that with britain leaving , and the eight remaining non-euro states accounting for only 15 percent of eu gdp , juncker sees it as natural for eu and euro zone policy to operate in unison .
for that reason , he rejected proposals , led by france , for a special euro zone budget , finance minister and parliament .
these functions , he said , should be filled instead by a vice president of the commission , chairing the eurogroup of 19 euro zone finance ministers and managing a euro zone budget that would be part of the budget for the whole eu , overseen by parliament .
while denmark in fact pegs its crown closely to the euro , a drive to push the likes of poland and sweden into the euro would be a hard sell in those countries , while germany , france and others have been skeptical about letting poorer states join yet .
juncker proposed eu funding and technical help to encourage non-euro members to get themselves into a position to join .
for juncker , officials say , the departure of britain , for all the difficulties it brings , means goodbye to the major power that has continually sought opt-outs from new integration projects , and offers an opportunity to end the habit for good .
everyone should be in everything , one senior official said .
an aide to macron said juncker had made many ambitious proposals in line with french ideas and played down divergence on euro zone reform , noting juncker would offer final ideas only in december .
in germany , government officials were restrained .
but beate merk , a regional minister in bavaria allied to merkel , said expanding the euro to the whole eu would be a risky experiment that would greatly heighten europe s problems .
euroskeptics responded critically to the commission president s speech .
ryszard legutko , an eu lawmaker from poland s right-wing ruling party , warned against responding to problems with the same old more europe , more europe arguments .
that is not the answer , he said .
we need to get the eu s house in order before there can even be a discussion on centralizing even further .
nigel farage of the uk independence party said : all i can say is , thank god we re leaving .
farage s allies cheered when juncker finally mentioned brexit near the end of his speech and said the british would come to regret their tragic referendum decision to leave .
looking ahead to march 30 , 2019 , the day when britain will be out of the eu , juncker said he had proposed that romania , which will then hold its rotating presidency , should host a summit in the formerly german-speaking transylvanian city of sibiu .
there leaders should set out plans for a more united union , two months before voters elect a new european parliament .