hanoi ( reuters ) - heavy rain in northern and central vietnam triggered floods and landslides that killed 46 people and 33 people were missing in the worst such disaster in years , the search and rescue committee said on thursday .
vietnam often suffers destructive storms and floods due to its long coastline .
more than 200 people were killed in storms last year .
in the past 10 years , we haven t suffered from such severe and intense floods , state-run vietnam television quoted agriculture minister nguyen xuan cuong as saying .
a typhoon tore a destructive path across central vietnam just last month , flooding and damaging homes and knocking out power lines .
the latest floods hit vietnam on monday .
our entire village has had sleepless nights ... it s impossible to fight against this water , it s the strongest in years , a resident in northwestern hoa binh province was quoted by vtv as saying .
vietnam s central steering committee for natural disaster prevention and control said authorities were discharging water from dams to control water levels .
some 317 homes had collapsed , while more than 34,000 other houses were submerged or had been damaged .
earlier reports said more than 8,000 hectares ( 19,800 acres ) of rice had been damaged and around 40,000 animals were killed or washed away .
hoa binh province in the northwest declared a state of emergency and opened eight gates to discharge water at hoa binh dam , vietnam s largest hydroelectric dam , the first time it has done so in years , vtv reported .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc visited northern ninh binh province where water levels in the hoang long river are their highest since 1985 .
rising sea levels are also threatening vietnam s more than 3,260 km ( 2,000 mile ) coastline , resulting in increased flooding of low lying coastal regions , erosion and salt water intrusion .
floods have also affected seven of 77 provinces in thailand , vietnam s neighbor to the west , the department of disaster prevention and mitigation said on thursday .
more than 480,000 hectares ( 1.2 million acres ) of agricultural land have been hit , the department said .
thailand is the world s second-biggest exporter of rice .
it is still too soon to tell whether there will be damage to rice crops because most of the rice has already been harvested , charoen laothamatas , president of the thai rice exporters association , told reuters .
in 2011 , thailand was hit by its worst flooding in half a century .
the floods killed hundreds and crippled industry , including the country s key automotive sector .