shanghai ( reuters ) - a little-known chinese elevator maker saw its shenzhen-listed shares surge the maximum 10 percent on wednesday .
the reason ?
the company s name resembles that of wang huning , a chinese communist party theoretician who was elevated on wednesday to china s apex of power .
the frenzied buying in hangzhou huning elevator parts co , whose business has nothing to do with wang , offers the latest example of the enduring influence of short-term speculators , despite regulators stepped-up campaign against pump and dump trading .
the government is introducing more foreign institutional investors , hoping they can help improve the trading culture in the country s stock market - sometimes likened to a casino .
u.s. index publisher msci will include china a-shares in its global indexes next year .
but wednesday s surge in huning elevator shows that many investors still pick stocks merely by name , not fundamentals .
this is pure speculation , spurred by irrational euphoria .
it has nothing to do with fundamentals , said yang hai , analyst at kaiyuan securities .
heady investors who chased the stock will be burnt .
trading in huning elevator was calm in the morning , but that changed after the communist party revealed around midday its new politburo standing committee , the country s top policy-making body .
the seven-man unit included wang , a one-time law professor from shanghai who has risen steadily up the party s ranks but mostly operated behind the scenes .
when the stock resumed trading in the afternoon , a buying spree pushed it up the maximum 10 percent .
it gave up some gains in afternoon trading and closed up 6 percent .
the elevator maker , which can not be immediately reached for comment , forecast roughly flat nine-month profit on oct. 13 .
name-based stock-picking is not uncommon in china , especially during major political events .
last november , when news headlines pointed to a likely presidential election win for donald trump , shares in wisesoft co ltd - whose chinese name sounds like trump s big win - surged , while yunan xiyi industrial- whose chinese name bears resemblance to aunt hillary - slumped .
and when barack obama won the u.s. presidential election in 2008 , speculators piled into home appliances maker aucma co ltd , which sounds roughly like the chinese pronunciation of obama .
some listed firms in china even took advantage of speculators preference for sexy names .
in 2015 , property developer shanghai duolun industry changed its name to p2p financial information services co , in an apparent attempt to tap into investors mania toward fin tech at the time , triggering a surge in its shares , before the bubble burst .