washington ( reuters ) - u.s. senators stressed trade and other business issues when questioning president donald trump s nominee to be u.s. ambassador to india at his confirmation hearing on tuesday , while expressing strong support for posting him to new delhi .
trump nominated kenneth juster as ambassador to india on sept. 1 .
the 64-year-old , an economic adviser in his administration , also served as under secretary of commerce under former republican president george w. bush .
known as an expert on india , juster was praised by both trump s fellow republicans , who control congress , and democrats on the senate foreign relations committee , although they raised some of the issues complicating relations .
trump , who campaigned on an america first platform , has forcefully expressed his displeasure with the growing u.s. trade deficit with india .
he has also called for reform of the h1b visa system that has benefited indian tech firms .
indian officials reject suggestions that prime minister narendra modi s make in india platform is protectionist and complain in turn about u.s. regulations on products such as generic drugs and fruit .
senator bob corker , the panel s chairman , said he was frustrated with the slow pace of india s economic reforms .
republican senator rob portman , a former u.s. trade representative , struck a similar note , saying he has deep concerns about market access in india for some u.s. products and services .
we need to continue pressing forward , make sure that india adheres to its wto ( world trade organization ) obligations and that we can push the range of economic issues , portman said .
senator ben cardin , the panel s top democrat , said india had not been as strong as it could have been in enforcing sanctions laws .
juster said he would make business issues a priority in new delhi , but also promised to work with new delhi on issues such as north korea s pursuit of nuclear weapons , counter terrorism and working with india toward security in afghanistan .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis held talks in india last week , seeking india s greater involvement in helping stabilize afghanistan , as the trump administration steps up pressure on pakistan to do more against militants operating from its soil .
democratic senator chris coons asked juster about h1b visas , but he said he was not in a position to characterize the administration s current position .
the u.s. mission in india processes more visas than any other .
a vote on juster s confirmation has not been scheduled .
corker called him extraordinarily well-qualified , and said he hoped he would be confirmed quickly .
cardin praised his incredible credentials .