new delhi ( reuters ) - india s western state of rajasthan on tuesday deferred until next year a measure requiring government permission for the publication of details regarding judges and public servants who face accusations over action taken in the course of their duty .
the measure , which prescribes jail terms of up to two years for violations , aimed to minimise frivolous complaints against officials , said the government of the state , ruled by prime minister narendra modi s hindu nationalist party .
in recent years many journalists reporting corruption and attacks on minorities in india have complained of being targeted by online smear campaigns , although there have been no reports of measures elsewhere similar to what rajasthan proposed .
the editors guild of india and the opposition congress party called rajasthan s move an attempt to curb media freedom and shield corrupt individuals , criticisms that forced the state to delay discussion on the bill .
the government has agreed to refer the bill to a panel of legislature members , a state government spokesman told reuters by telephone , adding that the bill could be introduced , following amendments , in the next assembly session early next year .
when introduced this week in the state assembly , it set a six-month deadline for courts to secure the government s permission for any investigations into the actions of judges , magistrates or public servants .
in the absence of such permission , it also sought to block publication of the identity , or other personal , or family details of those being investigated .
`` no one shall print or publish , or publicize in any manner , the name , address , photograph , family details , or any other particulars which may lead to disclosure of identity of a judge or magistrate or a public servant , '' it added .
( bit.ly/2i0w5gz ) the bill s passage by the state legislature would have helped turn into law an executive decree on the subject issued in september that would otherwise have lapsed within six months .
when asked about the status of the decree , the state government spokesman declined to comment .
rajasthan was only trying to shield honest officers so that they can perform their duty , indian law minister ravi shankar prasad told reporters on monday , but declined further comment , saying it was a state matter .
india has slipped three places to 136 in the 2017 world press freedom rankings of 180 countries , amid growing `` self-censorship '' and attacks by right-wing groups .
( rsf.org/en/india ) in a statement , raj chengappa , president of the editors guild of india , described the rajasthan bill as a pernicious instrument to harass the media , hide wrongful acts by government servants and drastically curb the freedom of the press .