washington ( reuters ) - one evening last june , some of the republican party ’ s wealthiest donors gathered for a cocktail party at an exclusive resort in deer valley , utah , during a three-day retreat hosted by former massachusetts governor mitt romney .
they had just heard from six presidential hopefuls .
tom duncan , the ceo of tool-maker positec tool corp , chatted with a few attendees about a fantasy ticket to secure the white house in november 2016 : wisconsin governor scott walker , with senator marco rubio of florida as his running mate .
duncan , for his part , liked ohio governor john kasich , but also had his eye on former hewlett-packard ceo carly fiorina .
no one mentioned donald trump , even though he had been signaling for months that he planned to run .
four days later , the new york property magnate declared his candidacy and within weeks had shot to the top of the polls , eclipsing all of his republican rivals .
the story of trump ’ s rise has played out day after day on television and on social media , but the conversations behind closed doors among members of the republican elite during this period have been less well documented .
many of the conversations had one thing in common : a stubborn refusal to take trump seriously , even as fans packed sports stadiums to see him in the summer months , as he dominated media coverage of the election , and as polls showed him winning wide support among young and old , men and women .
scenes like the one at deer valley would be repeated in rarified enclaves of the party elite around the country again and again in the coming months .
many in the republican establishment believed he would eventually self-destruct or that americans would lose patience with his bombast , his free-wheeling insults and lack of firm policies to back up his promises to “ make america great again. ” they were wrong .
trump won a majority of the states holding nominating contests on super tuesday , accelerating his march to the republican nomination .
republican donors , strategists and campaign operatives interviewed by reuters admitted they had misjudged the mood of voters who have thrown their support behind trump after he promised to build a wall on the mexican border , temporarily ban muslims from entering the united states and block syrian refugees because they might be militants .
trump ’ s spokeswoman , hope hicks , declined to comment for this story .
trump ’ s rise seemed to take place entirely outside the structures of the normal nomination process within the republican party .
for example , many attending the conservative political action conference , a gathering of grassroots activists , in february 2015 , were excited by presidential hopefuls wisconsin governor walker and texas senator ted cruz .
the annual convention is a must-stop for any republican white house contender .
in his speech , trump tried out a now familiar pledge : build a giant southern wall to stop illegal immigrants , a vow that would later ignite his insurgent campaign and propel him well ahead of the main pack of republican presidential hopefuls .
“ his speech was well-received , but he didn ’ t do that well in the straw poll , ” said matt schlapp , the chairman of the american conservative union , which organizes cpac each year .
kentucky senator rand paul won the poll .
cpac ’ s attendees were mostly conservative political activists already engaged in the electoral process .
the fans who would drive trump ’ s success were not .
the candidates favored at cpac have languished .
walker left the race just two months after officially entering it .
paul dropped out after the first nominating contest in february .
cruz has won just three of more than a dozen contests so far .
early in his run , trump was a source of puzzlement for rich republicans , such as those who gathered one sunday in early august in the hamptons , new york ’ s gilded summer retreat destination , to discuss the 2016 race .
they met for lunch at a billionaire hedge fund manager ’ s estate near a body of water nicknamed “ goldman pond ” for the concentration of financiers ’ houses around it .
among the guests were former defense department officials , the chief executive of a big real estate firm , a prominent private equity partner and conservative academics , according to one of the guests , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
the source , like many other guests , backed former florida governor jeb bush .
“ a variety of subjects were discussed , but chief among them , i would say , was the concern and consternation over the candidacy of donald trump , ” the source said .
at the time , trump ’ s rating in national polls was twice his closet rival ’ s , according to reuters/ipsos data .
the attendees discussed trump ’ s rise and observed he had struck a chord with many americans , the source said .
they fretted over whether his presence would force other candidates to go negative .
they hoped he wouldn ’ t hijack the first republican presidential debate , then less than a week away .
but they decided , however it had begun , trump ’ s reign atop the polls wouldn ’ t last .
“ i think it ’ s literally just a matter of time before his nascar careens into the wall – and hopefully not into the other drivers , ” the source said in an interview on aug. 6 .
trump has not crashed .
and on monday , the ceo of nascar , brian france , endorsed him .
right to rise , the outside spending group backing bush , built up a massive war chest of more than $ 100 million to attack opponents who could thwart his bid for the nomination .
trump was not identified as a potential threat , not in the summer , nor in the fall of 2015 , even as he eclipsed bush , according to multiple interviews during that period with a member of the group ’ s leadership team .
“ i don ’ t think he ’ s hurting us , ” the official , who did not want to be identified , said in an interview last fall .
trump would be a footnote in the race by january or february 2016 , he predicted .
bush bowed out on feb. 21 after months of struggles were capped by a poor showing in the south carolina primary .
duncan , the positec ceo , said conversations he had with representatives from three campaigns as recently as november and december barely touched on trump .
“ there was so much time left , ” he said .
“ i honestly thought that he would implode. ” now there is little time left , and the party ’ s establishment can only look back at early warning signs they missed .
one came in january 2015 at the iowa freedom summit , a republican “ cattle call ” for white house hopefuls that marked the unofficial start of the 2016 presidential race .
attendance spiked after organizers added trump to the agenda .
“ when we announced donald trump , the event took on a life of its own , ” said david bossie , the president of the conservative advocacy group citizens united and the conference ’ s organizer .
“ i don ’ t believe it ’ s possible , if you were not in a coma , for anyone in the establishment , or the media , or on planet earth , to have missed donald trump ’ s ascendancy to be the leading republican for the nomination. ” ( additional reporting by steve holland and jim oliphant , editing by caren bohan and ross colvin ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .