jeb bush was supposed to be the adult among the children in the 2016 republican presidential primaries .
he was even considered the inevitable nominee by some , particularly due to his fundraising capability .
they sure were wrong , as you will see below.jeb never really caught fire among voters , but somehow he did among billionaires and other corporate interests looking to pen a 4-year lease on an american president .
jeb had a total of $ 155.6 million raised for his presidential bid as of february 1st , 2016 .
$ 31.9 million was by him directly , with nearly $ 124 million more by pacs .
on the night of the first caucus in the nation , he had spent a total of $ 24.3 million about $ 14 million of it in iowa alone.for all the inevitability his money supposedly ensured , jeb ended up with a humiliating 2.8 percent portion of the vote during the iowa republican caucus .
this worked out to just over a measly 5,000 votes , which netted him one whole delegate .
ouch .
going with just the iowa money for the ad-buys leading up to the caucus , jeb ended up paying about $ 2,800 per vote.dang , jeb .
https : //t.co/rgvscgsjal pic.twitter.com/6tjjkezmzs christopher ingraham ( @ _cingraham ) february 2 , 2016to put this into context , ted cruz spent under $ 250 dollars per vote he received , and trump spent even less .
the pair claimed both first and second place at the end of the night .
this begs the question , have we hit the limit of how much money is able to influence an election ?
while you can t deny the effect that vast sums of corporate money have in politics , all the money in the nation won t polish everyone to an acceptable level of shine .
jeb is an embarrassing example of that in the 2016 election cycle.while technically jeb has a possibility of finding new footing for himself in new hampshire , the likelihood of a campaign resurrection is low .
trump is looking far stronger there with a 38 percent lead , as cruz comes in second at 12 percent .
jeb is in the rear guard again at a weak 10 percent .
he has the most money to burn , outside of trump .
do you think it would help him at all , or is the bush legacy too much of a curse for him to bear ? featured image from flickr