ankara ( reuters ) - turkish police fired tear gas to disperse protesters outside a courthouse in ankara on thursday at the start of the trial of two teachers who have been on hunger strike since losing their jobs in a crackdown following last year s failed coup .
literature professor nuriye gulmen and primary school teacher semih ozakca have been surviving on liquids and supplements for six months , and doctors have described their condition as dangerously weak .
they were detained in may over alleged links to the militant leftist dhkp-c group , deemed a terrorist organization by turkey , and the court on thursday ruled that they be remanded in custody until the next session in two weeks .
neither they nor their original lawyers were in court .
the gendarmerie said the defendants might try to escape from the courtroom , despite their weakened state , and arrest warrants were issued this week for 18 of their lawyers .
police attempted to break up the protests using tear gas , and riot police were present inside and outside the building .
at least 20 protesters were detained , being dragged along the ground in the process .
the first obstacle before a fair trial was the detention of their lawyers , which also served as a veiled intimidation attempt at the judges trying them .
now they are not brought to court , in an open breach of their right to defend , said baris yarkadas , a lawmaker from the main opposition republican people s party ( chp ) .
at least a hundred lawyers were present at the courthouse to defend the teachers , along with chp parliamentarians and the pro-kurdish opposition peoples democratic party ( hdp ) .
the court refused the applications of 1,030 lawyers who wanted to represent the teachers , saying it would limit the defense s representation to three lawyers for the duration of the trial .
the trial s second hearing will be held in ankara on sept. 28 .
the teachers have said their hunger strike aimed to draw attention to the plight of roughly 150,000 people suspended or sacked since last july s failed coup , which president tayyip erdogan blames on followers of u.s.-based muslim cleric fethullah gulen .
gulen denies any involvement .
last month , the european court of human rights rejected a request by the two teachers to order ankara to release them on health grounds .
since the failed coup attempt , some 50,000 people including journalists , opposition figures , civil servants and others have been detained in the crackdown .
rights groups and turkey s western allies accuse the government of using the coup as a pretext to muzzle dissent .
ankara says the purges are necessary due to the gravity of the threats it faces .