former texas congressman ron paul added yet more fuel to the argument that older people should stay away from twitter when he either confused isis with al-qaeda or simply proved that he has absolutely no idea what he is talking about in a misinformed tweet on monday night : remember : there was no al-qaeda until our foolish invasion of iraq based on neocon lies .
ron paul ( @ ronpaul ) august 22 , 2017one could only wish that the 82-year-old paul , a man who has run for president three times as both a libertarian and republican , and one who also holds a degree in medicine from duke university , would be slightly more intelligent , but apparently that just isn t the case .
we currently have a president in office who is concerned the with mainstream media spouting fake news , yet doesn t call out fellow or former republicans when they do the exact same thing , however , fortunately there were plenty of people on twitter who were willing to do so on trump s behalf.actually he 's right .
no al qaeda in iraq before we invaded .
mike nakadai ( @ cinemiike ) august 22 , 2017alzheimer 's is terrible .
thoughts and prayers .
nosferatu ( @ chrisrosendin ) august 22 , 2017i still remember .
?
pic.twitter.com/wcqrtf5dbb wegovernusa ( @ wegovernusa ) august 22 , 2017was it over when when germans bombed pearl harbor ? germans ? forget it , he 's rolling .
wulander ( @ wushocks ) august 22 , 2017even if we were to give paul the benefit of the doubt and believe he made a simple absent-minded error , his factually-deficient tweet proves that it is people like him who are the main source of this fake news problem .
all it would ve taken was a little fact-checking and proof-reading to see the error in his propaganda , but maybe we can clear it up for him if he is able to see the flaw in his tweet , wants to retract the statement , but can t be bothered with the research.al-qaeda was founded by osama bin laden , abdullah azzah , and other arab volunteers in the 1980s to fight the soviet invasion of afghanistan , however , they will forever go down in history for the 9/11 terror attacks , an event that definitely happened before the u.s. invasion of iraq in 2003 .
isis , on the other hand , achieved notoriety following the u.s. invasion of iraq , but they still existed before then , founded in 1999 by jordanian salafi jihadist abu musab al-zarqawi under the name jam at al-taw d wa-al-jih d and pledging their allegiance to al-qaeda in 2004.see , ron , fact-checking isn t that difficult and it helps prevent opening old wounds , or ones that are still reasonably fresh with the pain still being felt to this day , wounds such as 9/11.featured image via alex wong/getty images