manchester , england ( reuters ) - besides her own diminished authority , prime minister theresa may has been forced to contend with two major distractions in manchester that threaten to rip her ruling conservative party apart : brexit and her ambitious foreign minister , boris johnson .
weakened by her bet on a snap election which lost her party its majority in parliament , may had said she wanted to use her party s annual conference to showcase her pledge to make the economy work for ordinary people .
even before the conference opened , johnson , who led the leave campaign in last year s eu referendum , provoked the ire of cabinet colleagues by repeatedly attempting to portray himself as the champion of a genuine bold brexit .
may said her cabinet was united behind her brexit stance but when asked whether johnson was unsackable , she laughed and sidestepped the question .
her finance minister , philip hammond , said there were different views on brexit in the cabinet .
arriving in manchester , in northern england , johnson said with a smile he was right behind may .
he later told reuters he was completely loyal to the prime minister and was not seeking to overshadow her at the conference , where he is popular with many activists .
i am enjoying the conference very much and the prime minister just gave a great speech to the business lunch , johnson said .
when asked if he was seeking to overshadow may , he said : absolutely not .
boris , as he is known in britain , repeatedly upstaged former prime minister david cameron at party conferences though after the shock referendum result sank cameron s career , johnson unexpectedly dropped out of the race to be leader .
may won the leadership and appointed johnson as her foreign minister , provoking consternation in european capitals who were angry at his rhetoric - including comparing the goals of the eu to those of adolf hitler and napoleon .
the chair of the treasury select committee , nicky morgan , said johnson should be fired if he could not be loyal to may .
if he can t , sort of , keep schtum about his own views , if he can t give up the oxygen of publicity , because he will be delighted that everybody is talking about him right now , if he can t stop setting down arbitrary red lines , then yes , he has to go , she told the bbc .
and the chief whip , or the prime minister , has to deliver that message .
divisions over europe , which helped sink the conservative premierships of margaret thatcher , john major and cameron , so dominate the party that almost no new policies have been announced .
those that have included a pledge to help make graduates with student debt 30 pounds ( $ 40 ) a month better off , a consultation on recycling plastic bottles and some money for a railway .
it s the pro-brexit lot versus the anti-boris lot , said one conservative party member who asked not to be named .
they re both positioning to get control of the party machine if something happens to the pm .
it s a very strange atmosphere .
if we get down to a leadership contest , it will be unlike anything we ve seen for a long time both sides will be scrapping to the death , the member said .
many conservatives privately say they fear a leadership contest would pave the way for an election victory by labour leader jeremy corbyn , who hammond cast as a marxist seeking to impose a socialist fantasy on britain .
at the opening of the conference at a former railway station , tens of thousands of people marched through manchester chanting bollocks to brexit and waving the gold stars of the european union flag .
at the front of the demonstration , a lorry carried a multi-headed chimera with the faces of may and three leading brexit campaigners : johnson ; environment secretary michael gove and brexit secretary david davis .
brexit is a monstrosity , a sign read .
let s stop it !
may , now one of the weakest british leaders of recent times , has just over a year to negotiate the terms of the divorce from the european union and the outlines of the future relationship before britain is due to leave in late march 2019 .
both sides need an agreement to keep trade flowing between the world s biggest trading bloc and the fifth largest global economy , though some diehard brexiteers in her party are calling for her to leave without a deal .
many business leaders fear a disorderly exit that would weaken the west , imperil britain s $ 2.5 trillion economy and undermine london s position as the only financial center to rival new york .
the conservatives are in trouble and they know it : there is a sense of vacuum at the top and that tends to infect a conference , matthew parris , a columnist for the times and former conservative lawmaker , told reuters .
may s leadership looks unsustainable but equally all possible challengers look implausible , said parris .
boris has his supporters and he has energized those supporters but he has pissed off an awful lot more including many of his parliamentary colleagues who are spitting .