rome ( reuters ) - italy s anti-establishment 5-star movement told french president emmanuel macron on thursday that it does not represent a threat to the european union , and sought to shrug off the label populist .
leader luigi di maio , whose party tops polls ahead of a national election due early next year , wrote an open letter to macron after the french leader reportedly expressed concern about anti-system forces in italy .
i am sure that when we get to know each other better , you will realize that our movement is not only not a threat , but is cultivating the best solutions for many of europe s problems , di maio said in the letter published on the 5-star movement s blog .
italian media reported this week that macron had told former italian prime minister matteo renzi he was worried about the rise of 5-star and the northern league , which is close to france s national front .
allied to britain s united kingdom independence party in the european parliament , 5-star is trying to distance itself from anti-immigrant , eurosceptic parties in the rest of the bloc .
di maio , a sober 31 year-old who has taken over leadership of the movement founded by comedian beppe grillo , said 5-star shared with macron the desire to rebuild europe .
they lazily call us populist without knowing what this means , when in reality we are ... close to the people , who want pay-back and a role in changing our country , he said .
di maio made no mention of a referendum on italy s use of the euro which 5-star originally pledged when it burst onto the political scene in 2013 , but has since backed away from .
regarding eu budget rules , di maio said that 5-star s point of view was very close to that of france , which he said had let its budget deficit rise to accommodate spending on welfare and other investments .
in january , 5-star s european parliamentarians tried and failed to split from ukip , which successfully campaigned for britain to leave the eu .
5-star eventually gave up a leading role in the group .