( reuters ) - u.s. health insurer anthem inc is pulling back from 16 of 19 pricing regions in california where it offered obamacare options this year , state officials said on tuesday .
the move , which takes effect for 2018 , means anthem will offer obamacare coverage in three pricing regions comprising 28 counties in california .
that is just 41 percent of its current enrollment , or about 108,000 consumers , leaving some 153,000 consumers without anthem obamacare options , state officials said .
anthem blamed the move in part on uncertainty over whether the trump administration would maintain subsidies that keep costs down among the factors that have “ led to an increasing overall lack of predictability. ” as a result , the insurer said it does not allow them to provide affordable plan choices for all california consumers .
“ the market for these plans has become unstable .
and with federal rules and guidance changing , it ’ s no longer possible for us to offer some of those plans , ” brian ternan , president of anthem blue cross of california , said in a statement on the company ’ s website .
u.s. president donald trump on monday threatened to cut off subsidy payments that make the plans affordable for lower income americans and help insurers to keep premiums down , after efforts to repeal the law signed by his predecessor , president barack obama , failed in congress .
trump has repeatedly urged republican lawmakers to keep working to undo obama ’ s affordable care act which has extended insurance to some 20 million more americans .
anthem said it would offer individual plans both in and out of the state ’ s exchanges in the three regions made up of those 28 counties .
anthem , which announced last month that it was mostly exiting individual plans in wisconsin and indiana , said the decision does not affect those with employer-provided insurance , medicare advantage , medicare supplement , medi-cal or “ grandfathered ” plans purchased before march 2010 .
also on tuesday , federal regulators extended the deadline for insurers in michigan to submit 2018 obamacare individual plan premium rates as they await more clarity from the trump administration , michigan ’ s department of insurance and financial services said .
michigan said it was given permission by the centers for medicare and medicaid services ( cms ) to postpone the release of its proposed 2018 rate changes for 30 days .
the state now plans to release them on september 1 .