barcelona/madrid ( reuters ) - spain s constitutional court on thursday ordered the suspension of monday s session of the regional catalan parliament , throwing into doubt its plans to declare unilateral independence from spain .
the speaker of the catalan parliament , carme forcadell , accused the madrid government of using the courts to deal with political problems and said the regional assembly would not be censored .
but she said parliamentary leaders had not yet decided whether to defy the central court and go ahead with the session .
the suspension order further aggravated one of the biggest crises to hit spain since the establishment of democracy on the 1975 death of general francisco franco .
but spanish markets rose on perceptions the order might ward off , at least for now , an outright independence declaration .
spanish prime mariano rajoy called on catalan leader carles puigdemont to drop independence plans or risk greater evils .
secessionist catalan politicians have pledged to unilaterally declare independence at monday s session after sunday s referendum , banned by madrid and marked by violent scenes where spanish police sought to hinder voting .
the constitutional court said it had agreed to consider a legal challenge filed by the anti-secessionist catalan socialist party .
spanish shares and bonds , hit by the political turmoil in catalonia , strengthened after the news of the court s decision .
the main ibex stock index rose 2.5 percent and the yield on spain s 10-year bond fell .
spain s economy minister luis de guindos told reuters in an interview the turmoil was damaging catalonia .
this is generating uncertainty that is paralyzing all investment projects in catalonia .
i m convinced that , right now , not one international or national investor will take part in a new investment project until this is cleared up , he said .
some of catalonia s biggest businesses began taking steps to transfer their registered headquarters to other cities in spain .
the board of spain s fifth-largest bank , sabadell , decided at an extraordinary meeting on thursday to move the bank s registered head office to alicante , the bank said .
the board of caixabank , spain s third-largest lender , will meet on friday to study a possible transfer of its legal base away from catalonia , a source familiar with the situation said .
the spanish government will approve a decree on friday making it easier for companies to transfer their legal base out of catalonia , two sources said , a move that could deal a serious blow to the region s finances as it considers independence .
the new decree is tailor-made for caixabank , sources familiar with the matter said , as it would make it possible for the bank to change its legal and tax base without having to hold a shareholders meeting .
opinion polls conducted before the vote suggest a minority of around 40 percent of residents in catalonia backed independence .
but a majority wanted a referendum to be held , and the violent police crackdown angered catalans across the divide .
in an interview with spanish news agency efe , prime minister rajoy said the solution to the catalan crisis was a prompt return to legality and a statement as soon as possible that there will not be a unilateral declaration of independence , because that will also avoid greater evils .
he did not elaborate but ruling party lawmakers say rajoy , a conservative who has taken a hard line on catalan independence , is considering the unprecedented step of dissolving the catalan parliament and triggering regional elections .
catalan officials released preliminary referendum results showing 90 percent support in favour of breaking away .
but turnout was only about 43 percent as catalans who favour remaining part of spain mainly boycotted the ballot and many polling stations were closed .
puigdemont said , in response to a question from the german bild daily , he was not afraid of being arrested .
and i m not surprised any more about what the spanish government is doing .
my arrest is also possible , which would be a barbaric step .
neither the spanish government nor the judiciary has threatened to arrest puigdemont , though madrid accuses him of breaking the law by ignoring a constitutional court ruling forbidding the referendum .
on wednesday , in a televised address , puigdemont renewed his call for mediation in the dispute but said the results of the referendum would have to be applied .
rajoy has ruled out international mediation as a format for resolving the future of catalonia , offering instead all-party spanish political talks to find a solution , on condition independence is taken off the table .
barcelona football club joined captain andres iniesta in calling for talks between the spanish government and catalan leaders to resolve the crisis .
we will go as far as people want it .
but without the use of force , puigdemont told bild .
i am sure that spain will not be able to ignore the will of so many people .