conservatives have something to say about absolutely everything .
this time , they re throwing a temper tantrum over one of the major messages of the rio olympics climate change .
the opening ceremonies featured climate change as one of the central themes , so of course conservatives came out in droves to whine and cry about politicizing the games on social media.the display started with a boy and an endangered pau-brasil tree in the center of the stadium .
then a video of the world played , showing how several major cities would be affected from rising sea levels as the antarctic ice sheets melt .
it was an important message to highlight , and some were pleased that rio did it.those people weren t likely anti-science conservatives , though .
brazil has its own environmental problems , so of course that crowd thinks rio is being massively hypocritical in saying anything about climate change .
here s a hint as to why it s not : one of the purposes of the opening ceremonies is to showcase the host nation .
it s entirely possible that the rio organizing committee wanted to send a message about climate change to their own government , as well as to the rest of the world.the anti-science , climate change is a hoax crowd wasn t going to let that go unnoticed , though .
everything is evil , liberal propaganda to them if it doesn t fit their narrative , and this part of the opening ceremonies definitely didn t fit with what they like to hear ( what did they want ?
something flashy and superficial , no doubt ) .
so they took to twitter to lash out as only conservatives can when they re faced with facts.rio olympics so far , quite boring pushing global warming propaganda.they mention n pole losing ice but never mention growing ice at s pole politixgal ( @ politixgal ) august 6 , 2016 # openingceremony at # rioolympics just went full sjw retard on global warming .
highlighted slavery but no mention of emperor who ended it ? ?
the mad monarchist ( @ madmonarchist1 ) august 6 , 2016 * and now we interrupt the rio olympics opening ceremony with a global warming awareness segment * oliver darcy ( @ oliverdarcy ) august 6 , 2016 oh god , we re getting a tedious bilingual lecture on global warming at the # openingceremony of the # rioolympics please , stop it .
tunku varadarajan ( @ tunkuv ) august 5 , 2016makes sense brazil would focus on global warming .
probably distracts from zika , corrupt government , and ocean of poop .
ben shapiro ( @ benshapiro ) august 6 , 2016 when does obama storm onstage , grab a mic , and shout imma let you finish but i was the greatest of all time on global warming ben shapiro ( @ benshapiro ) august 6 , 2016so much propaganda at # openingceremony , from climate change to refugees , it s like watching democrat convention .
https : //t.co/omdrcv1x1z nick short ( @ politicalshort ) august 6 , 2016 rio olympics ratings fail , down 28 % .
spread global warming all u want .
nobody is watching you morons https : //t.co/usrd52yven kathleen dang ( @ bkvar2 ) august 6 , 2016 @ sarahnemerson rio olympics opening ceremonies sanctimonious call to arms over global warming from country slashing & burning rainforests righteous axe ( @ righteousaxe ) august 6 , 2016conservatives are so fun to watch when they re in hissy-fit mode , are they not ?
they d scream about someone declaring the sky blue if they could .
at least when liberals decry anti-climate science speeches and displays , we have the science on our side with which to do so .
they just want to whine.featured image by clive mason/getty images