this certainly isn t who the gop power-brokers want to see in the top two donald trump has boasted that he s leading every poll and in most cases big .
not anymore .
the latest ibd/tipp poll shows him in second place , seven points behind ben carson.the nationwide survey found that 24 % of republicans back carson , compared with 17 % who say they support trump.marco rubio came in third with 11 % and carly fiorina fourth at 9 % .
jeb bush , once considered a prohibitive favorite , ranked fifth with just 8 % support , which was a point lower than those who say they are still undecided.the ibd/tipp poll has a proven track record for accuracy , based on its performance in the past three presidential elections .
in a comparison of the final results of various pollsters for the 2004 and 2008 elections , ibd/tipp was the most accurate .
and the new york times concluded that ibd/tipp was the most accurate among 23 polls over the three weeks leading up to the 2012 election.the october poll , conducted from sept. 26 to oct. 1 , included 377 registered voters who are republican or registered independents who lean toward the republican party , with a margin of error of +/- 5 percentage points.peak trump ?
other polls show trump s support slipping in recent weeks .
the real clear politics average of six national polls shows him falling from 30.5 % in mid-september to 23.3 % by the end of the month .
that average does not include the ibd/tipp findings .
things appear to be catching up with trump on multiple fronts , said raghavan mayur , president of technometrica market intelligence , which conducts ibd s monthly poll .
in addition to facing increasing attacks from other candidates , trump s boycott of fox news may have set him back , mayur said , noting that the poll was being conducted during trump s self-imposed hiatus.when asked on cnbc about his slipping poll numbers , trump said that if i fell behind badly , i would certainly get out .
carson s gain comes after his controversial remarks on meet the press that he couldn t support a muslim for president .
see story here .
rubio s third-place standing shows he has gained considerable ground since the second gop debate .
but fiorina , who was widely seen as having won that debate , has been unable to capitalize on it with republicans .
via : ibd