dear mrs. clinton , congratulations on securing the democratic nomination for president of the united states .
it s historical !
it s liberating to women !
you ve broken the glass ceiling ! but at what cost ? as the mother of a beautiful young daughter , my desire is to teach her every day that she is priceless , valuable and precious beyond anything else in this world .
i tell her that god has placed her on this earth for a very specific reason .
i make sure that she never doubts her place here.how exciting it would be for us to celebrate the accomplishments of the first woman ever to receive the presidential nomination of a major political party !
wouldn t it be amazing if i were able to point my daughter to someone she could look up to and admire ?
unfortunately for myself , my daughter and millions of other women in this nation , i can t.sadly , mrs. clinton , you have shown not only my daughter but all daughters and not only in this country but globally that in order to , in your words , shatter the gla you have to lie , cheat , abuse , insult , bully and ignore .
you threaten others along with disrespecting yourself.mrs .
clinton , how can i possibly tell my daughter to follow you as an example after you allowed your husband to assault and demean multiple women throughout his political career ?
were those women not important ?
tell me , will you fight for my rights like you fought for those womens ?
ummmm , i hope not .
what about the sisterhood , mrs. clinton ?
did you expose your husband for his abuse ?
no !
instead , you enabled him as the abuser and tried to silence his victims .
how can you live with yourself ?
female empowerment ?
nice try ! how can you get up and speak about income equality and then pay your own male executives considerably more than your female staff ?
how can you receive donations from countries that publicly abuse , shame and even execute their own women ?
yet you continue to boast about how you stand for women s rights .
double standard ? you try your best to relate to those of us who work hard every day to achieve the american dream .
you , however , know nothing of struggle .
that $ 12,000 armani jacket ?
those $ 250,000 speaking fees ?
they speak volumes .
hypocrisy ? how could i possibly ask my daughter to look up to and trust you ?
do you honestly think that you are an example to american children ?
my daughter watches the news .
she has heard about the americans who were attacked and slaughtered in a foreign land while you stood by and did nothing .
then , with their blood on your hands , you did everything you could to cast the blame on others , eventually telling congress , what does it matter now ?
dishonesty ? the fact of the matter is , mrs. clinton , that you are no champion of women .
you are selling the women of this country a false bill of goods .
unfortunately , many are buying in .
i don t want you fighting for me or my daughter .
you have the interests of only one woman in mind here : your own .
you have done nothing to bring the united states together .
quite the contrary you have done your best to divide , and you have succeeded .
congratulations .
you crave power , and you will do whatever it takes to get it .
you have lied , cheated and let down your own country.my prayer , mrs. clinton , is that i would be able to teach my daughter how to be a true woman .
a strong woman .
a self-respecting woman .
a woman who sees herself through the eyes of her creator .
i pray that she would be a woman of compassion , kindness , service , selflessness .
one who has integrity and looks out for the needs of others.in a way , i guess i should thank you , mrs. clinton .
you have made it easy to teach my daughter who she does not want to aspire to be .
now may i have the courage to stand up and show her the woman she does want to be.sincerely , helen wickertp.s .
by the way , i will pray for the next u.s. president , whether it is donald trump or you .
god tells us to do so , and he can turn any heart toward righteousness and truth.via : courageousmotherhood