sydney ( reuters ) - about 20 asylum seekers on friday left an australian-run detention center due to close down in papua new guinea , but hundreds of holdouts faced forcible eviction amid an immigration standoff that has blighted australia for years .
nearly 600 men have barricaded themselves into the manus island center for more than 10 days without regular food or water , defying closure attempts by australia and papua new guinea in what the united nations calls a looming humanitarian crisis .
the deadline to move is saturday .
the asylum seekers fear reprisals if they move to transit centers pending possible resettlement in the united states .
the main camp was closed on oct. 31 and water and power have been cut off .
some locals are angry at what they perceive as preferential treatment for the asylum seekers , many of them well educated , in a poor , rural society , and some of the detainees have come under attack when on release from the camp .
bowing to pressure from papua new guinea , which said it would forcibly evict and apprehend any holdouts on saturday , around 20 men left the camp for one of the transit centers , three asylum seekers told reuters .
the rest vowed to stay put , setting the scene for a possible clash .
volker turk , assistant high commissioner for protection at u.n. refugee agency unhcr , called on both governments to exercise restraint and not to use violence , taking into account people who had been in the processing center for years .
they re in a very vulnerable state with not much hope in sight , he said .
we have been visiting manus island several times over the last couple of years , we have reported on the very dire conditions in these centers .
it s now really high time to bring an end to this unconscionable human suffering .
in sydney , about 200 protesters picketed a fundraiser for the ruling liberal party , heckling arriving guests and demanding that the men be allowed to settle on the mainland .
in melbourne , more than 1,000 people held similar protests , the australian associated press news agency said .
australia has used the center , and a camp on the tiny pacific island of nauru , to detain asylum seekers who try to reach its shores by boat .
it says boat arrivals will never enter australia , even if found to be refugees , as this would encourage people smugglers in asia .
australia says the policy prevents people drowning at sea , but it has been widely condemned .
we aren t going to be stood over by people that have better accommodation to move to , immigration minister peter dutton said in a radio interview .
the u.n. human rights committee urged australia to bring its migration laws into line with world standards .
it is concerned about conditions in manus and on nauru , citing safety fears and instances of assault , sexual abuse , self-harm and suspicious deaths .
the asylum seekers , drawn largely from afghanistan , iran , myanmar , pakistan , sri lanka , and syria , use rubbish bins to collect rainwater and set up makeshift shelters to protect against the tropical sun and rain .
papua new guinea police returned to dismantle parts of the camp on friday , large parts of its fence having been removed the previous day .
they are destroying our shelters , said behrouz boochani , a kurdish journalist from iran , detained for more than four years .
they destroyed the rubbish bins where we have been collecting water too .