washington ( reuters ) - president donald j. trump is planning to increase u.s. defense spending by $ 54 billion next year .
but a series of recent reports by the defense department inspector general and the government accountability office say that pentagon accounting systems will struggle to track how the money is spent .
the reports found that the pentagon remains unable to accurately track its $ 591 billion annual budget and experiences billions of dollars in accounting gaps and errors each year despite two decades of reform efforts .
taken together , the reports show that many of the endemic accounting problems exposed in a 2013 reuters investigative series remain in place .
“ these deficiencies not only affect ( the department of defense ’ s ) ability to have auditable financial statements , ” a feb. 9 government accountability office ( gao ) report found , “ they also affect its ability to make sound decisions on missions and operations. ” a spokesman for the white house ’ s office of management budget ( omb ) said he was confident that defense secretary james mattis would properly spend the additional funds .
“ the need to replenish our military and bolster american security is unquestioned and an important priority of this president , ” omb communications director john czwartacki said in a statement .
“ we believe secretary mattis will deploy all of his resources in the most effective and efficient way possible. ” critics of wasteful pentagon spending say increasing the defense department budget is unwise when the department is unable to account for what it already has .
“ it ’ s ludicrous , ” said mandy smithberger , director of the straus military reform project in washington .
“ reform isn ’ t going to happen as long as the spigot is turned on. ” the pentagon ’ s continued accounting problems are drawing particular scrutiny now because the defense department faces a congressionally mandated legal deadline of sept. 30 , 2017 , to become ready for its first audit ever .
unlike every other u.s. government department , the pentagon has never undergone an audit because its financial records are in such disarray .
a spokesman for the defense department comptroller ’ s office said he is confident it will meet the deadline .
“ the department is committed and on track to be ready to undergo a full financial statement audit in ( fiscal year ) 2018 , ” lieutenant colonel eric d. badger said in an email .
at the same time trump proposes to boost defense spending , he has called for deep cuts to other areas , a white house summary of his proposed 2018 budget shows .
whether congress will accept or reject trump ’ s proposals is unclear .
trump calls for cutting the state department ’ s budget by $ 10.1 billion , or 28 % .
among other things , u.s. payments to support the united nations would be cut .
the environmental protection agency ( epa ) would take a particularly big hit .
trump would cut $ 2.6 billion , or 31 % , of its budget .
the white house document says the budget would eliminate more than 50 epa programs , and cut epa ’ s research and development budget by $ 233 million , or 52 % .
the budget for grants to states for lead clean-up would be cut by 30 % to $ 9.8 million .
the recent watchdog reports on the defense department found that it lacks a unified , functioning accounting system .
as reuters reported in its 2013 series , the pentagon has hundreds of independent systems , built ad hoc and some dating from the 1970s , that are riddled with errors and incapable of sharing accurate data .
billions of dollars disappear from accounting records .
the military has spent large sums building new systems meant to solve the problem , but so far they have not .
a march 16 defense department inspector general report said the navy could not find any records to back up how it had spent $ 866 million in the first quarter of 2016 in u.s. military operations in afghanistan .
the report said that as a result , there was no way to know what the money actually was used for .
a navy spokeswoman , lieutenant kara yingling , referred reuters to the navy ’ s official response to the report , which said the navy agreed with the inspector general ’ s conclusions but said its accounting problems will not be fixed until it begins using a new computer system in 2019 .
yingling said the navy is “ on track ” to help the pentagon meet its sept. 30 audit deadline .
the feb. 9 gao report said the pentagon ’ s continued bookkeeping errors affect the federal government as a whole .
defense spending makes up such a large part of the federal budget that the department ’ s unreliable data skews accounting for the entire u.s. government , the gao said .
the report noted that the defense department has been on the gao ’ s list of “ high risk ” entities that represent threats to the federal government ’ s financial well-being since 1995 .
the report said the pentagon has remained on the list because of “ long-standing deficiencies with its financial management systems. ” the gao report noted that the pentagon had hired large independent accounting firms for each of the military services to try to help them meet the sept. 30 audit deadline .
but the report said the firms have found so many problems that the ability of the pentagon to meet the deadline remains in doubt .
a separate defense department inspector general report issued on march 23 , 2017 , found that the army continues to be unable to balance its checkbook .
the report concluded that the problem for the army grew worse in 2016 .
the report said that for october 2015 , the army had 177,921 discrepancies .
the monthly numbers rose steadily to 790,551 for june 2016 .
the report did not give dollar amounts for those months .
army spokesman wayne hall said the number of discrepancies continued to increase in 2017 because planned fixes to computer systems have not yet been made .
he said the army is working on building more reliable systems .
the report said that because rules require that the army ’ s numbers exactly match in monthly reports to the treasury , the army and the defense finance and accounting service must find a way to make them match .
their solution was to enter made-up numbers to make it appear falsely that the army ’ s numbers do match .
the report said that for march 2016 , there were $ 1.9 billion in such “ forced balance entries. ” hall said the army must make the numbers match under federal rules .
in separate reports , the inspector general found that other military services have also had problems balancing their financial numbers with the treasury ’ s .
accountants interviewed by reuters said that such large discrepancies would be considered accounting fraud in the corporate world .
badger , the spokesman for the defense department comptroller ’ s office , said any errors by the military services were unintentional .
“ we strongly oppose any accusation of intentionally misrepresenting our books , ” badger said in an email .
“ many manual accounting adjustments are often caused by the ineffective design of legacy business or financial systems. ” trump has said the $ 54 billion in increased defense spending will send a “ message to the world in these dangerous times of american strength , security and resolve. ” trump has also vowed to negotiate cheaper contracts with defense contractors , a problem also cited in recent watchdog reports .
in a march 2016 report , the inspector general found that the air force had spent “ billions ” on a contract to maintain one type of jet engine , without first getting any idea of a fair price .
the open-ended contract , with a guaranteed profit margin regardless of cost , was awarded in 2011 .
the report said that before signing the contract the air force obtained no data on the actual cost of the repairs and how the costs compared to private-sector rates .
the exact amount of the contract was redacted from the report .
the inspector general has not ruled on a march 2016 freedom of information act request filed by reuters that asked for the redacted information to be made public .