san juan ( reuters ) - creditors of puerto rico ’ s government development bank on monday sued to stop it from distributing money to creditors in what they call “ preferential transfers ” ahead of the gdb ’ s may 1 debt payment that puerto rico ’ s governor says may not be payable .
hedge funds including brigade capital management and claren road asset management , which hold some of gdb ’ s $ 3.75 billion in debt , asked a federal court in san juan , puerto rico , to bar municipalities , public entities and other depositors from removing their money , to prevent a run on the bank .
the lawsuit is the latest sign of an increasingly urgent financial crisis in puerto rico , which has $ 70 billion in total debt , a 45 percent poverty rate and a shrinking population .
puerto rico ’ s governor , alejandro garcia padilla , has said the gdb is near insolvency , and is considering a moratorium on debt payments .
the gdb has a payment due on may 1 of approximately $ 422 million .
the island , as a whole , faces a july 1 payment of $ 1.55 billion on various debt classes .
the gdb and its creditors are in the midst of restructuring talks that could lead to a forbearance agreement or debt restructuring .
monday ’ s lawsuit was filed to give those talks time to evolve without a fear of a run on the bank , said donald bernstein , a lawyer for the creditors .
“ gdb needs to be able to fund essential services , but to the extent money is being pulled out by people who want to bail out of the situation at the expense of other creditors , that shouldn ’ t happen , ” bernstein said in an interview .
gdb acts as the commonwealth ’ s main liquidity source , with public agencies drawing on accounts to fund services and pay their own debt .
gdp president melba acosta febo said the central claim of the lawsuit , that the bank withheld financial information in order to prefer certain depositors over its bondholders , is false and not based in fact .
“ although the specific allegations set forth in the lawsuit are erroneous , it is clear that our creditors agree with us on one thing : puerto rico ’ s fiscal situation is dismal , the island ’ s debt is unpayable , and the need for a federal restructuring regime to help the commonwealth on the road to recovery is acute , ” acosta said in a statement .
a default at the gdb could allow creditors to seek the appointment of a receiver , a process that would be triggered by puerto rico ’ s treasury secretary , juan zaragoza .
zaragoza last week resigned his membership on gdb ’ s board of directors , which a source close to the restructuring talks at gdb told reuters was done to avoid a conflict of interest in the event he must appoint a receiver .
the same source said the island ’ s treasury department is not considering removing money from gdb , but is considering opening new accounts at other banks in the event gdb becomes insolvent .