london ( reuters ) - britain urgently needs a standstill deal to keep its ties with the european union unchanged in a post-brexit transition period , and will probably need an adaptation phase after that for sectors such as financial services , a group of lawmakers said .
a transition agreement - which is widely expected to last for two years - must be done with brussels in a matter of weeks to stop companies from moving more operations away from britain , the cross-party treasury committee said .
it is highly likely that , for certain sectors , including financial services , the standstill transition period will have to be followed by an adaptation period , the committee said on thursday in a report , summing up its work so far on brexit .
many companies are drawing up contingency plans ahead of britain leaving the eu in march 2019 , given the lack of clarity about their future access to the bloc which accounts for nearly half of britain s exports .
banks have previously said they want a deal to bridge the period between the end of a brexit transition phase and the start of britain s new , permanent relationship with the eu in order to phase in changes to the way they operate .
at this stage , the committee makes no recommendations about the design or duration of this subsequent period , except that , unlike the standstill period , it need not involve the uk applying the existing framework of eu rules across all sectors , the committee said .
prime minister theresa may last week secured a deal with brussels that will pave the way for talks on a transition deal and for negotiations about the future permanent uk-eu trade relationship after brexit .
nicky morgan , a lawmaker from may s conservative party who chairs the treasury committee , said time was of the essence and london should accept eu terms for a transition deal , including temporarily remaining subject to the european court of justice .
delays to agreements caused by arguments over arcane points of principle could damage the economy , morgan said .
the government should be prepared to accept the terms on which transition is offered by the eu-27 .
some brexit supporters have said britain must no longer be bound by ecj rulings after brexit .
but under last week s initial divorce deal , britain will enable its judges to ask the court to weigh in on issues affecting eu citizens for eight years .
the committee also warned the government against assuming that last-minute deals would be reached to avoid disruption in areas such as aviation .
the history of international trade diplomacy is replete with examples of short-sighted political considerations prevailing over economic self-interest , it said .
and the conclusion of such agreements may come too late for firms that are intending to activate their contingency plans in the first quarter of 2018 .