amman ( reuters ) - two western-backed syrian rebel groups fighting the syrian army and iranian-backed militias in southeastern syria have been asked by their western and arab backers to pull out of the area and retreat into jordan , rebels and diplomatic sources said on sunday .
both usoud al-sharqiya and martyr ahmad abdo , part of the free syrian army group , said they were told to end fighting in the area by their backers from the u.s. central intelligence agency and neighboring states that support them , which include jordan and saudi arabia .
there is a official request for us to leave the area , said badr al din al salamah , a senior official in the usoud al sharqiya group , one of the main rebel groups in the area and a recipient of the military aid from the u.s.-backed alliance .
since early this year , the rebels have pushed islamic state militants out of a large swathe of sparsely populated territory stretching some 50 km ( 30 miles ) southeast of damascus , all the way to the iraqi border along the frontier with jordan .
but an offensive by the syrian army , backed by iranian militias and heavy russian air cover , has encircled the rebels and eroded their gains .
in recent weeks , the army has regained a string of border posts with jordan that it had abandoned in the early years of the conflict western diplomatic sources said the request was tied to a decision by the administration of u.s. president trump in july to halt the cia s program to equip and train rebel groups fighting the government of syrian president bashar al-assad .
the cia program began in 2013 as part of efforts by the administration of then-president barack obama to overthrow assad .
the trump administration says its strategy in syria is focused only on defeating islamic state .
in a letter purportedly to rebel commanders and seen by reuters , they were told they although they had fought bravely to fend off the syrian army , their presence in a small enclave now posed a threat to them .
the decision has caused disaffection among hundreds of fighters in the two groups , who consider withdrawing into jordan as effectively disbanding their forces .
the two groups , who have hundreds of fighters , will have to hand over heavy artillery and dozens of u.s.-made anti-tank missiles that played a part in their battlefield successes against islamic state and the iranian-backed militias , rebels say .
in a meeting on saturday , the rebel commanders told the joint operations center in jordan that requested their withdrawal they would rather stay and die in the desert than leave the battlefield .
we have rejected the request , since if we entered jordan we would consider it the end ... the blood of our martyrs has not dried yet , said al-salameh .
the military operations center has not offered them a choice to move to a u.s. garrison further east near the border with iraq in tanf , the rebels say .
that garrison , run by a separate program of the pentagon , hosts an arab rebel tribal group known as the maqhawir al thwra .
another rebel official said they were not necessarily opposed to withdrawing , but they wanted assurances from jordan they could lobby to expand to the badia area a u.s.-russian-brokered ceasefire , which has halted fighting in southwest syria .
washington and jordan are currently negotiating with moscow to implement a de-escalation zone that would push back iranian-backed forces 40 kms north of the border strip with jordan , diplomats say .
we have accepted in principle and there are matters that have to be resolved .
but until this moment there is no final agreement on withdrawing and we are still in the badia and still fighting and in our posts , said said seif , a spokesman of the martyr ahmad abdo group .