real , philippines ( reuters ) - the philippines coast guard said on friday it had rescued 252 passengers and crew , including an australian and his filipino wife , and recovered five dead people from a ferry that capsized east of the capital manila .
a philippine vessel capsized on thursday because of bad weather , highlighting frequent boat accidents in the southeast asian nation that is composed of more than 7,000 islands .
the philippine coast guard has confirmed five deaths while 252 passengers including an australian and his filipino wife , were rescued , said spokesman captain arm and balilo .
all the passengers and crew are accounted for but as i have said we will re-evaluate based on the claims of the families of the missing passengers , balilo told reuters .
the vessel was carrying 257 passengers and crew .
the boat left the port around 9 a.m. and capsized an hour later due to strong winds and giant waves .
a survivor said the passengers panicked when the boat started to take in water and went to one side , causing the ferry to tilt and capsize .
the others waited on top of the ship while it was sinking , but i didn t do that because i know the ship will break down and i want to avoid getting hurt by that , rene ebuenga , a rescued passenger told reuters .
that s dangerous and the big waves can slam debris to your body .
the ferry capsized and sank about 5 miles off quezon province , east of the capital on the main northern island of luzon .
the philippine coast guard said it will conduct an inquiry to determine the cause of the incident and to verify possible oil spills .
in 1987 , nearly 5,000 people died in the world s worst peacetime shipping disaster when an overloaded passenger ferry dona paz collided with an oil tanker off mindoro island in the central philippines .
tropical storm tembin , packing center winds of 80 kmh ( 49 mph ) , made landfall on the southern island of mindanao early friday .
it weakened after hitting the land mass , the weather bureau said on friday .
but , the weather agency warned of extensive flooding and landslides until the storm exits the philippines on sunday .