washington ( reuters ) - u.s. defense secretary jim mattis hinted on monday about the existence of military options on north korea that might spare seoul from a brutal counterattack but declined to say what kind of options he was talking about or whether they involved the use of lethal force .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said on sunday the u.n. security council had run out of options on containing north korea s nuclear program and that the united states might have to turn the matter over to the pentagon .
any conflict on the korean peninsula could easily result in a degree of bloodshed unseen since the 1950-53 korean war , which claimed the lives of more than 50,000 americans and millions of koreans and ended in an armed truce , not a peace treaty .
seoul is within artillery range of north korea , which beyond nuclear and conventional weapons is also believed to have a sizable chemical and biological arsenal .
asked whether there were any military options the united states could take with north korea that would not put seoul at grave risk , mattis said : yes there are .
but i will not go into details .
pressed on whether that might include so-called kinetic options that use lethal force , mattis said : i don t want to go into that .
military options available to trump range from non-lethal actions like a naval blockade aimed at enforcing sanctions to waging cyber attacks and positioning new u.s. weaponry in south korea , where the united states has 28,500 troops .
south korea has raised the possibility of reintroducing nuclear weapons to the peninsula .
mattis acknowledged discussing that with his south korean counterpart but declined to say whether that option was under consideration .
we have open dialogue with our allies on any issue that they want to bring up , he said .
u.s. president donald trump has hinted that any use of lethal force against north korea would be overwhelming , using phrases like fire and fury that evoke images of nuclear war .
the u.s. military said on monday it had staged bombing drills with south korea , flying a pair of b-1b bombers and f-35 fighter jets over the korean peninsula , in a show of force against north korea .
still , despite heated rhetoric and posturing in the united states and north korea , there has been no positioning of u.s. military assets to suggest a military conflict is imminent .
trump has vowed that north korea will never be allowed to threaten the united states with a nuclear-tipped missile , but he has also asked china to do more to rein in its neighbor .
china in turn favors an international response to the problem .
mattis told reporters that he believed diplomacy and sanctions were so far succeeding in putting more pressure on pyongyang .
so , yes , it s working , he said .
even as tensions rise , the united states and its allies have stuck to a hands-off policy when north korea test-fires its missiles .
mattis confirmed that policy on monday , saying it would not shoot down a north korean missile unless it poses a direct threat to the united states or its allies .
he said pyongyang s calculus appeared to be designed to race forward with its missile program , without going over some kind of a line in their minds that would make them vulnerable .