baghdad/erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - iraqi forces on friday took control of the last district in the oil-rich province of kirkuk still in the hands of kurdish peshmerga fighters following a three-hour battle , security sources said .
the district of altun kupri , or perde in kurdish , lies on the road between the city of kirkuk - which fell to iraqi forces on monday - and erbil , capital of the semi-autonomous region of kurdistan in northern iraq that voted in a referendum last month to secede from iraq against baghdad s wishes .
a force made up of u.s-trained iraqi counter-terrorism service units , federal police and iranian-backed fighters known as popular mobilisation began their advance on altun kupri at 7:30 a.m. ( 0430 gmt ) , said an iraqi military spokesman .
kurdish peshmerga forces withdrew from the town , located on the zab river , after battling the advancing iraqi troops with machine guns , mortars and rocket-propelled grenades , iraqi security sources said .
neither side gave information about casualties .
the iraqi central government forces have advanced into kirkuk province largely unopposed as most peshmerga forces withdrew without a fight .
the government advance has transformed the balance of power in northern iraq and is likely to scuttle the independence aspirations of the kurds , who voted overwhelmingly on sept. 25 to secede from iraq and take the oil fields of kirkuk with them .
the fighting at altun kupri marked only the second instance of significant violent resistance by the kurds in kirkuk province .
dozens were killed or wounded in the previous clash on monday , the first night of the government advance .
the u.s. state department said it was concerned by reports of violent clashes around altun kupri .
in order to avoid any misunderstandings or further clashes , we urge the central government to calm the situation by limiting federal forces movements in disputed areas to only those coordinated with the kurdistan regional government , it said in a statement .
the state department made clear that even though federal authority was reasserted over disputed areas , that in no way changes their status - they remain disputed until their status is resolved in accordance with the iraqi resolution in what appeared to be a nod to the kurds and their assertion that they have a stake in these territories .
altun kupri is the last town in kirkuk province on the road to erbil , lying just outside the border of the autonomous region established after the fall of saddam hussein in 2003 .
iraqi forces are seeking to reestablish baghdad s authority over territory which the kurdish forces occupied outside the official boundaries of their autonomous region , mostly seized since 2014 in the course of the war on islamic state militants .
iraq s top shi ite cleric , grand ayatollah ali al-sistani , called on friday for the state to protect kurds in northern iraq , a rare political intervention by a figure whose words have the force of law for most of iraq s shi ite majority .
sistani s call , issued at the friday prayer in the holy shi ite city of kerbala by one of his representatives , came amid reports of abuses against kurds in areas evacuated by the kurdish peshmerga including kirkuk , tuz khormato and khanaqin .
kurdish officials said tens of thousands of kurds fled kirkuk and tuz to the two main cities of the kurdish autonomous region , erbil and sulaimaniya .
iraq s post-saddam constitution allows the kurds self rule in three mountainous northern provinces and guarantees them a fixed percentage of iraq s total oil income , an arrangement that saw them prosper while the rest of the country was at war .
although kirkuk is outside the autonomous region , many kurds consider it the heart of their historic homeland and its oil to be their birthright .
its loss makes their quest for independence appear remote , since it would leave them with only about half the oil revenue they had sought to claim for themselves .
kurdish peshmerga moved into kirkuk without a fight in 2014 , taking over positions left by the iraqi army as it fled in the face of islamic state militants .
iraqi and kurdish forces traded accusations of using weapons that western powers had originally given them to fight islamic state .
iraqi forces use u.s. humvees , tanks in latest offensive against peshmerga , tweeted hemin hawrami , krg president masud barzani s assistant .
today , popular mobilisation attacked us with american weaponry .
what is this agreement between the americans and the iranians ?
said harem shukur , a peshmerga fighter outside altun kupri .
the americans sold us to iran , he added , echoing widespread bitterness among kurds who think the united states did not honor friendly ties built over several decades .
an iraqi military spokesman accused the peshmerga of using rockets supplied by germany .
germany said it hoped to resume its mission training kurdish peshmerga fighters in northern iraq on sunday , provided the conflict did not worsen .
berlin suspended it last week as tensions mounted .