beirut ( reuters ) - a u.s.-backed campaign against islamic state in eastern syria will accelerate now the jihadist group has been defeated in its former capital raqqa , a spokesman for u.s.-allied syrian militias said on wednesday .
the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , which announced the defeat at raqqa on tuesday , will redeploy fighters from the city to frontlines with islamic state in the eastern province of deir al-zor , talal silo told reuters by telephone .
islamic state is already losing ground rapidly in deir al-zor , the last region where it has a significant foothold in syria .
the sdf and the syrian government , backed by russia and iran , are fighting separate campaigns against the group there .
silo said the raqqa victory would have a positive impact on the sdf s campaign in deir al-zor because it meant fighters could be redeployed as internal security forces take control of raqqa .
most of the military forces will head towards these areas to continue the participation in the campaign with the deir al-zor military council , he said .
the council is a militia leading the sdf s campaign in the province .
this is all to the benefit of the campaign and accelerating the end of this campaign , he said .
the sdf s campaign has been focused on areas east of the euphrates river , which bisects deir al-zor province .
the government s campaign has focused mostly in areas to the west of the river .
the u.s.-led coalition and russian military are holding face-to-face deconfliction meetings to prevent inadvertent clashes between planes and troops under their respective commands - though the campaigns have occasionally come into conflict near the euphrates river .
the syrian army and its allies are battling for control of the last remaining is-held areas of deir al-zor city , and have also recently captured the town of al-mayadin from is .
the u.s.-led coalition said it would be pushing further into deir al-zor province to clear remaining islamic state fighters , but there is no plan for sdf fighters to move into deir al-zor city itself .
our goal is to defeat ( islamic state ) in iraq and syria and if there are still areas where they hold territory then we will do what we can to clear those areas , col. ryan dillon , the coalition spokesman , said .
the last major islamic state-held town in deir al-zor is albu kamal , which is the last syrian town before the iraqi border .