and they re heading to cape cod next !
where does it end with these people ?
the optics of this are just awful !
we have huge national debt and so many americans are suffering yet mooch takes a glam european vacation under the guise of a goodwill trip .
the obama women s goodwill tour of italy and england is costing taxpayers in excess of between $ 547,000- $ 700,000 , government records and estimates indicate .
that amount includes the cost of flying first lady michelle obama , her mother and her two daughters to london , milan , vicenza and venice , and the lodging costs incurred throughout the six-day trip .
it doesn t including rental vehicles for the first family s females , their staffers , and their security details .
it also doesn t include the cost of secret service protection and the advance trips the white house authorized ahead of time to lay the journey s groundwork and scout secure locations for the vips to visit and stay.the obamas minus the president landed in venice on friday for a two-night hotel stay at a total cost to taxpayers of $ 128,781 for the whole traveling party , according to a state department contract issued this month .
assuming the lodging costs in milan and london were comparable , the accommodations for five of the six overnights will come to $ 321,952 .
a separate state department contract for a more modest $ 7,703 covers last night s stay in vicenza , italy , near a u.s. army garrison where the obamas visited with troops .
some of the travelers undoubtedly stayed on the military base at no cost , but others likely support staff were housed in the nearby town .
the resulting $ 329,655 estimate for hotel bills is barely half the overall cost , however .
the obamas are traveling on a u.s. air force c-32a aircraft , flying to london , milan , vicenza and venice , and then home again a total of 19 hours and 40 minutes of flying time , commercial aviation guides indicate.the pentagon charges other government agencies at least $ 11.092 per flight-hour to operate that aircraft , including fuel costs , according to the defense department s latest reibursement tables .
that means the flights alone cost the executive office of the president operated with taxpayer dollars about $ 218,142 .
together with the hotel costs , mrs. obama s trip with her mother and her daughters cost at least $ 547,797 .
secret service details aren t cheap either , advised a state department official who spoke on background .
the official has experience approving logistics for overseas delegations .
state arranges the travel and dod [ department of defense ] books the planes , but the security detail probably costs 10 grand a day , the source said .
and then there s rental cars , and advance trips , and people to staff the first lady , and all sorts of other costs .
don t forget : everyone has to eat .
oy vey ! ! !
! read more : daily mail