( reuters ) - oklahoma ’ s supreme court declared a fee on cigarettes unconstitutional on thursday , citing faulty lawmaking practices , prompting the state ’ s governor to suggest calling back the legislature to find a solution to replace the lost revenue .
in a statement following the court ’ s decision , republican governor mary fallin said invalidating the fee would cause a $ 215 million budget shortfall .
most of the revenue created by the passage in may of the “ cessation ” fee - $ 1.50 per pack of cigarettes - was earmarked for health and human services agencies .
“ these agencies and the people they serve can not sustain the kind of cuts that will occur if we do not find a solution , ” fallin said .
“ my belief is we will have to come into special session to address this issue. ” the court called the fee a “ revenue raising measure ” that was passed in violation of the state ’ s legislative process that requires that such measures can not be passed in the last five days of a session .
the measure also did not garner either a required supermajority vote in favor , or a vote by the people to pass .
lawmakers were attempting to fill an $ 878 million shortfall .
a special session would cost the state an additional $ 30,000 per day , according to a statement released thursday by the house democratic caucus .
petitioners , which included both tobacco and wholesale distribution companies , argued that the fee was a revenue-raising measure .
attorneys representing the state said the principle purpose of the fee was not to raise revenue , saying that it primarily aimed at reducing smoking rates , and therefore did not have to follow the constitutional process .
oklahoma has a balanced budget requirement .
its fiscal-year 2018 budget totaled about $ 6.8 billion , according to michael mcnutt , a spokesman for fallin .
the yield on oklahoma 10-year general obligation bonds traded 20 basis points over the benchmark thomson reuters municipal market data aaa yield scale on wednesday , according to the data available .
the yield was little changed from the end of may , when the state ’ s legislative session ended .