london ( reuters ) - russian-based operatives placed three adverts on facebook in the run-up to britain s 2016 referendum on eu membership , spending just 97 cents to raise the issue of immigration , the social media platform said on wednesday .
some british lawmakers have called for an inquiry into whether russia meddled in britain s vote to leave the eu after social media platforms said russian operatives sought to interfere in the u.s. election of donald trump .
russia denies meddling in brexit or the u.s. election .
facebook sent its findings to the electoral commission which is examining how digital campaigning is affecting politics in britain , including activity funded from outside the country .
facebook said it had examined whether any account profiles or pages linked to the internet research agency ( ira ) had funded ads during the brexit vote .
the ira is a russian organization that according to researchers employs hundreds of people to push pro-kremlin content on social media .
we have determined that these accounts associated with the ira spent a small amount of money ( $ 0.97 ) on advertisements that delivered to uk audiences during that time , facebook said .
this amount resulted in three advertisements ( each of which were also targeted to u.s. audiences and concerned immigration , not the eu referendum ) delivering approximately 200 impressions to uk viewers over four days in may 2016 .
a separate cross-party british parliamentary committee is also investigating whether any facebook ads were bought by russian-linked accounts around the eu referendum and the 2017 uk election .
the issue of whether russia intervened in the 2016 u.s. presidential election is the subject of multiple investigations .
facebook said in october that russia-based operatives published about 80,000 posts on the social network over a two-year period in an effort to sway u.s. politics and that about 126 million americans may have seen the posts during that time .
the electoral commission , which oversees the running of british elections , said it would say more about its findings in due course .