berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel won a fourth term in office on sunday but will have to build an uneasy coalition to form a german government after her conservatives haemorrhaged support in the face of a surge by the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) .
following are highlights of comments and reactions : centre-right cdu/csu bloc angela merkel , cdu party leader , told supporters in berlin : of course we had hoped for a slightly better result .
but we mustn t forget that we have just completed an extraordinarily challenging legislative period , so i am happy that we reached the strategic goals of our election campaign , merkel said .
we are the strongest party , we have the mandate to build the next government - and there can not be a coalition government built against us , merkel added .
speaking during a television debate of the main parties top candidates , merkel said : numerically there are still two ways to form a coalition .
numerically spd and cdu/csu have enough .
the question of the responsibility that everyone has is not just theory but a practical question ...
i have heard that the spd is not available for talks , but we can talk about that again tomorrow .
we will sleep on it and then hold some talks ...
i intend for germany to have a stable government , merkel added .
horst seehofer , csu leader and bavarian prime minister , told broadcaster ard : we had a vacuum on the right side that we need to close now .
the best way to do that is with policies that ensure that germany remains germany and that we have the immigration and security questions under control .
seehofer told broadcaster zdf : the christian democrats will have to get together and explore whether a government is possible ; we owe this to our country ( ... ) we don t want ( a coalition ) with the afd or with the left party , but all other democratic forces should at least speak to each other and explore what is can be achieved over the next years .
but the csu will not enter into any false compromises that would cement the division of our country .
alexander dobrindt , a senior csu member , said : i believe for everyone in the government this is a bitter election night .
but i think it is too early to draw conclusions - like the spd .
thomas de maiziere , senior cdu member and interior minister , said : we all have responsibility for the country , we can not say after six weeks that we need new elections because we didn t manage ( to form a coalition ) ... that would be the worst signal , then the left and afd would end up getting even more votes , and that would not be right .
volker kauder , parliamentary floor leader of merkel s conservatives , told ard television that his party reached its goal to win the election .
we have the mandate to lead the next government , kauder said .
centre-left social democrats ( spd ) martin schulz , spd party leader and chancellor candidate , told supporters in berlin that this election was a bitter day for germany s social democrats , adding : especially depressing for all of us is the strength of the afd , which for the first time brings a right-wing party into german parliament in such a strong position .
this is a turning point .
the fact that we took in more than 1 million refugees in our country is still dividing in our country .
what for some has been an act of humanity and charity is to others menacing , strange and filled with fear .
we did not manage to persuade all of our voters that germany is strong enough not to leave anyone behind , schulz said .
schulz told zdf broadcaster : we can not have an extreme right-wing party leading the opposition in germany , therefore ... we will go into opposition .
he added : our role is quite clear : we are the opposition party .
schulz told ard broadcaster : i have the full backing of the party leadership to lead and renew the party ...
but i will not aim for ( parliamentary ) floor leadership but fully concentrate on the renewal of the party .
manuela schwesig , spd deputy party leader , told zdf broadcaster : that is a really bad result for the spd .
that is a heavy defeat ... for us , the grand coalition ends today .
for us it s clear that we ll go into opposition as demanded by voters .
thomas oppermann , spd parliamentary floor leader , told ard broadcaster : we must of course accept the voters choice , they ( afd ) are a party in parliament now ...
but i will say very clearly that if there are any racist tones in this parliament , we will object to them , very clearly .
oppermann told broadcaster ard , when asked whether schulz would remain party head : martin schulz started the renewal process of the spd at the party meeting in march , and he will continue that renewal .
we win together and we lose together .
pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) christian lindner , fdp party leader told zdf television : we want to reverse the trend for our country and if it becomes apparent in talks that these goals can be achieved then of course we will be available ( for a coalition ) but if not , then it would be our task to go into opposition .
lindner added : it s about stability now , all parties have to take responsibility .
we will not be pushed into a coalition just because the spd makes a unilateral retreat into the opposition .
wolfgang kubicki , fdp deputy party leader , told broadcaster ard : you can not force the greens and us into a coalition just because the spd bows out .
cem ozdemir , top election candidate for the greens , said the party would not take part in anti-european populism in a possible coalition with the conservatives and the fdp .
he told broadcaster zdf that climate change and social justice policies were requirements for the greens to form a government .
katrin goering-eckardt , top candidate for the greens , said : we have a job to do for the voters .
they voted for us as a party that represents a united europe , as an ecological party that stands for environmental protection , we have a climate pact from paris and will push for that to be implemented .
and we stand for fairness ... we will see if there can be cooperation .
far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) alexander gauland , top afd election candidate , said : the government , whatever it will look like , should get ready for tough times .
we ll chase them .
we ll take back our country and our people .
joerg meuthen , afd party co-leader , said : what is happening in our country is a gradual dissolution of our nation .
let us talk about that in a democratic discourse .
i accept that some people have a different opinion .
far-left left party sahra wagenknecht , top election candidate of the left , blamed the governing parties , merkel s conservatives and the spd , for the success of the anti-immigration afd .
she added that her party scored its second-best election result .
i hope that the spd sticks with its decision of going into the opposition , wagenknecht added .
but i also hope that won t be their only decision , that they realize that we need a social democratic party with social democratic policies if we don t want the afd to keep getting stronger .
thomas gitzel , vp bank chief economist , said : the real shocker today is : the spd wants to go into opposition .
the only remaining option is a jamaica coalition of cdu , fdp and the greens .
three-party alliances are difficult to form and often unstable .
holger schmieding , berenberg bank chief economist : the consequences for germany s economic policies are nearly zero .
the positions of ( the three parties in ) a possible jamaica coalition are not that far apart .
schmieding added : if the fdp were to take over the finance ministry , a fdp finance minister would not differ significantly from schaeuble s positions on europe .
i think there won t be major changes regarding berlin s stance on europe .