geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations has verified 5,144 civilian deaths in the war in yemen , mainly from air strikes by a saudi-led coalition , and an international investigation is urgently needed , u.n. human rights chief zeid ra ad al hussein said on monday .
the minimal efforts made toward accountability over the past year are insufficient to respond to the gravity of the continuing and daily violations involved in this conflict , zeid said in a speech to the u.n. human rights council in geneva .
the devastation of yemen and the horrific suffering of its people will have immense and enduring repercussions across the region .
it is the third time that he has appealed for an international inquiry into human rights violations in yemen where a two-year conflict pits the saudi-backed yemen government against iran-supported houthi rebels .
last week zeid s office said the 47 countries on the human rights council were not taking their responsibilities seriously , and urged them to probe the entirely man-made catastrophe .
the u.n. says the civil war has created the world s biggest humanitarian crisis , with the conflict compounded by an economic collapse that has pushed millions to the brink of famine .
the crippling of the health and sanitation systems has enabled cholera to take hold with unprecedented speed , with about 650,000 people infected since late april , five times the global cholera caseload in 2016 .
during the three-week u.n. human rights council session , saudi arabia and the netherlands are expected to propose rival resolutions , inviting the council to continue backing yemen s national human rights probe or to set up its own inquiry .
for the past two years , saudi arabia has prevailed , but the situation in the country has not improved , and zeid s office has said yemen s national investigation is not up to the job .
the draft dutch resolution backs zeid s position , a western diplomat said .
the common assessment is that the situation has deteriorated .
the compromise that was put in place last year hasn t delivered , the diplomat said .
one of the resolutions will need to be dismissed .