ankara ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan said on monday the united states decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital had made washington complicit in violence .
his comments on the u.s. move have strained fragile relations between turkey and israel , which only restored ties last year following a six-year diplomatic rift .
erdogan , a frequent critic of israel , has said the decision by u.s. president donald trump will spark violence in the region .
the ones who made jerusalem a dungeon for muslims and members of other religions will never be able to clean the blood from their hands , erdogan said in a speech in ankara .
with their decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital , the united states has become a partner in this bloodshed , he said , adding he did not consider trump s decision binding .
trump s decision last week overturned longstanding u.s. policy on jerusalem , a city holy to jews , muslims and christians .
the status of jerusalem has been one of the biggest obstacles to a peace deal between israel and the palestinians for generations .
over the weekend erdogan referred to israel as a terror state and an invader state , prompting israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu to fire back .
i m not used to receiving lectures about morality from a leader who bombs kurdish villages in his native turkey , who jails journalists , helps iran go around international sanctions and who helps terrorists , including in gaza , kill innocent people , netanyahu said at a news conference .
the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) militant group has fought a decades-old insurgency with the turkish state in which more than 40,000 people have been killed .
the conflict flared up after the collapse of a ceasefire in 2015 .
last year israel and turkey restored ties following a six-year rupture that occurred after israeli marines stormed an aid ship in 2010 to enforce a naval blockade of the hamas-run gaza strip , killing 10 turkish activists on board .
the normalization of ties between both countries has been driven in part by the prospect of lucrative mediterranean gas deals as well as by mutual concerns about regional security .