paris ( reuters ) - with u.s. president donald trump tightly aligned with saudi arabia against iran , france is positioning itself as a broker between the sunni and shi ite muslim rivals , but neutrality may leave it with little leverage .
with tensions between riyadh and tehran rising sharply since saad hariri s resignation as lebanon s prime minister , president emmanuel macron made an unscheduled stopover to meet saudi s powerful crown prince mohammed bin salman on thursday .
the move , made ahead of a possible visit by macron to iran next year , is in line with the young president s foreign policy style of being engaged but non-committal , trying to mediate between all sides without unsettling anyone .
there is a stronger capacity for initiative than before , former foreign minister alain juppe told journalists on friday .
it reminds me a little of ( president nicolas ) sarkozy leaving for georgia in 2012 .
it s good that the president is getting his hands dirty .
it s an initiative he has taken and may work .
during a visit to dubai on thursday , macron was carefully balanced , calling for a firm international stance over iran s nuclear and ballistic missile program while implicitly warning that riyadh s approach toward its rival was excessive .
that tightrope walking may help protect french business ties in iran and buy time with the saudis , but diplomats are concerned the 39-year-old president , new to international affairs , may ultimately leave france exposed .
we should be reducing our exposure to the region .
we have a lot of hits to take without having pressure points to weigh on them , said a french diplomatic source .
i don t think it s in our interest to play a role in quarrels between powers .
under sarkozy and francois hollande , who respectively aligned themselves with qatar and saudi arabia , france nurtured new links with the sunni-ruled gulf arab states and adopted a tough stance on iran during nuclear negotiations .
but during his election campaign , macron promised a different approach .
he openly criticized saudi arabia and qatar for their perceived support of islamist groups across the region , and since the nuclear deal brought an end to sanctions , france has revived old business and investment ties to iran .
yet over the same period , saudi s 32-year-old crown prince has shaken up the landscape .
he has forged close ties with trump , adopted an ever more confrontational line against iran and , in the past week , dramatically uprooted his own nation s political structures .
france is trying to act as a balance between iran and saudi arabia , said dominique mo si , special adviser in charge of international relations at the paris-based montaigne institute .
at a time when the situation is worsening in the region , it is offering itself as an intermediary after trump chose one camp over the other , he said , referring to trump s decision to decertify the iran nuclear deal .
macron has tried to be nuanced , offering something to everyone .
he has vowed to stick to the nuclear deal with iran , while talking up ties with trump and saudi arabia .
at the same time , he has threatened new sanctions against tehran over its ballistic missile program and promised to address its growing hegemony in the region .
iran for one isn t buying it .
i don t think this policy works , said a senior iranian official speaking on condition of anonymity .
if a country like france tries to appease , the effect on someone like trump will be contrary and will simply embolden the administration .
french officials insist paris has a role to play in various international conflicts given its position as a veto-wielding member of the u.n. security council and its historical ties in the middle east .
they say that by remaining neutral , france will prove credible and consistent in the long-term .
since macron took power he has offered to mediate in libya , ukraine , syria , the qatar crisis and even venezuela , each time carefully trying to avoid taking sides .
but it may not pay off .
france has understood full well that there is a leadership problem on the part of the americans and it understands that it s potentially an opportunity to make a difference , said jalel harchaoui , a geopolitics researcher at paris 8 university .
but so far it seems that macron and his team have been very distracted , in a hurry to announce big initiatives but delivering very little .