21st century wire says the fbi released 27 never before seen images chronicling the destructive pentagon attack on 9/11 .
while the fbi move appears to be an effort to be more transparent , they ve refueled old conspiracy suspicions hidden in plain sight .
cover-up ?
photo illustration 21wire s shawn helton to this day , the attacks on september 11th , 2001 , have remained some of the most enigmatic crimes of the century.there has been an endless dispute over the how of 9/11 and the who , as well as the various methods used to carry out the atrocities of that day .
there s an even heavier debate over what brought down wtc building 7 and since then , other 9/11 rabbit holes have also challenged the nature of the planes said to be involved in both new york and washington dc.whatever your thoughts are concerning planes or other theories on 9/11 it s still worth noting that even the mainstream media admitted at the time that there was , no evidence of a plane at all , following the destruction of a portion of the pentagon s western side.watch as jamie mcintyre , a former senior pentagon correspondent for cnn , suggests the lack of evidence supporting the official story surrounding american airlines flight 77 .here s one telling image released by the fbi that doesn t appear to support the official story of american airlines flight 77 s fuselage crashing into the western side of the pentagon .
its as if logic and reason were also casualties on 9/11 where is the rest of the plane and why is the crater so small ?
pentagon tales what really happened here ?
( image source : vault.fbi.gov ) in another telling image , part of the damage seen at the pentagon on 9/11 looks errily reminiscent to that of the oklahoma city bombing interior explosion ?
why does this look similar to the damage at okc in 1995 ?
( image source : abcnews ) the fbi releases also contained images of twisted plane parts that curiously lacked evidence of fire damage given the devastating crime scene , it s hard to see how that would be possible.see the fbi photos here for yourself and ask yourself one single question : where is the boeing passenger airliner ?
.
more from free thought project below breaking : the fbi just released never before seen photos of 9/11 pentagon wreckageclaire bernish free thought projectafter surreptitiously releasing to the public one week ago , the fbi unceremoniously announced today the unprecedented release of never-before-seen images from the attacks of september 11 , 2001 , and some of the pictures evoke still more questions.others could be seen as putting to rest a popular theory american airlines flight 77 never actually smashed into the pentagon .
the fbi vault release is minute in size , to say the least with a mere 27 images comprising the file and does not include video , audio , nor anything other than photos.but , given the stony silence from the u.s. government toward families of victims of the attacks , even the meager disclosure is a welcome morsel of information with the potential to provide answers.indeed , in the very first image , labeled plainly , 9-11 pentagon debris 1 , a single piece of wreckage sits isolated on a parcel of lawn bearing the american airlines logo and marked with letters and numbers.more from free thought project here see also : what to expect from bbc panorama and guardian s whitewash of uk gov t funding terrorists in syriasee also : the guardian exposed conning public into financing independent journalism see also : white helmets & local councils is the uk fco financing terrorism in syria with taxpayer funds ? see also : a guide to mainstream media fake news war propagandasupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv