martin luther king jr. would not likely be pleased to see such a divisive figure using his position as a professional athlete to promote a violent and threatening movement funded and promoted by politicians to divide our nation colin kaepernick s football career remains very much a question mark , but he s already left an impression on american culture , as his jersey and other gear from his protests in 2016 are now in the hands of the smithsonian.the smithsonian s national museum of african american history and culture continuously collects items of historic significance from african americans involved in all phases of american life , and the sociologist and author harry edwards encouraged the museum to take a close look at kaepernick .
the former san francisco 49ers quarterback drew nationwide attention last year when he knelt during the national anthem to protest police brutality in america.in september , 2016 , the union for police officers who work san francisco home games threatened a boycott of policing the stadium after the 49ers refused to discipline colin kaepernick for not standing during the national anthem and for his statements about law enforcement .
if the 49ers organization fails to take action to stop this type of inappropriate behavior it could result in police officers choosing not to work at your facilities , the letter reads .
the board of directors of the santa clara police officer s association has a duty to protect its members and work to make all of their working environments free of harassing behavior .
it also criticized what it called anti-police statements made by kaepernick , calling them insulting , inaccurate and completely unsupported by any facts .
edwards arranged for the donation of a jersey and other equipment to the smithsonian , but did so with a request .
i said , don t wait 50 years to try to get some memorabilia and so forth on kaepernick , edwards said , according to usa today .
let me give you a game jersey , some shoes , a picture .
and it should be put right there alongside muhammad ali .
he s this generation s ali .
daily wire adopted by white parents in wisconsin , kaepernick is the biological child of a white woman and a black man .
he was born in 1987.kaepernick explained his refusal to stand for the star-spangled banner , expressing solidarity with the net-marxist racial narratives of black lives matter : i am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color .
to me , this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way .
there are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder .
kaepernick describes himself as a black man in a society that oppresses black people .
kaepernick s refusal to stand for our national anthem was considered anything but brave by many of his fans .
here s a picture of a fan burning colin s jersey , a trend that was started shortly after kaepernick used his position to promote the violent black lives matter movement on the field as the other players honored our nation : kaepernick remains unsigned even as players like ryan fitzpatrick sign deals , and there is , of course , the question of how much his very public and very controversial political stances may be harming his marketability .
yahoo