berlin ( reuters ) - nato should defend sweden and finland in the event of an armed aggression , although neither country is an alliance member , a senior nato official said on wednesday at an event that underscored growing concerns about russia s military buildup .
commodore hans helseth , special adviser to the nato joint warfare center in norway , said the two nations growing ties to the western alliance increased their risk and nato had a moral obligation to come to their assistance if they were attacked .
their non-membership actually lowers the threshold of an armed aggression against the two countries .
in my opinion , nato simply has for moral reasons and other reasons to come to the two countries assistance , helseth said at the berlin security conference .
he said nato remained open to welcoming both nations as members if they chose to join .
finland , sweden , denmark , norway and iceland agreed this month to step up defense cooperation and exchange more air surveillance information , part of a broader effort to build up their defenses to counter russian activities .
officials from both finland and sweden spoke at the conference about their concerns about russia s military buildup in the arctic and northern europe in general , citing its 2014 annexation of the crimea region of ukraine as a wakeup call .
the two countries take part in nato military drills , but they are not covered by article v of nato s foundational treaty which says an attack on one member is an attack on all .
both countries know any move to join the alliance would create a backlash in moscow , which opposes any expansion of nato .
a senior russian foreign ministry official on tuesday called for efforts to rebuild ties with european countries , including more communication among military experts .
but helseth said there could be no return to business as usual with russia given its annexation of crimea and its role in supporting violence in eastern ukraine , as well as its support of syrian president bashar al-assad and use of unfriendly attacks in the cyber domain .
top military leaders from nato and member countries spoke at the two-day event about their efforts to build up a bigger deterrent to any military aggression by russia .
u.s .
lieutenant general ben hodges , who heads u.s. army forces in europe , said russia had missed a big opportunity to mend ties with the west by not being more transparent about military exercises this year .
u.s. and nato officials say russian forces far exceeded the 13,000 threshold beyond which a country is obligated to invite military observers .
russia says western officials are exaggerating the scope of the exercises .
hodges said western nations had achieved an unprecedented level of information-sharing during the exercise , and said he hoped that would continue even as nato expands its own capabilities to rapidly move forces to the eastern flank .
he cited concerns about recent activities by russia , including its purchase of 2,000 vehicles to transport tanks by road and moves to take advantage of melting ice in the arctic .
russia is not sitting around waiting to see what happens .