berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel s efforts to forge a three-way ruling coalition dragged into the wee hours of friday , with some participants warning that differences on climate , migration and finances could still cause the talks to collapse .
the conservative leader had set thursday as a deadline for exploratory talks about forming a coalition with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the environmentalist greens - a combination untested at the national level that would allow her to govern for a fourth term as german chancellor .
merkel , 63 , had told reporters on thursday that serious differences remained and the talks could take many hours .
participants girded for a marathon session , or what german media have called the night of the long knives .
the mood soured noticeably late on thursday , with parties breaking off to huddle in their respective caucuses before senior negotiators resumed tough discussions on migration .
senior fdp official alexander lambsdorff described serious faces in a post on twitter , while fdp deputy leader wolfgang kubicki suggested an extension of the talks might be needed .
conservative participants conceded the talks were not going well .
the greens and the bavarian wing of the conservatives , the christian social union ( csu ) , even accused each other of blocking an agreement .
juergen trittin , a greens negotiator , used twitter to illustrate his view of the state of the talks : a clip of reggae star jimmy cliff singing , the harder they come , the harder they fall - one and all .
failure to clinch a deal could lead to new elections - a scenario none of the negotiating parties wants , for fear the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) could make further gains after surging into parliament in the sept. 24 national vote .
such an outcome would be seen as a so-called black swan event that could weigh heavily on the euro .
merkel tried to break the logjam , at least on climate protection , by offering to reduce coal power generating capacity by 7 gigawatts ( gw ) , sources familiar with the talks said .
that is still shy of the 10 gw cut demanded by the greens , but above an earlier offer of 5 gw .
the chancellor is under pressure from her own conservative bloc , particularly the csu , not to compromise too much to secure a coalition deal , especially on migrants .
the csu fears losing further ground in a 2018 state election .
at stake is a conservative plan to cap the number of people germany will accept per year on humanitarian grounds at 200,000 , a limit the environmental greens reject .
i don t know if we can resolve all the discrepancies , all the disagreements , said joachim herrmann , a senior member of the csu , sister party of merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) .
fdp secretary general nicola beer , in a twitter posting , urged all sides to remain open to compromise : don t ask your counterpart for something he can t give .
otherwise you ll get nothing in the end .
merkel is a skilled negotiator , renowned at european union summits for building pressure on her negotiating partners and playing on their fatigue .
she must leverage all these skills to secure the three-way jamaica coalition , called that because the parties colors match those of the caribbean island country s flag .
a failure of jamaica would be her failure , wrote the mass-circulation daily bild .
merkel s partners in germany s previous grand coalition were the center-left social democrats ( spd ) , who have vowed to return to opposition after suffering their worst election result since 1933 in september s national vote .
alice weidel , co-leader of the far-right afd , criticized the would-be coalition partners for failing to reach a deal , telling daily die welt : if the ( conservative ) union , fdp and greens don t reach an agreement soon , there should be new elections .
if negotiators agree to a deal after thursday s talks , it must still pass muster with lower-ranking party officials .
a key test would be a greens conference on nov. 25 , when the party s rank and file would examine any coalition pact .