fort worth , texas ( reuters ) - republican candidate donald trump on friday won the surprise endorsement of new jersey governor chris christie , the most prominent mainstream republican to get behind the former reality tv star ’ s white house campaign .
christie said the billionaire front-runner has the best chance of beating democrat hillary clinton in the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election - although clinton has yet to secure her party ’ s nomination .
the endorsement gives trump a further lift before next week ’ s super tuesday nominating contests .
it comes just a day after he took a battering from his two main rivals at a televised republican debate .
trump ’ s unorthodox candidacy has stirred controversy and shaken the republican party at its roots , but an increasing number of senior republicans are becoming resigned to the idea he will be their candidate in november .
trump is “ rewriting the playbook , ” said christie , 53 , who until two weeks ago was himself a rival for the republican nomination .
christie dropped out after failing to muster much support for his candidacy .
trump , 69 , who has never held public office , has campaigned as a political outsider .
he is riding a wave of voter anger at the slow economic recovery , illegal immigration and what he says is america ’ s diminishing role in the world .
“ the best person to beat hillary clinton in november on that stage last night is undoubtedly donald trump , ” christie told a news conference on friday , a day after the last republican candidates ’ debate before super tuesday .
the debate marked a new , more aggressive approach for u.s .
senator marco rubio , 44 , who has emerged as the republican establishment ’ s challenger to trump .
the other main challenger at the debate was u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas .
trump has unsettled mainstream republicans by winning three straight nominating contests - in new hampshire , south carolina and nevada .
polls show he is likely to win big in key primaries on tuesday .
“ since i started this whole thing i ’ ve been practically number 1 , ” trump said on friday at a rally in texas .
the 11 republican nominating contests on tuesday have a total of almost 600 delegates at stake , and could set trump up to clinch the presidential nomination .
reuters/ipsos polling data on friday showed trump ahead nationally in the republican race with support at 44.2 percent , followed by cruz at 20.7 percent and rubio in third place at 14 percent .
on the democratic side , former secretary of state clinton is battling u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont .
clinton and sanders have been in a dead head over the past week , the reuters/ipsos data shows .
trump has vowed to build a wall on the u.s.-mexican border to halt illegal immigration , called for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states and promised to take a tough stance on trade against china .
he was combative at a rally on friday .
he mocked rubio , referred to violent islamist militants as “ these animals ” and promised to defend americans ’ constitutional right to bear arms .
“ we ’ re going to build up our military , we ’ re going to knock out isis .
we ’ re going to knock out isis fast , ” he said , referring to the islamic state militant group .
wielding a water bottle as a prop , trump made fun of rubio for an awkward incident in which the senator grabbed for a drink of water off camera during an important televised speech in 2013 .
rubio and cruz ganged up on trump at thursday ’ s debate in houston in a last-ditch bid to keep him from winning in states on super tuesday .
rubio on friday again took aim at trump .
“ he ’ s a con man who ’ s taking advantage of people ’ s fears and anxieties about the future , portraying himself as some sort of strong guy , ” rubio told reporters in oklahoma .
“ he ’ s not a strong guy .
he ’ s never faced real adversity before. ” predictwise , a research project that analyzes opinion polls and betting markets , said trump would comfortably win among republicans in all but one of the 11 super tuesday states that it measured .
cruz , 45 , is likely to win in his home state of texas , predictwise said .
rubio ’ s home state of florida is not part of the super tuesday contests .
predictit , based out of victoria university in wellington , new zealand , on friday gave trump a 73 percent chance of winning the nomination compared with a peak 75 percent chance two days earlier .
trump ’ s swipes at rival candidates and heated exchanges with journalists and others have for months bolstered his standing in nominating contests and opinion polls .
in a post on twitter , trump took aim at rubio , a first-term senator , for his debate performance .
“ lightweight marco rubio was working hard last night .
the problem is , he is a choker , and once a choker , always a chocker ( sic ) !
mr. meltdown. ” republican strategist doug heye said christie may have opened the door for more mainstream republican endorsements of a man whose chances of winning the white house were seen as next to nil a year ago .
“ if you ’ re the trump campaign this is obviously very good news and it gives permission for others to endorse .
but it also makes it hard ( for trump ) to make the outsider argument , ” he said .
glenn hubbard , who had been an adviser to the campaign of former florida governor jeb bush and was chair of the council of economic advisers during the george h.w .
bush administration , said he planned to keep up steady criticism of trump on economic issues .
“ i think it is time for serious people to stand up and be counted .
the next few weeks come very quickly , ” said hubbard , who published a column in the boston globe on friday criticizing trump .
hubbard , now dean of the business school at columbia university , told reuters he worried trump ’ s comments already hurt the country ’ s image abroad and would hobble his ability to govern if elected .
( additional reporting by steve holland , clarece polke , howard schneider and susan heavey in washington and melissa fares and chris kahn in new york ; writing by alistair bell ; editing by howard goller and leslie adler ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .