washington ( reuters ) - foreign diplomats are expressing alarm to u.s. government officials about what they say are inflammatory and insulting public statements by republican presidential front-runner donald trump , according to senior u.s. officials .
officials from europe , the middle east , latin america and asia have complained in recent private conversations , mostly about the xenophobic nature of trump ’ s statements , said three u.s. officials , who all declined to be identified .
read more : trump 's foreign policy team is still tbd “ as the ( trump ) rhetoric has continued , and in some cases amped up , so , too , have concerns by certain leaders around the world , ” said one of the officials .
the three officials declined to disclose a full list of countries whose diplomats have complained , but two said they included at least india , south korea , japan and mexico .
u.s. officials said it was highly unusual for foreign diplomats to express concern , even privately , about candidates in the midst of a presidential campaign .
u.s. allies in particular usually don ’ t want to be seen as meddling in domestic politics , mindful that they will have to work with whoever wins .
senior leaders in several countries — including britain , mexico , france , and canada — have already made public comments criticizing trump ’ s positions .
german economy minister sigmar gabriel branded him a threat to peace and prosperity in an interview published on sunday .
trump 's campaign did not respond to requests for comment on the private diplomatic complaints.read more : nike suspends ties with sharapova after failed drug test recommended : gun silencers , not just for hitmen japan ’ s embassy declined to comment .
the indian and south korean embassies did not respond to requests for comment .
a spokesperson for the mexican government would not confirm any private complaints but noted that its top diplomat , claudia ruiz massieu , said last week that trump ’ s policies and comments were “ ignorant and racist ” and that his plan to build a border wall to stop illegal immigration was “ absurd. ” the foreign officials have been particularly disturbed by the anti-immigrant and anti-muslim themes that the billionaire real estate mogul has pushed , according to the u.s. officials .
european and middle eastern government representatives have expressed dismay to u.s. officials about anti-muslim declarations by trump that they say are being used in recruiting pitches by the islamic state and other violent jihadist groups .
on dec. 7 , trump ’ s campaign issued a written statement saying that he was “ calling for a total and complete shutdown of muslims entering the united states until our country ’ s representatives can figure out what is going on. ” trump subsequently said in television interviews that american muslims traveling abroad would be allowed to return to the country , as would muslim members of the u.s. military or muslim athletes coming to compete in the united states .
there are also concerns abroad that the united states would become more insular under trump , who has pledged to tear up international trade agreements and push allies to take a bigger role in tackling middle east conflicts .
“ european diplomats are constantly asking about trump ’ s rise with disbelief and , now , growing panic , ” said a senior nato official , speaking on condition of anonymity .
“ with the eu facing an existential crisis , there ’ s more than the usual anxiety about the u.s. turning inward when europe needs u.s. support more than ever. ” another of the senior u.s. officials said the complaints are coming mostly from mid-to-low ranking diplomats – described as “ working level ” - rather than from the most senior officials .
“ the responses have ranged from amusement to befuddlement to curiosity , ” the official said .
“ in some cases , we ’ ve heard expressions of alarm , but those have been more in response to the anti-immigrant and anti-refugee sentiment as well as the general sense of xenophobia. ” more than a hundred republican foreign policy veterans pledged this week to oppose trump , saying in an open letter that his proposals would undermine u.s. security .
on tuesday , general philip breedlove , the united states ’ top military commander in europe , said that the u.s. elections were stirring concerns among america ’ s allies .
“ i get a lot of questions from our european counterparts on our election process this time in general , ” said breedlove , who did not mention trump by name .
“ and i think they see a very different sort of public discussion than they have in the past. ” while not confirming the content of private diplomatic contacts , some foreign officials acknowledged their governments ’ concerns about trump .
a british official noted that in january , prime minister david cameron said : `` what donald trump says is , in my view , not only wrong , but actually it makes the work we need to do to confront and defeat the extremists more difficult .
`` recommended : apple users targeted in first known mac ransomware campaign a chinese official referred to a statement last week from china ’ s foreign ministry spokeswoman .
asked whether china was concerned about trump ’ s proposal to place high tariffs on chinese goods , hua chunyin declined to comment on specific candidates .
but she said “ i want to stress ” that china and the united states have “ major responsibilities ” in maintaining international political and economic stability .
representatives of other countries publicly attacked by trump , including iran , iraq , saudi arabia , saudi arabia , and vietnam either had no comment or did not respond to requests for comments .
several american foreign policy experts said foreign diplomats have complained to them as well .
“ all foreign diplomats i ’ ve talked to are amazed at the trump phenomenon and worried about it , especially in the middle east and europe , ” said elliott abrams , senior fellow at the council on foreign relations think tank who handled middle east affairs at the national security council from 2001 to 2009 under then-president george w. bush .
( reporting by mark hosenball ; additional reporting by jonathan landay , phil stewart , david brunnstrom , and emily flitter ; editing by stuart grudgings . )
this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .