washington ( reuters ) - u.s. house republicans on tuesday insisted they will proceed with a fiscal 2017 budget plan despite a flat-out rejection from their party ’ s fiscal hawks that poses an important test of speaker paul ryan ’ s leadership .
the $ 3.9 trillion proposal , which the house budget committee hopes to embrace formally on wednesday for an eventual floor vote , would provide ryan with a first step in his political goal of uniting the republican party behind a detailed policy plan ahead of november ’ s presidential and congressional elections .
the plan aims to achieve a balanced budget within a decade .
“ i promise in this speakership that we ’ re not going to have a top-down , cram-it-down-people ’ s-throat kind of leadership , ” ryan told reporters .
“ we ’ re going to make decisions as a team .
we ’ re going to push power out to the members , and we ’ re going to make a team decision on this issue , ” he added .
but the house freedom caucus , which includes dozens of outspoken conservatives who dethroned ryan ’ s predecessor john boehner , has been complaining for months about a $ 1.07 trillion ceiling for discretionary spending that was enacted into law last november .
it says the cap should be $ 30 billion lower and has warned leaders of its opposition .
several freedom caucus members sit on the house budget panel , including representative dave brat , a virginia republican who described the group ’ s position as mainstream : “ we ’ re where the american people want us to be. ” brat said he was leaning toward voting against the proposal in a committee work-session set for wednesday .
stubborn opposition among freedom caucus members , despite weeks of behind-the-scene talks among house republicans , call into question the ability of party leaders to muster the 218 votes needed to pass the budget without help from the chamber ’ s 188 democrats .
representative chris van hollen of maryland , the panel ’ s top democrat , slammed the republican proposal as a plan that would hurt the middle class and harm the medicare healthcare program for the elderly and disabled .
democratic attacks and fiscal hawk opposition are leading some republicans to call for a seldom-used “ queen of the hill ” strategy that would allow members to consider different proposals but deem the one with the most votes as having passed the chamber .
the budget blueprint is non-binding , meaning it is not subject to president barack obama ’ s approval .
but it provides guidance to appropriators as they write bills to fund an array of government programs beginning oct. 1 , the start of the next fiscal year .