washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. treasury department on wednesday imposed new sanctions on five russians and chechens , including the head of the russian republic of chechnya , for alleged human rights abuses .
the new sanctions blacklisted ramzan kadyrov , the chechen leader and a close ally of russian president vladimir putin , the treasury department said in a statement .
u.s. authorities accused kadyrov of overseeing an administration involved in disappearances and extrajudicial killings .
on a conference call with reporters wednesday , a senior u.s. state department official said that one or more of kadyrov s political opponents were killed at his direction .
kadyrov reacted to news of the sanctions with his usual defiance .
a sleepless night is waiting for me , kadyrov wrote , apparently sarcastically , on his instagram social media account .
i can be proud that i m out of favor with the special services of the usa .
in fact , the usa can not forgive me for dedicating my whole life to the fight against foreign terrorists among which there are bastards of america s special services .
he also wrote that he would not be visiting the united states .
the u.s. treasury department imposed the sanctions , which freeze the banks accounts of those targeted , under a 2012 law known as the magnitsky act .
the magnitsky act imposed visa bans and asset freezes on russian officials linked to the death in prison of sergei magnitsky , a 37-year-old russian auditor and whistleblower .
the act also seeks to hold responsible those u.s. authorities allege orchestrated or benefited from the death of magnitsky .
treasury remains committed to holding accountable those involved in the sergei magnitsky affair , including those with a role in the criminal conspiracy and fraud scheme that he uncovered , director of the treasury department s office of foreign assets control john smith said in a statement .
magnitsky was arrested and died in a moscow jail in 2009 after discovering a $ 230 million tax fraud scheme , according to u.s. authorities .
supporters of magnitsky say the russian state murdered him by denying him adequate medical care after he was imprisoned on tax evasion charges .
the kremlin denies the allegation .
in addition to kadyrov and one other chechen official , the treasury s action on wednesday targeted three russians that u.s. authorities say were involved in the complex tax fraud scheme that magnitsky exposed .
the magnitsky sanctions have been a point of tension between moscow and washington , even before russia s annexation of crimea sent relations spiraling .
in retaliation for the magnitsky act , putin signed a bill halting u.s. adoptions of russian children .
it had been unclear to sanctions experts whether president donald trump s administration , which has signaled a desire to rebuild ties with moscow , would continue to target people under the law .
the magnitsky act attracted greater public attention when it emerged that the president s son donald trump jr. , had met with a russian lawyer and a lobbyist - both strident opponents of the law - in new york ahead of the 2016 u.s. elections .
when asked about the june 2016 meeting , trump jr. later said they discussed the adoptions issue .
on a conference call with reporters on wednesday , state department officials said that despite the new sanctions the trump administration wants a constructive relationship with moscow .
we believe a russia that takes care of the human rights of its own citizens will be an even more effective partner , a senior state department official said .