barcelona ( reuters ) - catalan separatists urged supporters to defy spanish efforts to block an independence referendum on sunday , calling for peaceful turnouts at polling stations that police have been ordered to keep shut .
pro-independence groups the catalan national assembly ( anc ) and omnium said on thursday that people should form queues if they found police guarding voting stations , amid concerns that frustrations over an event progressively stripped of any meaningful political impact could erupt into street unrest .
tackling one of the biggest political crises to hit spain since democracy was restored in the 1970s after decades of dictatorship , authorities in madrid have declared the referendum unconstitutional and told police to ensure no votes are cast .
the rich northeastern region is pressing ahead , and its leader carles puigdemont - who has labeled the government s response anti-democratic - said a week ago he had contingency plans in place to ensure the vote would take place .
but anc and omnium said catalonia s priority for sunday should be to present a responsible and united face to the world - even if that meant forming long queues without actually voting .
peaceful resistance , zero violence ...
if you can t access the voting stations , by no means should you respond with violence , anc said in an internal document distributed to members .
above all , bear in mind this is not a demonstration but a giant queue .
the picture of millions of people queuing with a ballot paper in their hand will be more impressive .
with both groups having strong track records of non-violent protest , the biggest risk of civil disturbance appeared to lie with members of foreign anarchist groups , who local newspapers including el confidencial and el espanol said had arrived in barcelona .
if they approach any of the more than 2,500 voting stations across catalonia , they will encounter a stepped-up police .
around 4,000 state police from other regions have been deployed to prevent the vote and maintain security .
they will join 5,000 state police based in the region and 17,000 local police , or mossos d esquadra .
the mossos have said the order to close voting stations increased the risk of confrontation between demonstrators and police , a worry shared on thursday by two united nations experts .
we are concerned that this order and the accompanying rhetoric may heighten tensions and social unrest , said david kaye , special rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression , and alfred de zayas , independent expert on the promotion of a democratic and equitable international order .
following a meeting a barcelona of senior security officials , spain s junior interior minister jose antonio nieto confirmed no vote would be allowed , though the government would not prevent people from demonstrating .
on sunday , it will be possible to celebrate , everybody in a different way , through a picnic or a demonstration , and to express a sentiment but there will be no breach of the law , he told a news conference .
anc said voters should show institutional dignity and form queues without staging a spectacle .