there are two things anyone with familiarity with fox news host sean hannity learns quickly : he is one of the most unlikable people working in television and he is really , really sensitive about it.on wednesday , hannity managed to exemplify both of those traits when he learned that politico reporter marc caputo quoted a marco rubio staffer as calling hannity a f * cking a * * hole .
rather than take the high road or , better yet , analyze his own actions to figure out why people despise him , hannity did what comes naturally to him : he threw a very public , very embarrassing temper tantrum.here s what caputo said , quoted from an anonymous rubio staffer , that set hannity off : `` but marco gives donald a taste of his own medicine and hannity gets all offended .
he 's a pussy and a sellout . ''
boy , they 're angry 2/2 marc caputo ( @ marcacaputo ) march 2 , 2016crass ?
sure .
accurate ?
definitely .
it s no secret that hannity has been a big fan of donald trump s since the very beginning .
he once bragged that he encouraged trump to get into the presidential race in 2012 .
he s been a major cheerleader ever since .
in february , trump was facing serious accusations about courting white supremacists so he booked a 30 minute softball interview with his friend hannity and the issue never even came up .
instead , the two shared some laughs , complimented each other , and generally behaved as if it was a trump 2016 infomercial paid for by fox news.so when it came to defending his reputation against this charge of favoritism , hannity simply ignored his indefensible actions and lashed out .
hilariously , hannity didn t blame rubio s campaign staffer so much as the reporter who relayed the message .
on twitter , the conservative pundit went a bit nuts.he tried i know you are , but what am i ?
glad politico let 's u use such big words that accurately describes yourself asshole .
and u r `` impartial '' to politics https : //t.co/bcn2ul8wc0 sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) march 2 , 2016he tried blaming it on liberals.typical lib media , u missed my point .
i always liked the real @ marcorubio not the guy i saw last night !
https : //t.co/betswuiz49 sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) march 2 , 2016before finally landing on do you know who i am ? !
would love to play but i have 14 million radio listeners depending on me .
have fun with your 20,000 twitter follows https : //t.co/betswuiz49 sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) march 2 , 2016sadly , this is not the first time hannity has had a public meltdown after being stung by the fact that people don t like him .
in 2014 , mediaite ran a survey asking several dozen cable news hosts from fox news , cnn , and msnbc what they felt about their fellow pundits .
hannity was overwhelmingly voted worst ( even by his own co-workers ) .
he didn t take it well .
@ themattwilstein lets do the best of mediaite concha .
all the rest of u mediamatters wannabees suck imho .
# badge of honor sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) december 22 , 2014and just like his latest tantrum , hannity blamed the messenger .
mediaite didn t decide who the best of fox news was , fox news hosts did and they all said they didn t like hannity .
likewise , politico s caputo didn t call hannity a f * cking a * * hole , rubio s campaign did.hannity may have 14 million radio listeners from the bitter clingin proud clingers set , but he gets absolutely no respect from his fellow media personalities .
even the peers at his own network see through his hack journalism and abrasive personality .
and they have a right to be mad .
every time sean hannity runs a doe-eyed fluff piece on trump , it reminds us that fox news is shamelessly enabling trump s rise to power .
and when you are the guy with 14 million fans who is cheerleading a bigot like trump , it makes you a f * cking a * * hole.featured image via fox news screengrab