jerusalem ( reuters ) - israel s attorney general is considering indicting the wife of prime minister benjamin netanyahu , sara , on suspicion of using state funds for personal dining and catering services amounting to some $ 100,000 , the justice ministry said on friday .
the ministry statement said the attorney general was considering prosecuting sara netanyahu for offences that include fraudulently procuring items , fraud and breach of trust .
a post on the prime minister s facebook page published late on thursday in response to media reports about a forthcoming announcement by attorney general avichai mandelblit , said the claims against sara netanyahu were absurd and will be proven to be unfounded .
it was unclear what political impact friday s announcement might have on netanyahu , who himself is under investigation in two corruption cases .
one of those , known as case 1000 , involves gifts that the prime minister and his family may have received from businessmen , while case 2000 deals with alleged efforts by him to secure better coverage from an israeli newspaper publisher .
netanyahu - who has been prime minister for 11 years over four terms - has denied any wrongdoing .
netanyahu leads a relatively stable coalition government and presides over a buoyant economy .
his conservative likud party has rallied behind him in the absence of clear rivals for the leadership , rebuffing calls for his departure from the center-left opposition .
likud s religious-nationalist coalition partners , seeing no threat to their agenda with netanyahu as prime minister , are likewise sticking with him for now .
in a case dubbed the meals-ordering affair by the justice ministry , sara netanyahu with help from an aide allegedly created a false impression between 2010-2013 that no cooks were employed at the prime minister s official residence , while indeed there were , according to the ministry statement .
this was done , the statement said , to procure state funding for outside catering that would have been covered had there been no chef .
in this way , hundreds of meals from restaurants and chefs worth 359,000 shekels ( $ 102,399 ) were received from the state fraudulently , said the justice ministry statement .
sara netanyahu has the option to plead her case in a hearing with the attorney general .