brussels ( reuters ) - austria s new chancellor traveled to brussels on tuesday on his first foreign trip since being sworn in , aiming to dispel concerns that his coalition with the far right spells trouble for the european union .
responding to a letter on monday from european council president donald tusk that underlined eu worries , 31-year-old conservative leader sebastian kurz tweeted back that his new government would be clear pro-european and committed to making a positive contribution to the future development of the eu .
a day after he took office at the head of a coalition with the far-right freedom party ( fpo ) , kurz delivered that message in person to tusk and european commission president jean-claude juncker , whose eu executive has responded to october s election with little of the outrage that greeted the fpo s first taste of government in austria 17 years ago .
at a joint news conference in brussels , juncker said he would judge kurz s government by its deeds .
this government has a clear pro-european stance .
that is what is important for me , juncker said .
the fpo has distanced itself from its nazi-apologist , anti-semitic past , while surges in irregular immigration and militant attacks have pushed the european political mainstream rightward , leading to a much more muted reaction than in 2000 .
but a french member of the commission was wary : things are doubtless different from the previous time , in 2000 , tweeted socialist former finance minister pierre moscovici .
but the presence of the far right in government is never without consequences .
confirmation of the fpo s return to a share of power raises concern that small , wealthy austria will be an intractable voice on eu asylum reform and efforts to increase the eu budget .
the bluntest criticism has been south of the alps , where a plan to offer austrian citizenship to people living in italy s german-speaking border region has rekindled worries over old territorial arguments .
a junior foreign minister in rome said the offer may be couched in a velvet glove of europeanism but bore a whiff of the ethno-nationalist iron fist .
kurz assured italians on tuesday that he would consult rome on the plan , which is a long-standing fpo policy , adding he would speak to prime minister paolo gentiloni .
for an eu battered by mounting nationalism that goes well beyond brexit , there is concern too that criticism of brussels in vienna may help fuel the euroscepticism of former communist member states in central europe , including poland , where the commission is seriously considering imposing sanctions that were initially designed in response to the fpo s rise early this century .
speaking in brussels , kurz said he would make it austria s task to bridge the gap between eu member states in the east and the west , adding his country would fight to stop illegal immigration into the eu .
in a letter of congratulation to kurz , tusk made clear his concerns about the new coalition in austria : i trust that the austrian government will continue to play a constructive and pro-european role in the european union , tusk wrote , noting that austria will from july enjoy six months of influence in brussels as chair of eu ministerial councils .
germany and france , the eu s lead powers , also indicated a vigilance about austria in their comments on monday which highlighted kurz s pledges to foster european cooperation .
kurz s visit to brussels comes on the eve of an important commission meeting on wednesday , where juncker s team will consider recommending sanctions on poland for its continued defiance of warnings that its new laws on the judiciary are contrary to eu democratic standards .
we are in a difficult process , which i hope will turn out to be a process of convergence .
but not all bridges to poland will be burnt tomorrow , juncker said .