gaza ( reuters ) - gaza s merchants and consumers are reaping early rewards from reconciliation moves by the enclave s dominant hamas islamists and the western-backed palestinian authority ( pa ) .
israeli border restrictions , including a nearly blanket ban on exports from gaza , and three wars since 2008 have imposed severe hardship in the territory .
israel says its rules are driven by security concerns , accusing hamas of having used imported material to build weapons including rockets that have been fired at its cities .
since hamas ceded gaza s border crossings with israel - the main gateway for commercial imports - to the authority on nov 1 under an egyptian-brokered unity deal , many prices in the territory have dropped .
the main reason for the decrease : the authority has canceled surcharges , sometimes as high as 25 percent , that hamas collected in cash from merchants in gaza .
businesses , in turn , have passed on some of those savings to customers : a 2017 kia picanto compact car , for example , now sells for $ 20,000 instead of $ 22,500 , and a kilo of beef costs 40 shekels ( $ 11 ) , down from 50 ( $ 15 ) .
and this week , the pa , which takes its own tax in an arrangement agreed with israel , allowed the import of cigarettes costing eight shekels a pack compared with the usual 21 shekels for other brands , through israel s kerem shalom commercial crossing for the first time .
cigarettes used to come in only via smuggling tunnels under the egyptian border but the pa is seeking understandings with hamas and cairo to choke off that channel .
( hamas s fees ) led to a weakening of sales power because the people in gaza live under bad economic conditions and because of the israeli blockade and the loss of jobs , said tareq al-saqqa , who owns an electrical goods company in gaza , where unemployment tops 40 percent .
citing security concerns , israel and egypt maintain tight restrictions at their gaza borders .
hamas , regarded by the west as a terrorist group , seized the enclave in fighting in 2007 against forces loyal to palestinian president mahmoud abbas .
israel s limits on gaza s import of so-called dual use material , such as steel and cement , that it fears could be used by hamas to make weapons or fortifications are unlikely to change soon .
but hundreds of truckloads of food and a wide variety of consumer goods move into gaza daily via israel .
hamas , which handed administrative control of gaza to the authority under the reconciliation agreement signed in cairo on oct. 12 , has spurned israel s demand it disarm .
israel said it would deal with the new administration in gaza but in the way that would not allow hamas and other factions to develop their military capabilities , which means it will continue to ban essential materials , said mohammad abu jayyab , a gaza economist .
he and other local economic experts cautioned against any hopes of a rapid revival of gaza s economy unless israel s restrictions were fully removed .
responsibility for security in still an open issue in gaza , where hamas , which is still policing the territory , has what analysts say are at least 25,000 well-equipped fighters .
further unity talks are scheduled for nov. 21 in cairo .
keeping pressure on hamas , abbas has yet to lift economic sanctions he imposed in gaza in june that included a cut in salaries the authority paid to 60,000 civil servants .
abbas recently sent nearly 15,000 of them into early retirement .
( this version of the story corrects spelling of surname , paragraph 12 )