phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodia s main opposition party has given up hope of escaping a ban when the supreme court rules on thursday on a suit brought by the government of authoritarian leader hun sen , a senior leader said .
the government called for the ban after arresting cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) leader kem sokha on sept. 3 and charging him with treason for an alleged plot to take over the southeast asian country with help from the united states .
hun sen s opponents say the charges are politically motivated to eliminate kem sokha from next year s election so the strongman , who is currently the world s longest serving prime minister , can extend his more than 32 years in power .
the judge who heads the supreme court , dith munty , is a member of the permanent committee of the ruling cambodia people s party ( cpp ) and a longtime hun sen loyalist .
there is no chance whatsoever for cnrp to escape dissolution , said mu sochua , a deputy of kem sokha who fled abroad last month saying she feared arrest in a widening crackdown by the government .
november 16 , 2017 will mark the end of true democracy in cambodia , she told reuters , adding that the ruling party would face local condemnation and possible international sanctions .
hun sen , a former khmer rouge commander , has held power since 1985 by intimidating and dividing his enemies and through legal proceedings that have occasionally led to political bans on rivals at critical moments .
next year s election was shaping as possibly the biggest challenge to hun sen s leadership , after his opponents unified behind the cnrp .
former cnrp leader sam rainsy , who fled to france in 2015 to escape a jail term for defamation , announced on wednesday he was returning to the party that he quit in february over fears his membership would lead to it being banned .
the veteran opponent of hun sen said the party would be dissolved anyway so his membership now made no difference .
a government official said sam rainsy s return would only provide further justification for dissolving the party .
he is not mature .
he has no political philosophy and doctrine , but only anger and hatred , huy vannak , undersecretary of state at the interior ministry , told reuters .
he also noted that the cnrp had not defended its position in court .
a party lawyer , sam sokong , said there had been no point because the case was politically motivated .
western countries have condemned the government s crackdown on the opposition , civil rights groups and independent media and have called for the release of kem sokha to allow credible elections next year .
u.s. president donald trump s senior asia aide expressed strong concerns to cambodia s government about the detention of kem sokha and restrictions on civil society and the press on tuesday .
hun sen has brushed off western criticism , though he also lauded trump as a kindred spirit this week and urged him to rein in subordinates critical of cambodia .
hun sen is also increasingly close to china , cambodia s biggest donor .
the main evidence presented against kem sokha is a video from 2013 in which he talks about a plan to gain power with the help of americans .
he says he was talking about democratic politics .
cambodia s capital , phnom penh , was calm on wednesday .
but metal barriers were set up outside the gold-embellished supreme court and police have been told to watch for trouble .
few in the capital wanted to give any opinion on the ruling or the possible verdict .
the court will decide .
we can not do anything , said kou menglay , a taxi driver .