kiev ( reuters ) - dozens of ukrainian police in riot gear raided a protest camp outside parliament on wednesday in a failed attempt to detain former georgian president mikheil saakashvili , who was freed from custody by supporters a day earlier .
saakashvili later said police had searched the wrong tent at the camp , continuing a surreal hide-and-seek game between him and ukrainian law enforcement ever since he barged across the border from poland three months ago .
saakashvili was granted ukrainian citizenship and invited by president petro poroshenko to become governor of the odessa region after the maidan protests ousted a pro-russian president in early 2014 , but the two later fell out .
the saga threatens to embarrass the pro-western leadership in kiev , although saakashvili s party , which is now seeking to unseat poroshenko at the ballot box , does not have nationwide support , opinion polls show .
protesters defended the camp , which was set up in september , leading to clashes in which four policemen and an unknown number of civilians were wounded , kiev police said in a statement .
general prosecutor yuriy lutsenko later acknowledged that the operation could have been carried out more effectively , but said police had acted in accordance with the law .
saakashvili will be detained and the best thing he could do , if he were a man , if he really loved ukraine even a little , would be to come today to volodymyrska street ( security service headquarters ) to testify to investigators , he told parliament .
the situation near parliament was calm at around 1230 gmt , although an increased number of armored police stood guard around the building , according to a reuters witness .
lutsenko has vowed to make all efforts to regain custody of saakashvili , who was freed by his supporters from a police van in a chaotic scene on tuesday after being detained on suspicion of assisting a criminal organization .
in a televised briefing on wednesday , saakashvili supporters see him as a fearless crusader against corruption said he would not present himself to law enforcement officials , as requested by the general prosecutor s office .
i am prepared to meet an investigator of the prosecutor in the tent city , he said .
his detention was the latest twist in a prolonged feud between the ukrainian authorities and saakashvili , who has turned on his one-time patron poroshenko , accusing him of corruption and calling for his removal from office .
poroshenko s office said prosecutors have evidence to back up the claims against saakashvili , whom they accuse of receiving financing from criminals linked to former president viktor yanukovich who planned to overthrow the current government .
saakashvili was stripped of his ukrainian citizenship by poroshenko in july while abroad and is now stateless .
the 49-year-old is facing the threat of possible extradition to georgia , where he is wanted on criminal charges he says were trumped up for political reasons .