kiev ( reuters ) - the ukrainian wife of a chechen man accused by russia of plotting to kill president vladimir putin was shot dead outside kiev on monday in an attack that also wounded her husband , ukrainian interior ministry officials said .
amina okuyeva and adam osmayev were in a car that was shot at from bushes near a railway crossing on the outskirts of the capital , interior ministry advisors anton gerashchenko and zoryan shkiryak said in separate posts on facebook .
the attack follows a vehicle bombing in kiev last thursday , in which two people were killed and three wounded , including ihor mosiychuk , a member of the populist opposition radical party .
okuyeva had links to mosiychuk , having once worked for him in an advisory role .
as a result of the injuries she sustained , amina died .
adam osmayev was wounded , but will live .
i just spoke to him on the telephone , gerashchenko said .
the incident is the second attempt this year on the life of osmayev , from russia s mainly muslim chechnya region .
in june , he survived an attack by a gunman , who was in turn shot and wounded by okuyeva .
gerashchenko and shkiryak did not suggest a motive for the latest incident .
mosiychuk has blamed russia for last week s bombing , while ukrainian police have said russian involvement is one of the possible motives being investigated .
russia has dismissed the accusations as a product of anti-russian sentiment in ukraine .
relations between kiev and moscow collapsed in 2014 after russia seized ukraine s crimea peninsula and backed a pro-russian separatist insurgency in eastern ukrainian regions .
russian authorities accuse osmayev of being part of a 2012 plot by islamist rebels to kill putin with a bomb in central moscow .
osmayev and okuyeva are well-known figures in ukraine , having served as volunteers for the ukrainian military in the fight against pro-russian rebels .
moscow has fought two wars with separatists in chechnya since the 1991 collapse of the soviet union .
the region is now broadly under the control of moscow , but chechens are known to have fought both for the pro-russian rebels and for the ukrainian army in the conflict in eastern ukraine .
since fighting broke out in the east in 2014 , the number of incidents involving explosives outside the conflict zone has increased .
there has been a spate of vehicle bombings over the past 18 months in kiev , the capital , and elsewhere , but investigators have failed to find those responsible .