tokyo ( reuters ) - tokyo governor yuriko koike , whose new party is challenging japanese prime minister shinzo abe s ruling bloc in the oct. 22 national election , said she would 100 percent not run in the poll , the latest twist in a drama giving voters whiplash .
speculation has persisted that koike , a former ldp member and defense minister , would resign to run for a seat in parliament needed to make a bid for the premiership .
i have been saying i will not run for the election from the beginning , koike said in an interview with the yomiuri newspaper reported on tuesday .
i m 100 percent not running for the election .
she later repeated the comment to reporters .
if koike does not personally contest this election , then analysts believe she would hope her party positions itself to win the next national poll , and that she gains a voter boost from the 2020 tokyo olympics .
abe announced the snap election last week in hopes his liberal democratic party-led coalition would keep its majority in parliament s lower house , where it held a two-thirds super majority before the chamber was dissolved .
but koike s new party of hope - launched just last week as a reformist , conservative alternative to abe s equally conservative ldp - has clouded the outlook amid signs voters are disillusioned with abe after nearly five years in power .
koike s dilemma was whether to run for a seat now and face a backlash from voters for quitting as governor little more than a year since she defied the ldp to run successfully for the post , or risk letting a shot at the top job slip through her fingers .
some analysts saw her decision not to seek a seat now as a sign koike thinks her party s momentum is fading .
she must have thought it would not be worthwhile abandoning the post of tokyo governor to become a head of an opposition , said tetsuro kato , a professor emeritus at hitotsubashi university .
koike has been getting negative media coverage for saying she would exclude candidates who do not agree with her party s policies - a stance seen as barring liberal members of the failed main opposition democratic party from joining .
leaders of the democratic party - a fractious mix of conservatives and liberals - decided last week it would not run candidates of its own but let members run from koike s party .
koike s comment was applauded by some as an effort to ensure policy consistency but by others as a dictatorial maneuver .
she s branding a very new party and has to make clear what it stands for , but the danger is that while abe owned the arrogance of power space , she is now vying for some of that , said jeffrey kingston , director of asian studies at temple university japan .
abe s support rates fell earlier this year due to suspected cronyism scandals and many voters perception that he had grown complacent and arrogant after nearly five years in office .
his rating later rebounded but dropped again to 37 percent in the latest poll by public broadcaster nhk .
koike s party is insisting those who want to run on its ticket sign a policy pledge , including revising the pacifist constitution and exercising the right of collective self-defense , or militarily aiding allies under attack-defense , a document seen by reuters showed .
many liberals balk at those policies .
koike s party on tuesday unveiled a list of 192 candidates for the lower house election .
that compares with 233 seats needed for a simple majority .
the party plans to announce more candidates in the coming days , but a senior party member conceded that it will be a tall order to win a majority .
although ( fielding ) 233 candidates is a very high mountain , we would like to finish climbing it .
on the other hand , in actuality , it would be considerably difficult for us alone to gain a majority even if we fielded 233 , said goshi hosono , a founding member of the party and former environment minister .
further complicating the outlook , liberals from the democratic party launched a constitutional democratic party of japan .
the csdp could split the opposition vote and help abe s bloc keep its majority , but by how much is tough to predict .
koike is tough , she s resilient and she can tap into the fact that abe s negative ratings are pretty high and a lot of people out there are unhappy with him , kingston said .