islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistan has deported a former director of a chain of private turkish schools along with his family , former school officials said on monday , the day set for a court hearing on the deportation .
turkey has accused the pakturk schools , set up in 1995 , of having links to turkish cleric fethullah gulen , or his hizmet movement , which president tayyip erdogan says was behind a failed coup attempt last year .
the chain of international schools and colleges denies such links but pakistan , where erdogan has made several state visits as the two countries forged close ties in recent years , ordered its turkish teachers to leave the country last november .
the schools remain open , run by pakistani staff .
mesut kacmaz , his wife and two daughters were flown out of pakistan after having being detained since september 20 in the eastern city of lahore , the former school officials said .
the daughters called us and said they had been deported today , and the father and mother were in ankara for interrogation and they believe they will be jailed afterwards , said one former school official , who asked not to be identified for fear of reprisals by pakistani authorities .
they were blindfolded and boarded an unmarked flight for istanbul in the morning , said former pakturk employee hasan huseyin , citing the telephone call by the daughters from turkey .
a pakistani court had ordered the government not to deport the kacmaz family until it had ruled on the case , whose next hearing had been scheduled for monday .
pakistan s interior ministry did not respond to requests for comment from reuters .
the turkish embassy could not immediately be reached for comment .
the deportation was confirmed by a pakistani government official who asked not to identified .
the turkish family was taken into custody by a team of security officials , the official added .
on saturday , they were deported to turkey from islamabad on a special plane sent by the turkish government .
more than 400 people were ordered to leave pakistan but were given protection by the united nations .
about 40 people fled at the time fearing prosecution , while the rest , including kacmaz s family , received asylum certificates until nov. 24 this year .
on october 13 , the certificates were renewed by the u.n. for an additional year , but the next day mesut s family was deported , the official said .
the turkish embassy in pakistan has refused to renew the passports of former pakturk employees living in the country , or issue documents for newborn children , he added .
pakturk educates more than 10,000 students in pakistan but has employed no turkish nationals since the south asian nation asked them to leave .