united nations ( reuters ) - a confidential draft united nations blacklist seen by reuters on tuesday names a saudi arabia-led military coalition for killing and maiming children in yemen , though it notes that the alliance has put in place measures to improve child protection .
in an effort to dampen controversy surrounding the annual children and armed conflict report , the draft blacklist - contained in an annex to the full report - is split into listed parties that have put in place measures during the reporting period to improve the protection of children and those which have not .
in yemen , the coalition s actions objectively led to the listing for the killing and maiming of children , with 683 child casualties attributed to this party , and , as a result of being responsible for 38 verified incidents , for attacks on schools and hospitals during 2016 , according to a draft explanation of the blacklist seen by reuters .
the coalition is included in section b of annex i , as it has put in place measures during the reporting period aimed at improving the protection of children , the draft said .
the draft u.n. annex blacklists the houthis , yemen government forces , pro-government militia and al qaeda in the arabian peninsula for violations against children in 2016 as it did in last year s report covering violations in 2015 .
the draft report has to be approved by u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres and is subject to change .
it is due to be submitted to the u.n. security council this month , and the 15-member body is to discuss the report on oct. 31 .
the saudi u.n. ambassador , abdallah al-mouallimi , declined to comment until the report is officially issued .
in august , the saudi u.n. mission said there was no justification whatsoever for including the coalition on the blacklist .
u.n. spokesman stephane dujarric said the united nations does not comment on leaked documents .
the coalition was briefly added to the blacklist last year and then removed by then-u.n. chief ban ki-moon pending review .
at the time , ban accused saudi arabia of exerting unacceptable undue pressure after sources told reuters that riyadh threatened to cut its u.n. funding .
saudi arabia denied threatening ban .
the report - produced by u.n. children and armed conflict envoy virginia gamba and issued in guterres name - does not subject those listed to any u.n. action , but rather shames parties to conflicts in the hope of pushing them to implement measures to protect children .
the saudi-led coalition began a military campaign in yemen in march 2015 with the aim of preventing iran-allied houthi rebels and forces loyal to yemen s ex-president ali abdullah saleh from taking power .
an earlier draft of the latest annual report , which covers 2016 and was seen by reuters in august , said that of the 683 child casualties blamed on the saudi-led coalition , about half of those were killed and the rest injured .
that earlier draft said the houthi rebels and affiliated forces were responsible for nearly a third of the total 1,340 child casualties verified by the united nations .
the annual children and armed conflict report is produced at the request of the u.n. security council .
in 2015 the united nations left israel and the palestinian militant group hamas off the blacklist , after they had been included in an earlier draft , but criticized israel over its 2014 military operations .
separately , the geneva-based u.n. human rights council agreed on friday to set up a panel to examine all alleged human rights violations committed in yemen s war and identify those responsible .
u.n. human rights chief zeid ra ad al-hussein had long-pleaded with the 47-member human rights council to launch an independent investigation into the war , which has killed thousands , ruined the economy and pushed millions to the brink of famine .