paris ( reuters ) - france demanded on wednesday an urgent u.n. security council session on human trafficking in libya and raised the possibility of sanctions on the country after a video appearing to show african migrants sold as slaves there sparked global outrage .
convened by italy , which struck a deal with libya to slash the number of migrants reaching its shores , the council on tuesday unanimously backed a resolution urging tougher action to crack down on human trafficking and modern slavery worldwide .
speaking to lawmakers , french foreign minister jean-yves le drian suggested paris wanted to take things further and called for an urgent session of the council to specifically discuss the situation in libya .
libyan authorities , who have been alerted several times , including by myself because i was there in september , have decided to open an investigation into the facts , le drian said .
we want it to go fast and if the libyan justice system can not carry this procedure through then we should open international sanctions , le drian said .
footage appearing to show african migrants sold as slaves in libya has sparked an international outcry with protests erupting across europe and africa , while artists to soccer stars to u.n. officials have made pleas for the abuse to end .
the video broadcast by cnn showed what it said was an auction of men offered to libyan buyers as farmhands and sold for $ 400 , a chilling echo of the trans-saharan slave trade of centuries past .
what has been revealed is indeed trafficking of human beings , it s a crime against humanity , macron said during a news conference with african union president alpha conde .
macron said he wanted the u.n. security council to discuss what concrete steps could be taken to tackle the issue .
a french diplomat said the u.n. session would likely be in coming days , probably next week , and would see what concrete measures could be taken to improve the situation .
despite events in libya , conde put the blame firmly on the european union , accusing it of encouraging the libyans to keep migrants in the north african country despite there being no government .
what happened in libya is shocking , scandalous , but we must establish the responsibilities , said conde .
in libya there is no government , so the european union can not choose a developing country and ask that country to detain refugees ( ... ) when it doesn t have the means to do so , he added .
the refugees are in terrible conditions ... so our european friends were not right to ask libya to keep the migrants .
the european union is responsible .
le drian said he wanted the international organization for migration and the u.n .
refugee agency to publish details about the trafficking of migrants in the country .
libya splintered along political , ideological and tribal lines during and after a 2011 nato-backed uprising that unseated former leader muammar gaddafi .
in 2014 a battle for the capital led to rival parliaments and governments being set up in tripoli and the east .