jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia s speaker of parliament was on friday named again as a suspect in a huge embezzlement case involving electronic identity cards that caused state losses of more than $ 170 million .
this is the second time the national corruption eradication commission ( kpk ) has named setya novanto a suspect in the case , after he used a controversial legal maneuver to get earlier charges dropped last month .
he is suspected of illegally enriching himself ... and causing state losses in the procurement of electronic id cards , kpk spokesman febri diansyah said in a statement .
we have new evidence , he said , declining to elaborate because authorities were still investigating .
a lawyer for novanto could not immediately be reached for comment .
novanto has previously denied wrongdoing .
the kpk has been investigating allegations that sums ranging from $ 5,000 to $ 5.5 million - money generated by marking up the costs of procuring the identity cards - were divided up among politicians in a room in parliament .
millions of indonesians have been left unable to get a proper identity card or have faced long delays as a result of the alleged embezzlement .
many have been issued pieces of paper in place of the cards .
novanto missed repeated kpk summons for questioning in recent months , saying he was ill and needed to undergo heart surgery .
memes and jokes about novanto went viral on indonesian social media , as netizens heaped scorn on what they saw as an attempt to escape accountability .
novanto has for years been dogged by allegations of corruption , but never been prosecuted .
in late 2015 , parliament s ethics committee launched a probe into allegations by a freeport indonesia executive that novanto had tried to extort $ 1.8 billion worth of shares from the local unit of the u.s. mining company .
novanto denied the allegations but stepped down temporarily .
he was reappointed as speaker a year later , after being cleared by the ethics panel .
indonesians widely perceive parliament to be one of their country s most corrupt institutions , transparency international says .
mps have consistently tried to curb some of the graft agency s investigative powers , but the kpk has remained independent and highly popular with the indonesian public .