thank you angela merkel german security service bfv reportedly received more than 100 tip-offs that isis militants had infiltrated the country among refugees , according to a recent report .
the news comes as massive nationwide anti-terror raids took place this week.the head of the german domestic intelligence service ( bfv ) , hans-georg maassen , told a gathering of politicians that the agency had received more than 100 warnings indicating there were islamic state ( is , formerly isis/isil ) militants staying in germany as refugees , newspaper berliner zeitung reported friday , without citing its sources.however , some cases of baseless defamation were among those tip-offs , maassen added , according to the newspaper.german security services have remained on high alert since the november terror attacks in paris which claimed the lives of more than 130 people.earlier this week , police and security agents all across germany were scrambled to search for suspects allegedly planning a terror attack in the country , with berlin seen as the most likely target .
well-known tourist attractions including alexanderplatz train station and the cold war-era checkpoint charlie could be among the targets of a possible attack , according to preliminary media reports.on thursday , a police special force unit raided four flats and two businesses in berlin , detaining four men accused of allegedly having ties to islamic state .
they were suspected of being involved in planning an attack , police spokesman martin redlich told rt.german spy chief warns of 1,000+ radical islamists ready to attack https : //t.co/vzn1xra2oa pic.twitter.com/blxxggxhkk rt ( @ rt_com ) december 13 , 2015one of the suspects , a 49-year-old algerian , was arrested in a three-bedroom flat in berlin s predominantly immigrant district of kreuzberg .
he was living there on a fake french passport , local media reported , and owned two shops nearby alexanderplatz and checkpoint charlie .
redlich could not confirm the landmarks were the targets , however.the spokesman said police had acted on a tip-off , but he provided no further details.similar raids also took place in the german regions of north rhine westphalia and lower saxony .
in berlin alone , 450 police officers were engaged in the operation , german media reported.the main suspect was a 35-year-old algerian man detained during thursday s raid in the town of attendorn .
said to be a possible leader of an is terrorist cell , he was also being sought by algerian authorities over allegations he is a member of the terrorist group.he entered germany in autumn 2015 , having traveled the so-called balkan route .
at that time , the 35-year-old was registered in bavaria as a refugee.both men had been monitored since the end of 2015 , after security services had received a tip-off they might be is infiltrators.another unnamed 26-year-old algerian , who also registered as a refugee and lived in a shelter in central hannover , is suspected by the police to be the cell s communication agent .
he is also thought to have possible ties to belgian islamists .
he has traveled to the molenbeek district of brussels , known for harboring jihadists , at least once in recent weeks .
abdelhamid abaaoud , the mastermind behind the november s paris attacks , was a molenbeek resident.germany took in over 1.1 million refugees in 2015 , and fifty-four percent of germans believe the terror threat in the country is on the rise because of the high number of incoming migrants , according to the latest spiegel poll .
via : rt