( this november 28 story has been corrected to clarify in headline , lead and third paragraph that the broadcasters will not promote the concerts , not that they had dropped plans to air the concerts ) berlin ( reuters ) - german public broadcasters have dropped plans to promote concerts next year by british ex-pink floyd frontman roger waters , citing what they call accusations of anti-semitism against him .
waters , part of one of the world s most critically acclaimed and commercially successful rock bands from 1965-85 before going solo , is a member of the palestinian-led boycott , divestment and sanctions movement ( bds ) that targets israel over its occupation of territories where palestinians seek statehood .
five state television and radio affiliates of the national ard network have said they will not promote concerts by the 74-year-old waters in berlin and cologne scheduled next summer in reaction to anti-semitism accusations against him , berlin and brandenburg public radio ( rbb ) said .
rbb , part of the ard network , said it wanted to send a message to other artists who , heeding the bds , refuse to perform in israel .
waters joined the movement in 2011 .
taking a clear position here is an important signal for rbb to the jewish communities in berlin and brandenburg , rbb director patricia schlesinger said in a statement .
the quick and decisive reaction by the broadcasters ... is an important signal that rampant anti-semitism against israel ` has no place in germany , said josef schuster , president of the central council of jews in germany .
marek lieberberg , waters tour director , said that german jews were right to be concerned about clearly visible and growing anti-semitism in germany - alluding to the far right s surge in recent german elections - but that the broadcasters decision was absolutely ridiculous .
lieberberg , the son of holocaust survivors , told the mannheimer morgen daily that while he rejected the bds , he separates personal opinions from work .
i can not and do not want to deny ( waters ) his right to freedom of opinion , he said .
israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu s right-wing government has long campaigned against the bds , describing it as anti-semitic and an attempt to erase israel s legitimacy .
the movement , launched in 2005 as a non-violent campaign to press israel to heed international law and end its occupation of territory held since a 1967 war , has gathered momentum in recent years even if its economic impact remains negligible .
germany has long sought to distance itself from the horrors of the nazi holocaust and become one of israel s closest allies .