moscow ( reuters ) - rosneft chief executive igor sechin again failed to show up as a witness at the bribery trial of a former russian economy minister on wednesday , prompting the judge to order him to appear next week .
sechin , boss of russia s biggest oil company and a close ally of president vladimir putin , had told the court he would be unavailable for the rest of the year .
he is a key witness in the trial of alexei ulyukayev , who was arrested last year after a late night meeting in sechin s office .
ulyukayev faces up to 15 years in prison , accused of accepting $ 2 million from sechin in return for approving the sale of a state-controlled oil company to rosneft .
police detained him inside rosneft headquarters shortly after sechin handed him the cash .
ulyukayev denies the accusations and says he was framed by sechin .
his lawyers say their client can not testify in court prior to sechin s testimony as a witness .
all of us are here thanks to witness sechin , ulyukayev s lawyer timofei gridnev told the court after sechin failed to appear on wednesday .
gridnev said it was the third time sechin had ignored a summons to appear .
judge larisa semyonova read out a letter from sechin s lawyers saying he would be unable to attend for the rest of the year due to his tight schedule , but she nevertheless summoned him for next monday .
rosneft made clear later on wednesday that chances its boss would appear in court on monday were rather slim .
this hunt for sechin discredits the court .
sechin is not the accused one , rosneft spokesman mikhail leontyev told reuters .
all this shouting of sechin s name in court and these dates are trash .
before his arrest , ulyukayev was one of the leading figures in a faction of economic liberals who argued for less state control over the economy .
sechin is widely seen as the main champion of the opposite view , that the state should consolidate its grip , particularly over the energy sector that provides a large share of russia s state revenue through its two biggest companies , rosneft and gazprom .
ulyukayev had opposed last year s sale of the medium-sized oil company bashneft to rosneft .
but prosecutors say he signed off on the deal and then took the cash from sechin .
sechin missed wednesday s hearings because he is on a business trip to western siberia , where on tuesday he attended the opening of a new rosneft oil field .
on wednesday , he met a regional governor and chaired a meeting with rosneft s management in the siberian city of khanty-mansiisk , rosneft said .