london ( reuters ) - britain s prince harry is engaged to his u.s. actress girlfriend meghan markle with the marriage due to take place in the spring of 2018 , his father prince charles announced in a statement on monday .
here are some reactions to the engagement : prince harry , on how he feels thrilled .
over the moon when did i know she was the one ?
the very first time we met .
meghan markle , on how she feels so happy queen elizabeth ii the queen and the duke of edinburgh are delighted for the couple and wish them every happiness .
prince charles on a trip to poundbury , in southwest england we re thrilled .
we re both thrilled .
we hope they ll be very happy indeed .
the duke and duchess of cambridge , william and kate we are very excited for harry and meghan .
it has been wonderful getting to know meghan and to see how happy she and harry are together .
british prime minister theresa may i would like to offer my very warmest congratulations to hrh prince harry and meghan markle upon their engagement .
this is a time of huge celebration for two people in love and , on behalf of myself , the government and the country , i wish them great happiness for the future .
archbishop of canterbury justin welby i am absolutely delighted to hear the news that prince harry and meghan markle are now engaged .
i have met prince harry on a number of occasions and have always been struck by his commitment and passion for his charities , and his immense love for his family .
i am so happy that prince harry and ms markle have chosen to make their vows before god .
former british prime minister david cameron congratulations to prince harry and meghan markle .
wonderful news and i wish them a long and happy life together .
pressure group republic what is happy news for the royal couple is going to turn into another royal pr exercise , helped along by a widespread failure of good journalism .
the royals have lots of hard questions to answer , about misuse of public funds , inappropriate lobbying and abuse of privilege .
they re on the public payroll to do a public service , they need to be treated as we treat politicians .