manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte on wednesday vowed to file an impeachment complaint against the head of the country s anti-graft body after she launched an inquiry into allegations that he has billions of pesos in undeclared funds in bank accounts .
the firebrand leader said he also wanted the chief justice of the supreme court removed because she allowed herself to be used as a tool by his political opponents , who are conspiring to unseat him .
we will file an impeachment case against her , duterte told reporters , referring to conchita carpio-morales , who heads the office of the ombudsman , the government s anti-graft agency .
i would tend to believe she was part of the conspiracy .
duterte was angered when the agency confirmed last month it was examining allegations that he failed to disclose the full extent of his wealth in a mandatory asset declaration when he was mayor of a southern city prior to becoming president .
in the end , they will discover , to their sorrow , there is no such amount , he said , challenging carpio-morales and supreme court chief justice maria lourdes sereno to join him in making public their own bank accounts and resigning from office .
he said sereno did not disclose government earnings of 30 million pesos ( $ 588,000 ) for serving as a private lawyer in an airport arbitration case .
sereno already faces a pending impeachment case in congress .
sereno made no immediate comment , but her lawyers said they were ready to answer the complaint and prove she had not committed an impeachable offense .
an impeachment complaint against carpio-morales , who is the aunt of duterte s son-in-law , would be based on accusations of selective justice and the use of falsified documents , the president added .
carpio-morales office did not respond to telephone calls from reuters to seek comment .
in an earlier statement , her office had said , this office shall not be intimidated .
we will nonetheless proceed with the probe as mandated by the constitution .
in the philippines , the president , vice president , supreme court judges , heads of constitutional agencies and the ombudsman can only be removed through impeachment on the basis of high crimes such as treason , bribery , corruption , betrayal of public trust and constitutional violations .
duterte said the two women had conspired with members of the liberal party and with his critic , senator antonio trillanes , who supplied the ombudsman with what he called illegally-acquired and stolen bank records .
in an interview with reporters , trillanes denied the president s latest allegations .
for me , mr duterte , do not avoid the issue of hidden wealth with this malicious allegation , he added .
the liberal party made no immediate comment when contacted by reuters .