amman ( reuters ) - jordan said on monday it was working with russia to roll out a plan to end fighting in southwestern syria in the fastest possible time - part of a peace pact for the border area brokered by amman , moscow and washington .
jordan and russia s foreign ministers met in amman to discuss progress in setting up a de-escalation zone in the particularly sensitive region that includes syrian territory neighboring israel .
neither side gave details on any sticking points , but diplomats told reuters they have included the final positions of fighting forces , u.s. unease about russian involvement in policing the deal , and when to reopen a key border crossing .
russia , which backs syria s government in the civil war , and the united states , which backs rebel forces seeking to topple president bashar al-assad , met secretly in jordan in june and announced a ceasefire in syria s southwest a month later .
the truce - the first peacemaking effort in the war by the u.s. government under president donald trump - has reduced fighting there and is meant to lead to a longer-lasting de-escalation , a step toward a full settlement more than six years into the complex war .
we expressed our support to resolve all issues relating to the de-escalation zones performance , russian foreign minister sergei lavrov told reporters in amman .
the goal is to set up a de-escalation zone in the fastest possible time , his jordanian counterpart ayman safadi said .
our priority is that our borders are secure and that means that there should be no daesh nor nusra nor sectarian militias , safadi added , referring to islamic state and a rebel force once linked to al qaeda , both operating in syria .
an official and two senior diplomats told reuters the powers have made progress in drawing up a map of the de-escalation zone , including quneitra province bordering israel , alongside the southern deraa province adjoining jordan .
the official and diplomats said washington had also secured an understanding with moscow that militias backed by the syrian government s ally iran must be pushed 40 km ( 25 miles ) from the border .
that might help allay israeli and jordanian concerns about the presence of lebanon s iran-backed hezbollah group in the area .
diplomats said lavrov also pressed jordan to re-open its nasib border crossing with syria , something amman has so far resisted , saying it needs more security .
but it has strongly backed the broader de-escalation deal , seeing it as paving the way for an eventual return of tens of thousands of refugees in its territory .
rebels say the ceasefire remains fragile and fear syria s army will return to attack them once it has consolidated gains in the north and other areas .
insurgents say the de-escalation zones merely free up syria s army to make territorial gains elsewhere .
syria s army , supported by russian air power and iranian-backed militias , has in recent weeks gained a string of post along the border with jordan in southeastern syria , a zone that is outside the ceasefire area .