yada , yada , yada hillary clinton announced her 2016 presidential bid in a two-minute video that she uploaded to youtube .
is everyone else as 100 % fed up !
with the hillary 2016 push from the main stream media ?
yep , i thought so but this is awesome and you should participate on twitter : within minutes of her announcement , twitter blew up with the following hashtag : # whyimnotvotingforhillary .
it quickly became the number one trending hashtag.in honor of this awesome hashtag , here is a list of some of the best reasons why americans are choosing to not vote for hillary clinton : america should not be run by crooks .
she hasn t cared about the middle class in 70 years .
she s starting now ? ? ? ?
i support women !
that includes the unborn in the womb .
i won t support anyone that supports planned parenthood .
when terrorists murdered a us ambassador and 3 other americans , her response was , what difference does it make ?
she takes money from countries that execute homosexuals and oppress women .
she couldn t satisfy her husband how is she going to satisfy a whole country ?
ambassador j. christopher stevens , sean smith , tyrone woods , and glen doherty .
because she s morally bankrupt !
judge jeanine : hillary clinton is only out for herself .
she is the poster child for what s wrong with our government .
she is a criminal .
she is a liar .
she has accomplished nothing .
i don t believe in socialism .
the left believes in the supremacy of govt over the individual .
do you want tyranny or liberty ?
i don t believe in political dynasties .
because god must be ignored to adopt her ends justifies the means ideology .
she is bill and obama but without the charm .
enough is too much already .
corruption , incompetence , dishonesty , elitism just a few reasons .
as a hispanic , black woman i feel insulted by dems who feel my needs are only abortion , immigration and racism .
because her greatest accomplishment has been accomplishing nothing worthy of our votes .
i ve taken european history .
i know the dangers of a socialist leader .
because she s worse than caligula .
worse than the oakland raiders .
worse than obamacare .
almost as bad as cancer .
boo yah ! please feel free to join in on the trend and issue your own # whyimnotvotingforhillary tweet ! via : down trend