moscow ( reuters ) - the u.s. decision to supply weapons to ukraine is dangerous as it will encourage kiev to use force in eastern ukraine , russian officials said on saturday .
the u.s. state department said on friday the united states would provide ukraine with enhanced defensive capabilities as kiev battles russian-backed separatists in the eastern part of the country .
u.s. officials , speaking on the condition of anonymity , said the weapons included javelin anti-tank missiles .
washington has argued in the past that such weapons would help stabilize the situation and can not effectively be used to take territory .
ukrainian president petro poroshenko said on facebook on saturday the weapons would be used to protect ukrainian soldiers and civilians .
supplies of any weapons now encourage those who support the conflict in ukraine to use the force scenario , russia s ria state news agency cited deputy foreign minister grigory karasin as saying on saturday .
franz klintsevich , a member of the upper house of the russian parliament s security committee , said kiev would consider arms supplies as support of its actions , interfax news agency reported .
americans , in fact , directly push ukrainian forces to war , klintsevich said .
since moscow s annexation of crimea in 2014 , ukraine and russia have been at loggerheads over a war in eastern ukraine between pro-russian separatists and ukrainian government forces that has killed more than 10,000 people in three years .
poroshenko said in his facebook post that he had confirmed the weapons deal with u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson , calling it a transatlantic vaccination against the russian virus of aggression .
american weapons in the hands of ukrainian soldiers are not for offensive , but for stronger rebuff of the aggressor , protection of ukrainian soldiers and civilians , as well as for effective self-defense in accordance with article 51 of the un charter , poroshenko said .
kiev accuses moscow of sending troops and heavy weapons to the region , which russia denies .
the russian foreign ministry said the u.s. decision once again undermines the minsk agreements , tass state news agency reported on saturday .
the agreements , intended to end the fighting in ukraine , were signed by ukraine , russia , germany and france in the belarussian capital in early 2015 .