is it simply pandering for votes , or is it possible democrat congresswoman maxine waters is really just a complete ignoramus ?
how much longer will america have to put up with the crazy antics of maxine waters and nancy pelosi ?
will either of these women ever retire or more importantly , will their constituents ever tire of them ?
many of the radical remarks made by waters and pelosi went under the radar because we had such a horrible president that he over-shadowed the left-wing nut-jobs california elected to represent them in congress it s not hard to prove that sharia law is such a far-fetched idea when you see videos like the one below where democrat congresswoman maxine waters , while speaking to the islamic society of orange county , ca at a town hall meeting in 2012 , condemned republicans in front of a muslim audience for trying to make it unlawful for sharia law to be enforced in america .
and that s supposed to be a bad thing ?
maxine waters stood before the muslim brotherhood & openly defended & advocated for sharia law .
one word : demented !
pic.twitter.com/665dfp4q21 kevin w. ( @ kwilli1046 ) april 16 , 2017as for the claim of strategy , one need only look to the goals of the muslim brotherhood to determine whether this is a strategy or a conspiracy theory .
i ll go with what the muslim brotherhood has written concerning this issue .
mrs .
waters is either ignorant ( without excuse ) or she is complicit .
in either case , this woman is not fit to hold office.she then declared that , at the time , at least thirteen states were looking to adopt legislation forbidding sharia .
what is wrong with that ?
we have a us constitution .
that s the law in the us .
each state has a constitution and as far as i know , not one of them is sharia compliant .
but what happens when states try and push forward this legislation ?
you guessed it , the islamists and their socialist and communist friends come out of the woodwork to try and beat it down .
just look at oklahoma , where the federal government tried to force them to overturn anti-sharia law and to pay islamists $ 303,333 ! after speaking about newt gingrich s call for sharia not to be recognized by any court in the united states , she smugly declared that she doesn t mind calling names and telling it like it is , but you will find absolutely no mention in her pre-written speech about the muslim brotherhood s goals , will you ? in fact , the very document i reference speaks of : hmmm , global islamic state , eh ?
i m pretty sure barack obama knew about these goals before his speech the other night when he deceptively declared that the islamic state was neither islamic nor a state .
but i digress.islam means to change the very culture you live in and the laws you live under america .
if you have any doubts , understand that a current imam at the islamic society of orange county and former president of the islamic society of north america , muzammil h. siddiqi , issued this fatwa on islamonline.net ( the link has now dead , but did find it in the web archives here ) .-infowarshere is an excerpt from that document : it is true that islam stands for the sovereignty of allah the almighty and allah s rules are not limited to the acts of worship , they also include social , economic and political matters .
by participating in a non-islamic system , one can not rule by that which allah has commanded .
but things do not change overnight .
changes come through patience , wisdom and hard work.i believe that as muslims , we should participate in the system to safeguard our interests and try to bring gradual change for the right cause , the cause of truth and justice .
we must not forget that allah s rules have to be established in all lands , and all our efforts should lead to that direction .