johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa s ruling african national congress elects a new party leader to succeed president jacob zuma at a conference starting on saturday .
the winner will be favorite to become president of the country after a 2019 national election .
below are the main anc leadership hopefuls .
nkosazana dlamini-zuma and cyril ramaphosa are the two front runners .
nkosazana dlamini-zuma the former minister and chairwoman of the african union commission has served in the cabinets of every south african president in the post-apartheid era .
dlamini-zuma was married to president zuma for over a decade and has four children with him .
she is backed by the anc s influential women s and youth leagues , as well as by zuma and provincial party leaders close to him .
for a profile of dlamini-zuma , see .
the deputy president and former trade union leader is one of south africa s richest people .
ramaphosa played an important role in the negotiations to end apartheid and in the drafting of south africa s progressive 1996 constitution .
he is supported by a diverse group of labour unions , communists and anc members disillusioned with zuma .
for a profile of ramaphosa , see .
the anc s treasurer general is one of the ruling party s top six senior leaders .
a medical doctor by training , mkhize also served as a party boss in the kwazulu-natal province , from where zuma and dlamini-zuma hail .
some analysts see mkhize as a compromise candidate for anc leader who could reconcile the opposing factions supporting dlamini-zuma and ramaphosa .
for a reuters interview with mkhize , see : .
the human settlements minister is the daughter of anti-apartheid activist walter sisulu , a close friend of nelson mandela .
sisulu says ramaphosa approached her to be his running mate but she turned down the offer .
the minister in the presidency has also held senior cabinet positions including public enterprises minister .
he served in underground structures of the anc during white minority rule and was imprisoned on robben island , where the apartheid government kept political prisoners .
the former premier of the mpumalanga province has also worked as the anc s treasurer general .
phosa has demanded that nominations for anc leader in mpumalanga be re-run , as he says he has proof that party members were told how to vote .
mpumalanga s current premier is a zuma loyalist , david mabuza , who is viewed by some as a kingmaker in the anc race .
the speaker of south africa s lower house of parliament also briefly served as deputy president .
she has said she has held talks with other leadership hopefuls to discuss the possibility of working together .