this story gets more and more unbelievable every day the epa has a record of releasing toxic runoff from mines in two tiny colorado towns that dates to 2005 , a local mine owner claims.the 3-million-gallon heavy-metal spill two weeks ago in silverton polluted three states and touched off national outrage .
but the epa escaped public wrath in 2005 when it secretly dumped up to 15,000 tons of poisonous waste into another mine 124 miles away .
that dump containing arsenic , lead and other materials materialized in runoff in the town of leadville , said todd hennis , who owns both mines along with numerous others .
if a private company had done this , they would ve been fined out of existence , hennis said .
i have been battling the epa for 10 years and they have done nothing but create pollution .
about 20 percent ( of silverton residents ) think it s on purpose so they can declare the whole area a superfund site .
like silverton to the south , leadville was founded in the late 1800s as a mining town and is the only municipality in its county .
today , tourism is its livelihood.it s against this backdrop that the environmental protection agency began lobbying to declare part of leadville a superfund site in order to develop a recreational area called the mineral belt trail .
the project was officially completed in 2000 , but apparently the agency stayed on and continued to work in town.in late 2005 , the epa collected tons of sludge from two leadville mines and secretly dumped it down the shaft of the new mikado mine without notifying hennis , its owner , according to documents reviewed by watchdog.a drainage tunnel had been installed at the bottom of the mine shaft by the u.s. government in 1942 , meaning that any snow or rain would leach toxins into the surrounding land.hennis said the epa claims it has installed a treatment pond near the tunnel to clean runoff .
the epa rebuffed his demands to clean up the mess it created in his mine , he said .
in frustration , hennis sent the county sheriff a certified notice that any epa officials found near his property were trespassing and should be arrested.despite that history of bitterness , in 2010 , the epa asked hennis to grant its agents access to gold king mine in silverton because the agency was investigating hazardous runoff from other mines in the region .
i said , no , i don t want you on my land out of fear that you will create additional pollution like you did in leadville , hennis said .
the official request turned into a threat , hennis said : they said , if you don t give us access within four days , we will fine you $ 35,000 a day .
an epa administrative order dated may 12 , 2011 said its inspectors wanted to conduct drilling of holes and installing monitoring wells , sampling and monitoring water , soil , and mine waste material from mine water rock dumps as necessary to evaluate releases of hazardous substances when the epa hit hennis with $ 300,000 in fines , he said , he waved the white flag and allowed the agency on his property.so for the past four years , the epa has been working at the mine and two others nearby all which border a creek that funnels into the animas river .
one mine to the north had been walled off with cement by its owner but it continued to leak water into gold king .
the epa installed a drainage ditch on the gold king side of the mine to alleviate the problem , but then accidentally filled the ditch with dirt and rocks last summer while building a water-retention wall.that was the wall that burst when a contractor punched a hole in the top on aug. 5 , sending a bright orange stream cascading down .
the epa looked like the keystone kops as anger intensified in the media and general public : 24 hours passed with no notification to the lower states or navajo nation ; the white house ignored mentioning the incident ; and it took a week for the epa administrator to tour durango downstream , while refusing to visit silverton itself.the epa says cleaning ponds have been installed to leach toxins from the water , and claims that anything released now is actually cleaner than before the spill occurred .
the fallout from this disaster in the lower states is still unknown.also unknown is the fate of silverton itself .
for months , the epa has been pushing town leaders into allowing designation as a superfund site out of belief that the whole town is contaminated .
this is something the town has resisted , as its reputation is at stake and no current tests have shown any evidence of toxic soil levels .
whenever we hear the word epa , we think of superfund , said silverton town board trustee david zanoni .
they say , we want to work together .
that s b.s .
they want to come in and take over .
the water up here is naturally filled with minerals .
they don t need to be here cleaning up .
if the epa s litany of mistakes at gold king mine is a barometer , zanoni said , handing over the reins of silverton would be a disaster .
they had no contingency plan in case all of this went to hell , he said.the epa could not be reached for comment.via : watchdog.org