no threats of beheadings have been made yet oh wait those types of threats only come from the religion of peace there won t be any criticisms of this piece of art created specifically to mock the belief that catholics hold about contraception by the mainstream media .
no one will accuse this artist of asking for trouble or inciting hate or violence .
catholics will just be expected to suck it up and deal with it after all , it s just art and unlike pamela gellar , her freedom of speech and expression rights are protected under our constitution.milwaukee art museum is getting complaints from the milwaukee archbishop , members of the public , and even some of its donors over its plans to display a huge portrait of pope emeritus benedict xvi .
this piece is made out of 17,000 nonlubricated condoms , artist niki johnson recently told witi television in milwaukee .
what i did was inter-stuffed them and folded them in order to create this tonal range .
the portrait , titled eggs benedict , measures almost seven feet high and five feet wide , and it can be viewed from both the front and the back : when you come to the back , you see the condoms themselves , johnson noted.johnson told the witi she decided to make the latex mosaic after pope benedict s visit to africa in 2009 .
benedict said condoms would not resolve the aids epidemic : on the contrary , it increases the problem , he said at the time .
and i was just dumbfounded , johnson said .
i mean , i couldn t make any sense of that statement .
and so i figured i needed to do something .
milwaukee archbishop jerome listecki says the museum s decision to display the piece is insulting and callous , the associated press reported .
some patrons have dropped their membership , and at least one donor has ended financial support of the not-for-profit museum .
this was never intended to be derisive , mocking or disrespectful of the pope , the milwaukee journal sentinel quoted museum board of trustees president don layden as saying .
it was to have a conversation about aids and aids education .
and my hope is when the piece appears in the museum that will be the focus of the discussion .
the museum announced the acquisition of the piece earlier this month .
but it won t go on display until this fall because the museum s permanent collection galleries are currently closed for renovation.the $ 31-million renovation project is being done in partnership with milwaukee county , which committed $ 10 million to repair and restore two of the museum s buildings.membership is the primary source of revenue for the museum.via : cns news