istanbul ( reuters ) - thirty journalists and newspaper executives from a turkish newspaper which was shut down last year went on trial on monday , facing life sentences over charges that they had links to a failed coup attempt .
the former employees of the zaman newspaper are charged with membership of an armed terror organization and attempting to overthrow the government , parliament and the constitutional order through their links to cleric fethullah gulen .
zaman was affiliated with gulen , the u.s.-based cleric and former ally of president tayyip erdogan .
gulen is blamed by ankara for instigating the failed july 2016 coup , but denies any involvement .
zaman was first seized by the turkish government in march 2016 , months before the coup attempt , and then closed down by a government decree .
twenty-two of the suspects have been in pre-trial detention for months , including 73-year-old columnist sahin alpay .
if it had ever crossed my mind that the gulenist movement would take a role in a coup attempt , i would never have written a column in the zaman newspaper , dogan news agency quoted alpay as saying .
the indictment calls for three consecutive life sentences for the zaman staff on charges of attempting to overthrow the constitutional order , the turkish parliament and the turkish government , and says the newspaper had exceeded the limits of press freedom and freedom of expression .
i accept that this is an armed terrorist organization , but i was never a member of it , columnist ali bulac told the court in silivri , the site of a large prison about 60 km ( 40 miles ) west of the city .
he had not paid close attention to the gulenist movement s activities , he said .
i missed the hole in the ground when i was watching the stars .
but who did see it ? , bulac said , adding the group s operations were perceived to be legal during the time he worked for zaman .
turkey s justice ministry announced in july that more than 50,000 people had been arrested and 169,013 have been the subject of legal proceedings since the coup attempt .
the scale of the crackdown has drawn criticism from turkey s western allies and led german chancellor angela merkel to call for ankara s european union accession talks to be called off .
turkey says the sweeping response to the coup reflects the deep security challenges the country has faced .
rights groups say more than 160 journalists are detained in turkey , making it the world s biggest jailer of journalists .
the hearing will continue this week .