manila ( reuters ) - more than a thousand people attended a funeral procession on saturday for a philippine teenager slain by police last week , turning the march into one of the biggest protests yet against president rodrigo duterte s deadly war on drugs .
the death of kian loyd delos santos has drawn widespread attention to allegations that police have been systematically executing suspected users and dealers - a charge the authorities deny .
nuns , priests and hundreds of children , chanting justice for kian , justice for all joined the funeral cortege as it made its way from a church to the cemetery where the 17-year-old was buried .
delos santos father , saldy , spoke briefly during a mass to defend his son s innocence and express anger over the police .
don t they have a heart ?
i m not sure they do .
there s a lot of churches , they should go there , he said , his voice cracking with emotion .
delos santos was dragged by plain-clothes policemen to a dark , trash-filled alley in northern manila , before he was shot in the head and left next to a pigsty , according to witnesses whose accounts appeared to be backed up by cctv footage .
police say they acted in self defense after delos santos opened fire on them .
the parents and lawyers of delos santos filed a murder complaint against the three anti-narcotics policemen on friday .
if accepted , the complaint would follow at least two cases filed last year against police over duterte s war on drugs , which has killed thousands of filipinos , outraged human rights groups and alarmed western governments .
delos santos flower-draped coffin passed through a major highway on a small truck decorated with tarpaulins reading run , kian , run and stop the killings displayed on each side .
passing motorists honked in support .
this is a sign that the people have had enough and are indignant over the impunity that prevails today , renato reyes , secretary general of left-wing activist group bayan ( nation ) , said in a statement .
the people protest the utter lack of accountability in the police force .
mourners , some of them wearing white shirts , held flowers and small flags , and placards denouncing the killing .
a member of rise up , a manila-based coalition of church-related groups opposing the drug war , told reuters that families of about 20 victims joined the procession .
i came to support the family .
i want justice for kian and all victims - including my son , said katherine david , 35 , whose 21-year-old son was shot dead by police with two other men in january .
department of justice personnel armed with assault rifles were on guard during the procession and outside the church .
most people in the philippines support the anti-drug campaign , and duterte remains a popular leader but questions have begun to be asked since the death of delos santos , which came during a spike in killings across the philippines main island , luzon , last week .
( graphic : tmsnrt.rs/2ixnyfu ) the president s communication office reiterated on saturday he will not tolerate wrongdoing by law enforcers and called on the public to trust the justice system under the duterte presidency .
but bereaved mother david believes the response to kian s killing marks a turning point in opposition to the drug war .
there s been a big change .
before , police could kill and nobody paid attention .
now people are starting to show support and sympathy , she said .