washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. government might not have enough money to pay all its bills on oct. 2 if washington does not raise a cap on federal borrowing , a respected think tank said in a report on thursday .
the treasury might not have enough money on that day to make a roughly $ 80 billion payment that will be due to a military retirement fund , according to the bipartisan policy center .
coming up short on cash on oct. 2 could also lead the government to delay payments due that day on social security benefits and military pay , the bpc said .
the report highlights the urgency facing the trump administration to work with congress to raise the federal government ’ s $ 19.8 trillion cap on borrowing .
missing payments could trigger financial turmoil and hit the u.s. economy , possibly triggering a recession .
a credit agency has warned that america ’ s credit rating is at risk .
“ october 2 is a particularly difficult day for federal finances , ” said the bipartisan policy center , which is considered an expert in projecting fiscal deadlines .
losing the ability to borrow any more on oct. 2 would mean approximately 23 percent of funds owed by the government that month would go unpaid , dealing an immediate blow to the u.s. economy , the bpc said .
washington has been scraping against its debt ceiling since march , putting off payments into a few government funds so it can keep borrowing from investors and making debt payments .
the bpc noted there was “ substantial uncertainty ” in knowing just when washington could stop being able to pay all its bills .
it projects that date could fall between oct. 2 and the middle of the month .
treasury secretary steve mnuchin told lawmakers in july they needed to raise the debt limit by sept 29 .
president donald trump on thursday described efforts to raise the limit as a “ mess. ” republicans control the white house and both houses of the u.s. congress .
washington has put itself through debt-limit crises several times in recent decades .
in the run-up to a 2011 crisis , the treasury looked at a range of options , including prioritizing payments , which would mean making debt securities payments at the expense of other obligations .
former treasury secretary jack lew said in 2013 that attempting to prioritize might trigger chaos .
mnuchin told lawmakers on july 27 he had no intent to prioritize payments and that doing so “ doesn ’ t make sense . ”