obama promised to keep his sotu speech short but he couldn t even keep that promise .
for anyone who watched it , it went on and on it was full of fairy tales about pretty much everything .
so what s new , right ?
obama s been able to lie his way through his entire presidency so why not in his last sotu speech .
we think this list of lies by joel pollack of breitbart news is pretty dead on:1 .
we ve done all this while cutting our deficits by almost three-quarters .
this is pure fiction .
obama has doubled the national debt , and it s not because he cut the deficit .
rather , he spent staggering amounts of money in his first months in office which he assigns , dishonestly , to the previous fiscal year , under george w. bush .
he cut ( i.e .
spent more gradually ) from that spending , but only under protest , after republicans took the house in 2010.2 .
anyone claiming that america s economy is in decline is peddling fiction .
with that line , obama took a shot at his would-be democratic successors , as well as his republican critics .
but the truth is that despite the slow recovery the slowest since world war ii labor force participation is the lowest it has been in decades .
wages are stagnant , household incomes still have not recovered from the recession , and young people see ableak future.3 .
that s what the affordable care act is all about .
it s about filling the gaps in employer-based care so that when we lose a job , or go back to school , or start that new business , we ll still have coverage .
that is a cruel joke , given that obamacare canceled insurance coverage for millions of americans who did not change jobs .
it also raised deductibles and premiums so high that many insurance companies are leaving the obama exchanges totally.4 .
food stamp recipients didn t cause the financial crisis ; recklessness on wall street did .
actually , food stamp recipients , metaphorically speaking , were indirectly responsible as well as wall street sharks .
obama leaves out the government s role , under the community reinvestment act , in pushing mortgages on people who could not afford them , and in backing the derivatives based on those mortgages that ultimately burst the whole bubble.5 .
we ve protected an open internet .
obama s policy of net neutrality has turned internet service providers into public utilities under an ancient regulatory regime .
the result has been a sharp decline in broadband investment and a much less free and open system .
in addition , the obama administration is rushing to shift control of icann to the international community , which will ensure that the internet is less free , and subject to overseas censorship.6 .
seven years ago , we made the single biggest investment in clean energy in our history .
here are the results .
it is laughable that obama would claim his failed clean energy spending think solyndra led to the fracking-fed energy boom we have enjoyed for the past several years , especially when the administration did all it could to stop oil and gas development .
he also nixed the keystone pipeline and started a plan to kill coal plants.7 .
no nation dares to attack us or our allies because they know that s the path to ruin .
of all the lies in obama s speech , this was undoubtedly the worst , coming hours after iran seized two u.s. navy boats and ten sailors .
obama did not even mention those americans in captivity at any point in his speech , declining the chance to reassure the nation that they would come home safely .
it is an omission that will define this address in history.8 .
as someone who begins every day with an intelligence briefing , i know this is a dangerous time .
obama does not attend most of his daily intelligence briefings , preferring instead to read intelligence reports so he claims on his ipad , a stark contrast to the attentive approach of his predecessor .
late last year , even as obama claimed that there was little risk from attack , radical islamic terrorists carried out brutal attacks in paris and in san bernardino.9 .
we are training , arming , and supporting forces who are steadily reclaiming territory in iraq and syria [ from islamic state ] .
the obama administration s attempt to train and arm syrian rebels has been a disaster .
belatedly , the administration has helped kurdish peshmerga forces , and the iraqi military has made gains lately , but obama has not made a serious effort to defeat the islamic state , and is even giving up on regime change in syria.10 .
fifty years of isolating cuba had failed to promote democracy , setting us back in latin america .
and a year of appeasement has not promoted democracy , either .
the castros remain firmly in power , and we are not helping the opposition .
worse , the cuban regime continues to arrest thousands of political dissidents , to cozy up to enemies like iran and north korea , and to carry out provocative acts such as stealing a u.s. hellfire missile.read more : breitbart news