mexico city ( reuters ) - mexicans positive image of the united states has fallen to its lowest level since at least 2002 , with about two-thirds of people viewing the country led by president donald trump unfavorably , according to a poll released on thursday .
the u.s.-based pew research center s findings reveal a drastic about-face in mexicans views of their northern neighbor .
in 2015 , 66 percent had a positive view of the united states .
by 2017 , 65 percent of people disapproved of the world s top economy , pew said .
unsurprisingly , few mexicans approve of trump s proposed border wall , with 94 percent of people opposing it .
but mexicans also fret about trump s international footprint .
only 5 percent have confidence in him to do the right thing regarding world affairs , trump s lowest rating among 37 nations polled in 2017 , according to the poll .
the survey is also grim reading for mexican president enrique pena nieto , his ruling institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) and the rest of mexico s political class , less than a year before voters pick a new president in july .
mexicans favorable view of pena nieto has steadily fallen since pew began measuring it in 2011 , dropping from 61 percent six years ago to his current level of 28 percent .
an often-large majority disapproves of how pena nieto has handled issues like the economy , graft , crime and u.s. relations , pew said .
the pri was the most unfavorably viewed of the parties polled by pew , with the conservative national action party enjoying the most positive views , albeit with relatively high negative perceptions .
the leftist national regeneration movement ( morena ) , led by current presidential front-runner andres manuel lopez obrador , was the second most positively viewed party , and also the least badly perceived .
the vast majority - 85 percent - of mexicans are unhappy with the way things are going in their country .
seventy percent of mexicans believe the economy is going badly , with 35 percent saying the economy is going very badly .
mexicans main concerns are crime , political graft and drug violence , pew found .
anxieties over those three issues had all risen compared with the finding in 2015 .
although mexicans harbor increasingly negative views of the united states , 55 percent said those that move north enjoy a better life , up from 2015 .
however , only 13 percent of people said they would live and work in the united states illegally , down from 20 percent in 2015 .
the survey was based on 1,000 face-to-face interviews in mexico between march 2 and april 17 , with a margin of error of 4.4 percent .