vienna ( reuters ) - the united states would badly like to lift sanctions against russia but will not do so until moscow has pulled its forces out of eastern ukraine and crimea , secretary of state rex tillerson said on thursday , calling that the main obstacle to normal ties .
tillerson is on a visit to europe during which he has reassured allies with tougher rhetoric against moscow than that of u.s. president donald trump , who has sought better relations with russian president vladimir putin .
speaking at a meeting of the organization for security and cooperation in europe ( osce ) , also attended by his russian counterpart , tillerson said moscow was to blame for increased violence in eastern ukraine and that had to stop .
we ve made this clear to russia from the very beginning , that we must address ukraine , tillerson told a news conference with his austrian counterpart sebastian kurz .
it stands as the single most difficult obstacle to us renormalizing the relationship with russia , which we badly would like to do .
on wednesday , tillerson met nato foreign ministers and criticized russia for the mix of state-sponsored computer hacks and internet disinformation campaigns that nato allies intelligence agencies say is targeted at the west .
the conflict between ukrainian forces and russian-backed separatists in eastern ukraine has claimed more than 10,000 lives since it erupted in 2014 .
russia denies accusations that it fomented the conflict and provided arms and fighters .
russian foreign minister sergei lavrov told the osce conference that all the responsibility is with ukraine as far as violence in the east was concerned .
in his speech to the gathering , tillerson went even further in spelling out russia s involvement in the conflict and the consequences it faced than he had the day before in brussels .
we should be clear about the source of this violence , tillerson said , referring to increasing ceasefire violations recorded by osce monitors in eastern ukraine .
russia is arming , leading , training and fighting alongside anti-government forces .
we call on russia and its proxies to end its harassment , intimidation and its attacks on the osce special monitoring mission .
while both sides have called for a u.n. peacekeeping force in eastern ukraine , they disagree on the terms of its deployment , and there was little sign of concrete progress at thursday s meeting .
we will continue to work with russia to see if we could not agree a peacekeeping force that could enter ukraine ( and ) reduce the violence , tillerson told the news conference .
he and lavrov met on the sidelines of the conference , though both ignored reporters questions when the meeting began .
asked later what commitments he had received at the meeting , tillerson said : i m not going to tell you specifically what we get .
we get progress , that s what we get .
we get dialogue , we get cooperation , we don t have it solved .
you don t solve it in one meeting .
in his speech , he referred to the 2015 minsk ceasefire agreement , brokered in the belarussian capital by france , germany , russia and ukraine .
in eastern ukraine , we join our european partners in maintaining sanctions until russia withdraws its forces from the donbass ( region ) and meets its minsk commitments , tillerson said .
he also made clear that washington did not accept russia s seizure of the crimean peninsula from ukraine in 2014 .
we will never accept russia s occupation and attempted annexation of crimea .
crimea-related sanctions will remain in place until russia returns full control of the peninsula to ukraine , he said .