new york ( reuters ) - puerto rico ’ s benchmark general obligation bond fell in price on friday in choppy trading after the u.s. house of representatives passed legislation aimed at helping the u.s. territory fix its fiscal mess .
the go bond , carrying an 8 percent coupon and maturing in 2035 , last traded at 64.74 points in price , pushing the yield to 13.05 percent from 12.73 percent on thursday , according to data provided by the municipal securities rulemaking board .
according to the msrb ’ s electronic municipal market access database , about $ 21 million worth of bonds traded versus $ 14 million the day before .
late on thursday the house passed the `` puerto rico oversight , management and economic stability act '' ( promesa ) , by a vote of 297-127 , with the u.s. senate expected to take up the bill quickly ahead of a $ 1.9 billion debt payment due july 1 .
( graphic : tmsnrt.rs/1pjzvh5 ) puerto rico has a $ 70 billion debt load it says it can not pay and a staggering 45 percent poverty rate .
it faces steady migration of its residents to the mainland and a potential humanitarian crisis because it can not sustain social services .
promesa , if passed by the senate and signed into law , would establish a powerful seven-member federal oversight board to navigate through the restructurings .
among other things , the board would have the authority to enforce balanced budgets .
“ it is definitely a step forward , a very good step forward .
we think it was necessary .
it doesn ’ t answer all your questions but at least it sets up a framework and does provide fiscal management and oversight which we think was necessary because the credibility of the government is pretty much shot , ” said joe rosenblum , director of municipal credit research at alliancebernstein in new york .
“ we don ’ t think at these prices we are ready to dip our toes back in and we haven ’ t seen a lot of trading activity out there , so i think we are in company , ” rosenblum said .
promesa does not set out specific rules for restructuring , leaving such decisions to the control board to work through with creditors .
this is a critical point for municipal bond market investors where long-standing rules set out a hierarchy among creditors , typically with go bondholders considered senior to all others .
“ regardless of how things get restructured today , the fact that the economy continues to shrink and the population continues to shrink is a problem for the credit going forward , ” said craig brandon , co-director of municipal investments at eaton vance in boston .