wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand prime minister jacinda ardern said on thursday she will seek to renegotiate the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) agreement in vietnam in two weeks time to allow the government to ban foreign speculators buying new zealand existing homes .
ardern , who was sworn in on thursday after negotiating a labour-led coalition after a tight election result , said she had already started work on the restrictions .
whether it s tpp or any other agreement it s making sure we have the ability to ban foreign buyers from buying existing homes in new zealand , ardern told reporters in wellington .
the 11 tpp members had set a goal of reaching broad agreement on the pact in november at an asia-pacific economic cooperation meeting set to be held in vietnam s danang .
new zealand previously touted itself as a champion of free trade and was a key backer of the tpp since the united states withdrew in january , but labour has expressed concern tpp would stop it from banning foreigners from buying existing homes .
foreign investors can still buy new houses and apartments .
the policy is designed to combat a politically sensitive housing crunch that has priced many new zealanders out of the market , with prices up more than 50 percent nationally in the last decade .
in the city of auckland , prices have almost doubled in that period .
new zealand was the sixth most popular market for chinese investors , down from fifth last year , said jane lu , head of australia and new zealand for international property website juwai.com .
she said foreign buyers tended to fast-forward plans to purchase overseas when new restrictions or taxes loomed .
while voters have taken to their charismatic 37-year-old leader , traders have been less impressed with the government s planned protectionist policies and coalition government .
the currency had fallen to $ 0.6861 on wednesday , its lowest level since may , having plummeted more than 6 percent since the sept. 23 election .
the kiwi last stood at $ 0.6878 .
veteran protectionist politician winston peters , the leader of new zealand first which holds the balance of power , delivered a victory to labour after the 23 sept. election failed to result in a majority for labour or national .
peters last year described a chinese company taking a majority ownership in a small new zealand dairy processor as lunacy , while he called dairy giant fonterra s decision to send cows to china economic treason .
his policies have consistently centered around tight controls on immigration and foreign investment .
as well as renegotiating the tpp , ardern said on thursday that immigration numbers would be cut by up to 30,000 from record levels of over 70,000 .
any trade and foreign ownership restrictions could hurt new zealand s reputation as an open economy and antagonize the likes of china .
trade between the two countries has grown to more than nz $ 20 billion ( $ 14.4 billion ) a year , and chinese president xi jinping called the relationship unprecedented in its depth .