istanbul/khartoum ( reuters ) - turkey will rebuild a ruined ottoman port city on sudan s red sea coast and construct a naval dock to maintain civilian and military vessels , sudan s foreign minister said on tuesday , as ankara expands military and economic ties in africa .
the restoration at suakin was agreed during a visit to the ancient port by turkish president tayyip erdogan , foreign minister ibrahim ghandour said .
making the first trip by a turkish president to sudan , erdogan said turkey had been temporarily granted part of suakin so it could rebuild the area as a tourist site and a transit point for pilgrims crossing the red sea to mecca .
he said the suakin deal was one of several , worth $ 650 million in total , agreed with sudan , which emerged from two decades of u.s. sanctions in october and is seeking to attract international investment .
the countries also agreed to build a dock to maintain civilian and military vessels , ghandour told reporters , adding that they had signed an agreement that could result in any kind of military cooperation .
the agreements come three months after turkey formally opened a $ 50 million military training base in somalia as it exerts increasing influence in the region .
suakin was sudan s major port when it was ruled by the ottoman empire , but fell into disuse over the last century after the construction of port sudan , 35 miles ( 60 km ) to the north .
speaking on monday in khartoum , erdogan said the refurbished port city would attract mecca-bound pilgrims who would want to see the island s history , helping sudan s tourism sector .
imagine , people from turkey wishing to go on pilgrimage will come and visit the historical areas on suakin island , erdogan said .
from there ... they will cross to jeddah by boat .
the other agreements signed during erdogan s visit include turkish investment to build khartoum s planned new airport and private sector investments in cotton production , electricity generation and building grain silos and meat slaughterhouses .
erdogan and bashir said they aimed for trade between the two countries to reach $ 10 billion , turkey s foreign economic relations board said .
in october , the united states lifted a trade embargo and other penalties that had cut sudan off from much of the global financial system .
sudan s state minister for investment has said he aims to attract investment of $ 10 billion a year , compared to $ 1 billion estimated by the united nations for 2016 .