this reminds us of the list of demands that were made by the american prisoners in mexico oh wait never mind the border has been a hot topic in this country , since floods of illegal immigrants have been pouring over the border .
to make matters worse , these illegals are receiving benefits that hard-working americans have paid for , and they continue to show a lack of respect for our culture or make any attempts to assimilate .
law enforcement has had their hands tied every step of the way , and when they are able to finally detain illegals , it only causes more issues.a group of 200 illegal immigrants launched a hunger strike at eloy detention center outside phoenix saturday morning .
the men sat down in the recreation yard at 9:45 a.m. and declared the strike , the advocacy group puente movement said , taking action for what they called brutal and inhumane conditions.the recent death of jos de jes s deniz-sahag n has been a rallying cry for these offenders .
they claim that he died under mysterious circumstances , and they want their questions answered .
deniz-sahag n was found dead in his cell and did not show signs of injury , but detainees who joined the strike saturday said guards beat him and locked him up in solitary confinement before he died.these criminals also say that they are forced to work at the center for $ 1 per day and sometimes do not receive needed medical treatment .
francisca porcha , the director of puente movement , said , they re outraged because they re the ones who heard him scream for mercy , it was the straw that broke the camel s back .
the criminals have a list of demands that need to be met for the strike to end , which include : the independent investigation into two recent deaths that had mysterious circumstances and problems of guards using excessive force.the conditions of their detainment be improved , which would include both medical and mental health care.they must have access to legal resources and court hearings if requested.the exploitation of the detainees work be ended.there should be no more criminalization , detention , and deportation.the offenders say that they are pressured to work long shifts with barely any compensation .
what kind of hypocrisy is this where the united states is picking up people for working without documents , but it s perfectly legal to work for a private corporation for $ 1 a day ?
porcha said.in response to the demands u.s. immigration and customs enforcement ( ice ) has released a statement on saturday : u.s. immigration and customs enforcement ( ice ) is committed to ensuring the welfare of those in custody , ice managers and detention center staff communicate with detainees regularly and respects the right of people to express their opinions .
ice detainees are under continuous observation by center staff and medical personnel .
i am sure we can all get behind the idea that people should receive proper medical and mental care , but the other demands really ?
they should have no special treatment given to them since they are not american citizens .
to have the gall to demand that there be no threat of criminalization , detention , and deportation is absolute madness .
they would not be detained if they had not broken the law when they entered this country illegally.via : mad world news