we all know the rules are a little different for the political class .
but michelle obama s trips overseas hardly qualify as official business .
they are lavish , extravagant , and excessive by any reasonable metric .
moreover , these latest revelations are hardly isolated.they are part of continuum reaching back across to the earliest days of the obama administration .
recently , judicial watch obtained flight expense records from the u.s. department of the air force revealing that michelle obama s june 2015 trip to the united kingdom and italy , accompanied by her daughters and mother , cost the taxpayers $ 240,495.67 in flight expenses alone.the records were released in response to a freedom of information ( foia ) request filed on june 22 , 2015 .
the flights to london , england ; and milan , venice , and vicenza , italy , for the june 15 21 , 2015 , trip totaled 20:35 hours at the cost of $ 11,684 per hour , bringing the flight expense total to $ 240,495.67 , according to the air force documents.the obama white house , true to form , tried spin the trip as a public service that was part of michelle obama s campaign to push her let girls learn initiative and let s move anti-obesity campaign.good grief .
everyone should deny themselves and streamline their lifestyles except for the obamas.press reports make it evident the obama entourage set aside substantial time for tourism .
in london , michelle obama joined prince harry for afternoon tea at kensington palace.and the white house press office conceded that , while in italy , the first lady will also visit cultural sites in venice before returning to washington , d.c .
judicial watch released records revealing significant taxpayer-funded travel expenses for a michelle obama trip in july .
those records from the u.s. department of the air force showed that michelle obama s 2014 trip to china cost american taxpayers $ 362,523.53 in travel expenses alone .
mrs. obama , her daughters , and her mother spent march 19 26 in china , in a trip highlighted by extended visits to some of the country s most popular tourist sites.apparently , the obama family continues to bill the taxpayers for costly tourism jaunts thinly disguised as humanitarian crusades .
if michelle obama wants to take tea with prince harry or enthuse over da vinci s the last supper , she is certainly entitled to do so , but not at taxpayer expense.since the beginning of barack obama s administration , the obamas have become increasingly notorious for unnecessary , luxurious travel , under the guise of official business.newsmaxpresident obama admitted he cried at a recent senior staff send-off dinner and is now claiming that he d be able to get re-elected if he had run for president again .
i am confident in this vision because i m confident that if i had run again and articulated it , i think i could ve mobilized a majority of the american people to rally behind it , obama said in a the axe files podcast interview by former aide david axelrod .
i know that in conversations that i ve had with people around the country , even some people who disagreed with me , they would say , the vision , the direction that you point towards is the right one , the outgoing president said.the constitution limits a president to serving only two terms.reflecting on his presidency , obama said he s been inspired by the heart and idealism of his staff .
we had our senior staff dinner i got through about four minutes of the thing and started getting the hanky out , he admitted.obama said it feels like the band is breaking up , but that he wants to devote his post-presidency to growing the talent and vision that began in his two terms as president of the united states .
overall , this place never got cynical , he said , praising the many aides he s had over the years .
we never had that fire snuffed out .
that is a point of pride for me , he added.the podcast interview at times got personal , with obama discussing his upbringing and talking about how his mom was a hippie .
but she always insisted on shaving her legs , he told his former aide.the president also looked forward to leaving the white house , saying he s going to take his wife , michelle , on a nice vacation because she deserves it .
the first family is currently in hawaii for a two-week break before inauguration day on jan. 20 .
nyp