yangon ( reuters ) - the united nations named a new interim u.n. resident coordinator for myanmar on tuesday , appointing knut ostby of norway to take over the humanitarian role at a time of growing strains with the myanmar government over the handling of the rohingya crisis .
the appointment of a temporary placeholder was expected after myanmar blocked an upgrade of the u.n. country chief position .
myanmar s de facto leader , nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi , has told diplomats in private meetings that she is frustrated with the united nations , particularly its human rights arm .
ostby , who has served with the united nations in a number of hotspots , including afghanistan and east timor , will replace renata lok-dessallien , who has completed her term .
some 600,000 rohingya muslims have fled to bangladesh after ethnic violence erupted in myanmar s northern rakhine state in late august .
rights monitors and rohingya refugees say the army and rakhine buddhist vigilantes have forced them to flee their homes .
u.n. investigators interviewing rohingyas living in refugee camps near cox s bazar said on friday they had gathered testimony pointing to a consistent , methodical pattern of killings , torture , rape and arson .
the fact-finding team , led by former indonesian attorney general marzuki darusman , said the death toll from the myanmar army s crackdown following rohingya insurgent attacks on aug. 25 was unknown , but may turn out to be extremely high .
the u.n. team , which was established by the u.n. human rights council in march , renewed its appeal for access to rakhine state and for talks with the myanmar government and military to establish the facts .
in the early stages of the crisis , the united nations described the military campaign as ethnic cleansing , an accusation rejected by myanmar , which says its military was engaged in counter-insurgency operations against rohingya militants behind a series of attacks on security posts .
suu kyi has said the refugees can return , but thousands continue to arrive in bangladesh .
myanmar , an overwhelmingly buddhist country with small christian and muslim minorities , is struggling to emerge from decades of military rule , and suu kyi s democratically elected government is engaged in a peace dialogue with members of various armed ethnic groups .