edinburgh ( reuters ) - pro-independence scottish lawmakers have presented a motion in their devolved parliament urging international recognition of catalonia s unilateral declaration of independence from spain , putting pressure on scotland s leader to endorse the movement .
scotland s pro-independence first minister nicola sturgeon has criticized madrid s handling of the crisis with its northern region but refrained from backing the declaration .
the european union , which she would like to see admitting a future independent scotland , has backed spain s central government .
according to the website of the scottish parliament , the lawmakers motion called on the international community to recognize the vote of the catalan parliament for an independent republic of catalonia .
catalonia declared independence unilaterally last week after holding a vote banned under spain s constitution .
spain has since sacked the autonomous catalan government and called regional elections .
the motion was signed by 21 of the 63 lawmakers in the scottish national party which runs the devolved government in scotland .
it was also signed by one lawmaker from the scottish greens but is unlikely to go further as it requires support from three parties to be debated in the scottish parliament .
the move , aimed at drawing attention to the catalan situation , comes amid nervousness about the future of scotland s stalled independence drive , which still has the support of around 45 percent of voters , according to polls .
some nationalists last month called on first minister sturgeon , who has made comments in support of catalonia and its right to self-determination , to recognize catalonia s independence , but to no avail .
we can not recognize catalan independence because , much as we would like to be , we are not a sovereign state , a scottish government source said at the time .
the times reported on thursday that the catalan breakaway government had asked for support from the scottish government but received no reply .
the scottish government could not immediately be reached for comment .
sturgeon s scottish national party lost one third of its seats in a june election for britain s national party in london , and has blamed the mistiming of a fresh drive for an independence referendum for the result .
scots rejected independence by a 10-percentage point margin in 2014 but britain s vote to leave the european union has exposed fresh divisions in the united kingdom .
scotland and northern ireland voted to stay in the eu , while wales and england voted to leave .