amsterdam ( reuters ) - dutch politician geert wilders questioned the objectivity of the judge hearing his appeal on tuesday against a conviction last december for inciting discrimination , in a trial he said was politically motivated .
on the first day of preliminary hearings wilders confronted presiding judge jeanne gaakeer with her leading role in a foundation that awarded an academic prize in 2016 to someone he called a left-wing activist .
this concerns me and raises the question whether you are the right person to judge me , wilders said , adding that the award winner has helped organize a large anti-wilders protest ... and represents everything i fight against politically .
the judge gave no immediate reaction to wilders remarks , but said she would discuss her position with the other members of the three-judge panel after the conclusion of the day s hearings .
wilders far right party for freedom came second in elections in march , but he was locked out of coalition talks with mainstream parties and now leads the opposition in parliament .
the case against the 54-year-old stemmed from a 2014 campaign rally at which he led chants calling for fewer moroccans in the netherlands .
he was found guilty but received no sentence and was acquitted of a separate count of inciting hatred .
the prosecution , which had sought a fine of 5,000 euros without a prison sentence , has also appealed against the verdict .
wilders lawyer said the verdict had been a fatal blow to freedom of speech .
what should have been the trial of the century on the freedom of speech , became an absolute low point , lawyer geert-jan knoops said in court .
this week judges will hear the grounds for appeal from both parties before the full case commences in may .
the hearings are being held at a special high-security courtroom .
wilders has lived in safe houses under 24-hour guard since 2004 to protect him from islamist militants who threatened to kill him .
at the 2014 rally , wilders led a group of supporters chanting that they wanted fewer !
fewer !
fewer !
in reference to the number of people of moroccan origin in the netherlands .
there are around 400,000 people of moroccan origin among the netherlands population of 17 million people .
as in other eu states such as germany and france , anti-immigration sentiment in the netherlands has risen in recent years .
wilders has called for the borders to be closed to immigrants from muslim countries and mosques to be shut down .
a previous attempt to prosecute wilders for anti-islam remarks , such as likening the religion to nazism and calling for a ban on the koran , ended in acquittal in 2011 .