london ( reuters ) - it was meant to silence her critics , but by pledging to lead the conservative party into the next election , british prime minister theresa may instead unleashed a wave of derision from her foes .
still , with no challenger in sight and a party wary of a leadership fight , the 60-year-old prime minister is probably safe for now .
the london evening standard , now edited by george osborne , the conservative sacked by may as finance minister when she became prime minister last year , described her pledge to run again as like the living dead in a second-rate horror film .
the premiership of theresa may staggers on oblivious .
this was not supposed to be in the script .
others chimed in .
party grandee michael heseltine , who was also sacked as a government adviser by may for rebelling over britain s planned exit from the european union , deadpanned : i don t think she s got a long term .
and another critic , nicky morgan , who lost her position as education minister when may entered power after the brexit referendum last year , said it would be difficult for may to lead the conservatives into the next election due in 2022 .
we have got to think about how we renew our franchise , she told the bbc .
but many conservatives kept silent .
after being bruised this year when may called an early election only to see her party lose its parliamentary majority , several said keeping the party in power was the main priority .
and with no one willing to challenge may , it made more sense to keep her as leader to guide britain through what could become a messy brexit .
there are people who are fed up and hurt after the election , and there s muttering , but not a lot of them are muttering publicly .
the loudest ones are those who have no chance of getting big jobs , a veteran party member said .
but no one is putting their hand up to take over .
there s no appetite from any of the big players ...
her future is all about brexit .
asked during a visit to japan whether she wanted to lead the conservative party into the next election , may said : yes ...
i m here for the long term and it s crucial , what me and my government are about is not just delivering on brexit , we are delivering a brighter future for the united kingdom .
i m not a quitter , she said .
she hoped to silence weeks of media reports that she could leave office as early as the annual party conference in october , an event where political careers have been made or broken in the past .
but instead of increasing her authority , damaged by the june election , she attracted derision from critics in her own party as well as the opposition .
the labour party was quick to accuse may of deluding herself .
theresa may leads a zombie government , said jon trickett , a senior member of labour leader jeremy corbyn s team .
the sooner the public has the chance to vote out her and her government the better for our country s future .
but it is the threat from labour , which has seen its standing in the polls increase since the election , that in part might keep may in her position for longer than some think .
few conservatives dare risk doing anything that might trigger an early parliamentary election and hand a chance of victory to corbyn .
also , despite several leading conservatives thought to be eyeing her job , none appears willing to step in now when britain is engaged in difficult talks to leave the european union , which officials say are making little or no progress .
the veteran party member , who discussed may s prospects on condition of anonymity , said he thought may was sincere in pledging to stay on until the next election , despite the chorus of calls from foes within the party for her to step aside .
she told the truth .
she s up for staying on .
but it all depends on brexit , the party member said .
if she comes out of it with jobs up , and is seen to have told the eu to get off and prospects are good ... well you can go hero to zero and vice versa .