berlin/paris ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel struck a note of caution with respect to french calls for deeper european integration on monday , a day before french president emmanuel macron lays out his plans for ambitious european reforms .
at a news conference after a german election that has forced her to consider a new coalition with the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) , a party critical of macron s ideas on europe , merkel said her conservative cdu/csu bloc would support sensible measures but also wanted to see countries become more competitive .
i m not going to rule out anything or set red lines , she said when asked how much scope she still had to compromise with paris following the election results .
the union ( her conservatives ) will support what makes sense .
my view is that we can use more europe , but this has to lead to more competitiveness , more jobs and more clout for the european union .
her reserved tone may unsettle macron , 39 , who since his own election victory in may has spoken of working with merkel , 63 , on a fundamental overhaul of the eu , including the possibility of creating a eurozone budget , a eurozone finance minister and a preemptive fund to help countries in trouble .
macron will set out his vision in a speech at the sorbonne university in paris on tuesday .
elysee officials said macron would push ahead with the idea of a eurozone budget despite stiff opposition from germany s fiscally conservative fdp .
one elysee official said that since a eurozone budget would be necessary in due course , macron felt it worthwhile to broach the issue , which he hoped would be taken into consideration during germany s coalition negotiations .
in berlin , merkel alluded to macron s speech , saying it was important to move beyond slogans such as eurozone budget and eurozone finance minister , and to focus on details .
it is not about the slogans but what lies behind them , she said .
i am talking about this with the french president .
merkel has sent conciliatory signals to macron since his election , when he ran on a pledge to relaunch europe together with berlin .
but sunday s election result means her room for maneuver is likely to be curtailed , depending on what agreement is reached with her eventual coalition partners .
merkel s conservatives remain the biggest bloc in the new bundestag , or lower house , but will end up with fewer seats after suffering a decline in support .
she is expected to seek a coalition with the fdp and the greens .
such a coalition , unprecedented at the national level , is likely to face opposition in the bundestag when it comes to any major eu reform ideas .
the fdp has called for a phasing out of europe s esm bailout fund and changes to eu treaties that would allow countries to leave the euro zone .
and the far-right , eurosceptic alternative for germany is now the third biggest party in the bundestag , further curbing merkel s room for maneuver .
it may take months before a coalition agreement is signed .
but once it is , its contours are strict , effectively setting limits on the chancellor s ability to act .
merkel said europe would play a role in the coalition negotiations and that it would be important to sound out the fdp .
fdp leader christian lindner said he would not agree to any coalition that did not promise a change in the german government s direction .
while that appeared to set the stage for tough talks , he also offered some hope for macron , saying when asked about the french president s eurozone budget ideas that the fdp had a strong interest in the strength of france .
elysee officials noted that the fdp had reaffirmed its attachment to the eu and strong franco-german relations , a point macron was likely to emphasize in his speech .
macron , the sources said , would propose that the whole eu move forward together , and that those who did not want to do so should not stand in the way of those that did .