sirte , libya ( reuters ) - nearly a year after islamic state was driven from its libyan stronghold sirte , residents surveying their wrecked homes feel neglected and vulnerable , still afraid of the militant threat that has waned but not vanished .
though security in the mediterranean coastal city has improved , residents remain wary of jihadists in the desert to the south who have stepped up their activity in recent months , setting up checkpoints and carrying out occasional attacks .
in a country where fighting between rival forces frequently flares , sirte is particularly exposed .
it sits in the center of libya s coastline on the dividing line between loose alliances aligned with rival governments in tripoli and the east .
if the situation continues like this then daesh ( islamic state ) will come back , no doubt .
there was a reason why they came .
people were angry , felt sidelined , said ali miftah , a civil servant and father of five .
now we don t get any support from the government .
look at these ruins .
we lost everything .
last month , islamic state gunmen staged a suicide attack in misrata , the coastal city about 230 km ( 140 miles ) to the northwest that led the campaign last year to expel the militants from sirte .
is also has sleeper cells in other cities along libya s western coast , security officials say , and there is concern foreign fighters seeking sanctuary after defeats in syria and iraq could once again exploit the country s security vacuum and link up with al qaeda-linked militants in the desert south .
divisions among libya s many armed factions and uncertainty over how long the forces from misrata that drove islamic state out will remain in sirte are compounding residents worries .
in parts of the city , life is slowly returning to normal , though islamic state s black logos are still visible on some shops and inhabitants struggle with cash shortages and failing public services , as they do elsewhere in libya .
but in areas that saw the heaviest fighting , families see little hope of rebuilding their homes .
sirte , the home city of former libyan leader muammar gaddafi , was pounded by nearly 500 u.s. air strikes between august and december last year .
in el manar and giza bahriya , once among sirte s best neighborhoods , houses looking onto the crystal blue mediterranean are now crumpled piles of twisted metal and concrete , doors blasted from their metal frames .
a damaged primary school said to have once been attended by gaddafi lies abandoned .
residents say skeletons among the rubble have been left to be tested to see if they belong to islamic state fighters , or their captives .
they are also scared to search their ruined homes because of the unexploded ordnance in the wreckage .
local forces man checkpoints on the outskirts of sirte and carry out patrols to the south .
but they say they lack the vehicles and weapons to pursue the jihadists , who have retreated into mobile desert camps .
instead , they rely on the u.s. air strikes that have killed dozens of suspected militants this year .
we contain the threat but we can not chase them in their camps because we lack the right equipment like four-wheel cars needed to drive in the desert , said taher hadeed , an official with the forces securing sirte .
it won t be possible for daesh to take back the city , but there is a risk of attacks .
the forces that led the campaign against islamic state in sirte last year are nominally loyal to the u.n.-backed government in tripoli to the west - and sirte now represents the eastern limit of their control .
beyond , forces loyal to khalifa haftar s libyan national army control oil terminals they seized during the campaign .
but for now , the two sides do not coordinate , said mohamed al-ghasri , a military spokesman from misrata .
residents and officials in sirte say the threat can not be dealt with without proper support from the state and professional security forces .
they are suffering from a lack of services and we don t see any real efforts or results on the ground at any level , said siddeeq ismaiel , a municipal official .
an estimated 2,500-3,000 homes need to be built so families forced to live in other parts of sirte or misrata can return .
this will never end if there is no government , said hamza ali , a 34-year-old university employee , standing near his brother s ruined house .
it will stop maybe for two , three , four , five , six months , then you will hear an explosion somewhere if there is no official security , police .