yangon ( reuters ) - the two reuters journalists who were detained in myanmar on dec. 12 have appeared in court and been remanded in custody , a police spokesman said on thursday .
yes , they were sent to the court , said police colonel myo thu soe .
the remand has already been obtained .
the case is under the burma state secrets act ... so , for now , they are not allowed to meet with anyone and they are being investigated .
reporters wa lone and kyaw soe oo have been in detention for nine days with no detail on where they are being held .
they have not had access to visitors or lawyers .
pan ei mon , wa lone s wife , said she was told by police on thursday that both journalists were well and she was allowed to leave food and clothes for them .
the authorities are investigating whether they violated the country s colonial-era official secrets act , which carries a maximum prison sentence of 14 years .
the two journalists had worked on reuters coverage of a crisis in the western state of rakhine , where an estimated 655,000 rohingya muslims have fled from a fierce military crackdown on militants .
the ministry of information said last week that wa lone , 31 , and kyaw soe oo , 27 , had illegally acquired information with the intention to share it with foreign media .
a spokesman for myanmar leader aung san suu kyi said on wednesday that the police had almost completed their investigation , after which a court case would begin and the reporters would have access to a lawyer and be able to meet members of their families .
the spokesman said he was told by the ministry of home affairs and police that the two men were being detained in yangon , myanmar s largest city , were in good condition and had not been subject to illegal questioning .
a number of governments and human rights and journalist groups have criticized myanmar s authorities for holding the pair incommunicado since their arrest , with no access to a lawyer , colleagues and family members .
myo thu soe , the police spokesman , said : during the investigation by the police force , we are not torturing them nor doing anything that is not in line with human rights .