berlin ( reuters ) - members of germany s social democrats ( spd ) and chancellor angela merkel s conservatives argued on wednesday about repatriating syrian refugees accused of crimes , a potential foretaste of coalition negotiations on immigration .
migration will be a key issue in coalition talks after an influx of more than a million migrants since mid-2015 hurt both the two major german parties in the september election and helped the anti-immigration alternative for germany ( afd ) .
the spd criticized a proposal by conservative politicians to deport syrian refugees who commit crimes , accusing the conservative party of moving to the right , rnd newspaper group reported on wednesday .
earlier this month , the afd called for the repatriation of all the half a million syrian refugees living in germany , saying the war there was nearly over .
the conservative interior minister of saxony state , markus ulbig , proposed deporting syrian refugees who commit offences after evaluating the security situation in their home country , rnd reported earlier .
ulbig s proposal , was supported by other regional interior ministers who will meet next week to discuss whether the situation in syria merits a new status in order to consider sending syrians back , starting from the end of june 2018 .
we have always said : we want to respond to the developments in syria , said the spokesman of the head of christian democrats in mecklenburg-western pomerania .
now we have to ensure in the medium term that people return to their homeland .
the spd said a halt to deportations for syrian asylum seekers should be extended at least until the end of 2018 .
now thinking about sending people to this country as quickly as possible - as the conservatives proposed- is cynical and inhuman , said eva hoegl , a senior spd politician .
a spokeswoman for the foreign ministry , which is led by spd politician sigmar gabriel , noted that the conflict was still ongoing , suggesting that it was premature to talk about a new security assessment for the country .
hundreds of thousands of people have been killed and more than 11 million driven from their homes in syria s civil war , now in its seventh year .
the situation on the ground has changed in the last two years since russia joined the war on the side of the government , helping it recapture most rebel-held territory .