new york ( reuters ) - bangladesh prime minister sheikh hasina said she spoke to u.s. president donald trump on monday about rohingya muslims flooding into her country from myanmar , but she expects no help from him as he has made clear how he feels about refugees .
as trump left an event he hosted at the united nations on reforming the world body , hasina said she stopped him for a few minutes .
he just asked how is bangladesh ?
i said it s doing very well , but the only problem that we have is the refugees from myanmar , hasina told reuters in an interview .
but he didn t make any comment about refugees .
a myanmar military response to insurgent attacks last month in the country s rakhine state sent more than 410,000 rohingya muslims fleeing to neighboring bangladesh , escaping what the united nations has branded as ethnic cleansing .
the myanmar government says about 400 people have been killed in the fighting .
hasina , who is due to address the annual gathering of world leaders at the united nations general assembly on thursday , said trump s stance on refugees was clear , so it was not worth asking him for help with the rohingya muslim refugees .
already america declared that they will not allow any refugees , she said .
what i can expect from them , and especially ( the ) president .
he already declared his mind ... so why i should ask ?
bangladesh is not a rich country ... but if we can feed 160 million people , another 500 or 700,000 people , we can do it .
a senior white house official was unaware of the exchange but said trump was deeply interested in the subject and that he would definitely engage if it were brought up .
shortly after taking office in january , trump tried to put a 120-day halt on the u.s. refugee program , bar syrian refugees indefinitely and impose a 90-day suspension on people from six predominantly muslim countries .
the travel ban into the united states should be far larger , tougher and more specific-but stupidly , that would not be politically correct !
trump said on twitter on friday .
trump says the move is needed to prevent terrorist attacks and allow the government to put in place more stringent vetting procedures .
there is a key supreme court hearing next month on the constitutionality of his executive order on the ban .
about a million rohingya lived in rakhine state until the recent violence .
most face travel restrictions and are denied citizenship in a country where many buddhists regard them as illegal immigrants from bangladesh .
hasina said she wanted to see more international political pressure on myanmar to allow the rohingya to return .
( myanmar leader aung san suu kyi ) should agree that these people belong to her country and that myanmar is their country .
they should take them back , she said .
these people are suffering .
nobel laureate suu kyi has faced a barrage of international criticism for not stopping the violence .
myanmar national security adviser thaung tun told reuters on monday that myanmar would ensure those who left their homes could return , but there was a process we have to discuss .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley urged the myanmar government to end military operations , grant humanitarian access , and commit to aiding the safe return of civilians to their homes .
people are still at risk of being attacked or killed , humanitarian aid is not reaching the people who need it , and innocent civilians are still fleeing across the border to bangladesh , haley said after britain hosted a meeting on the crisis in new york on monday .
a u.s. deputy assistant secretary of state , patrick murphy , is due in myanmar this week .