sulaimania/baghdad ( reuters ) - a senior iranian military commander repeatedly warned kurdish leaders in northern iraq to withdraw from the oil city of kirkuk or face an onslaught by iraqi forces and allied iranian-backed fighters , kurdish officials briefed on the meetings said .
major-general qassem soleimani , commander of foreign operations for iran s elite revolutionary guards , traveled to iraq s kurdistan region to meet kurdish leaders at least three times this month before the baghdad government s lightning campaign to recapture territory across the north .
the presence of soleimani on the frontlines highlights tehran s heavy sway over policy in iraq , and comes as shi ite iran seeks to win a proxy war in the middle east with its regional rival and u.s. ally , sunni saudi arabia .
soleimani met leaders from the patriotic union of kurdistan ( puk ) , one of the two main kurdish political parties in northern iraq , in the city of sulaimania the day before iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi ordered his forces to advance on kirkuk , according to a puk lawmaker briefed on the meeting .
his message was clear : withdraw or risk losing tehran as a strategic ally .
abadi has all the regional powers and the west behind him and nothing will stop him from forcing you to return back to the mountains if he decides so , the lawmaker quoted soleimani as telling the puk leadership .
the iranian general evoked late iraqi president saddam hussein s massive attack on a kurdish rebellion in 1991 , when almost the entire kurdish population fled northern iraq to the mountains , the puk lawmaker said .
soleimani s visit ... was to give a last-minute chance for the decision-makers not to commit a fatal mistake , said the lawmaker , who like others interviewed in this story declined to be identified because of the sensitivity of the issue .
commanders of the iraqi kurdish forces , known as the peshmerga , have accused iran of orchestrating the shi ite-led iraqi central government s push into areas under their control , a charge senior iranian officials have denied .
but iran has made no secret of its presence in iraq .
tehran s military help is not a secret anymore .
you can find general soleimani s pictures in iraq everywhere , said an official close to iranian president hassan rouhani .
now , beside political issues , kirkuk s oil is a very key element for iran , which is an opec member .
control of those oil fields by iran s enemies would be disastrous for us .
why should we let them enter the oil market ? .
kirkuk fell to iraqi government forces on monday .
their offensive followed a referendum last month in which the semi-autonomous kurdistan region voted to secede from iraq against baghdad s wishes .
kurds have sought an independent state for almost a century , after colonial powers divided up the middle east after the fall of the ottoman empire and left kurdish-populated territory split between turkey , iran , iraq and syria .
but iraq s two main kurdish parties have been at odds over both the referendum and the approach to the crisis in kirkuk , which the kurds consider to be the heart of their homeland .
the puk , a close ally of iran , accused its rival , the kurdistan democratic party ( kdp ) , of putting the kurds at risk of military intervention and isolation by pushing hard for the vote , which won wide approval for independence .
soleimani has been allied to the puk for years , but the referendum has drawn him even closer to kurdish politics and expanded iran s reach in iraq beyond the baghdad government .
the iranian general is no stranger to conflicts in iraq , which fought an eight-year war with iran in the 1980s .
he has often been seen in footage from the frontlines , and iran has long helped baghdad to carry out its military strategy through paramilitary shi ite militias which it funds and arms .
before the referendum , soleimani suggested to kurdish leaders that holding a vote on secession which iran feared would encourage its own kurdish population to agitate for greater autonomy would be risky .
the iranians were very clear .
they have been very clear that there will be conflict , that these territories will be lost , said one prominent iraqi kurdish politician who met soleimani ahead of the sept. 25 referendum .
on oct. 6 , barely a week after the vote , soleimani attended the funeral of puk leader jalal talabani .
again , he wanted to make sure even his closest kurdish allies understood the dangers of not withdrawing from kirkuk , officials said .
a senior iranian diplomat in iraq and an official in iran close to supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei s office said soleimani met with kurdish leaders after talibani s funeral and urged them to withdraw from kirkuk and in exchange tehran would protect their interests .
soleimani met with one of talabani s sons , bafel , a few days after his father was buried , one of the puk officials said .
soleimani said abadi should be taken very seriously .
you should understand this , the official said .
an iranian source in iraq said soleimani was in kirkuk two nights before the iraqi government offensive for a couple of hours to give military guidance .
iraqi intelligence sources said tehran sent a clear signal to the puk .
we understand from our sources on the ground that neighboring iran played a decisive role in making the puk chose the right course with baghdad , one iraqi intelligence official told reuters .
tensions over the referendum and kirkuk have deepened divisions between the two main political parties in northern iraq .
the kdp accused the puk of betraying the kurdish cause by capitulating to iran and striking a deal to withdraw .
the talabani clan were behind the offensive on kirkuk .
they asked qassem ( soleimani ) for help and his troops were there on the ground , said a source close to massoud barzani , president of the kurdistan regional government and head of the kdp .
it is becoming clear that iran is directing the operations to destroy the kdp .
the puk strongly denies this .
talabani s son bafel accused the kdp of missing a zero-hour chance to avoid losing kirkuk by failing to reach a deal over a military base which iraqi government forces had demanded to take back .
unfortunately we reacted too slowly .
and we find ourselves where we are today , bafel told reuters .
two other kurdish political sources gave a similar account .
iran and soleimani offered early assistance to northern iraq s kurds in the fight against islamic state , a rallying point for the kurdish community .
but after the devastating loss of kirkuk , iraqi kurds have been left disillusioned .
they ( both puk and kdp leaders ) just make decisions on their own and play with people s lives .
in the end , we pay the price , said pensioner abdullah ahmed in sulaimania .
this is a disaster for everyone .
everyone was united against daesh ( islamic state ) .
now they are back just looking out for themselves .