smug liberal newspapers and tv networks have paid a heavy price for their criticism of trump .
americans think of trump as the underdog in this race and there s nothing worse than piling on the underdog .
for these liberal hacks who have been writing their leftist opinions as opposed to real news for decades , they re about to find out what it means to be considered irrelevant by their former readers the subscription cancellations were coming every 10 minutes .
angry readers have been calling in droves .
we re feeling the weight of our history , phil boas , the editorial page editor of the arizona republic , said in a telephone interview on wednesday .
until it endorsed hillary clinton on tuesday , the newspaper , founded in 1890 , had never endorsed a democrat over a republican for president.in endorsing mrs. clinton , the republic s editorial was , by any interpretation , scathing toward her opponent , donald j. trump .
trump responds to criticism with the petulance of verbal spit wads , the editorial says at one point .
that s beneath our national dignity .
the papers lay out different reasons for supporting mrs. clinton over mr. trump his lack of political experience versus her established political career , his outbursts and insults versus her steadiness and some are perhaps more repudiations of mr. trump than glowing endorsements of mrs. clinton , whose faults are also cited.for some readers , however , the endorsements proved a step too far .
certainly , we ve paid a price for our presidential recommendation , mike wilson , the editor of the dallas morning news , told poynter this month.mr .
boas of the arizona republic said he expected a lot of cancellations , pointing to cancellations at the cincinnati enquirer , which like the republic , is owned by gannett.but he said financial considerations were never a factor for the newspaper s nine-person editorial board .
it was more of a curiosity , he said .
we know we re doing the right thing .
we feel very good about this decision .
new york timesgood luck with that whole feeling good thing when your paper is shut down because you can t pay your liberal editors