washington ( reuters ) - the fox news debate without front-runner donald trump attracted the second-smallest audience of the seven such televised encounters among republicans so far this election cycle , according to ratings figures released on friday .
according to nielsen data , about 12.5 million people watched the republican face-off , beating only an earlier debate on the less-prominent fox business network .
but thursday ’ s encounter was one of fox news ’ s biggest-ever hits and drew more viewers than coverage of a rally at the same time that was hosted by trump .
the billionaire refused to participate in the debate out of anger that fox news anchor megyn kelly was a moderator .
last-minute phone calls with fox news chairman roger ailes failed to resolve their dispute , which broke out just days before next week ’ s iowa caucuses , the first nominating contest for the nov. 8 presidential election .
instead , trump held his own rally in iowa at the same time as the debate , which he promoted as a way to raise money for charity .
cnn and msnbc gave his event some coverage , but their combined audience during that time was about a quarter of the crowd watching the fox debate , according to nielsen data .
on friday , trump defended his decision to snub fox news , one of the most powerful media forces in republican politics .
“ i have a very good relationship with fox , but when somebody doesn ’ t treat you properly , you ’ ve got to be tough , ” he said at a rally in new hampshire .
trump often claims on the campaign trail that he is responsible for strong viewership of republican debates .
and he managed to upstage the debate to a certain extent , dominating twitter mentions and google searches during the event .
despite trump ’ s absence , thursday ’ s debate was the second-largest audience ever for a fox news telecast , beaten only by the first republican presidential debate in 2015 with 24 million viewers .
it was also the most-watched program on tv on thursday night , fox news said .
“ the debate topped all tv thursday night in total viewers including all broadcast shows , ” fox news said in a statement .
audiences for all republican debates in the current presidential election campaign have been higher than in previous years , though viewership tapered after the first two .
about 18 million people watched a cnn-hosted republican debate in december .
the fox business event this month drew the smallest crowd with 11 million viewers .
democratic debates have gotten lower ratings this election cycle .
( additional reporting by lisa richwine and alana wise ; editing by alistair bell ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .