( ( this dec. 5 story corrects year in 2nd paragraph to 2011 from 2012 ) ) by michelle nichols and david brunnstrom united nations/washington ( reuters ) - united nations political affairs chief jeffrey feltman arrived in north korea on tuesday for a rare visit that some analysts and diplomats hope could spark a u.n.-led effort to defuse rising tensions over pyongyang s nuclear and missile programs .
the former senior u.s. state department official is the highest-level u.n. official to visit north korea since 2011 .
during a four-day visit he is due to meet foreign minister ri yong ho to discuss issues of mutual interest and concern .
this is broadly a policy dialogue with ( north korea ) .
i think we have to wait and see what comes out , u.n. spokesman stephane dujarric told reporters on tuesday .
all key member states ... were informed and briefed of the visit .
u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres told russia , japan , the united states , china and north and south korea in august he was available to help broker talks .
so-called six-party talks on north korea s nuclear program stalled in 2008 .
a u.n. official , speaking on condition of anonymity , described expectations for feltman s visit as modest and high at the same time , meaning that they depend on what our hosts are thinking as well .
we need to find a way to scale back tensions , the official said .
i don t think we will have a major breakthrough being announced at the end of this trip .
but the visit could serve as a step to build a framework for engagement .
suzanne dimaggio of the new america foundation think tank , a participant in recent unofficial talks with north korea , said feltman could propose during his visit to pyongyang that guterres play a mediation role .
i do think that the trump administration would like to explore talks about talks at this stage .
i think the north koreans are assessing the timing of when to do that , she told a seminar in washington on north korea .
state department spokeswoman heather nauert said feltman was not traveling on behalf of the u.s. government .
and he s not traveling - i want to make this clear - with any kind of message from the u.s. government ...
he s going on behalf of the u.n. , not the u.s. government , she told a regular news briefing .
nauert said washington remained open to talks if north korea showed it was serious about giving up its nuclear weapons , but added : the activities they have been engaged in recently have shown that they are not interested , they are not serious about sitting down and having conversations .
north korea has been working to develop nuclear-tipped missiles capable of reaching the united states in defiance of u.n. sanctions .
it conducted its sixth and largest nuclear test in september and last week tested a missile capable of reaching anywhere in america .
feltman told the 15-member security council last week that its unity creates an opportunity for sustained diplomatic engagement an opportunity that must be seized in these dangerous times to seek off-ramps and work to create conditions for negotiations .
in september , russian u.n .
ambassador vassily nebenzia urged a return to dialogue , including by leveraging mediation efforts by guterres .
russian deputy foreign minister igor morgulov said on tuesday that pyongyang was seeking dialogue with washington on its nuclear program , according to ria news agency .
morgulov , at a conference in berlin , was quoted as saying russia had communication channels with north korea open and was ready to exert its influence on pyongyang .
sweden s deputy u.n .
ambassador carl skau told reporters he hoped guterres could mediate in probably the largest threat to international peace and security at the moment .
britain s deputy u.n .
ambassador jonathan allen said feltman had our backing and i think he goes to represent the u.n. family as a whole .