two days ago , cher , a leftist agitator , and trump-hater extraordinaire told followers of her twitter account that they must take a dreamer into their home and protect them .
the has been entertainer took it one step further and told her followers that she was ready 2 do this and that others in my business will do the same ! !
she ended her tweet with the word sanctuary , indicating that she and the people employed by her would be offering aid and comfort to illegal alien strangers.those who can must take a dreamer in2 their home & protect them i m ready 2 do this & others in my business will do the same sanctuary cher ( @ cher ) september 5 , 2017the one thing cher neglected to do was to provide and address or a map to her residence .
how in the world does she expect 800,000 illegal aliens to find their new home without an address ? well , thanks to the kindness and generosity of a conservative twitter user and trump supporter extraordinaire , illegal aliens who are looking for sanctuary can now find it in cher s massive mansion on the ocean .
what a lucky break ! dreamers : 27423 pacific coast hwy , malibu ca .
not a joke , you are welcome yours truly , cher pic.twitter.com/pserd0akgm brooks brown ( @ bbusa617 ) september 6 , 2017and to think all they needed to do was illegally cross our borders , and without even lifting a finger , they ll be living in the lap of luxury in cher s mansion on the coast of california in malibu , where the 1 % who advocate for the little guy live .
according to this report from zillow , cher had her 13,000 sq .
ft. home listed with hilton & hyland for a mere $ 45 million in 2010 , at which time it did not sell .
the home has 7 bedrooms and 9 bathrooms .
she clearly has enough room for hundreds of illegal aliens.from zillow : last august , we reported that cher s malibu home was up for sale for $ 45 million .
the place didn t sell and according to the la times , cher withdrew the listing in may , spending the past few months re-doing the interior.well , it looks like cher is satisfied with the re-do ; her home at 25142 pacific coast highway , malibu , ca is back on the market this time for $ 41 million .
so , in three months time , cher s house comes with a new interior and a price whack of $ 4 million .
anyone in the market for a 13,000+ sq ft home with 7 bedrooms , 9 bathrooms , a theater and a gym that sits on a 1.7 acre-malibu bluff with a tennis court , an infinity pool and a guesthouse ? it is being listed by hilton & hyland.in the meantime , cher had better luck on the big island of hawaii , selling her home in an auction on jan. 18 , 2010 , for $ 8.72 million .