sao paulo ( reuters ) - presidential hopeful jo o doria , the mayor of brazil s largest city , made it clear on monday that he is not married to the centrist brazilian social democracy party ( psdb ) and is open to courtship from other parties .
the stance of the rising young star of brazilian politics will put the psdb under pressure since his mentor and party stalwart , geraldo alckmin , the governor of sao paulo , also plans a presidential bid in next year s elections .
i will become a candidate the day i declare and have the support of a party , doria told reporters after addressing a business conference in sao paulo on monday , without naming the psdb .
while he has not announced that he will run , the 59-year-old self-made millionaire and former tv presenter has said he would accept if nominated by his party .
a datafolha poll in june showed doria is little known by brazilian voters compared to alckmin , but he has a far lower rejection rate and is on track to become more popular than the governor , who lost a presidential bid in 2004 to workers party incumbent luiz inacio lula da silva .
alckmin has said publicly that he intends to run in the oct. 7 election and favors a u.s.-style primary if the psdb has several contenders for the nomination .
doria opposes holding a primary and has not ruled out quitting the party .
in an interview published on monday by the estado de s.paulo newspaper , the mayor said the party should pick its candidate based on who the opinion polls say is more popular .
doria said he would continue in the psdb but that other parties were reaching out to him and he left open the option of leaving to run for president .
i intend to continue in the psdb , until some circumstance prevents me from doing so , he told the newspaper in paris , where he met on friday with french president emmanuel macron , a similarly young untested politician who rapidly rose to office .
doria , an outsider who won his first election last year in a landslide victory for sao paulo mayor , has become a potential favorite center-right candidate offering an fresh clean face among brazil s corruption-plagued political class .