bill s gon na wish his corrupt wife never ran for president by the time trump is finished exposing this family of grifters .
this is more than just about trump winning , it s about trump doing the job the media should have been doing to expose hillary clinton as an accomplice to her perverted husband for decades fresh from using the r word during a recent sit-down with sean hannity , donald trump on monday released on instagram a new campaign ad against hillary clinton featuring the voice of bill clinton s rape accuser , juanita broaddrick .
he starts to bite on my top lip and i try to pull away from him , broaddrick is heard saying in the brief ad .
bill clinton can be seen in the background with a cigar in his mouth.watch here : is hillary really protecting women ? a video posted by donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) on may 23 , 2016 at 8:27am pdtyou got ta love the cackle at the end the broaddrick audio comes from an emotional interview that she gave to nbc s dateline in 1999 describing the alleged rape.broaddrick says clinton raped her at a hotel when she was a nursing home administrator volunteering for then-arkansas attorney general bill clinton s 1978 gubernatorial bid.she told nbc s dateline that she resisted when clinton suddenly kissed her : then he tries to kiss me again .
and the second time he tries to kiss me he starts biting my lip he starts to , um , bite on my top lip and i tried to pull away from him .
and then he forces me down on the bed .
and i just was very frightened , and i tried to get away from him and i told him no , that i didn t want this to happen but he wouldn t listen to me .
it was a real panicky , panicky situation .
i was even to the point where i was getting very noisy , you know , yelling to please stop .
and that s when he pressed down on my right shoulder and he would bite my lip .
when everything was over with , he got up and straightened himself , and i was crying at the moment and he walks to the door , and calmly puts on his sunglasses .
and before he goes out the door he says you better get some ice on that .
and he turned and went out the door .
in an interview with this reporter last week , broaddrick was asked to comment on the statements made by trump at a campaign stop earlier this month , where the presidential candidate slammed hillary clinton as unbelievably nasty , mean enabler who destroyed the lives of her husband s mistresses and alleged victims.broaddrick replied : i feel like she has been the enabler behind him in allowing him to continue on the same path that he did back in the 70s and 80s and 90s .
he has absolutely no morals when it comes to women .
via : breitbart news