j.r. smith 21st century wirefor the last two months , the us media has continued to ramp-up the alleged alarming trend of hate crimes against jewish institutions and sites in america .
on march 13th , cnn ran the headline , jewish center bomb threats top 100 ; kids pulled from schools .
clearly , media outlets like cnn were pushing a sensational , fear-based narrative , and propagating the idea that there is a crisis .initially , donald trump expressed skepticism about the rather bizarre and completely spontaneous spike in reports of attacks and threats to jewish facilities in the us , suggesting in late february that the threats were being done to make others look bad , inferring that this string of events might be a false flag .
predictably , trump was roundly attacked for questioning the anti-semitic narrative.it turns out , that trump was very likely correct .
on thursday , a 19 yr-old us-israeli dual citizen was arrested by israeli police in conjunction with an ongoing fbi investigation into the supposed wave of threats made to jewish communities and institutions in the united states , as well as in several other countries over the past few months .
so far , the suspect is said to be behind the majority of the threats and used cyber-camouflage software to conceal his identity while carrying out his erroneous false flag actions .
also , according to an israeli government official , the suspect s father has also been arrested on the same charges indicating this was a coordinated , organized effort.the israeli father and son duo were not the only party in on this trend either .
earlier this month we learned also that the fbi had arrested a former journalist , juan thompson , who the bureau say was behind at least eight cases .
authorities described his menacing calls as part of his campaign to harass a woman , said the washington post .
the williams case was almost invisible in the us mainstream media who seems to have collectively opted not to give this , or any other related revelations , a fraction of the oxygen which it originally gave the slew of alleged hate crimes .
arrested : andrew mcclintonif anyone should be skeptical of false flag hate crimes , it s trump .
during , and after the us election , a string of faked hate crimes were carried out and eventually exposed as fake incidents all designed to discredit donald trump and his supporters .
the worst of these was a fake racist attack on a church in greenville , mississippi which was burned down , with the words vote trump spray-painted on the wall .
pro-clinton news outlets all loudly ran the story without questioning its merit or its timing .
the media bought it , of course , but it was later revealed that the incident was a false flag staged just days before the november election .
the arsonist turned out to be an african-american and de facto hillary clinton supporter , andrew mcclinton of leland , mississippi.in addition to the fake church attack , liberal and democratic party supporters and media operatives also promoted astring of fake hate crimes against muslims , including a fabricated a story in lafayette , louisiana , where a muslim woman lied to police about being attacked and having her hijab ripped off , and a similar fabricated story by another muslim woman in new york who made up a fake hate crime on subway .
in both instances , the media , eager to use these dubious stories in order to inflict political damage against trump , ran gleefully with the story.one can not calculate the real damage done to trust between communities and faith and ethnic relations , as a result of all of these fake hate crime stunts and their initial media coveragetrump surrogate anthony scaramucci echoed the president s suspicion of the sudden spate of threats to jewish sites in the us : it 's not yet clear who the # jcc offenders are .
do n't forget @ thedemocrats effort to incite violence at trump rallies https : //t.co/utbfghi0kh anthony scaramucci ( @ scaramucci ) february 28 , 2017like the president , his former advisor scaramucci was castigated by a number of media outlets who had adopted the jewish alarmist narrative of events .
not surprisingly , the pro-israel , anti-russian and unofficial nato mouthpiece , the daily beast and its writer gideon resnik , helped advance accusations of anti-semitism against the us president : after a slew of bomb threats forced evacuations at jewish community centers and schools in 11 states on monday , president trump reportedly suggested that the threats may have been done to make others look bad .
unfortunately , this recent denial fits in with a clear pattern that we have seen from trump , which includes dismissing jewish reporters asking about violence , refusing to include a reference to jews suffering in the white house s official statement on holocaust remembrance day , failing to denounce david duke , tweeting anti-semitic imagery , and elevating white nationalist steve bannon as his top advisor , dnc spokesperson eric walker said.it wasn t long before the notoriously reactionary anti-defamation league ( adl ) weighed in : jonathan greenblatt , the ceo of the anti-defamation league , responded by saying : we are astonished by what the president reportedly said .
it is incumbent upon the white house to immediately clarify these remarks .
this talking point reached a crescendo just in time for president donald trump s march 14th speech to congress , when the lobby dispatched pennsylvania attorney general josh shapiro to the white house to try and press trump just two days after a jewish cemetery was vandalized in philadelphia , and a week after a jewish cemetery in st. louis was ransacked ( in both cases , police had not made any arrests , so it is unknown who did these incidents , or why they did it ) .in the hysterical atmosphere created in part by the media s amplification of this alleged hate trend and under direct pressure from the lobby , it appeared that at the last minute trump was made to inject the jewish alarmist talking point at the beginning of his address to the joint session on national tv .
trump proclaimed the recent threats against jewish community centers acts of hate and evil , but the insertion of this talking point seemed highly awkward.still not content with the president s clear patronage of the issue , the anne frank center jumped on the anti-semitism bandwagon , with its head steven goldstein stating afterwards : the president didn t say exactly what he would do to fight anti-semitism how he could have stayed so vague ?
we ve endured weeks of anti-semitic attacks across america and we didn t hear a single proposal from the president tonight to stop them , goldstein said .
all of this smacked of political opportunism by the adl and its affiliates .
but the core failure in all of these stories is the fact that no one working in any of these mainstream broadcast networks had dared question the narrative .
rather than actually doing what their job supposedly is investigating the facts and providing a healthy level of skepticism of politically motivated events and trends that supposedly spring up out of nowhere they all simply repeated what was on the memo.so after all that spinning , it turns out the donald trump may be correct and the media , the adl , the southern poverty law center , the anne frank center and every other mouthpiece for the israeli lobby were all wrong on this issue .
regarding this week s arrest of the 19 yr-old israeli man , the washington post adds : the fbi handed over the information to the israel police after finding these threats had originated from israel , haaretz reported .
the investigation began in several countries simultaneously after dozens of threatening calls were received at public places , events , synagogues and community buildings that caused panic and disrupted events and activities in various organizations , the israel police said in a statement .
the result of the threats made by the suspect had caused damage to the communities and to their security and in one case when threats were made by the suspect , caused an airline to make an emergency landing .
the israel police said the suspect had used advanced camouflage technologies when contacting the institutions and making those threats .
the youth s computers were seized and he was brought in for arraignment before an israeli court.maybe the media should be more careful before jumping to conclusions about who is responsible for events that suddenly appear in our news feeds .
that includes jumping to conclusions about the ever popular talking point of isis-inspired terror attacks in the us , uk , france , and germany .
more often than not , all is not what it seems.read more israel news at : 21st century wire israel filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv