wow peter schweizer , author of the chilling clinton cash book better make sure he has bodyguards wherever he goes , because his book could be the reason for the collapse of the clinton crime family s house of cards .secret recordings of a suspect talking about the clinton foundation fueled an internal battle between fbi agents who wanted to pursue the case and corruption prosecutors who viewed the statements as worthless hearsay , people familiar with the matter said.agents , using informants and recordings from unrelated corruption investigations , thought they had found enough material to merit aggressively pursuing the investigation into the foundation that started in summer 2015 based on claims made in a book by a conservative author called clinton cash : the untold story of how and why foreign governments and businesses helped make bill and hillary rich , these people said.the account of the case and resulting dispute comes from interviews with officials at multiple agencies.starting in february and continuing today , investigators from the federal bureau of investigation and public-corruption prosecutors became increasingly frustrated with each other , as often happens within and between departments .
at the center of the tension stood the u.s. attorney for brooklyn , robert capers , who some at the fbi came to view as exacerbating the problems by telling each side what it wanted to hear , these people said .
through a spokeswoman , mr. capers declined to comment.the roots of the dispute lie in a disagreement over the strength of the case , these people said , which broadly centered on whether clinton foundation contributors received favorable treatment from the state department under hillary clinton .
senior officials in the justice department and the fbi didn t think much of the evidence , while investigators believed they had promising leads their bosses wouldn t let them pursue , they said.these details on the probe are emerging amid the continuing furor surrounding fbi director james comey s disclosure to congress that new emails had emerged that could be relevant to a separate , previously closed fbi investigation of mrs. clinton s email arrangement while she was secretary of state.on wednesday , president barack obama took the unusual step of criticizing the fbi when asked about mr. comey s disclosure of the emails.amid the internal finger-pointing on the clinton foundation matter , some have blamed the fbi s no .
2 official , deputy director andrew mccabe , claiming he sought to stop agents from pursuing the case this summer .
his defenders deny that , and say it was the justice department that kept pushing back on the investigation.wsj the political organization of virginia gov .
terry mcauliffe , an influential democrat with longstanding ties to bill and hillary clinton , gave nearly $ 500,000 to the election campaign of the wife of an official at the federal bureau of investigation who later helped oversee the investigation into mrs. clinton s email use.campaign finance records show mr. mcauliffe s political-action committee donated $ 467,500 to the 2015 state senate campaign of dr. jill mccabe , who is married to andrew mccabe , now the deputy director of the fbi.the virginia democratic party , over which mr. mcauliffe exerts considerable control , donated an additional $ 207,788 worth of support to dr. mccabe s campaign in the form of mailers , according to the records .
that adds up to slightly more than $ 675,000 to her candidacy from entities either directly under mr. mcauliffe s control or strongly influenced by him .
the figure represents more than a third of all the campaign funds dr. mccabe raised in the effort.mr .
mccabe s supervision of the clinton email case in 2016 wasn t seen as a conflict or an ethics issue because his wife s campaign was over by then and mr. mcauliffe wasn t part of the email probe , officials said.much of the skepticism toward the case came from how it started with the publication of a book suggesting possible financial misconduct and self-dealing surrounding the clinton charity .
the author of that book , peter schweizer a former speechwriting consultant for president george w. bush was interviewed multiple times by fbi agents , people familiar with the matter said.the clinton campaign has long derided the book as a poorly researched collection of false claims and unsubstantiated assertions .
the clinton foundation has denied any wrongdoing , saying it does immense good throughout the world.mr .
schweizer said in an interview that the book was never meant to be a legal document , but set out to describe patterns of financial transactions that circled around decisions hillary clinton was making as secretary of state .
as 2015 came to a close , the fbi and justice department had a general understanding that neither side would take major action on clinton foundation matters without meeting and discussing it first .
in february , a meeting was held in washington among fbi officials , public-integrity prosecutors and leslie caldwell , the head of the justice department s criminal division .
prosecutors from the eastern district of new york mr. capers office didn t attend , these people said.the public-integrity prosecutors weren t impressed with the fbi presentation , people familiar with the discussion said .
the message was , we re done here , a person familiar with the matter said.justice department officials became increasingly frustrated that the agents seemed to be disregarding or disobeying their instructions.following the february meeting , officials at justice department headquarters sent a message to all the offices involved to stand down , a person familiar with the matter said.the fbi had secretly recorded conversations of a suspect in a public-corruption case talking about alleged deals the clintons made , these people said .
the agents listening to the recordings couldn t tell from the conversations if what the suspect was describing was accurate , but it was , they thought , worth checking out.for entire story : wsj