paris ( reuters ) - president emmanuel macron s labor reforms will be slow to bear fruit but eventually have a massive impact on france s stubbornly high unemployment , his labor minister said tuesday after data showed a slowdown in new job creation .
though business and consumer confidence has been soaring , france s strengthening economy has so far only translated into limited labor market gains .
job creation was the slowest in two years in the third quarter , when the economy added 44,500 new jobs , the fewest since the third quarter of 2015 and down from 88,300 in the previous three months , statistics agency insee said on tuesday .
in his first major reform as president , macron overhauled france s labor rules in september to give companies more freedom to set working conditions , a move aimed at encouraging them to hire more workers .
we can t expect a massive effect in the very short term .
it will only come in the medium term .
however it will be robust and more massive , labour minister muriel penicaud told journalists in a quarterly update on the jobs market .
despite the improving economy , the unemployment rate ticked up to 9.7 percent in the third quarter from 9.5 percent in the previous three months .
economists say this was probably caused by the end of a hiring premium for small firms and a reduction in the number of government-subsidised job contracts .
only two percent of 1,000 french employers surveyed by staffing firm manpowergroup expect to expand their hiring plans in the first quarter of 2018 , down from four percent expected for the final three months of this year .
however , the outlook varies widely by firm size , with 19 percent of companies employing more than 250 people expecting a net increase in hiring in the first quarter , according to manpowergroup s survey .
after the labor reform , the government next wants to overhaul the professional training system , which currently receives 32 billion euros annually in public and private funds ( $ 37.67 billion ) but has little impact on unemployment .
companies can not find skilled labor even though their order books are full .
i hear that every day , said penicaud , who is a former human resources director at danone .