( reuters ) - the democratic and republican nominees for the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election are decided in a series of state-by-state contests .
the key to winning the nomination for each party is ultimately not about the popular vote , but about securing the number of delegates needed to win the nomination at each party ’ s convention - july 18-21 in cleveland for the republicans and july 25-28 in philadelphia for the democrats .
the following is a guide to the nominating process : q : is the delegate selection process the same for the republican and democratic parties ?
a : no .
the parties set their own rules .
one thing that is the same is that at each party convention , a candidate needs to reach only a simple majority of the delegate votes to win the nomination .
q : how many delegates are there ?
a : the democratic convention will be attended by about 4,763 delegates , with 2,382 delegates needed to win the nomination .
the republican convention will be attended by 2,472 delegates , with 1,237 delegates needed to win .
q : i keep hearing about “ superdelegates. ” are they different from other delegates ?
do both the republicans and democrats have superdelegates ?
a : superdelegates , officially known as unpledged delegates , are a sort of wild card in the nominating process , but only the democrats have them .
the category was created for the 1984 democratic convention , and according to political scientists , they are a legacy of the 1980 convention when there was a fight for the nomination between president jimmy carter , who was seeking a second term in the white house , and senator edward kennedy of massachusetts .
members of congress were frustrated by their lack of influence , because delegates elected to support one candidate could not switch to support another .
so democratic members of the house of representatives led an effort to win a role for themselves .
that resulted in the creation of superdelegates .
unlike other delegates , superdelegates may change what candidate they are supporting right up to the convention .
there is no fixed number of superdelegates because the group is defined by various categories whose members change from one election cycle to another .
here is who gets to be a superdelegate : all democratic members of the house of representatives and the senate ; the democratic governors ; the democratic president and vice president of the united states ; former democratic presidents and vice presidents ; former democratic leaders of the u.s. senate ; former democratic speakers of the house and former democratic minority leaders .
throw in the members of the democratic national committee and the former chairs of the dnc and you finally have the whole pool of superdelegates .
q : what about the other delegates ?
do they get to choose which candidate to support ?
a : both the democratic and republican parties send delegates to their conventions based on the popular vote in the primary elections and caucuses held in each of the 50 states .
but the parties have different rules on how delegates are allotted to a candidate .
the democratic party applies uniform rules to all states .
in each state , delegates are allocated in proportion to the percentage of the primary or caucus vote in each district .
but a candidate must win at least 15 percent of the vote to be allocated any delegates .
the republican party lets states determine their own rules , although it does dictate some things .
some states award delegates proportionate to the popular vote , although most such states have a minimum percentage that a candidate must reach to win any delegates .
some other states use the winner-take-all method , in which the candidate with the highest percentage of the popular vote is awarded all the delegates .
other states use a combination of the two methods .
states that use the proportionate method may instead use the winner-take-all method if one candidate wins more than 50 percent of the popular vote .
in addition , the republican party requires that all states with nominating contests held between march 1 and march 14 use the proportional method , meaning that all the states holding votes on super tuesday will have to award delegates proportionally .
q : what happens to delegates if a candidate drops out of the race ?
a : another good question , because we have certainly seen that happen this year .
for the democratic party , in every state , delegates are reallocated to the remaining candidates .
for the republican party , it varies by state .
in some states , delegates are required to stick with their original candidate at least through the first ballot at the republican national convention .
in some other states , if a candidate drops out , his or her delegates may immediately pledge to another candidate .
there is also a middle ground in which those delegates are reallocated to the remaining candidates .
graphic on the delegate count : tmsnrt.rs/1qhzulm graphic on super tuesday delegates won : tmsnrt.rs/1rabdg7 republican national committee : here here democratic national committee : here battlopedia : here , _2016 vote for bernie : here www.realclearpolitics.com here here www.demconvention.com/