washington ( reuters ) - the united states in july 2019 will end a special status given to about 59,000 haitian immigrants that protects them from deportation after a devastating 2010 earthquake , senior trump administration officials said on monday .
the decision by acting homeland security secretary elaine duke gives haitians 18 months to return to their impoverished caribbean country or legalize their status in the united states .
former president barack obama ’ s administration granted haitian nationals in the united states so-called temporary protected status , or tps , for 18 months after a 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck near haiti ’ s capital , port-au-prince , in january 2010 , killing more than 300,000 people .
the obama administration extended the status several times after the initial designation .
duke decided to terminate the special status after a u.s. review of the conditions in haiti found the country had made considerable progress , a senior official with president donald trump ’ s administration told a briefing .
“ it was assessed overall that the extraordinary but temporary conditions that served as the basis of haiti ’ s most recent designation has sufficiently improved such that they no longer prevent nationals of haiti from returning safely , ” the official said .
in may , then-homeland security secretary john kelly extended the status for haitians for six months through january 2018 .
at the time , kelly told reporters that tps “ is not meant to be an open-ended law but a temporary law. ” the decision to end tps for haitians is part of trump ’ s broader efforts to tighten restrictions on immigration , and comes despite calls from even some fellow republicans to continue the relief .
republican senator marco rubio of florida published an opinion piece in the miami herald on friday urging the administration to renew haiti ’ s tps designation for another 18 months , citing ongoing natural disasters , health epidemics and security issues since the 2010 quake .
duke in september ended protected status for citizens of sudan as of 2018 , but extended it for citizens of south sudan through mid-2019 .
this month , duke decided to end the status for nicaraguan immigrants , but extended the program for honduran immigrants until july 2018 .. thousands of nicaraguans and hondurans received the special status in 1999 after hurricane mitch devastated central america .
the washington post reported that kelly pressured duke to end the program for hondurans , but duke denied the reports .