setting the stage of the press-president war.us ruling ideology and washington power have become unstuck as never before .
a war of opposing certitudes and denunciations is waged day to day between the long-ruling us corporate media and the white house .
both continuously proclaim ringing recriminations of the other s fake news .
over months they both portray each other as malevolent liars .
prof. john mcmurtry global researchus bully pulpits are now beyond show disagreements and successful media inquisitions of the past .
slanderous accusations long confined to vilifying the designated enemy have crept into accusations of the president himself .
the russians are coming is returning as the final recourse of smear to stop deviations from the global program of hugely profitable enemy hate and perpetual preparations for foreign war.the ruling big lies of the us money party and corporate globalization have divided into opposing camps .
the press and the president denounce each other non-stop on the public stage , while us dark state agents take sides behind the scenes.fake news is the medium of battle.tracking the real fake news built into corporate globalizationbeneath the civil war of official narratives , cognitive space opens for truth long suffocated by the washington consensus .
even the us-led g-20 has recently agreed not to automatically condemn protectionism as an economic evil .
the battle slogan of transnational corporate rule over 30 years has been quietly withdrawn on the global stage.is the big lie of free trade finally coming to ground ?
it has long led the hollowing out of societies and life support systems across the world in a false mass promotion as freedom and prosperity for all .
in fact beneath the pervasive fake news , a closed-door transnational corporate command system forces all enterprises across borders into a carbon-multiplying trade regime with thousands of rules to protect the transnational corporate looting and ruin of home economies and environments as the only rights enforced.propagandist names and fake freedoms are proclaimed everywhere to conceal the reality .
the corporate-investor regime has stripped out almost all evolved protections of workers , ecologies and social infrastructures .
non-stop liquidations and roboticizations of local jobs and enterprises are reversed in meaning to jobs , jobs , jobs and higher living standards , the very opposite of the facts .
destabilization and bombing wars attack resource-rich and air-defenceless societies outside the circle of treaty subjugation.false news allows every step .
even the happy-face trudeau regime is taken aback by the tidal shift to national priorities .
its ministers scuttle around the us in near panic to find common cause for restoring the unaccountable regime .
multiplying carbon , disemployment and ecological plunder are ignored throughout in the longest standing fake news of all economic growth .in fact , there is no real economic growth in universal life necessities or reduction of waste .
the only growth is of volumes and velocities of transnational money exchanges , foreign commodities , and private profits to the top .
more prosperity for nations and the world means , decoded , more transnational corporate-state treaties to deprive nations of their rights to organization and production for citizens real needs as well as organically regulated protection of environments and ecosystems.the consequences covered over by pervasively false cover stories are speeded-up ecocidal extractions , permanent disemployments , and wastes hemorrhaging into cumulatively more polluted oceans , air , atmosphere and life habitats .
corporate-state solutions of carbon markets for pollution rights have nowhere reduced any of these life-and-death crises , but only further and selectively enriched transnational corporations.as for the obama solution , we need more canadas , fake news again conceals the reality .
beneath the global celebrity hype covering empty and broken promises , canada s trudeau regime is essentially a brand change of pm rhetoric to advance transnational corporate dictates as free trade and to ensure oil pipelines out of the most polluting oil basin in the world , alberta s tar-sands , are built through water basins and indigenous lands across canada and the us .
one can not help but observe this is trump s plan too , and overrides trudeau s promises to protect canada s first peoples.i recently sent a letter to my local mp requesting evidence for what pm trudeau promises over months of repetition that more free trade means a better life for those in the middle class and those wanting to join the middle class .
as always , there is no evidence to support the non-stop false news from the pmo .
revealingly , the middle class turns out to be people making $ 180,000 a year slated to get significant tax cuts.trump s rogue elephant charge on washington-led lies , war , and dispossession of the working class is no solution to life-blind corporate globalization .
trump in office is a us nationalist oligarch commanding policies even more blindly rapacious in despoliation of the environment and transferring far more public wealth to the rich.the common ground of all our lives , collective life capital , does not exist for any government in the free world or any policy of globalization .
the lies that must be promulgated to advance the private corporate agenda are built into its transnational command system from the beginning.out of the ruling memory hole with the internet commonsjoining the dots shows that every step of us money-party globalization has , in fact , been driven by fake news.no corporate media tolerance has been given in a quarter of a century to any voice demanding accountability to the common life-ground of citizens .
a new game of numbers has proceeded instead .
at most , a euphemistic climate change has been endlessly debated while the totalizing destabilization of human and planetary life cycles remains without a name or collective response .
only more profitable market panaceas which do not reduce any pollution continue to divert from the deepest degenerate trends destroying the planetary life host.on the upside , the big lies of free trade and humanitarian wars have been called into official question for the first time by the trump presidential campaign , and he has been elected against the official line .
yet opposing camps are still at each other s throats .
so the perpetual fallback on accusing the long-designated foreign enemy is triggered by the fallen establishment .
the fake news chorus of russia s aggressions now includes collusion of the trump administration with its officials to win the us election .
this mainspring diversion from reality is called back from the dead witch-hunts of the past .
as then tool , facts do not count , only accusations do .
the official media line is almost predictable : russia is behind trump s election victory .
as always , reverse projection is the mass-psyche operation to blame an official enemy to divert attention from the life-and-death facts .
the enemy is once again accused of doing what the us has always done worse as the reason for attacking it .
russia is the usual placeholder in this reverse-blame operation .
the 2016 us election of trump is the latest variation.meanwhile throughout the election and its aftermath , the new transnational internet commons including wiki-leaks over a decade has increasingly laid bare the greatest propaganda machine in history now in many-leveled crisis .
the long normalized half-truths , one-sided slanting of the facts , and non-stop fallacies of inference are coming out into the open as never before .
the pretexts and lies for us imperial bullying and war are exposed beyond any corporate-media gate.this time the accusation is interference and attack on the us presidential election with no evidence of wrongdoing or vote manipulation whatsoever .
yet as in the long past , the method is smear with no evidence for the accusations .
ever more media repetition and shadowy insinuation does the job .
it has always worked before , why not again since all the other media buttons pushed on taking down the trump peace initiatives with russia and opposition to globalization of us jobs have failed.having wondered during the election campaign whether we could be friends with russia and promoted diplomatic relations into his administration , trump can be named as the enemy in hiding to be rooted out .
the real problem the fake news never mentions is that he threatens the cornerstone of the us war state over 70 years.so when trump won the election with his heresy still intact , the ever-ready accusation of evil-russia connection moves into high gear although the target is the opposite of communist and an epitome of capitalist riches and connections .
we see here the historical mind-lock compulsion to blame the enemy russia and smear whoever dissents from it , even if it is a bully-capitalist president .
there are very big stakes in keeping the game going.yet the no-profit and unpaid analyses from the internet commons have no such ulterior motive and interest in false accusations .
with more objectively informed analysts than the commercial press and unimpeachable facts like wikileaks going to tens of millions of readers across the world , the genie is out of the bottle .
the official grand narrative and its normalized big lies are coming apart at the seams.so blame as usual is diverted onto the accepted enemy , now conniving with trump to attack the 2016 us presidential election .
beneath the fake news , the fact is that positive diplomatic relations with russia not only threaten to stop the highly profitable permanent war against it , but spike the longest pretext for us war and military domination now moving through ukraine.the free internet commons can not be gagged for telling the truth .
freedom of speech in the us can not be openly stopped without fatal loss of legitimacy of rule.so the rest follows .
all the non-corporate and non-profit messages from the critical sites on the internet commons which are speaking against the us war state inside are now vilified as fake news .
a third , unofficial protagonist has entered the battle with no private profit or career motive or corporate boss to serve and a wealth of proven professional knowledge and talent at work .
it has to be denounced to sustain the big lies of the ruling money-war game which is in deepening crises and conflicts all the way to the unprecedented us president-press civil war.the harvard proclamation of a new memory holethe innermost fount of us ideology and war , harvard university , has now stepped in .
it is officially naming and denouncing us-critical internet sites for fake news .not even the medieval church went so far in its index librorum prohibitorum of prohibited writings .
it was at least innocent of scientific method and openly declared its dogmas .
not harvard.underneath notice , all the sites it attacks are internet commons , and none are financed by private corporate donors and captive institutions while harvard and the corporate media are .
this is the real battle agenda underneath , the long war to privatize the news for profit as everything else with anti-establishment internet criticism now the target.in the background , harvard university has long propagated an unexamined academic method .
it normally cuts off any faculty or learned source of opposition to the private corporate rule of america and the wars of aggression to impose it on the world .
accordingly , the underling grand narrative equations of the us is good and the designated enemy is evil is not questioned .
it is presupposed .
malevolent motives are always assumed of the designated enemy , down to harvard-produced geostrategic economic and war models .
so when a host of internet commons sites challenge the grand narrative framework , harvard and satellites denounce them to stop people reading them .
a long list of critical sites is accused without criteria , proof or evidence as all spreaders of fake news .what is not recognised here is that only on the internet commons can the process of truth be free from ruling pressures to control message for external sponsors.here there is no commercial-profit condition to speak and write , and no livelihood dependence on private profit .
there is no inducement to avoid life-and-death issues in academic obfuscation or ad-vehicle style .
internet authors not on the payroll can be free of the game of all games behind the scenes enriching the rich further with no life-coherent criterion of truth.these underlying conditions of the internet commons and free speech itself can not be recognised by the academy or the corporate press without undercutting their proclaimed status as the only legitimate founts of truth .
the internet commons is a new world of competitive capacities to research , understand and disseminate not bound by private money patronage ( as over centuries in harvard university ) .when challenged in this way , harvard ( and the official press ) are set back on their heels .
they can not think the facts through because their instituted presumptions have long been what they must presuppose and not question to acquire their credentials and pay for public speech .
they must attack what calls all this into question if it effectively speaks truth to power to expose or de-legitimate the ruling system narrative as false .
harvard and the us press thus follow the reigning method of reverse projection .
they accuse the effective opposition of fake news .the most revealing fact here is that harvard authority as other academic administrations proceed in name-calling without any valid argument or demonstration the very basis of reasonable conclusion .
yet this is such a long tradition of presumptive accusation allowed against anyone designated as the enemy , and anyone else exposing the falsehood of the ruling us story of moral superiority over all others and god s blessing to lead the world by force or money.this is why only dissenting sites from the official storyline of us freedom and rightness in all things are accused as fake news .
accusation of opposing positions is so well-worn into conditioned brains that endless repetition locks it in as self-evident .
this is why attributions of vile motive are automatic from harvard or the new york times for any outside leader opposing us interference in their countries including elections .
us hypocrisy here is staggering , but unreported .
in fact , harvard s life-blind elite of war criminal geo-strategists , economic modellers and so on are fawned upon within the wider corporate rule they serve.none can engage critical facts and thought challenging the us moral superiority assumptions because they have never been required to consider them .
so they denounce them as once the church denounced apostasy.in the end , us system worship is a war-state religion .
it eliminates all enemies to its right to rule .
its globalizing system institutes the market laws of god .
war crimes are god-blessed justice.freedom of speech , the process of truth , and the us constitutionled by senior academics , journalists and technical expertise , the internet commons provide for the first time impartial witness and free speech open to public examination and circulation across borders .
they are free from corporate-rank dictate and private copy-right control.in consequence , the internet commons are liberated from private corporate profit as controlling goal .
those who know what they are talking about can speak truth to dogma and power without words to appease editors , business boards and ad revenues .
truth itself is not defined , but its principle of process is a more inclusively consistent taking into account towards life-coherent conclusiondespite google black-holing of radical legal facts , cia penetration of wikipedia , and so on , the internet commons freedom of speech is far beyond anything guaranteed in the us constitution .
in fact , the sacred us constitution that all presidents give oath to preserve , protect and defend guarantees in the end only freedom of public speech to private money demand.long before the supreme court s 2010 decision reverse-titled as citizens united , the us constitution was structured to one overriding end to remove prior limits to private-money right over all else , including to begin , the rule of british law and the lands of the first nations west of the appalachians.this is why no common life interest exists in the us constitution from the start .
people s universal human life necessities of water , food , protection and liveable environment are ruled out a-priori .
this is why civil rights themselves were first federally enforced by the commerce clause protecting freedom of commercial bus passengers including blacks to cross borders.it is also why the fourteenth amendment to protect the equal rights of freed slaves ended up being the legal basis for private-profit corporations and wealthy funds to acquire the constitutional rights of living persons ( e.g. , to freedom of speech for big money to buy elections and to avoid government access to financial records ) .even the iconic rights of life , liberty and happiness turn out to be in fact only private market rightswhich allow corporate fictive persons to unlimited money wealth , protection against public redistribution , and the freedom of private wealth alone to speak to america by buying corporate self promotions and election attack ads.the us constitution fix goes all the way back to 1787 .
as professor of constitutional law at chicago s iconic kent college of law , matthew stanton , explains in personal correspondence : [ the fix ] goes all the way back to the 1787 coup where the 39 signatories to the constitution sequestered themselves in a philadelphia meeting house , with locked doors and shuttered windows , to ostensibly make adjustments to the articles of confederation , but instead delivered an entirely new document that enabled creating a federal system centralizing control of the economy by propertied wealth .russia the enemy : the deus ex machina of fake newswe may recall that the corporate-press and wall-street-enriched candidate for the presidency , hillary clinton , started the accusation of fake news to explain her defeat .
as establishment mask of the politically correct masses with the money-war party as her paymaster , clinton blamed her fall in the 2016 us election on the new enemy she saw arising against the official story and herself .
when the glass mirror story line did not take , she joined forces with the corporate media on another plane .
fake news misled americans .
the new york times , the washington post , the tv networks , and other establishment tale tellers saw pay-dirt far beyond clinton s failed bid for president.in fact , the corporate mass media were losing marketability by the escalating appeal of free social media .
the once all-powerful press propaganda system has been increasingly deserted .
the fake news story provided a media base to condemn free internet news and commentary as immoral .
the 2016 election became the leverage for a big market grab back.very soon it was not just fake news to spike news cycles and subscriptions .
war as peace and corporate globalization as freedom found its long place of rule the enemy of russia to blame .
now the news can be that russia hacked and attacked the lost 2016 election .
russia may be a hollowed-out shell by global corporate and oligarch dispossession .
but it can still continue as pretext for us-nato war crimes and aggression reverse-blamed on it .
as the european breadbasket and newly discovered fossil-fuel rich nation , ukraine is a very big prize .
now in ukraine s us-led coup aftermath and ethnic civil war , evil russia can be an ace card again to accuse for attacking the us election.since russia led by putin is drawing the line as in crimea to support the russia-speaking region against us-led war crimes under international law ( documented in previous articles ) , all roads connect .
russia s uncontrolled aggression is reverse-projected onto the victim again in a glorious new use .
reverse blame it for interference in the us election of trump and kill russia-us peace initiatives at the same time .
no fact is required to verify the accusation , and no law broken is needed to insinuate treason of whoever relates with russia s officials in peace initiative .
it can work even against an elected us president.at the same time , the us s own record attacking other nations elections and societies is thereby erased as well continually orchestrating mass-murder and dictatorship to sabotage the electoral process from vietnam and chile to ukraine in 2010 and latin america social democracies since.if it were a story of reverse projection by a mass-murderous psychopath , it would be too much to believe .
yet it now runs the us news cycle as the big story unfolding with no evidence of us illegality , force , or non-compliance with international law .
the accusations run by themselves in us media culture and across the empire .
so as 2017 spring breaks , endless media insinuations of treason seep into the populace from corporate media sites across borders with backrooms and congress setting up for another presidential inquisition.it is interesting to observe two precedents .
past inquisitions were unfolded soon after bill clinton said in india , it s time to level up rather than down in global trade and richard nixon founded the environmental protections agency , stopped corporations from outsourcing us jobs , and made peace with china as trump sought with russia.the ludicrous hypocrisy , factual vacuum , and war-drums of blame-the-enemy go into high-volume operation again , led by an attack-dog media against the elected us president whose only action has been to have business-like relations with russia .
few observe the immense stakes of the us media and war establishments in this process .
cui bono ?
who benefits ?
is the question never asked continue this article at global researchread more about fake news at : 21st century wire fake news files