21st century wire says incredibly , on the same day that us intelligence officials were due to meet president-elect donald trump about the alleged russian hack report like clockwork , another active shooter event springs-up , this time at fort lauderdale international airport in florida .
very dramatic , great television drama on cnn and elsewhere .
as a result , no us news channel covered the epic flop of the cia s report debacle and trump s reaction to it until the evening news cycle.stay tuned to 21wire later on , for a full daily shooter report on today s fort lauderdale airport attack.thus far , we re told that the suspect got off a delta flight from anchorage , alaska , calmly collected his bags , went into a bathroom , loaded his gun ( which we re told was stored legally in his check-on luggage ) and stepped into the baggage claim area and began shooting and killing people.and just when you thought this story couldn t get any more ridiculous , we re meant to swallow this just now , cnn reported that suspect esteban santiago was a member of the national guard , served in iraq , and was hearing isis voices in his head .
anchor erin burnett stated on air : the shooter went into fbi office in anchorage ( alaska ) and told officials he was hearing voices in his head telling him to join isis !
indeed , exactly as 21wire predicted yesterday : cia # russianhacking report out monday .
our guess : there 's nothing in it .
what will obama do as distraction ?
new hack ?
# isis attack ?
21st century wire ( @ 21wire ) january 6 , 2017as expected , cnn is pushing the mental health angle , with panel experts talking-up the need for more gun control and mental health checks .
here s the official mainstream narrative ( cnn ) five people were shot dead and eight wounded in a baggage claim area at fort lauderdale s airport , and law enforcement sources tell cnn the suspect , identified as esteban santiago , had brought the firearm in his checked luggage.authorities said it was too early to understand why the suspect , who was taken into custody without incident , opened fire at the florida airport.florida sen. bill nelson told cnn that santiago had a military identification card , but he did not know whether it was current.here s the latest on what we know : thirteen people were shot and eight were taken to hospitals , broward county sheriff scott israel said .
five others died from their wounds .
the suspect joined the national guard in puerto rico in 2007 .
in april 2010 , he went to iraq for 10 months .
a spokeswoman for the alaska army national guard said santiago was in the army reserves before he joined the guard there in november 2014 .
lt. col. candis olmstead said santiago was discharged in august for unsatisfactory performance .
the suspect showed up several months ago at the fbi office in anchorage , law enforcement officials told cnn .
he was interviewed and said he was hearing voices in his head , including some telling him to join isis .
he was taken to a hospital for a mental health evaluation , voluntarily checked himself in , the officials explained .
law enforcement sources told cnn that the suspect flew to florida on friday from alaska and had declared the firearm .
when he arrived at the airport , the suspect retrieved a bag at baggage claim , took out the gun and started firing , the sources said .
one source said he went to the bathroom to get the gun out of his luggage and emerged firing .
sheriff israel said the gunman likely acted alone .
the sheriff said it was too early to say whether terrorism was the motive .
gov .
rick scott told reporters at the airport : the citizens of florida will not tolerate senseless acts of evil .
whoever is responsible will held accountable to the fullest extent of the law .
the governor said that now was time to mourn the dead and pray for hospitalized victims , not talk about gun laws .
multiple reports on social media including tweets from former white house spokesman ari fleischer described the shooting.continue the mainstream story at cnnread more daily shooter news at : 21wire daily shooter filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv