muhoroni , kenya ( reuters ) - kenya s repeat presidential election , boycotted this week by millions , has reignited long-running tensions between ethnic communities in some areas , leading inhabitants of one small village in the west to pick up traditional arms on saturday .
in the bright green sugarcane fields where the western nyanza region rolls toward the nandi hills , two tribes the luo and the kalenjin have lived in relative peace for years .
but in the village of koguta , down the road from the town of mugoroni in kisumu county , thursday s polarizing vote reignited old grievances .
the stand-off , defused by an emergency intervention of three county governors , was a stark reminder of how easily kenya s months-long political crisis could spark the type of ethnic violence that killed 1,200 people after a flawed 2007 vote .
on one side of koguta are kalenjins , here ardent supporters of president uhuru kenyatta and his kalenjin deputy , william ruto .
but the luos across the road support opposition leader raila odinga , who called for a boycott of the vote because he said it would not be fair .
some of the luos here fought police to stop ballot boxes being delivered .
the luo accused the kalenjin of stealing cattle and burning their sugarcane crop in revenge , prompting both sides to grab machetes , spears , bows and arrows , and wooden clubs .
this is an area where they tried to come in with ballot boxes , there was serious resistance , so that was the genesis of all this enmity between the kalenjins and the luos , said julius genga , a county legislator , as a colleague stood atop a sports utility vehicle to calm a crowd of men with spears .
the opposition dismissed the vote as a sham although kenyatta s supporters say it was legitimate .
protests stopped four counties from opening polling stations at all .
only a third of voters turned up , and the opposition is likely to challenge the poll in court .
this has to do with politics , said collins owuor , 21 , holding a machete .
before politics we did not have problems with these people .
in the distance , where smoke rose from sugarcane fields , reuters saw police speaking to spear-wielding kalenjins , but the local police chief warned journalists away .
by the end of the afternoon s meetings , the cattle had been returned and officials said they hoped the risk of violence had been quelled .
koguta is not the only place where simmering ethnic tensions have broken into the open .
on friday night in the nairobi slum of kawangware , a man was beaten to death and homes and shop burned down amid rumors that a tribal militia had infiltrated the neighborhood of a different tribe .
in thursday s vote , kenyatta only faced six minor candidates , none of whom won more than 1 percent in august , and that and the low turnout have quashed his hopes of securing a decisive mandate to lead east africa s richest economy .
deputy president william ruto , kenyatta s running mate , told cnn on saturday he expected the final tally from the vote to be ready by sunday : shortly we will be having a declaration and finally a swearing in , in accordance with the constitution .
the election board said on saturday it would soon announce a new plan for the nearly 30 of 290 constituencies that have not voted yet .
the constitution says the vote must be held in every constituency .
more legal cases against the election are expected next week .
if the courts fail to find a path out of the crisis , including a possible order for another rerun , the protracted and economically damaging stalemate between the kenyatta and odinga camps is likely to continue .
the electoral saga is polarizing the nation and slowing growth in what has been one of africa s most vibrant economies , which is also a regional trade hub and a security ally for western nations .
in odinga strongholds , residents accused authorities of trying to force voter participation .
this is pure oppression , said hassan hussein , a muslim community leader .
the law says if you want to vote , you vote , if not , you don t .