the washington post published an article with a video of 9-year old ava lovley of newport , maine , in the back seat of the family car , that captured her reaction when her mother , kim , told her that they were going to a donald trump rally in january , 2016 .
we re republicans , but we re not political people at all , kim lovley told us by phone when we spoke on tuesday afternoon .
ava was a big trump fan , though , and had been tracking his candidacy since he announced .
she said she loved his hair and that he speaks his mind , kim said .
and since ava herself is a bit outspoken , that appealed.kim arranged for the family to see trump at an event in farmington , n.h. , about three miles from newport , just over the state line .
when i put [ the video ] on facebook , basically it was just for our friends and family to see how happy she was , kim said .
it wasn t for any political agenda .
when a friend helped her upload the video to youtube , though , it blew up .
kim and her husband jason had been fielding phone calls from members of the media all day.neither of them has decided whom to vote for , by the way .
i d never been to a rally and a rally is not where her mother wanted to be yesterday , kim lovley told us by phone when we spoke on tuesday afternoon .
but after going to the rally , i was quite compelled by hearing what mr. trump had to say .
i thought he gave a great rally .
ava enjoyed it , too , naturally .
ava had the best time ! !
! , jason lovley reported on facebook .
she enjoyed every minute !
twitter resurrected the viral video yesterday and tolerant hate-filled liberals have done everything from threatening the little girl to suggesting that her parents should have thrown her out onto the road .
unfortunately , for democrats , independent voters have been turned off by their party and the hate they spew .
every time independent voters see reactions like these to an innocent little girl being attacked for being excited to see her favorite presidential candidate , it helps to confirm who they don t want to be associated with.liberals wasted no time attacking the little girl : this the ugliest shit i ve ever seen https : //t.co/vmr6k0h2ap nazanin kavari ( @ nazaninkavari ) november 21 , 2017liberal twitter users attacked her because of the color of her skin.this is singlehandedly the whitest , most unseasoned thing i 've ever watched .
pic.twitter.com/bpze39wddz ( @ iwishyouweregay ) november 19 , 2017bentley coop threatened the little 9-year old girl , i will punch that lil girl in ha face .
i will punch that lil girl in ha face .
oh my word face ass .. fuck trump https : //t.co/i4xglpi2nr bentley coop ( @ erykahnobadu_ ) november 21 , 2017two different twitter users used gif s to suggest that her parents should have thrown her out of the car or better yet , over a cliff : if i was in the car with them pic.twitter.com/k4bcj2wb0l marc ( @ marckardashian ) november 21 , 2017throw the whole kid away pic.twitter.com/7yo68evpad spicy ( @ ludawl ) november 21 , 2017this tweet is a perfect example of how liberals have overused the word racist that is no longer has any real meaning to most people.can racists stop reproducing ? ?
like fuck y'all could benefit from free birth control https : //t.co/360kyplmrj lindsay phoenix ( @ mylittlemortys ) november 21 , 2017so many twitter users seem to think that it s okay to mock her because of her skin color .
of course , liberals never think of themselves as intolerant , but the truth is , they are the most intolerant and racist group of people in america .
pic.twitter.com/oyu3z1qavy valeria ( @ strangerdoians ) november 19 , 2017and finally , this white twitter user asks , imagine being this white ?
imagine being this white faggot crocodile wet tea ( @ sunflowereilish ) november 19 , 2017h/t gateway pundit