cairo ( reuters ) - egyptian human rights lawyer and opposition leader khaled ali said on monday he would challenge president abdel fattah al-sisi in the 2018 presidential election , provided he is not barred from the contest .
ali is the first person to announce he is running against sisi , a former military commander who led the ouster of former president mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood over four years ago .
ali told a news conference he would have a socialist platform , aiming to end austerity and redistribute wealth , and fight terrorism without compromising freedom .
he criticized sisi s administration , accusing it of suppressing freedoms and causing deteriorating economic and security conditions .
in spite of all the darkness , there is still hope .
i call on all segments of society to unite in collective struggle to reclaim this hope and to rescue this nation , he said .
it is because of this that i have decided today to launch a presidential campaign .
sisi himself has yet to declare if he will run but is widely expected to do so .
he won 97 percent of the vote in 2014 .
many in egypt see him as vital to stability in a country where unrest since 2011 has battered the economy .
under sisi s presidency , thousands of dissidents have been jailed .
the government has shut down independent media and heavily restricted the conducting of opinion polls .
ali said earlier on monday security forces had raided a printing press and seized materials for his campaign , after media reports that he was expected to announce his candidacy .
security forces accused the owner of the press of printing documents that harm national security , ali told reuters .
state news agency mena said a high ranking security source denied police had raided a printing press .
if it appeared elections were being rigged , ali said , he would call for a boycott by opposition candidates , forcing sisi to be the sole contender .
egypt s presidency could not be reached for comment on ali s plan to run .
state-owned newspaper al-gomhuriya ran an article on monday with the headline khaled ali and the ploys of dwarves , attacking him as an attention-seeker .
it said ali had ties to the muslim brotherhood and received illegal foreign funding .
it did not provide evidence for its claims , which ali denies .
a cairo court sentenced ali in september to three months in jail for public indecency , over an allegedly rude hand gesture .
ali has appealed , denying the charges which he says are politically motivated .
if the guilty verdict is upheld he will not be allowed to run , even if he is not jailed .
the 45-year-old gained prominence in january when he won a case that nullified a government transfer of two red sea islands to saudi arabia , a deal that had prompted mass protests .
it was after winning that case that ali is alleged to have made the gesture .
egypt s reclaiming of the islands would be a cornerstone of his campaign , he said .
he told reuters in an interview in june the case had swayed the opinion of many former sisi supporters who oppose ceding sovereign territory .
ali ran for president in 2012 and came seventh .
he was the youngest candidate at 40 , the minimum age required to run .
he now leads the leftwing bread and freedom party , at least eight of whose members have been arrested since april on charges including misusing social media to incite against the state and insulting the president .