johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa s ruling african national congress ( anc ) is doing everything possible to avoid a split in the party after elections for a new leader this month , a senior official running for the top job said on wednesday .
the anc has been beset by infighting as factions supporting different candidates to succeed president jacob zuma as party leader have jostled for influence .
splits are never planned , but we are doing everything to ensure that there is no need for members of the anc to split , zweli mkhize , the anc s treasurer general , told reuters .
the party - one of africa s oldest liberation movements - splintered in 2008 when members , angered by the ousting of former president thabo mbeki from the leadership , split away to form the congress of the people ( cope ) .
some analysts have predicted an even bigger rupture could happen after the vote at the party s dec. 16-20 conference , particularly if zuma s preferred candidate , his former wife nkosazana dlamini-zuma , gets elected .
the leadership contest is still too close to call , with most grassroots anc members backing deputy president cyril ramaphosa or dlamini-zuma for anc leader .
members are also divided on who should occupy the other senior party positions which are up for grabs .
mkhize said the best way to ensure the december vote did not weaken the anc was for it to elect new leaders who appealed to a broad cross section of the party s membership .
the party should avoid having a leadership where people say it represents one faction , he said .
mkhize did not comment on his own chance of winning - the anc , which presents itself as a collective that discourages personal ambition , frowns upon its members openly campaigning for posts well ahead of an election .
but analysts say mkhize - one of the anc s top six most powerful officials - is someone who could reconcile the opposing factions supporting dlamini-zuma and ramaphosa , or be nominated at the conference as a compromise candidate .
although ramaphosa and dlamini-zuma have been nominated for party leader by far more anc branches , mkhize could still mount a serious challenge if he is nominated by a large number of party members at the conference itself .
whoever the anc elects as leader will probably become the next president of south africa because of the party s electoral dominance .
all seven anc leadership hopefuls pledged to zuma at a meeting last month that they would accept the outcome of the leadership vote in the interests of keeping the 105-year-old organization intact .
mkhize , a medical doctor by training and former party boss in zuma s home province of kwazulu-natal , said that after the conference , the anc should focus on tackling corruption , raising economic growth from a near standstill and addressing crime so it can win a 2019 national election .
the anc must be seen to be championing those issues , he said .