edinburgh ( reuters ) - scotland s devolved government has recommended that its parliament at holyrood withhold consent for legislation to withdraw britain from the european union , on the grounds that it could water down their powers , a document filed by the scottish government said on tuesday .
the approval of the devolved parliaments in scotland and wales does not represent a veto to the brexit process , although it would stretch britain s constitutional tensions yet further by forcing the uk government of prime minister theresa may to ignore the expressed wish of the devolved bodies .
scotland would work with the welsh government to propose amendments to the bill which , if agreement were reached , would allow it to recommend its passage in the devolved assemblies , the document said .
the bill will end the supremacy of eu law in the uk and convert all existing eu laws into domestic ones .
along with the welsh government , the scottish government can not recommend to the parliament that it gives consent to the bill as currently drafted , the document filed with the scottish parliament said .
the scottish government is also clear that the result of withdrawal from the eu should not be centralization of power in whitehall and westminster .
however , that is what the bill proposes .
scotland s first minister nicola sturgeon has been arguing that brexit as proposed flies in the face of the devolution agreement , which up to now has allowed assemblies in edinburgh , cardiff and belfast to legislate on their own domestic policies such as health and education .
scotland and northern ireland voted to keep eu membership in a june 2016 referendum while england and wales voted to leave .
it remains a matter of regret to the scottish government that the uk plans to withdraw from the eu .
the government nevertheless accepts that preparations should be made for withdrawal from the eu , including preserving a functioning legal system , the document said .
the scottish government s key objections to the bill as introduced relate to the provisions on the competence of the scottish parliament and government ( ... ) and those on powers for uk and scottish ministers to alter domestic law , it said .
the scottish and welsh governments argue that returning powers now exercised by the eu to the uk government will imply restrictions on the power of scottish and welsh chambers .
but britain s scotland minister , david mundell , has said that the repeal will ultimately result in a boost in devolved parliamentary power .