buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentine president mauricio macri is almost certain to run for re-election in 2019 , his top campaign adviser said on thursday , even as he acknowledged that the leader s market-friendly reforms were unpopular among many poor argentines .
jaime duran barba , an ecuadorian who has run campaigns across latin america and is considered the political guru behind macri s surprise win in 2015 , told reuters on thursday he did not see a scenario where macri was not a candidate .
the most likely is for macri to go for re-election , it s highly probable .
but what is certain is that after that he will leave politics , duran barba said in an interview .
center-right macri has not said if he will seek re-election and told reuters in an august interview that he was focused on his current government .
when the time came for macri to move on , duran barba said that there were important , prepared people who could dispute the succession .
he pointed to city of buenos aires mayor horacio rodriguez larreta , macri s cabinet chief marcos pena , and maria eugenia vidal , the governor of buenos aires and the most popular politician in argentina , according to several polls .
but macri s let s change coalition must first post a strong performance in october s legislative elections , where one third of the senate and half of the lower house seats are up for re-election .
mauricio s strategy has always been : in the first two years we can start a transformation , but the point at which we will know if it is possible or not to change argentina is the mid-term election , said duran barba , who has advised macri since he first ran for political office in 2003 .
the oct. 22 vote is being closely watched by investors because macri s political nemesis and populist two-term predecessor , cristina fernandez , is vying for a senate seat in buenos aires province , home to 40 percent of voters .
she is believed to be testing the waters for a potential bid for the presidency in 2019 .
fernandez eked out a narrow win over macri ally esteban bullrich in the non-binding primary vote in august , a scenario duran barba said was ideal for motivating voters to rally around bullrich against a divided opposition .
it was the best option , our numbers always predicted a tie ( with fernandez ) .
i said hopefully she wins by a bit because that way the people will see a need to do something .
the latest polls , including an internal poll from the fernandez camp , are showing bullrich ahead .
macri s approval ratings are running at 44 percent , according to an observatorio electoral survey on tuesday .
but his reforms have been unpopular with the country s powerful unions and triggered anti-macri protests .
argentina s economy came out of recession in the second half of last year , later than expected .
duran barba acknowledged that macri s austerity measures had particularly hurt poor slum-dwellers in buenos aires province .
they raised ( energy ) tariffs , and that was unpopular .
we hoped there would be fast results for the economy and that there would be investment .
there wasn t , duran barba said .
he said fernandez , who has toned down her formerly tub-thumping speeches and gave a rare live interview last week , is copying some of his tactics - such as visits to voters homes , ripe for recording and posting on social media .
cristina has copied a lot of our way of campaigning , barba said .
but it s hurting her .
fernandez s campaign declined to comment .