johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa s ruling anc decided to downgrade its embassy in tel aviv to a liaison office over a u.s. decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital , ahead of a u.n. vote on thursday on a resolution urging washington to drop the move .
the decision was taken at the end of a five-day african national congress conference , in which cyril ramaphosa was elected as its new leader and south africa s likely next president after 2019 elections , following jacob zuma .
delegates endorsed the proposal that we must give practical support to the oppressed people of palestine and resolved on an immediate and unconditional downgrade of the sa ( south africa ) embassy in israel to a liaison office , new anc secretary general ace magashule said on thursday .
there was no immediate comment from israel s foreign ministry .
south africa s ministry for international relations and cooperation said on its website that it was deeply concerned about trump s move as it would undermine israeli-palestinian peacemaking , which has been frozen since 2014 .
the south african board of jewish deputies and the south african zionist federation jointly condemned the anc s decision .
the 193-member u.n. general assembly will hold a rare special session on thursday at the request of arab and muslim states to vote on the draft resolution , which washington vetoed on monday in the 15-member u.n. security council .
most countries regard the status of jerusalem as a matter to be settled in an eventual israeli-palestinian peace agreement , although that process has been frozen for over three years .
israel deems jerusalem its eternal and indivisible capital and wants all embassies based there .
palestinians want the capital of an independent palestinian state to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in the 1967 middle east war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .
the anc s move comes at a time when israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has been pursuing closer ties with other african countries .
last month , on a visit to kenya , netanyahu announced that israel was opening a new embassy in nearby rwanda as part of the expanding israeli presence in africa and the deepening of cooperation between israel and african countries .
israel is seeking to expel thousands of african migrants to rwanda .
on thursday , netanyahu described the united nations as a house of lies on thursday and said israel totally rejects this vote , even before approval .
trump upended decades of u.s. policy on dec. 6 when he recognized jerusalem as israel s capital , generating outrage from palestinians and the arab and muslim world , and concern among washington s western allies .
when under white-minority rule , south africa was one of israel s few allies on the continent .
but after the 1994 demise of apartheid , relations cooled as the black-majority anc took over .
the anc has condemned israeli occupation of territories where palestinians seek statehood , while maintaining full diplomatic and trade relations with israel .