oslo ( reuters ) - norway s tax-cutting conservative prime minister erna solberg declared victory on tuesday after a parliamentary election , narrowly defeating a labour-led opposition with her promises of steady management of the oil-dependent economy .
the win is historic for solberg , whose supporters compare her firm management style to that of german chancellor angela merkel , because no conservative-led government has retained power in an election in norway since 1985 .
it looks like a clear victory , for the center-right , a beaming solberg told cheering supporters in oslo just after midnight ( 2200 gmt ) , following monday s voting .
our solutions have worked .
we have created jobs , she said , but warned , we have some challenges ahead .
... oil revenues are going to be lower .
we all must take responsibility .
the ruling minority coalition of her conservatives and the populist progress party , together with two small center-right allies , was set to win a slim majority with 89 seats in the 169-seat parliament , according to an official projection with 95 percent of the votes counted .
( election graphic tmsnrt.rs/2wykvio ) it s a big disappointment , opposition labour leader jonas gahr stoere said , conceding defeat for his party that has been a dominant force in norwegian politics for a century .
solberg , 56 , plans more tax cuts as a way to stimulate growth for europe s top oil and gas producer .
stoere had argued for tax increases to improve public services such as education and healthcare for norway s 5 million citizens .
the oil industry could be affected by the vote , because solberg will need support from two green-minded , center-right allies to ensure a majority to pass legislation in parliament .
one of the two parties , the liberals , wants strict limits on oil and gas exploration in arctic waters .
solberg s conservative party was set to lose three seats to 45 in parliament , making her more dependent on outsiders help and perhaps heralding a less stable government .
and the head of the other small party , the christian democrats , warned solberg he would not automatically back every government decision .
we will not give a guarantee for the next four years , party leader knut arild hareide said .
they ( the liberals and the christian democrats ) will support solberg as prime minister , but the question is whether they get a firm agreement or if there is cooperation on a case-by-case basis , said elisabeth ivarsflaten , a professor in comparative politics at the university of bergen .
then it may be a weaker government , she told reuters .
the norwegian currency , the crown eurnok= , strengthened slightly following the first projections after falling sharply earlier in the day on weaker-than-expected inflation data .
for much of the year , labour and its allies were favored by pollsters to win a clear victory , but support for the government has risen as the economy gradually recovered from a slump in the price of crude oil , norway s top export .
unemployment , which a year ago hit a 20-year high of 5 percent , has since declined to 4.3 percent , while consumer confidence is at a 10-year high .
solberg has won credit for the upturn with a no-nonsense style of management .
norway s economy also has the cushion of a sovereign wealth fund worth almost $ 1 trillion , the world s biggest , built on income from offshore oil and gas .
regardless of which government we get , the challenge will be to use less oil money , said erik bruce , chief analyst at nordea markets .
there is broad consensus about the outlook for the sovereign wealth fund and the norwegian economy , which means a tighter fiscal policy .
the sovereign wealth fund has wanted to invest in unlisted infrastructure to boost its return on investment .
finance minister siv jensen has twice said no to the request over the past two years , citing political risk .
that stance is unlikely to change now that the government has been re-elected .
labour was set to remain the biggest party in norway , with 49 seats , just ahead of the conservatives .
stoere , who sometimes compares himself with french president emmanuel macron , took over the leadership of the labour party from jens stoltenberg , who left norwegian politics to become nato s secretary-general .
solberg s coalition partner , the populist progress party , has sharply limited immigration to norway in what stoere said is a betrayal of norwegian values .
we have done our share of the job .
we have delivered , finance minister siv jensen , leader of the progress party , told party supporters as they chanted four more years .
norway s problems are small by the standards of most nations .
apart from its sovereign wealth fund , norway tops u.n. lists of the best country in which to live , based on issues such as per capita gross domestic product , education and life expectancy .
it even rose to first , from fourth , in a 2017 survey that ranked nations by happiness .