washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. federal bureau of investigation hinted on wednesday that authorities in iran had recently been trying to help locate robert levinson , a retired fbi agent who disappeared exactly nine years ago after traveling to an iranian resort island to meet a fugitive from u.s. justice .
“ we are encouraged by recent cooperation between the government of iran and the united states , and believe that our ability to locate bob and reunite him with his family requires a shared commitment by the iranian government , ” the fbi ’ s washington field office said in a prepared statement .
the statement quoted fbi director james comey saying that his agency was “ doing everything in our power to investigate all leads. ” the fbi statement did not elaborate further .
the white house also said that finding levinson “ remains a top priority for the united states , ” but added that the u.s. would “ continue to call upon the islamic republic of iran to provide assistance in his case , as agreed to as part of the prisoner exchange finalized earlier this year. ” five americans were released by iran in january to coincide with the lifting of economic sanctions in return for curbs on tehran ’ s nuclear program .
the white house offered clemency to seven iranians who were convicted or facing trial in the united states .
levinson ’ s family continued to urge the u.s. government to press iran for his release .
in a statement , levinson ’ s wife , christine , said : “ we need the united states government and the country of iran to work together to resolve what happened to bob and return him safely to his family. ” levinson disappeared after flying from dubai to kish island in the gulf in march 2007 .
there he met with daoud salahuddin , an american islamic militant who fled to iran while facing charges in the murder of an iranian embassy official based in washington .
levinson , working then as a private investigator , was seeking information on alleged corruption involving former iranian president akbar hashemi rafsanjani and his family , said sources familiar with his work .
months after he disappeared , u.s. government sources acknowledged that levinson also maintained an unorthodox contractual relationship with the analytical branch of the central intelligence agency .
a handful of cia officials were forced out of the agency and several more were disciplined after an internal agency investigation .
the iranian government has never publicly acknowledged any role in levinson ’ s abduction , though at the time of his disappearance a government-affiliated media outlet broadcast a story saying he was “ in the hands of iranian security forces. ” some fbi investigators strongly believe levinson is still alive , while officials at other u.s. agencies believe he died some time ago .