# unfit hillary spoke to another small crowd today in scranton , pa : once inside the rally , hillary fell off the podium after introducing joe biden to the few folks that came to see crooked hillary and crazy joe : but the real news , and the news you won t be seeing in the mainstream media , is that # unhealthyhillary is taking the weekends off from campaigning.by reviewing the activities of presidential candidates trump and clinton a new phenomenon has appeared .
while trump continues to smash clinton in attendance at events , hillary appears to have decided to take weekends off.clinton took the weekend of august 6th and 7th off and she decided to take three days off this past weekend august 12th through 14th .
she also has no events scheduled to participate in this coming thursday through saturday august 18th through 20th .
this in essence would mean another three days off after three days of events scheduled starting today .
in total clinton has taken 7 days off in august out of the first 14 days and is scheduled to continue with this approach through at least this coming saturday.donald trump on the other hand has taken only two days off in august , sunday august 7th and sunday the 14th .
trump has 7 days where he has participated in more than one campaign event.as previously noted , trump has more than ten times the number of people at his campaign events than hillary has at hers since august 1st .
more than 100,000 people have shown up for trump events since the beginning of august ( with many more turned away due to the events reaching capacity ) .
hillary on the other hand hasn t even had one tenth of that or not even 10,000 show up at her events since august 1st.also , it is clear by just looking at the crowds at trump and clinton events that trump has a movement and hillary has barely a heartbeat.here s trump questioning hillary s low energy campaign : trump s largest event was in ft lauderdale , florida , where it was estimated that the massive crowd there to see him was near 20,000 .
the largest crowd clinton spoke at was in washington , dc but this was a nabj/nahj event which had an estimated 4,000 in attendance .
hillary s largest event held by her campaign in august was back on august 1st in omaha , ne when businessman warren buffett joined her and an estimated 3,000 locals .
in total when looking at just the clinton campaign events , barely 8,000 people showed up to the seven campaign events since august 1st .
it is unknown why clinton is taking so much time off .
questions arise whether it is related to her terrible campaign event turnout or her poor health or some combination of both .
gateway pundit