impartial is not a word most people who know debate moderator martha raddatz would use to describe her .
here is a stunning story breitbart news broke with amazing former liberal anita moncrief : one of the co-moderators of the presidential debate in st. louis , abc news chief global affairs correspondent martha raddatz , sat through the 2008 election on a major political corruption story that could have changed the trajectory of the election.raddatz , breitbart news has learned , refused to publish a story on the alleged improper collusion and coordination between then sen. barack obama ( d-il ) and the national headquarters of the association of community organizations for reform now , also known as acorn despite having enough evidence to do so.radiate , along with cnn s anderson cooper , was a co-moderater at last night s presidential debate between gop presidential nominee donald j. trump and democratic nominee hillary rodham clinton.after she and her producer received a tip about acorn corruption and obama s connection to it and evidence backing up the eventual whistleblower s claims , they showed initial interest in pursuing the story .
anita moncrief , the eventual acorn whistleblower told breitbart news exclusively that she met with raddatz s producer avni patel in 2008.here is former liberal anita moncrief s stunning story : both patel and raddatz were given documents that they covered up and refused to report on until after the election .
raddatz , who was then the white house correspondent for abc news , and her producer patel were also provided with personal accounts of the collusion between acorn and the obama campaign in october 2008 , moncrief told breitbart news.moncrief , who worked in acorn s washington , d.c. , headquarters , would later expose the organization when she turned into a full-blown whistleblower after the election .
but if raddatz ran the story , the election may have turned out differently , especially had the public known the depths to which this scandal went.moncrief told breitbart news that she met with raddatz s producer patel in washington after initially having made contact with raddatz herself through a representative .
the meeting lasted almost an hour in a coffee shop in washington , d.c.after meeting with patel , moncrief received an email from the producer : anita , it was good talking to you today .
i look forward to learning more , and taking a look at those documents you mentioned .
it sounds like the easiest way to get those from you would be to directly download the files from your web-transfer site .
if that doesn t work , you can try to send them to my gmail account.patel gave moncrief every indication that abc news was going to broadcast the report , she said .
they were very excited .
they said they were willing to run the story , she said.using the user name and password given to her by patel , moncrief sent documents on oct. 14 , 2008 to patel using the company s file transfer protocol line , ftp1.abc.com .
there was another transfer of another dozen documents by email to patel on oct. 26 , 2008.moncrief told breitbart news that abc news received and acknowledged receipt of the documents that spelled out specific instances of collusion between the obama campaign and named individuals at acorn and project vote .
among the documents were internal correspondences with moncrief s name , which she said she included to prove that she was who she said she was.moncrief told breitbart news the obama campaign passed to acorn and by extension to its sister entity project vote the campaign s full donor list , which included all donors and fuller descriptions .
this list was different from the limited list of contributors the campaign filed with the federal election commission , which for example did not include small-dollar donors .
because of their non-profit status , acorn and project vote were prohibited from coordinating with a candidate s committee.the problem was that moncrief was a left-wing activist and she wanted to go through a left-leaning media outlet , so he suggested abc news and martha raddatz , he said.gaynor said he met raddatz through email because he she sent him proof that he had repeated a false claim about her suppressing the number of soldiers in iraq supporting sen. john mccain ( r-az ) for president.with that awkwardness between them , gaynor said he reached out to raddatz and explained to her the whole story of collusion between acorn and project vote and the obama campaign .
after the initial conversation , raddatz told gaynor that she was interested .
moncrief said she then emailed raddatz and attached her resume , so that raddatz would appreciate her background .
raddatz emailed back and told her that patel would would follow up.raddatz has a troubled history of undisclosed associations with democrats that arguably affect her ability to be impartial.she was the moderator for the 2012 vice presidential debate between vice president joe biden and now house speaker then gop vice presidential nominee paul ryan .
but raddatz did not disclose to viewers that biden s running mate , president barack obama , attended her 1991 wedding when she married now former federal communications commission ( fcc ) chairman julius genachowski.for entire story : breitbart news