21st century wire says as 21wire has previously reported , if there is no real terrorist threat , then the thing to do is to create one .
such is the received wisdom of today s federal bureau of investigation.last summer , the fbi admitted in its july 2016 public relations release from the agency s counter terrorism department , plans to significantly increase its borderline illegal use of stings in order to catch what it claims are would-be terrorists .
this amounts to an all-to-familiar dubious practice of using entrapment used to organize , recruit , train and even supply materials to prospective neophyte terrorists in the us.despite this dysfunctional policy of creating bad guys to catch otherwise innocent guys , the agency is soldiering on with other creative , psychometric street side tests to blanket-profile as many americans as possible in the endless war on terror indy100 ( ) for the past year-and-a-half the fbi have allegedly been using a 48 question survey to determine if someone is a threat , and one of the questions includes whether the target likes to go camping or not.the document , published by the intercept , is known as the the indicators of mobilization to violence ( imv ) survey , and assigns points on factors such as religious observance , travel history , financial transactions , and physical appearance.it s like a facebook quiz , but terrifying.there are , of course , logical and rational questions you would expect to find on a survey of this kind.question 1 asks simply : has the subject mobilised ?
( e.g .
has the subject travelled , attempted to travel overseas to participate in violence ; has the subject been arrested in a terrorism charge ; or has the subject conducted a terrorist attack ? question 20 asks : is the subject a regular consumer of extremist propaganda ? and question 31 asks : has the subject sought or received direct guidance from overseas extremists ? however , there are a number of questions in there that seem obtuse and in many cases , appear far too broad to truly be affective in identifying someone with extremist views.question 2 enquires : does [ the ] subject possess or have immediate access to weapons ? americans own an estimated 265 million guns .
that s around one gun for every american adult .
and that s only going to go up as the gop begins to reverse what it calls excessive regulation on firearms by the obama administration continue this story at indy100read more fbi news at : 21st century wire fbi filessupport 21wire subscribe now & become a member @ 21wire.tv