sydney ( reuters ) - the first public campaigns ahead of australia s vote on legalizing same-sex marriage have hit television screens , sparking a truth-in-advertising debate on an issue that threatens to destabilize the ruling center-right coalition .
australians can take part in a non-binding postal ballot in september on whether to change the marriage act to allow same-sex couples to marry .
the process will inform the government on whether to pursue legislative change and join 24 other countries around the world where it is legal .
the no and yes campaigns launched their first television adverts on tuesday and thursday , drawing immediate rebukes from their rivals .
the no campaign linked same-sex marriage to paving the way for radical gender study program to be introduced in schools .
lyle shelton , the head of the australian christian lobby and spokesman for coalition for marriage , cited a case in canada , and another in britain .
look at the uk where a jewish school in london faced the prospect of closure because it won t teach radical lgbtiq education , he told reuters in a phone interview , referring to the acronym for lesbian , gay , bisexual , transgender , intersex and queer/questioning people .
australia s education minister simon birmingham said the two issues were not linked while non-government organization human rights watch ( hrw ) said the ad was factually inaccurate .
because the postal vote is not a formal election it is not subject to the same rules on political advertisements .
you can have posters and ads peddling outright lies , said elaine pearson , australian hrw director .
australian marriage equality responded on thursday with an advert saying same-sex marriage would give young gay people the same dignity as everyone else .
spokeswoman kerryn phelps said gay and lesbian counseling services were inundated by people distressed that their lives and relationships had been put up for judgment .
it s humiliating and it s anxiety provoking , phelps said .
the marriage debate has dogged prime minister malcolm turnbull for the past two years as he wrestles to sell the idea of a public vote to appease conservatives in his ruling government , many of whom only agreed to support turnbull s leadership if he went ahead with the ballot .
conservatives expect any proposal to allow same-sex marriage would be rejected in a vote .
the postal vote is subject to a high court legal challenge to be resolved next week , with opponents of the process hoping it will be struck down before the issue is put to the people .