paul sperry spoke with lou dobbs on his report about obama s shadow government : obama has two things going for him : the judiciary is his lethal weapon .
he stacked the courts during his 8 years with liberal judges who can make things really difficult for president trump .
we ve seen it in action with the 9th circuit court of appeals on trump s executive order .
president trump should shake this court up asap !
yes , he can do it and he should !
newt : jefferson would abolish the 9th circuit court : the second thing that s troubling is the shadow government that obama is setting up just blocks away from the white house .
he s not going to let his legacy go down without a fight .
he ll use the power of the evil doers like george soros to pay for an army of destructive anarchists : paul sperry of the nyp : when former president barack obama said he was heartened by anti-trump protests , he was sending a message of approval to his troops .
troops ?
yes , obama has an army of agitators numbering more than 30,000 who will fight his republican successor at every turn of his historic presidency .
and obama will command them from a bunker less than two miles from the white house.in what s shaping up to be a highly unusual post-presidency , obama isn t just staying behind in washington .
he s working behind the scenes to set up what will effectively be a shadow government to not only protect his threatened legacy , but to sabotage the incoming administration and its popular america first agenda.he s doing it through a network of leftist nonprofits led by organizing for action .
normally you d expect an organization set up to support a politician and his agenda to close up shop after that candidate leaves office , but not obama s ofa .
rather , it s gearing up for battle , with a growing war chest and more than 250 offices across the country.since donald trump s election , this little-known but well-funded protesting arm has beefed up staff and ramped up recruitment of young liberal activists , declaring on its website , we re not backing down .
determined to salvage obama s legacy , it s drawing battle lines on immigration , obamacare , race relations and climate change.obama is intimately involved in ofa operations and even tweets from the group s account .
in fact , he gave marching orders to ofa foot soldiers following trump s upset victory .
it is fine for everybody to feel stressed , sad , discouraged , he said in a conference call from the white house .
but get over it .
he demanded they move forward to protect what we ve accomplished .
now is the time for some organizing , he said .
so don t mope .
far from sulking , ofa activists helped organize anti-trump marches across us cities , some of which turned into riots .
after trump issued a temporary ban on immigration from seven terror-prone muslim nations , the demonstrators jammed airports , chanting : no ban , no wall , sanctuary for all !
run by old obama aides and campaign workers , federal tax records show nonpartisan ofa marshals 32,525 volunteers nationwide .
registered as a 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) , it doesn t have to disclose its donors , but they ve been generous .
ofa has raised more than $ 40 million in contributions and grants since evolving from obama s campaign organization obama for america in 2013.ofa , in irs filings , says it trains young activists to develop organizing skills .
armed with obama s 2012 campaign database , ofa plans to get out the vote for democratic candidates it s grooming to win back congress and erect a wall of resistance to trump at the other end of pennsylvania avenue.it will be aided in that effort by the obama foundation , run by obama s former political director , and the national democratic redistricting committee , launched last month by obama pal eric holder to end what he and obama call gop gerrymandering of congressional districts.obama will be overseeing it all from a shadow white house located within two miles of trump.don t let the left be the death of america !
please don t be silent !
show up and speak up !