copenhagen ( reuters ) - germany has jumped 10 slots from last year to fifth place on a list ranking how well rich countries policies help improve lives in the developing world , mainly thanks to its willingness to take in refugees - a hot topic in its sept. 24 election .
denmark took over the top spot from finland , which falls to third place , while sweden moves up one notch to second on the list that includes the impact from foreign aid and policies on trade , finance , migration , the environment and technology .
germany moves up to fifth on the 2017 index , mainly thanks to policies on migration , including accepting a large number of refugees , author ian mitchell from the washington-based center for global development said in the report .
labor mobility is potentially the most powerful tool for poverty reduction and income redistribution , he said .
by migrating to richer countries , workers gain valuable skills and broaden their opportunities to earn higher incomes .
they also send billions of dollars back home each year in remittances , a flow that surpasses foreign aid several fold .
chancellor angela merkel s 2015 decision to open germany s borders to hundreds of thousands of refugees , many fleeing war in the middle east , cost her support but she has since bounced back .
her challenger in this month s election , social democrat martin schulz , attacked her on sunday for failing to coordinate a better european response to the refugee crisis .
the report said germany s surge in the rankings was thanks not only to taking in the large influx , but also to its aid and trade policies .
despite germany s improvement , france still ranks highest among the g7 countries at fourth place .
the united states fell to 23rd from 20th among the 27 countries ranked .
its best performance was on trade and security , while it scored poorly on finance , environment , and aid , the report said .
the u.s. withdrawal from the paris climate accord will be reflected in future years , potentially taking the u.s. score lower , the think tank said .
britain , which is in the process of negotiating its departure from the european union , jumped to seventh place from ninth last year .
the report said there was a risk that brexit could hit britain s score on trade unless it could quickly replicate favorable eu trade policies toward developing countries .
however , on agriculture , it could certainly reduce subsidies compared with the eu and level the playing field for developing world producers .
the 2017 rankings show almost all countries improved their performance in the environmental component , with reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and new climate commitments in the 2016 paris agreement .