watch well-organized anti-trump terrorists pull individual trump supporters into their crowd , while surrounding them in order to keep friends from helping them , while they mercilessly beat and stomp on them in video below .
according to the student newspaper at hillary s alma mater , this is okay to do because these people are perceived to be hateful because they support a different political ideology : https : //twitter.com/ten_gop/status/853347335463743492american citizens shouldn t have to fear for their lives because they hold an opposing political view to those on the left .
in a post-obama and hillary america however , this has sadly become a new reality .
while cops are being told to stand down as violent protesters are bloodying trump supporters from chicago to berkeley , ca , we now have radical leftist institutions of higher learning like wellesley college whose students are actually condoning violence against americans if they dare to take a political view that is in opposition to theirs.wellesley college made news last month when professors declared speakers with objectionable views are not only offensive to students , but actually diminish their liberty .
now , the student newspaper at the elite private college has taken it a step further justifying violence against anyone who either continue to speak hate speech or refuse to adapt their beliefs to accepted progressive norms , saying then hostility may be warranted .
the shocking statement came in an editorial in the student newspaper , the wellesley news , entitled free speech is not violated at wellesley .
wellesley students are generally correct in their attempts to differentiate what is viable discourse from what is just hate speech , the paper declared .
shutting down rhetoric that undermines the existence and rights of others is not a violation of free speech ; it is hate speech .
the founding fathers put free speech in the constitution as a way to protect the disenfranchised and to protect individual citizens from the power of the government .
the editorial board at the paper then ascribes a new meaning to the first amendment .
the spirit of free speech is to protect the suppressed , not to protect a free-for-all where anything is acceptable , no matter how hateful and damaging , the demand.the reason hate speech exists is that the united states is a racist country , according to the paper .
we have all said problematic claims , the origins of which were ingrained in us by our discriminatory and biased society .
luckily , most of us have been taught by our peers and mentors at wellesley in a productive way , the paper continues.as for speakers and student who do not conform to what the paper deems acceptable speech , the editorial says violence may be justified .
( i ) f people are given the resources to learn and either continue to speak hate speech or refuse to adapt their beliefs , then hostility may be warranted , the editorial states.read more : daily caller