( reuters ) - blunt-spoken janet reno , who served eight years as the first woman u.s. attorney general and authorized the deadly 1993 raid on the branch davidian cult compound in texas just weeks into the job , died on monday at age 78 .
reno died in miami of parkinson ’ s disease complications , according to her goddaughter , gabrielle d ’ alemberte .
reno was diagnosed with the progressive central nervous system disorder in 1995 .
reno served as the united states ’ top law enforcement official during democrat bill clinton ’ s presidency from 1993 to 2001 , becoming the longest-tenured attorney general of the 20th century .
she authorized the seizure by federal agents in 2000 of 6-year-old cuban shipwreck survivor elian gonzalez from relatives in miami , as well as the government ’ s huge antitrust case against microsoft corp in 1998 .
“ janet reno was an american original , a public servant whose intellect , integrity and fierce commitment to justice helped shape our nation ’ s legal landscape , ” president barack obama said in a statement .
clinton said on monday , “ as attorney general for all eight years of my presidency , janet worked tirelessly to make our communities safer , protect the vulnerable , and to strike the right balance between seeking justice and avoiding abuse of power. ” the former miami prosecutor , picked by clinton only after his first two choices for the job ran into trouble , exhibited an independent streak and a brusque manner that often upset the white house .
reno weathered white house complaints that she was not a team player and that she sought too many special prosecutors to investigate cases , including the whitewater affair involving the finances of the president and first lady hillary clinton .
reno was only 38 days into the attorney general ’ s job when she approved the april 19 , 1993 , fbi raid that led to the deaths of about 80 people , including many children , at the branch davidian cult compound in waco , texas .
federal agents had earlier tried to serve a warrant on the cult ’ s leader , david koresh , who said he was the messiah , for stockpiling weapons .
four agents and six cult members were killed in an ensuing shootout , leading to a 51-day standoff .
with negotiations at an impasse , reno gave the go-ahead for the raid after hearing reports of child abuse in the compound .
the raid on the heavily armed cultists ended in an inferno that engulfed the site .
“ i made the decision .
i ’ m accountable .
the buck stops with me , ” a grim-looking reno told a news conference later .
reno took a personal interest in the political tussle over elian gonzalez , the young shipwreck survivor whose mother drowned fleeing cuba .
reno met the boy and his miami relatives , who battled to keep him from returning to communist cuba , and his father and grandmothers , who wanted to raise gonzalez in his homeland .
reno argued that elian belonged with his father and acted after the miami relatives defied a u.s. government order to hand him over .
she authorized armed agents to take the boy from his relatives ’ home in a predawn raid in april 2000 and reunite him with his father , who took him back to cuba .
the raid infuriated members of miami ’ s cuban exile community , who called her a “ witch ” and a lackey of cuban president fidel castro .
in 1998 , reno ’ s justice department brought a huge antitrust case against microsoft .
two years later , a federal judge ordered the breakup of the software giant because it had ignored his ruling that it had used unlawful monopolistic practices .
the case was settled in 2001 by the administration of president george w. bush , clinton ’ s republican successor , in terms seen as favorable to microsoft .
reno appeared with clinton after the 1995 truck bombing of the oklahoma city federal building that killed 168 people , and vowed to seek the death penalty for the perpetrators .
convicted oklahoma city bomber timothy mcveigh in 2001 become the first federal prisoner executed since 1963 .
mcveigh said he carried out the attack to punish the u.s. government for the waco cult raid and another raid in idaho .
some comedians made fun of reno during her time in office , lampooning her appearance and 6-foot-2 height ( 1.88-meter ) , among them will ferrell who impersonated her on “ saturday night live. ” shortly after leaving office , she appeared on the show next to ferrell , both wearing identical outfits , in a sketch called “ janet reno ’ s dance party. ” reno was in the job longer than anyone except william wirt , who held it from november 1817 until march 1829 .
reno ran for governor in florida in 2002 , but lost in the democratic primary .
parkinson ’ s disease caused trembling in her arms .
“ all it does is shake , and you get used to it shaking after a while , ” she told a tv interviewer .
reno was born on july 21 , 1938 , in miami to parents who were newspaper reporters .
she attended public schools in miami and earned a chemistry degree at cornell university in 1960 .
she received her law degree from harvard three years later , and worked as a lawyer in miami .