seoul ( reuters ) - a group of south korean businessmen who own factories in the kaesong industrial complex inside north korea said on wednesday they want to visit to verify the north s claim that it had restarted some operations there on its own .
south korea pulled out of the joint venture last year in response to the north s nuclear and missile tests , ending more than a decade of cooperation at the factory park , on the north s side of the demilitarized zone ( dmz ) , that was the last remaining symbol of inter-korean cooperation .
north korea s state-run web sites said on friday north korean workers were operating in the district , adding that it was nobody s business what we do in an industrial complex where our nation s sovereignty is exercised .
the south koreans said they would ask the ministry of unification for permission to visit .
south koreans have to obtain approval to contact north koreans or travel in the country .
the two sides are technically still at war after their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce , not a treaty .
we urge the north to immediately halt the operation of any of our corporate assets , said shin han-yong , the leader of the group , who used to operate a plant making fishing nets in kaesong .
in recent weeks , north korea has launched two missiles over japan and conducted its sixth nuclear test , a sign that it may be fast advancing toward its goal of developing a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the u.s. mainland .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said last weekend that washington was directly communicating with the north on its weapons programs but that it had shown no interest in dialogue .
when the south suspended the operations at the industrial park , it said the north had diverted wages paid to its workers by south korean firms to fund its nuclear and missile programs .
but in july , two months after liberal president moon jae-in was elected in the south , a government official said there was no hard evidence to back up the assertion .
moon had initially sought to engage north korea in talks and cooperation , but current political tensions have tied the president s hands .
despite military tension , the businessmen s visit , if it comes off , may provide a chance to restart talks with the north , shin said .
we don t know if the north will accept our trip at a time when it only sees the u.s. as its dialogue partner , but we are pinning our hopes on a one in ten chance that may exist , he said .