caracas ( reuters ) - venezuela s new oil czar vowed on tuesday to root out corruption in state oil company pdvsa in a combative two-minute speech during his inauguration , without offering clues as to how he plans to handle the company s crippling debt burden .
president nicolas maduro on sunday tapped major general manuel quevedo to lead both pdvsa [ pdvsa.ul ] and the oil ministry , giving the already powerful military control of the opec nation s dominant industry .
in comments during a two-hour broadcast by maduro , quevedo said he would go after saboteurs and defeat a corrupt bureaucracy , while offering only a brief nod to boosting oil production and improving refinery operations .
we re going to clean up public finances so that those thieves in pdvsa will finally leave , said quevedo .
the government s actions have captured many people who had infiltrated the industry .
those who are left should be worried .
investors are closely watching quevedo for clues as to whether he will seek to halt payment on pdvsa s bonds , or maintain maduro s strategy of continuing to service debt despite the country s crippling economic crisis .
quevedo made no mention of foreign debt on tuesday .
maduro said this month he would restructure and refinance all future debt payments and that the country would never default on its debt .
quevedo s predecessors , oil minister eulogio del pino and pdvsa president nelson martinez , were both seen as a industry veterans with significant technical expertise who favored continuing to make debt payments .
sources in the sector said quevedo s appointment could quicken a white-collar exodus from pdvsa and worsen operational problems at a time when production has already tumbled to near 30-year lows of under 2 million barrels a day .
maduro said on tuesday he was naming ysmel serrano , the head of the trade and supply division , as vice president of pdvsa , which oversees the world s largest crude reserves .
he said he would seek to name the country s former energy minister , ali rodriguez , as honorary president of pdvsa .
more military officers are set to be named to senior management posts as part of a shake-up the government says is aimed at fighting corruption , two company sources told reuters on monday .