jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesian anti-graft investigators have put the speaker of parliament , who they have identified as a suspect in a $ 170 million corruption case , under armed guard in hospital after he was involved in a car accident , his lawyer said on friday .
officers from the corruption eradication commission ( kpk ) tried to arrest setya novanto , the chairman of golkar , indonesia s second-largest party and partner in the ruling coalition , at his house in jakarta late on wednesday .
but the investigators , watched by television cameras , failed to find him , sparking speculation that he had gone into hiding .
the kpk is investigating state losses amounting to about $ 170 million linked to a national electronic identity card scheme after allegations that sums ranging from $ 5,000 to $ 5.5 million - generated by marking up procurement costs - were divided up among politicians in parliament .
novanto was named a suspect in the case again last week after he had used a controversial legal maneuver , a pre-trial motion , to get earlier charges dropped last month .
he has denied wrongdoing but has repeatedly missed summonses from the kpk for questioning in recent months , saying he was ill and needed to undergo heart surgery .
late on thursday , reports emerged that novanto was involved in a car accident while on his way to turn himself in at kpk headquarters .
novanto s lawyer , fredrich yunadi , said a journalist was driving the vehicle and interviewing his client at the time of the accident .
( the driver ) was looking back and looking to the side , so he wasn t concentrating on what was in front of him , yunadi said .
novanto was now very ill with head and hand injuries , yunadi said .
he can t even get up yet .
he can t talk yet , it s just his eyes when he opens his eyes the ceiling swirls in circles .
the lawyer said armed kpk officers were guarding novanto and had ignored requests to leave .
novanto was taken to a second hospital on friday for a magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) scan , media reported .
novanto gained a measure of international fame in september 2015 when then u.s. presidential candidate donald trump hailed the indonesian politician as a great man during a news conference .
do they like me in indonesia ?
trump asked after introducing novanto to reporters at trump tower .
yes , highly , novanto replied .
indonesian newspapers splashed pictures across their front pages of a black sport utility vehicle that novanto was said to have been traveling in .
it was resting against an electricity pole , and appeared to have suffered only minor damage to the front fender .
febri diansyah , a kpk spokesman , said on thursday the crash happened shortly after the agency had asked the national police chief and interpol to place novanto on a wanted list .
the kpk would liaise with doctors to see if novanto was fit to stand trial and would continue its investigation , febri told inews tv .
yunadi has said a request for another pre-trial motion had been filed on behalf of his client .
president joko widodo on friday urged novanto , a political ally , to follow the legal process .
previously , widodo has backed the kpk against efforts by some members of parliament to weaken the independent agency s powers .
vice president jusuf kalla , who is also a golkar member , told reporters on thursday novanto should be ready to face any legal process if called upon .
indonesians widely perceive parliament as one of their country s most corrupt institutions , transparency international says .