melbourne ( reuters ) - australia s former deputy prime minister barnaby joyce will return to parliament after he won an essential by-election for his seat , just over a month after he was kicked out over a dual citizenship crisis that cost the conservative coalition government its majority .
joyce , who was widely expected to win , said he was utterly humbled by his sizeable victory in the rural new south wales seat of new england , in which he looks likely to increase his primary vote by an additional 10 points .
abc election analyst antony green reported that joyce is on track to achieve a primary vote of about 64 percent , a significant increase on his 52.3 percent primary at the last federal election in 2016 .
the win gives the government and its embattled prime minister , malcolm turnbull , some much-needed breathing space , as it restores its slim one-seat majority .
the government is already claiming the victory as a vote of confidence of its performance , despite a series of polls showing its growing unpopularity .
this has been a stunning victory , turnbull told supporters as he joined joyce at a pub in the town of tamworth to celebrate the win .
exit polls were predicting the largest swing to the government in the history of by-elections in australia , turnbull said , adding it was a sign of confidence in his government .
joyce added that he was completely and utterly humbled , after winning from a record field of 17 candidates .
i say to the people of new england , that i never take anything for granted , and for every person who voted for us and voted for us for the first time , he said , the abc reported .
joyce was one of the citizenship seven whose eligibility to sit in parliament was thrown into doubt when it was found they were dual citizens , a status that is barred for federal politicians under australia s constitution to prevent split allegiances .
the high court ruled on oct. 27 that joyce , along with four of the seven other lawmakers , was ineligible to remain in parliament , forcing a by-election .
joyce was found to be a dual citizen of new zealand , a status he has since rescinded .
a by-election occurs outside of the usual three-year election cycle , usually when a representative decides to leave parliament early or dies .
the deputy leader position , traditionally held by a member of the junior coalition partner , the national party , has remained vacant since the high court ruling .
the result comes at a difficult time for turnbull , who earlier this week was forced into an embarrassing reversal of his long-standing position against a royal commission into the country s scandal-hit banking and financial sector amid mounting political pressure .
the last day of campaigning for the by-election was marred by a call from new south wales nationals state leader and deputy premier john barilaro for turnbull to step down as a christmas gift to the nation .
the comments were quickly rebuffed by liberal party lawmakers and joyce , who said they were very unhelpful and insulting .
it was the latest of a long line of internal turmoil to hit the coalition throughout the year , which has contributed to its poor performance in polls throughout the year .