in a 10-4 ruling , maryland s fourth circuit ruled that there could be a ban put on 45 common weapons and magazines that hold more than 10 rounds .
judge robert b .
king stated , we have no power to extend second amendment protection to the weapons of war via baltimore sun : the law , which also outlawed magazines capable of holding more than 10 rounds , was challenged by two men who said they wanted to buy the banned rifles and by a handful of gun stores and associations .
they argued that the rifles were popular among gun enthusiasts , used by people to defend their homes and not inherently dangerous .
a federal judge in baltimore disagreed , upholding the law.maryland , new york , and connecticut all banned a plethora of semi-automatic rifles that had exterior features that made them look scary following the sandy hook shooting .
they also banned magazines with 10 rounds or more and some states even enforced a registration of those who already owned such firearms.judge william traxler , in a rare display of intellectual honesty , laid out the consequences of this case : today the majority holds that the government can take semi-automatic rifles away from law-abiding american citizens .
in south carolina , north carolina , virginia , west virginia and maryland , the government can now tell you that you can not hunt with these rifles .
the government can tell you that you can not shoot at targets with them .
and , most importantly , the government can tell you that you can not use them to defend yourself and your family in your home .
in concluding that the second amendment does not even apply , the majority has gone to greater lengths than any other court to eviscerate the constitutionally guaranteed right to keep and bear arms .
what this demonstrates to us , as average citizens , is that nothing is sacred to judges who think they can legislate from the bench .
even constitutional rights and rulings from higher courts will not bind a judge who wants to rally around their own pet cause .
we believe that the second amendment means what it says and we all need to stand together and take decisive action to protect liberty right now before anti-gun activist judges kill off our rights through rulings like this one .
firearms policy collation ( sources : baltimore sun , conservative review )