kabul ( reuters ) - the human rights group amnesty international urged european nations on thursday to stop sending afghans who do not qualify for asylum back to their deeply unsafe home country , saying the policy risked causing serious harm to those affected .
the call comes after a steady rise in violence over recent years as the taliban has gained ground across the country and cities including the capital kabul have been hit by a wave of suicide attacks .
amnesty international is calling on all european countries to implement a moratorium on returns to afghanistan until they can take place in safety and dignity , the group said in a report issued on thursday .
it said the afghan government should not cooperate with sending people back , despite its dependence on foreign aid .
the report follows a sharp increase in the number of afghans returned from europe , either as a result of forced deportation or assisted voluntary return .
it said the total almost tripled from 3,290 to 9,460 between 2015 and 2016 .
in their determination to increase the number of deportations , european governments are implementing a policy that is reckless and unlawful , said anna shea , amnesty international s researcher on refugee and migrant rights .
she said governments were being wilfully blind to evidence that violence was at a record high .
afghans have been among the main groups of asylum seekers in europe , with 108,455 first time asylum seekers registered in the european union in the 12 months to the end of june , second only to syrians , according to eu statistics agency eurostat .
however numbers have fallen over the past year , dropping 24 percent between the first and second quarters and 83 percent between the second quarter of 2017 and the same period in 2016 .
european governments , faced by voters angry at hundreds of thousands of arrivals from the middle east , africa and south and central asia over recent years , have cracked down , pledging to send rejected asylum seekers back to their home countries .
the policy has proved particularly controversial in afghanistan , where many european governments say that despite widespread violence , safety is sufficient to allow returns to some parts of the country .
according to united nations figures , at least 1,662 civilians were killed and 3,581 wounded in the first half of the year , with nearly 20 percent of civilian casualties coming in the capital kabul itself .
afghanistan is deeply unsafe , and has become more so in recent years .
yet european countries are returning people to afghanistan in increasingly large numbers , even as the violence in the country escalates , the report said .