berlin ( reuters ) - disputes about climate and immigration policy dominated german media ahead of resumed talks among chancellor angela merkel s conservatives , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the environmental greens about forming a coalition government .
officials from all three political groups traded barbs and insults in a series of media interviews , dimming hopes that next week s talks could result in progress for a so-called jamaica coalition - a name chosen because the parties black , yellow and green colors mirror those of the jamaican flag .
simone peter , co-leader of the greens , told reuters the fdp must agree to honor existing carbon dioxide reduction promises before her party would continue coalition talks .
she said her party viewed conservative s insistence on a migrant cap as a no go .
fdp leader christian lindner shot back in an interview with the bild am sonntag newspaper : if the greens don t budge in future talks , jamaica will remain a castle in the air .
merkel , whose conservative alliance suffered its worst result in september elections since 1949 , is trying to forge a tricky three-way coalition that is untested at a national level .
the exploratory talks are to continue monday after the three sides failed to reach agreement on immigration and climate issues during an 11-hour session on thursday .
a new poll for bild am sonntag newspaper showed support for conservatives down one percentage point to 31 percent - its lowest level this year - while support for the greens and fdp was unchanged at 10 percent and 11 percent .
peter told reuters it was nonsense to continue talks unless the fdp committed to a 2007 pledge to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40 percent from 1990 levels by 2020 .
before exploratory talks continue , the fdp must accept unconditionally the climate protection goals , peter told reuters in an interview .
otherwise the talks make no sense .
deputy fdp leader wolfgang kubicki told the rnd newspaper chain on friday that no agreement was possible if the greens insisted on sticking to that target .
lindner blasted the greens maximum demands for ending coal production and giving refugees unlimited rights to bring their families to germany .
he told the bild am sonntag such actions would only boost support for the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party , which parlayed public frustration to win 12.6 percent of the vote in september .
alexander dobrindt , a top negotiator for the bavarian sister party of merkel s conservatives , told the paper that building a coalition would be more than difficult unless the greens modified their position rejecting limits on migration .
many conservatives want to take a harder line on immigration , blaming the election setback on merkel s decision to allow in more than a million migrants in 2015 and 2016 .
they insist that an agreement by merkel s cdu and the csu on guidelines that would limit annual refugee numbers must form the basis of any coalition accord .
the greens reject such a cap .
the right to asylum is guaranteed under germany s constitution .