( reuters ) - an air france flight from paris to los angeles made an emergency landing in eastern canada on saturday after one of its four engines sustained serious damage over the atlantic , the airline said .
air france flight 66 , originating at paris charles de gaulle airport , landed at goose bay in labrador at 1542 gmt , the airline said , and no one was hurt in the incident .
the regularly trained pilots and cabin crew handled this serious incident perfectly , the airline said in a statement .
the aircraft involved in the incident was an airbus 380 that was about seven years old , according to airfleets.net , an aircraft database .
the engine was made by engine alliance , a joint venture between general electric co and united technologies corp s pratt & whitney unit .
the forced landing in canada s easternmost province is reminiscent of an incident seven years ago in which one of the rolls royce engines on a qantas a380 suffered mid-engine damage after taking off in singapore .
the november 2010 incident prompted the grounding of the entire qantas a380 fleet six a380s at the time for over three weeks .
photographs taken by passengers aboard the air france flight circulated on the internet soon after the aircraft landed .
the images appeared to show that the inlet , or front part , of the engine had torn off , but the main part of the engine was intact .
rick engebretsen , one of the passengers , wrote a twitter message saying he had heard a loud thud and felt vibration while in the air .
it was not immediately clear how the engine became damaged .
airbus was not immediately available for comment .
engine alliance said in a statement that it was looking into reports of an issue involving one of its engines .
officials with the transportation safety board of canada could not immediately be reached for comment on saturday .
the airline said it was making arrangements to send the plane s passengers to their destination of los angeles .
aircraft on trans-atlantic flights commonly use goose bay airport in the province of newfoundland and labrador for emergency fueling stops .