geneva ( reuters ) - another wave of cholera could strike yemen , where a saudi-led coalition blockade has cut off fuel for hospitals , water pumps and vital aid supplies for starving children , the world health organization ( who ) said on sunday .
dr. nevio zagaria , who country representative in yemen , told reuters that 16 percent of yemeni children under the age of five suffer from acute malnutrition , including 5.2 percent with a severe form that is life-threatening , and the problem is increasing .
yemen , where 8 million people face famine , is mired in a proxy war between the iran-aligned houthi armed movement and the u.s.-backed military coalition that the united nations says has led to the world s worst humanitarian crisis .
some 960,000 suspected cases of cholera and 2,219 deaths have been reported since the epidemic began in april , who figures show .
children account for nearly a third of infections of the waterborne disease , spread by food or water contaminated with human feces , that causes acute diarrhoea and dehydration and can kill within hours if untreated .
although the number of new cases has dropped for 11 straight weeks , 35 districts in yemen are still reporting cholera with high attack rates in communities , zagaria said .
a deteriorating economic situation and lack of safe drinking water , due to water sewage systems in many cities lacking fuel for the pumps , have compounded the humanitarian crisis , he said .
this is a perfect mix to have a new explosion of a cholera epidemic at the beginning of the rainy season in march of next year , zagaria said in a telephone interview from sanaa , amid four days of clashes in the capital city .
who is working with local authorities in both the internationally recognized government and houthi-controlled sana a to identify areas at highest risk of a spike in the cholera epidemic and to boost defences , he said .
a campaign of oral cholera vaccination - initially planned last july during an acute phase and then abandoned by authorities - is now under reconsideration but as a preventive action next year , he said .
meanwhile , a ship carrying 35 tonnes of who surgical and medical supplies is being diverted to aden after waiting weeks to offload at hodeidah port , zagaria said .
we are waiting and hoping that the situation of the blockade will be resolved .
we have an opening to the humanitarian blockade but the opening to the commercial blockade is only partial , he added .
the united nations appealed on friday to the coalition to fully lift its blockade of yemen , which was partially eased last week to let aid into hodeidah and salif , and u.n. flights into sanaa .
the u.s.-backed military coalition closed air , land and sea access on nov. 6 in a move it said was to stop the flow of iranian arms to the houthis , who control much of northern yemen .
aid shipments cover only a fraction of yemen s needs , since almost all food , fuel and medicine are commercially imported .
yemen s health system has virtually collapsed , with most health workers unpaid for seven months .
who supports 130 hospitals across the country , providing fuel , water , oxygen , drugs , medical supplies and essential equipment , zagaria said .
the ( fuel ) contractors that we are working with are finding difficulty in keeping the stock , he said , noting that some hospitals require 60,000 liters of fuel per month .
who runs 15 stabilization centers for severely acute malnourished children with medical complications and is expanding with 10 more , zagaria said .
we see that there is a constant flow of newly admitted patients to these centers .
the deterioration of the situation in terms of malnutrition in children is increasing ...
it is very difficult to quantify with precise numbers , said zagaria , who went to the intensive care unit of the pediatric ward in sadaa last week .
i am a pediatrician , i worked many years in africa .
you don t need to take the weight and the height .