baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi shi ite paramilitary groups who took part in the war against islamic state militants should be incorporated into state security bodies , the nation s top shi ite cleric said .
in a message delivered at the friday sermon in the holy city of kerbala through one of his representatives , grand ayatollah ali al-sistani said all weapons used in fighting the insurgents should be brought under the control of the iraqi government .
sistani s position is in line with that of prime minister haider al-abadi , who wants to prevent commanders of the militias known as popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ) from using power and clout they acquired during the war in elections due on may 12 .
sistani was the author of a landmark fatwa , or religious decree , which urged iraqis to volunteer for the war on islamic state after the government s armed forces collapsed in 2014 and the militants swept towards the gates of baghdad .
the victory over daesh doesn t mean the end of the battle with terrorism , sistani s representative sheikh abdulmehdi al-karbalai said , mentioning the existence of sleeper cells .
the security apparatus should be supported by the fighters who took part in the war on daesh , he added in the sermon broadcast on state tv , using an arab acronym for islamic state .
it is necessary to absorb the fighters in the official and constitutional structures , sistani said in the sermon , adding that the fatwa should not be used to achieve political aims .
abadi quickly reacted to sistani s sermon in a statement from his office welcoming his call against using volunteers and fighters in political campaigning .
iraq s sunni and kurdish politicians have called on abadi , who declared victory over islamic state last week , to disarm the pmf .
they say the militias are responsible for widespread abuses including extra-judicial killings , kidnappings and displacing non-shi ite populations , and in effect report to tehran , not the government in baghdad .
the pmf says any abuses were isolated incidents and not systematic and that those who committed them have been punished .
two of the most important iranian-backed paramilitary leaders , hadi al-amiri and qais al-khazali , announced this week they were putting their militias under abadi s orders .
their decision to formally separate their armed and political wings could pave the way for them to contest the elections , possibly as part of a broader alliance close to iran .
iran provided training and supplied weapons to the most powerful pmf groups including amiri s badr organisation and khazali s asaib ahl al-haq .
the iraqi parliament last year voted to establish the pmf as a separate military corps that reports to abadi in his capacity as commander-in-chief of the armed forces .