des moines ( reuters ) - an influential conservative magazine published an editorial on thursday urging republicans to rally against front-running presidential candidate donald trump , with iowa poised to begin the search for a 2016 nominee in 10 days .
national review , a new york-based magazine founded in 1955 by famed conservative thinker william f. buckley jr. , drew heavy scorn from trump on twitter and at a las vegas news conference for its issue entitled : “ against trump. ” “ trump is a philosophically unmoored political opportunist who would trash the broad conservative ideological consensus within the gop ( republican party ) in favor of a free-floating populism with strong-man overtones , ” national review said .
the magazine ’ s argument is one that has been made by several of trump ’ s rivals for the 2016 republican presidential nomination , most notably by former florida governor jeb bush .
but nothing has stopped trump from seizing control of the race and putting him in position to win not only iowa ’ s caucuses , but also new hampshire ’ s first-in-the-nation primary on feb. 9 .
a cnn/orc poll on thursday said trump had taken a solid lead over texas senator ted cruz in iowa , with 37 percent to 26 percent for cruz .
cruz has led other polls in iowa .
national review said trump , a new york billionaire real estate developer and former reality tv star , had in the past supported abortion , gun control and higher taxes on the wealthy , all positions that conservatives oppose .
the issue ’ s cover read “ cage match - the gop ’ s internal fight ” and portrayed a bare-chested , double-chinned trump , with a necklace of dollar signs tattooed across his torso , flanked by four less-muscular rivals for the republican crown .
trump waved off the attack in characteristic fashion .
“ the late , great , william f. buckley would be ashamed of what had happened to his prize , the dying national review ! ” he tweeted .
“ against trump ” began trending on twitter in the united states by friday morning .
most of the response on the social media site was negative toward “ national review , ” with several twitter users expressing dismay over the conservative publication ’ s decision to criticize the republican presidential front-runner for the november election .
“ national review is leading a coalition against trump , ” wrote jeff fogle ( @ jefffogle342 ) .
“ we the people will get him in office if we push hard .
stick together !
we can do it ! !
! ” “ without any sense of self awareness @ nro [ national review ] ignores ] its ] attacks on conservatives last 2 cycles , ” tweeted madlaw ( @ madlaw1071 ) .
jack fowler , the publisher of the “ national review , ” said in a post published late thursday night that the publication was being “ disinvited ” from its partnership with the gop debates .
“ tonight , a top official with the rnc [ republican national committee ] called me to say that “ national review ” was being disinvited , ” fowler wrote .
“ the reason : our ‘ against trump ’ editorial and symposium .
we expected this was coming .
small price to pay for speaking the truth about the donald. ” at a las vegas news conference , trump said he would bring republicans together if nominated .
“ honestly the party has to be healed , has to be brought together and i think the party can be brought together , ” he said .
( reporting by steve holland ; editing by simon cameron-moore and dan grebler ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .