no reason to deal in facts .
a black man was killed by a white cop why bother with a trial right ?
the verdict is in for one of the officers tried in the death of freddie gray : not guilty.baltimore circuit judge barry williams found officer edward nero , 30 , not guilty of all charges monday , the baltimore sun reports.for anyone who questions whether or not the trial was biased or unfair , they may want to consider judge williams commitment to civil rights : judge williams worked for the civil rights division of the u.s. justice department , 2002-2005 .
he was a trial attorney in the civil rights division of the u.s. department of justice , 1997-2002 .
the officer elected to have a bench trial , which means he waved his right to a jury trial and allowed the judge to decide his fate.prosecutors hit nero with misdemeanor charges of second-degree assault , reckless endangerment as well as two counts of misconduct in office , which could have landed him with up to 15 years in prison.the prosecution argued that nero was wrong in detaining gray without a good reason and for not buckling him into the van .
five other officers were involved in the death .
officer caesar goodson jr. will be the next tried , set to begin june 6.police arrested gray in april and transported him in the back of a police van .
the details are unclear with conflicting accounts , but gray appeared healthy when arrested and was severely injured within an hour after his encounter with police .
his spinal cord was severely damaged and he died a week later from the injuries.baltimore police officer william porter , 26 , was the first of six officers to be tried , but the case was declared a mistrial .
all will be tried separately .
porter , who is black , is scheduled to be tried again in september .
although he did not arrest gray , he is accused of not properly buckling him into the van , which may have allowed him to slide around in the back , potentially causing the injury.read more : daily caller