( reuters ) - three of the five candidates running for u.s. president - donald trump , ted cruz and bernie sanders - have said they supported initiatives that would subject the federal reserve ’ s policymaking to greater scrutiny or change its policy framework .
[ l3n16w46s ] here are details of the candidates ’ views and the two proposed bills : * donald trump , the republican front-runner , tweeted in february , “ it is so important to audit the federal reserve ” - a reference to an “ audit the fed ” senate bill that the central bank fiercely opposes .
he has said the fed played a role in stoking asset bubbles and predicted a “ very massive recession. ” a spokeswoman declined to elaborate on trump ’ s views on fed independence .
last year , before the fed raised rates in december , trump accused the central bank of keeping rates low at the bidding of president barack obama , something the white house has denied .
“ janet yellen is highly political and she ’ s not raising rates for a very specific reason : because obama told her not , ” trump told a news conference in november .
“ he doesn ’ t want to see a big bubble burst during his administration. ” * ted cruz , the no .
2 republican candidate , supports fed audits and a commission to consider a monetary rule tied to gold rather than discretion , according to spokeswoman catherine frazier .
the united states dropped the gold standard in 1933 .
in a republican debate in october , cruz said : “ i think the fed should get out of the business of trying to juice our economy and simply be focused on sound monetary policy and monetary stability , ideally tied to gold. ” * bernie sanders , the no .
2 democratic candidate who as senator backed audit the fed , said in an emailed statement that such an annual policy review would help make the fed “ a more democratic institution that is responsive to the needs of ordinary americans rather than the billionaires on wall street. ” he also opposes fed payments to banks on excess reserves .
in a new york times column published in december , sanders wrote : “ to rein in wall street , we should begin by reforming the federal reserve ...
the sad reality is that the federal reserve doesn ’ t regulate wall street ; wall street regulates the fed. ” sanders also criticized the way fed officials are selected : “ banking industry executives must no longer be allowed to serve on the fed ’ s boards and to handpick its members and staff , ” he wrote .
“ board positions should instead include representatives from all walks of life — including labor , consumers , homeowners , urban residents , farmers and small businesses. ” today , bankers and heads of business , industry , unions , and community groups and organizations serve as district fed directors .
clinton , the democratic front-runner , and the third-place republican kasich have not commented publicly on fed policy independence .
* the federal reserve transparency act , known as “ audit the fed ” , was introduced by republican senator rand paul early last year .
it would instruct the government accountability office , a non-partisan congressional watchdog agency , to review and evaluate the fed ’ s monetary policy decisions , repealing a decades-old firewall between the gao , which now reviews other fed activities including bank regulation , and policy decisions on interest rates .
the bill has struggled to gain senate support and was referred to a committee .
* the fed oversight reform and modernization act ( form ) , sponsored by republican representative bill huizenga , passed the house in november .
among other changes to fed structure and bank supervision , the bill would tie policy decisions to a single “ directive ” rule .
an audit could be launched or congressional testimony called if the gao determined the fed strayed from the rule .
the bill was sent to the senate and also referred to its banking committee .
* gao managing director orice williams told reuters that , were either of the bills to become law , the agency would take a non-partisan approach and hire experts as needed to do the job .