manila ( reuters ) - philippine law enforcement agents have arrested a woman who tried to spread radical ideas and recruit hundreds of foreigners to reinforce pro-islamic state rebels occupying a southern city , the justice minister said on wednesday .
karen aizha hamidon , the widow of a former leader of a small extremist group in mindanao , was arrested by special agents at her home in a manila suburb a week ago and has been charged with inciting to rebellion , vitaliano aguirre told a news conference .
hamidon is accused of using social media and messaging apps to call on foreigners to join the siege by an alliance of islamic state loyalists in marawi city , a battle that has lasted nearly five months .
the military says the conflict , the biggest security crisis in years in the philippines , is now in its final stages and has killed more than 1,000 people , mostly rebels .
this is a welcome development in the fight against terrorism , aguirre said .
agents found she had made 296 posts in chatrooms on telegram and whatsapp calling on muslims in the philippines , india and singapore to come to marawi to establish a province of the islamic state of iraq and syria , he said .
there were also about 250 names , mostly foreigners , in her phonebook who were suspected of being islamic state sympathizers .
dressed in a black burqa , hamidon was paraded before the media but was not allowed to speak .
her laptop , mobile phones and electronic gadgets were being looked at by experts for forensic investigation .
hamidon , a muslim convert , was married to mohammad jaafar maguid , alias tokboy , the former leader of radical group ansar al-khilafa .
he was killed in a gunfight with police in january .
aguirre said she was also linked to singaporean and australian extremists , both of whom are in detention in their countries .
but counter-terrorism expert sidney jones cast doubts about whether hamidon had been effective .
jones said her presence in chatrooms of islamic state supporters was not welcomed , her credibility had been questioned and some participants blamed her for the arrests of radicals .
everyone hates her and thinks she s a spy , jones said .