dakar ( reuters ) - rapidly expanding access to the internet across africa is helping grassroots opposition movements take on once-invulnerable regimes .
many entrenched rulers have a simple response : pulling the plug .
while countries in the middle east and china employ firewalls and block virtual private networks to control web access , leaders in africa increasingly prefer the blunter instrument of outright outages .
critics say that infringes not just the rights of individuals but also undermines the burgeoning economies of some of the world s poorest countries .
since the start of 2016 , governments in 13 african nations have intentionally shut down the internet on 21 occasions , mainly during elections and protests , according to a database run by online rights group access now .
that compares to seven shutdowns in the previous two years .
earlier this month , tech entrepreneur sama tanya saw cameroonian police fire teargas into a residential building during protests by the country s english-speaking minority .
as choking women and children poured onto the street , he considered documenting the crackdown to share on social media , only to realize the internet connection had been cut .
i couldn t even reach my family to tell them .
i was worried , but i couldn t share a thing , he said by telephone from the city of buea , the epicenter of the demonstrations .
rights group internet without borders says cutting access is a violation of international law and defies a july 2016 u.n. resolution affirming that the same rights that people have offline must also be protected online .
internet freedom declined worldwide for the sixth straight year in 2016 , according to an annual report from freedom house .
africa is becoming a new testing ground for authoritarian practices online , said francois patuel , west africa researcher at amnesty international .
we have seen disruptions in togo and in other countries but also arrests for what people are saying online .
often what people say online can be used against them in court .
internet cuts in africa date back to the 2011 arab spring when rulers in egypt , tunisia and libya sought to control the spread of information .
today , the intent is the same , but the methods have evolved .
governments slow internet speed by reducing bandwidth , or throttling , and target and shut down certain urls like facebook , twitter and whatsapp , a process known as filtering .
although free apps like vpn monster and turbo vpn can circumvent filtering using vpns which mask the location of a computer or phone , even a vpn won t help you if you don t have an internet connection in the first place .
when gabon shut down internet access for several days last year as violent street protests erupted against president ali bongo s contested re-election , it likely only required flipping a virtual switch at state-run gabon telecom .
gabon communications minister bilie-by-nze acknowledged in a reuters interview that internet access had been disrupted , but declined to comment further .
during elections in gambia in december , the government ordered the shutdown of the internet s landing point , the central point from which service is supplied to the whole country , according to two people with knowledge of the decision .
in togo , authorities appeared to have organized a mobile data shutdown during opposition protests against president faure gnassingbe last month , according to people who were there who said fixed internet lines remained available .
certain people post images to amplify the situation or publish photos of horror , togo s security minister colonel damehame yark told reporters earlier this month .
the government decided to cut the internet because we have to protect the population .
democratic republic of congo asked telecommunications companies to block social media networks in december .
providers declined to comment at the time on whether they would comply , but one industry executive said all companies had signed an agreement to respect national security injunctions .
when a sovereign government gives licenses to telecoms companies , those companies have little choice but to comply with the government s demands , said doug madory , director of internet analysis at oracle dyn , which monitors international internet traffic flows .
orange and airtel , which provide service in countries where there have been shutdowns , did not respond to requests for comment for this story .
mtn , the continent s top mobile phone operator , provided a link to a company statement outlining its dedication to internet freedom but declined to comment further .
outages may be aimed at political opponents or social disruptors but businesses crucial to africa s economic growth can get also caught up in the crackdown .
sub-saharan africa s internet shutdowns have cost the region up to $ 237 million in economic losses since 2015 , according to a recent report by the uk government-funded collaboration on international ict policy for east and southern africa .
shutdowns are adversely affecting the livelihoods of citizens , undermining the profitability of business enterprises , and reducing the gdp and competitiveness of countries that implement them , the report said .
etta ayuk s small tech start-up skylabase , which provides software to banks , lost three major clients and $ 20,000 worth of business when the internet was shut down from january to april in anglophone cameroon , forcing him to fire nearly half his employees .
during the outage , ayuk and his remaining staff crammed onto buses every morning for the 70-km ( 44-mile ) drive to francophone cameroon s commercial capital , douala , to use the internet there .
gridlock often made it a three-hour trip each way .
cameroon s government declined repeated requests for comment .
ayuk is considering rebasing to gambia , which has not had a government shutdown since adama barrow became president in january 2017 .
barrow is encouraging internet start-ups .
i am a child of cameroon , i don t want to leave , he said .
but the political situation is not supporting us .