moscow ( reuters ) - u.s. government-sponsored radio free europe/radio liberty ( rfe/rl ) said on monday moscow had threatened to brand their russian language service projects as foreign agents in retaliation for what moscow calls u.s. pressure on a kremlin-backed tv station .
russian officials have accused washington of putting unwarranted pressure on the u.s. operations of rt , a kremlin-funded broadcaster accused by some in washington of interfering in domestic u.s. politics , which it denies .. russian foreign ministry spokeswoman maria zakharova said on sunday moscow could apply similar measures to american journalists and media in russia .
she did not identify any specific u.s. media outlets that would be targeted .
current time , which is produced by rfe/rl in cooperation with the voice of america and mainly targets audiences in russia and the countries of central and eastern europe , said it had received a warning from the russian ministry of justice , threatening to put restrictions on the network .
two other rfe/rl russian-language projects , radio liberty and idel .
realias , received the same letters , it said .
according to russia s competent bodies , your organization s activity falls under the criteria set out in the federal law ... for non-commercial organizations - foreign agents .
your organization s activity may be restricted ... , said the letter , seen by reuters .
a justice ministry official confirmed to reuters that such a letter had been sent , adding : the principle of reciprocity will further be applied depending on the measures applied to russian media by the united states .
responding to the letter , the channel director of current time tv , daisy sindelar , said in a statement : we are a journalistic organization , and we trust we will be able to continue our work .
we have no concrete information about any moves being taken against rt in the united states , and have no reason to expect reciprocal action , she added .
late last month , russia s state communications regulator accused u.s. tv channel cnn international of violating its license to broadcast in russia and said it had summoned the broadcaster s representatives in connection with the matter .