valletta ( reuters ) - police believe a bomb that killed a prominent journalist in malta was attached beneath her car and triggered remotely , a government spokeswoman said on thursday , giving the first details of the investigation .
daphne caruana galizia , a renowned blogger and fierce critic of the government , died on monday in a blast that wrecked her car as she was leaving her house , throwing debris and body parts into a nearby field .
the murder shocked the mediterranean island , the smallest nation in the european union , and prime minister joseph muscat on wednesday promised a reward to anyone who came forward with information about the killing .
however , caruana galizia s three grown-up sons dismissed the offer , and called instead for muscat to resign , saying he should take political responsibility for the first such murder of a journalist in malta since the island won independence in 1964 .
muscat has ruled out quitting and flew to brussels on thursday for an eu summit , where his spokeswoman said investigators were making some progress .
emerging evidences make us think that the bomb was placed under the car and was set off with a remote trigger , she said , adding that foreign experts would be called on to help identify the mobile phone which was used to detonate the bomb .
in a news conference in valletta , police commissioner lawrence cutajar denied british police would join dutch forensic experts and a team from the u.s. federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) in helping with the case .
muscat s spokeswoman earlier said british officers would be involved .
cutajar said no arrests had made so far and added it was too soon to discuss possible motives , telling reporters it would take weeks to collect all the evidence .
he also could not confirm reports from a maltese police source that semtex explosives were believed to have been used in the killing .
the island has seen a number of small bomb attacks in recent years tied to gangland criminals , but the explosives used were relatively rudimentary and did not have the same power as the device that targeted caruana galizia .
the 53-year-old journalist used her widely read blog to lambast muscat , his wife and some of his closest advisers , accusing them of setting up off-shore accounts to hide ill-gotten gain .
they denied the charges and muscat was suing caruana galizia for libel at the time of her death .
the police may or may not find out who ordered the assassination of our mother but as long as those who led the country to this point remain in place , none of it will matter , her three sons , matthew , andrew and paul , wrote on facebook .
that added that the only way forward was for muscat to stand aside : resign for watching over the birth of a society dominated by fear , mistrust , crime and corruption .
as he arrived at the eu summit in brussels , muscat denied that he had created a mafia state in malta , which is home to a large financial services sector and the continental hub for the flourishing online gaming industry .
definitely not , muscat said .
the european parliament said it would hold a debate next week on the protection of journalists and media freedom in malta , where the government enjoys sweeping powers over the judiciary and the police .
malta is a mecca for money launderers and tax avoiders , greens eu legislator sven giegold said .
the prime minister says the financial services sector is as transparent and compliant as in any other european jurisdiction .