so the irony isn t lost on me when i saw the still shot of hillary wearing the muslim symbol of submission to men in her new ad .
this woman wants to be seen as strong and knowledgeable on foreign policy but obviously doesn t understand the message she s sending out .
does hillary clinton not know what wearing a hijab means or is she just that stupid to throw one on for votes ?
it s like when she puts on the phony southern accent when she s in south carolina .
pandering to the muslims and those that think it s just so great that she s so diverse tells us all we need to know about this hag .
she d do anything to get elected even wear a symbol of oppression how ironic !
daniel greenfield gives us the lowdown on the symbolism of wearing a hijab : hillary s latest campaign video tries to build up her non-existent foreign policy experience .
that means making as much as possible out of her feminist speech in china which avoided criticizing a communist regime that forces women to have abortions .
( or as her planned parenthood pals call it , health care outreach . )
and showing her travel photo slideshow.it s basically like those travel videos friends force you to watch except this is a really expensive commercial and no one can force you to watch it.but in odd contrast to touting hillary s feminism and strength , is this shot of her wearing a hijab ; an islamic garment of submission.not only has the hijab consistently been a source of muslim violence against women , both in punishing women who don t wear it and punishing women who take it off , but its origins lie in an islamic commandment distinguishing muslim women , who couldn t be raped , from non-muslim slave women captured by mohammed s rampaging gang.it s really quite explicit.the koranic verse that mandates covering states , o prophet !
tell your wives and your daughters and the women of the believers to draw their cloaks all over their bodies that they may thus be distinguished and not molested ( koran 33:59 ) that s not modesty .
the covering is being worn to avoid rape.the key words here are distinguished and not molested .
whom are these women being distinguished from ?
women who don t cover up and can be molested.hillary s cloak is incomplete by saudi or taliban standards , but all these coverings are meant to be a symbolic form of purdah , the physical confinement of a woman , even within her home.in her commercial , hillary clinton , by wearing the hijab , is advertising that she is the property of a man and therefore not to be molested .
of course since islamic law doesn t recognize the marriages of non-muslim peoples it is at war with , enabling jihadis to sexually assault even married non-muslim women , as the islamic prophet mohammed allowed his muslim followers to do , it s also a meaningless gesture.is it really a feminist gesture to voluntarily accept the islamic distinction between women who can be assaulted and women who can t ? either way it s certainly a step back for a female politician who wants to be seen as a leader and a fighter for women.via : front page magazine