washington ( reuters ) - senator mark kirk of illinois on tuesday accused many of his fellow senate republicans of being “ closed-minded ” by refusing to consider president barack obama ’ s nomination of merrick garland to serve on the u.s. supreme court .
kirk , facing a tough re-election battle in his democratic-leaning state , became the first republican senator to meet with garland since obama nominated the centrist appellate judge and former prosecutor on march 16 to replace conservative justice antonin scalia , who died on feb. 13 .
there is a need for “ open-minded , rational , responsible people ” to ensure the confirmation process works , kirk told reporters before his private meeting with garland , who already has met with some senate democrats .
most of the 100-member senate ’ s 54 republicans have backed senate majority leader mitch mcconnell ’ s hard-line stance against confirming any obama nominee or even meeting with garland .
“ i think when you just say , ‘ i ’ m not going to meet with him at all ’ - that ’ s too closed-minded , ” added kirk , a first-term senator who may be one of the most endangered senate republicans in the nov. 8 elections .
maine ’ s susan collins also took her fellow senate republicans to task for blocking garland ’ s confirmation process .
collins told wgan radio , “ whether republicans like him ( obama ) or not , he is our president until inauguration day next january. ” collins said there seemed to be “ no basis ” for senators to refuse even to consider garland .
mcconnell has said the senate should leave it to obama ’ s successor , who will take office next january after november ’ s elections , to fill the vacancy .
more than a dozen senate republicans have indicated a willingness to at least meet with garland .
last week , kansas republican senator jerry moran , also running for re-election , was assailed by conservative groups after urging that the confirmation process proceed , even though he made clear he would not vote for garland .
meetings with senators are a standard part of the confirmation process , allowing lawmakers to get acquainted with nominees for a lifetime position on the supreme court .
republicans fear garland could move the court to the left for the first time in decades .
the white house said the court ’ s split 4-4 ruling in an important labor case on tuesday underscored the need to confirm scalia ’ s replacement .
“ with a supreme court that is not fully staffed , it makes it more likely that situations can arise across the country where there are different rulings in different circuit courts that are not resolved by the supreme court , ” spokesman josh earnest told reporters aboard air force one as obama flew to atlanta .