berlin ( reuters ) - the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) will have proportionally more lawmakers with an immigrant background in the new parliament than chancellor angela s conservatives , according to a survey .
the afd , which enters parliament for the first time after winning 12.6 percent of the vote in sunday s election , has been sharply critical of merkel s decision to take in 1.3 million mainly muslim migrants and says islam has no place in germany .
yet 7.5 percent of the afd s 93 lawmakers have an immigrant background compared with only 2.5 percent of the conservatives , according to the survey by mediendienst integration , an online portal that collects data on immigration and asylum .
that leaves the afd and the conservative bloc each with seven lawmakers with a recent immigrant background .
ironically , by entering parliament , the anti-immigrant afd has contributed to a rise in the number of deputies with an immigration background , said jannis panagiotidis of osnabrueck university .
some 22.5 percent of germany s 82 million population have an immigrant background , which means they did not have german citizenship at birth or were born to at least one parent who was not born german .
merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) and their christian social union ( csu ) bavarian allies won most seats in the election on sept. 24 , which secured merkel a fourth term but saw her conservatives support plunge to its lowest level in the post-war period .
the cdu/csu , which together have 246 seats in the bundestag lower house , are expected to try to build a coalition with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens .
the afd is the third largest party in the new lower house bundestag , behind the center-left social democrats .
the new 709-seat assembly will have a total 57 members with an immigration background , 20 more than in the outgoing bundestag , which had 630 seats .
the far-left die linke has the highest percentage of immigrant deputies - nearly 19 percent .