seoul ( reuters ) - after months of fiery rhetoric and rising tensions , u.s. president donald trump s secret attempt to personally face off with north korea across the heavily fortified demilitarized zone ( dmz ) on wednesday was defeated by fog and mist .
helicopters carrying trump and an entourage of staff , media , and security forces were turned back just minutes from the dmz , thwarting a plan that had been in the works since before the president left on his trip through asia .
he s actually pretty frustrated , press secretary sarah huckabee sanders said of trump .
often clad in photo-friendly bomber jackets , all u.s. presidents since ronald reagan have visited the dmz except for george h.w .
bush , who toured as vice president .
in april , u.s. vice president mike pence visited the dmz , also sporting a bomber jacket , so that the north koreans could see our resolve in my face .
trump s attempt for his own visit had been in the works for some time , despite previous denials from the white house , including late last month by a senior official who called visiting the dmz a little bit of a clich .
journalists accompanying trump were summoned earlier than expected wednesday morning .
this is where we re going , sanders said , holding up a piece of notepaper on which the letters dmz were scrawled .
just after 7 a.m. ( 2200 gmt tuesday ) the motorcade left trump s hotel in downtown seoul , arriving 10 minutes later at yongsan garrison , a u.s. military base .
helicopters carrying trump and his entourage took off from a sports field on the base , camouflage-clad men seated at the back of the aircraft .
weaving through the dense fog that shrouded seoul s skyscrapers , the helicopters were only minutes away from landing at the dmz when they turned back to the base .
there wasn t enough visibility to land , sanders said .
it would have been really dangerous , and our guys pulled back .
the trip was finalized during bilateral meetings between trump and south korea president moon jae-in on tuesday , officials said .
when trump told moon he was interested in visiting the dmz , the south korean president not only gave his blessing , but said he would meet trump there .
it would be good for you to go .
if you go , i will go with you , said moon , quoted by a presidential blue house official .
moon waited about 30 minutes for trump at the dmz on wednesday , having driven part of the way to the fortified border by road , an option not open to trump because of security concerns .
as he waited for a second chance back at yongsan , trump sat in his limousine , working on a draft of his speech to be given at south korea s national assembly later that day a speech which saw trump return to his bellicose attack of north korea and its leader kim jong un .
the world can not tolerate the menace of a rogue regime that threatens it with nuclear devastation , trump later declared in his speech .
but as he sat in his car there was to be no second chance to look across the dmz to north korea , as the fog , mixed with yellow dust blown in from china , lingered late into the morning .
on wednesday , before news of the aborted trip broke , an editorial in china daily , a state-run english-language newspaper , praised trump s previously announced decision not to visit and north korea s restraint in not carrying out further missile or nuclear tests .
the restraint both washington and pyongyang have demonstrated so far ... is a hopeful sign that both prefer to find a peaceful solution to their predicaments , the editorial said .