we ll wait for nancy pelosi to call this movement exactly what it is an astro-turf movement .
the hate cops and hate white people movement is a george soros funded , obama , eric holder and al sharpton inspired movement created to pit the haves and the have nots against each other .
to hell with america and it s great people , this is about something much more important to the left , it s about a divided nation totally dependent upon the government.no justice no peace !
we have nothing to lose but our chains -jonathan butler , son of very successful multi-millionaire parents.jonathan butler , a central figure in the protests at the university of missouri , is an omaha native and the son of a railroad vice president , the omaha world-herald reports.butler refused food last week in a move to force the university system s president , timothy m. wolfe , from office .
wolfe resigned monday and butler ended his hunger strike.jonathan butler played high-school football at omaha central high , where he won a state championship , and earned a bachelor s degree in business administration from mizzou , the newspaper reports .
he is working toward a master s degree in educational leadership and policy.he is a member of a prominent omaha family .
the newspaper says that butler s father is eric l. butler , executive vice president for sales and marketing for the union pacific railroad .
his 2014 compensation was $ 8.4 million , according to regulatory filings with the securities and exchange commission .
via : sltbutler s turn from silent type to activist wasn t a complete surprise to his old football coach , jay ball , who remembered how butler worked hard to bulk himself up in order to make the move from the junior varsity team to varsity .
in his senior year , butler started on a team that won the state title.ball said butler wasn t a big guy standing about 5-foot-9 , tops .
but ball practically had to kick butler out of the weight room because the aspiring player spent so much time there , pushing himself .
i can remember watching him squat , ball said .
his eyeballs bulged out .
ball said butler led by example , not rah-rah bravado .
he was really smart , ball said , a very coachable kid .
ball said butler s drive , tenacity and effort probably served him well these past weeks.in his senior yearbook , butler is shown twice : once in a tie for his class portrait and once in a tiny football team photograph .
according to teachers and administrators , he was not the kind of student who organized events or served on the student council .
instead , he was a quiet , solid student who paid attention.now butler is the public face of a protest that drew national attention and felled two top leaders .
butler and others have said he s not the center several women at mizzou plus the school s student body president took more public positions earlier .
but his hunger strike , which stretched for eight days , seems to have been the catalyst.where did this activism come from ? butler did not respond to a world-herald reporter s requests for interviews .
his parents declined to comment .
they traveled to missouri on monday .
a family friend described the family as incredibly humble and low profile.butler has said in news reports that his paternal grandfather , an attorney helping the poor in new york city , was a big influence .
so were his parents : eric is a union pacific executive and cynthia is a former educator who runs an advocacy program .
they founded joy of life ministries in their basement , and it has grown into a church now based at 56th street and sorensen parkway.butler has said that the police shooting death of michael brown in ferguson in 2014 and the subsequent protests there marked a turning point for him .
he spent time in ferguson , a two-hour drive from columbia , lending his voice two summers ago.here is butler , the self proclaimed speaking to students .
i am a revolutionary .