beijing ( reuters ) - foreign companies in china have welcomed the ruling communist party to set up cells in their firms , a senior official said on thursday , though some executives have expressed concern about the party s growing role in their operations .
the presence of party units has long been a fact of doing business in china , where the law requires companies , including foreign firms , to set up a party organization .
many executives had long seen the measure as symbolic .
but as president xi jinping s efforts to strengthen the party s role throughout society have reached the local operations of foreign companies , some executives told reuters earlier this year that they were concerned about the resulting demands they face .
party cells in foreign firms were well-received as a way of helping them understand chinese policies and resolving disputes , qi yu , a deputy head of the communist party s organisation department , told a news briefing on the sidelines of a key twice-a-decade party congress in beijing .
senior executives at some foreign invested companies say party organizations can help them to understand in a timely manner chinese policies , to resolve salary disputes , and provide positive energy for the company s development , said qi .
the vast majority of investors welcome and support party organizations to have activities in their company , he said .
in july , executives from more than a dozen top european companies in china met in beijing to discuss their concerns about the growing role of the party in their local operations , reuters reported .
one senior executive whose company was represented at the meeting told reuters some firms were under political pressure to revise terms of their joint ventures with state-owned partners to allow the party the final say over business operations and investment decisions .
the executive declined to be identified given the sensitivity of the matter .
but supervision minister yang xiaodu , who is also a deputy at the party s graft-busting central commission for discipline inspection , said a u.s. executive had told him that his best workers were party members .
so he said , i hope the company can have more communist party members and that party organizations can do more , said yang , who was seated beside qi on thursday .