did you know that government regulations would keep bernie marcus from starting home depot today ?
new businesses across america are being strangled by faceless bureaucrats and politicians who erroneously believe that government can do it better .
bernie marcushome depot founder and former jeb bush-backer bernie marcus has endorsed republican presidential candidate donald trump , saying the fate of the nation hangs on sending him to the white house over hillary clinton .
writing for real clear politics , the leading businessman said new businesses across america were being strangled by faceless bureaucrats and politicians who erroneously believe that government can do it better .
i genuinely believe that if we to started the home depot today , we would fail because of the hurdles government , especially the current administration , places in front of small business owners , he writes.obama-style government , he adds , is driving over-regulation , over-taxation , over-litigation , and over-spending and thus killing small businesses , which create the majority of new jobs in america .
politicians like obama and clinton , aided by the media and academia , have peddled a dangerous sentiment that government can provide for americans better than the private sector .
that s not just false , it s likely the nexus of trump s massively popular slogan , make america great again .
we saw it first hand .
donald trump , he says , is the only man who can make america great again by cutting red tape and changing the course of the country .
as americans , the choice is abundantly clear : if you want four more years of president obama , vote for hillary clinton ; if you want to take the country in a new direction , vote for donald trump .
he also issued a warning to republicans who refuse to back their party s designated nominee : make no mistake , republicans who refuse to stand behind their party s nominee are electing clinton , whether they cast their ballots for her or not .
i have a message for the # nevertrump crowd : enough already .
donald trump is our presumptive nominee and it is time to get over wishing it were not so .
if you don t , change your social media hashtag to # hillarygop .
via : breitbart