the next time any flag waving , faux-patriotic republican tells you president obama didn t care about the troops , veterans , or the welfare of the american public , tell them that he donated over $ 1 million to various charitable causes .
then ask them how braggadocios he was about it.that s right , president obama , during his time in office , not only saved the country from economic collapse , but used his own money to help his fellow countrymen .
according to a forbes analysis of his tax returns from 2009 to 2015 , 54 percent of all donations went to various organizations that help children.however , the biggest recipient of president obama s generosity was the fisher house foundation , which is tasked with supporting the families of veterans .
this organization received over $ 390,000 over the course of obama s eight years in office .
this donation s were given on behalf of the royalties president obama accumulated from his children s book , of thee i sing.according to forbes : he gave away $ 190,000 more to children s causes , including $ 48,000 to boys & girls clubs .
he also gave away $ 19,500 to the mosaic youth theatre of detroit .
another $ 13,500 went to the christopher house , a chicago-based group that supports poor working families .
even after he moved to washington , obama remained loyal to his chicago roots .
he poured $ 11,500 into the midtown educational foundation , which offers enrichment programs to poor urban youth in the windy city , and he gave $ 20,500 to two groups fighting hunger in illinois the $ 1.1 million of donations obama declared on his tax returns also do not include the $ 1.4 million he directed the nobel committee to give 10 charities after he won the nobel peace prize in 2009 .
the biggest recipient of those funds was , again , the fisher house foundation , which got $ 250,000 .
another $ 200,000 went to the clinton bush haiti fund , and most of the rest went to various scholarship funds.remember when republicans made fun of president obama for being a community organizer and working to make chicago a better place ?
even when busy running the free-world , he never turned his back on where he came from or the people who put him where he is .
that s a class act.perhaps the most telling was how the president doled out his own money in the face of heartbreaking national tragedies .
the forbes analysis shows that president obama gave $ 2,000 to a fund for families and victims affected by the boston bombing in 2013 .
that same year , he gave $ 2,000 to the sandy hook promise foundation .
remember when conservatives mocked him for crying over these tragedies ? while president , obama made over $ 10 million , with a majority ( 75 percent ) of that coming from book royalties .
that means president obama gave 11 percent of his earnings to charity.contrast that to donald trump who is worth $ 4.5 billion .
because donald trump refuses to release his taxes , it is not know just how much he gives to charity .
according to forbes : filings for the donald j. trump foundation reveal that he gave $ 0 to his own charitable foundation from 2009 to 2014 , the most recent year on record .
( he donated $ 2.8 million from 2001 to 2008 . )
after he stopped giving in 2009 , other donors gave $ 4.4 million to the trump foundation over the next six years , which trump in turn doled out to various groups , apparently fooling some recipients into thinking the money came from him.yeah donald trump cares , and obama is the heartless elitist .
sure .
whatever you say.i would love to see how much rush limbaugh , ann coulter , sean hannity , bill o reilly , tomi lahren and the other conservative frauds have given to the troops and their families.simply put , president obama was and still is a generous , compassionate , loving human being .
he truly loves this country and the people who make it great .
the haters are all talk , no action all while collecting a paycheck while faking support.read more : featured image via darren hauck/getty images