rome ( reuters ) - a video appearing to show men auctioned as slaves in tripoli has put a long history of abuses against refugees and migrants there on the international agenda , the united nations refugee chief said on thursday .
grainy footage broadcast by cnn earlier this month appeared to show an auction of men offered as labourers to libyan buyers for $ 400 , prompting outrage and anger in europe and africa .
but migrants who reach europe by sea have been telling stories of being kidnapped , imprisoned and forced to work for no pay for years .
unfortunately , the horrifying abuses which that video made evident , made obvious to the whole world , are not new , filippo grandi told reuters in rome .
the merit of that video is that it has now put the issue on the international agenda .
some african countries recalled their ambassadors after the video was broadcast , and the u.n. security council held a special session to discuss the issue after french president emmanuel macron railed against crimes against humanity in libya .
partly in response to the video , european and african leaders meeting in abidjan on thursday agreed to a plan to cooperate to fight smuggling and seek to ease a human rights disaster in libya .
we ve heard finally authorities - libyan authorities , the international community - talk about practical measures and how to respond to those abuses , to try to stop them , and to try to find solutions for the people affected by them , grandi said .
more than half a million migrants largely from war zones in the middle east and africa have reached europe by sea after setting off from the libyan coast over the past four years , bringing with them numerous tales of abuse .
the international organisation for migration ( iom ) said in april it had been told of slave market conditions in libya and niger .
a nigerian man , john osifo , told reuters in may after he was rescued at sea by a humanitarian ship that he had been forced into hard labor , treated like an animal , and beaten with a metal pipe .
for libyans , our black skin is like diamonds , nicky yong from cameroon said .
he watched two men barter for him when he was sold to work as a builder , he said .
after months of negotiations , libya s u.n.-backed government in tripoli agreed this week to open a transit center for vulnerable refugees , which will be used to house people before they can be resettled or evacuated to another country .
the u.n. told reuters in september it hoped to open the center , where refugees can be protected from smugglers and criminals , early next year .
grandi said that more such facilities will be needed , and that the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) needs to have better access to the detention centers currently being run by the tripoli government .
we will need to create probably more ( transit ) facilities , grandi said .
we will also need to have more access ... to the detention centers to do the work that we want to do , grandi said .
william lacy swing , head of the iom , told the u.n. security council on tuesday that it was working with partners to try to empty the detention centers in libya .
some 30 centers , condemned as inhumane by rights groups , are estimated to hold 15,000-20,000 migrants .
hundreds of thousands of other migrants are estimated to be in libya , and many of them are being held by smugglers under lock-and-key in a country consumed by factional violence since strong man muammar gaddafi was ousted six years ago .