brussels ( reuters ) - france and germany edged toward achieving a 70-year-old ambition to integrate european defenses on monday , signing a pact with 21 other eu governments to fund , develop and deploy armed forces after britain s decision to quit the bloc .
first proposed in the 1950s and long resisted by britain , european defense planning , operations and weapons development now stands its best chance in years as london steps aside and the united states pushes europe to pay more for its security .
foreign and defense ministers gathered at a signing ceremony in brussels to represent 23 eu governments joining the pact , paving the way for eu leaders to sign it in december .
those governments will for the first time legally bind themselves into joint projects as well as pledging to increase defense spending and contribute to rapid deployments .
today we are taking a historic step , germany s foreign minister sigmar gabriel told reporters .
we are agreeing on the future cooperation on security and defense issues ... it s really a milestone in european development , he said .
the pact includes all eu governments except britain , which is leaving the bloc , denmark , which has opted out of defense matters , ireland , portugal and malta .
traditionally neutral austria was a late addition to the pact .
paris originally wanted a vanguard of eu countries to bring money and assets to french-led military missions and projects , while berlin has sought to be more inclusive , which could reduce effectiveness .
its backers say that if successful , the formal club of 23 members will give the european union a more coherent role in tackling international crises and end the kind of shortcomings seen in libya in 2011 , when european allies relied on the united states for air power and munitions .
unlike past attempts , the u.s.-led nato alliance backs the project , aiming to benefit from stronger militaries .
the club will be backed by a 5-billion-euro defense fund for buying weapons , a special fund to finance operations and money from the eu s common budget for defense research .
members will also be required to submit national plans and be subject to a review system identifying weak spots in european armies with the goal of plugging those gaps together .
many governments say russia s seizure of ukraine s crimea in 2014 was a turning point , after years of defense spending cuts that left europe without vital capabilities .
this is a commitment for countries to do better together , french foreign minister jean-yves le drian said .
it comes at a time of significant tension , he said , referring indirectly to russia s rising military reach and islamic militants who have attacked european cities .
despite an anglo-french-led eu defense integration effort in 1998 , britain blocked formal collaboration on military matters , wary of the creation of an eu army .
defense integration was revived by france and germany , with support from italy and spain , in a show of unity after britons voted to leave the eu in june 2016 .
the eu had struggled in military and humanitarian missions in the balkans , libya and in africa over the past 20 years and were caught off guard by russia s crimea annexation .
as the eu initiative , known as permanent structured cooperation , has gained momentum , british officials have been pressing for involvement .
britain s aerospace industry and its biggest defense firm bae systems ( baes.l ) fear losing out , diplomats said .
british foreign secretary boris johnson likened london s support to gothic architecture , saying : we are there , like a flying buttress to support the cathedral , he told reporters .
in a possible compromise , britain may be able to join in , but only on an exceptional basis if it provides substantial funds and expertise .