geneva ( reuters ) - the humanitarian situation in yemen is a catastrophe , and cholera cases could reach a million by the end of the year , the international committee of the red cross said on friday .
warring parties in yemen - including the western-backed saudi-led coalition - are all using disproportionate force , leading to very excessive civilian casualties , said alexandre faite , the head of the red cross delegation in yemen .
in addition , suspected cases of cholera have reached 750,000 , with 2,119 deaths , faite said , and the red cross expects at least 900,000 cases by the end of the year .
the situation has really evolved in a very dramatic way and i think that it s nothing short of a catastrophe , faite told a news briefing in geneva .
civil war in yemen has killed more than 10,000 people since it began in march 2015 .
control of the country is split between the iran-aligned houthis , who control much of northern yemen , including the capital , sanaa .
opposed to the houthis are a saudi-led coalition .
with the main port of hodeidah damaged , the red cross brings medical aid , including insulin , into yemen with occasional cargo planes to sanaa .
other goods come by land convoys from jordan and oman and by ship from jordan , oman and dubai .
a ship from karachi with 500 metric tonnes of rice is now due on oct 7 in hodeidah , the first icrc shipment there since early february .
faite called on all sides to open sanaa airport to commercial flights for essential aid supplies and to make progress toward allowing the red cross to visit prisoners of war .
i don t think political settlement is coming soon and i m very worried that the extension of the conflict would lead to more problems , faite said .
this is why humanitarian aid , access of essential goods should be there , he said .
there is a bottleneck .
although the death rate for cholera victims has dropped to less than 0.3 percent , faite said yemen s health sector is really on its knees in yemen ... the health staff is on its knees as well because they are not paid .
for the first time , the red cross is now providing health workers with food parcels , he said .
in terms of access to even water , electricity , there isn t a power grid in the main cities in yemen .
without the icrc and other organizations fixing ( pumping stations ) there wouldn t be any running water in sanaa , he said .