but wait the first female president oh never mind , the democrat party s gon na go with diversity and pick the old white guy .
because in the end , the democrats don t really give a hoot about diversity it all comes down to voting for freebies.according to pbs , bernie sanders is gaining against clinton in early polls .
salon s bill curry believes hillary clinton is going lose , primarily because millions of voters longing for a truly progressive candidate will nominate sanders .
politico explained recently that early-state polls hint at a bernie sanders surge , a headline that was unthinkable only several months earlier .
yahoo s meredith shiner calls sanders a progressive social media star and pragmatic legislator and states that sanders also has a much more substantial legislative history than any gop challenger .
in iowa , 1,100 people packed a gym to hear bernie sanders speak in may.in contrast , team hillary had an intimate business roundtable discussion with five ordinary iowans .
the only problem was that according to the washington post , all five were selected to attend her events .
in fact , clinton s staged roundtables were attended by a total of 13 iowans , picked by either the campaign or the host.therefore , a paradigm shift has taken place .
many iowans drove 50 miles to hear sanders speak in des moines , primarily because bernie sanders has surpassed clinton as the ideal choice for democratic nominee .
regarding electability , sanders has also surpassed clinton as the realistic choice for democratic nominee in the minds of many voters , because as one salon piece illustrates , hillary just doesn t get it .
when it comes to everything from immigration to climate change and economic issues ( most americans side with democrats , according to pew research and other data ) some writers believe that democrats can nominate a ham sandwich and win the presidency .
although once thought of as an impossibility , a closer look at the electoral map shows why bernie sanders could realistically defeat any gop challenger .
if voters around the country still care about middle class economics , the federal budget , trade and other hot button issues in 2016 , sanders has a legitimate chance to win .
also , since sanders isn t tied to obama fatigue like hillary clinton , it s quite possible the vermont senator re-energizes an america that just recently decided the confederate flag doesn t represent its value system.according to a politico piece titled the 2016 results we can already predict , assuming the lean , likely , and safe democratic states remain loyal to the party , the nominee need only win 23 of the 85 toss-up electoral votes .
therefore , there s no need to jettison cherished values for the sake of pragmatism ; those days are over .
senator bernie sanders , known in washington and throughout the nation as an advocate for middle class americans , veterans , the environment , and other cherished causes can win crucial electoral votes just as easily as hillary clinton.finally , perhaps the biggest reason sanders is surging is because he s a genuine person with real beliefs , while others become chameleons when votes and public image are at stake .
it s important to note that hillary clinton just recently evolved on gay marriage and in 2004 , clinton s speech ( forward to 0:22 on the slate video or read the transcript of her passionate defense of marriage between only a man and woman ) highlighted her views on the sacred bond of marriage : senator hillary clinton ( d-ny ) : i believe marriage is a sacred bond between a man and a woman .a fundamental bedrock principle that it exists between a man and woman , going back into the midst of history , as one of the founding , foundational institutions of history and humanity and civilization .
and that it s primary principle role during those milennia has been the raising and socializing of children for the society into which they are to become adults .
according to the atlantic , clinton s stance remained unchanged for years , and she also opposed gay marriage as recently as 2013 , long after a majority of americans already held a more gay-friendly position .
in terms of identity , hillary clinton might be a liberal according to fivethirtyeight.com , yet their analysis gives her a free pass on war , gay marriage , and other issues liberals had championed before they were popular .
adhering to polls is fine , but the words poll driven , not progressive , come to mind for someone with this type of persona .
if one s views on war and foreign policy are enough for the new york times to publish an article titled are neocons getting ready to ally with hillary clinton ? , then bernie sanders becomes an even better candidate for people opposed to never-ending american counterinsurgency wars .
clinton might say she was duped by faulty intelligence , but bernie sanders had enough intelligence and wisdom to vote against the iraq war back in 2003.via : huffington post