how socialism and political correctness are destroying a nation we reported about the crime and chaos taking place in france , as muslim migrants who have no intention of assimilating , have flooded their country .
the border town of calais is a disaster , with migrants camping in the jungle hoping to catch a ride across the border into the uk .
france is also seeing a massive increase in rapes and sexual assault crimes by the grateful refugees .
every day 33 rapes are reported in france , that s one every 40 minutes !
so far today , 20 have been arrested in french taxi driver , air traffic controller and teacher protests as riots are taking place in 2 major cities .
farmers blocked roads and burned tires , as they protested only yesterday against the prices of dairy and meat products in the province of brittany .
it would appear to the casual observer , that socialism and political correctness are not working out too well for france .
what do you think ?
taxi drivers in france are blockading roads with burning tires in protest at the low-cost uber app , resulting in at least 20 arrests .
air traffic controllers are also staging a demonstration , leading to dozens of canceled flights.at least 20 arrests had already been made by 10 a.m. local time , following taxi driver protests around major cities including paris and marseille.drivers blocked roads with burning tires , prompting the arrival of riot police and firefighters .
some drivers had set pre-dawn bonfires which authorities had to put out.des pneus br lent sur le p riph rique # portemaillot pic.twitter.com/cfmyokhyjq paul louis ( @ paul_louis11 ) january 26 , 2016hundreds of taxis , joined by a few from belgium and spain , blocked a massive intersection leading into western paris , causing huge disruption to the area.the taxi drivers are protesting over working conditions and competition from non-traditional services such as uber.uber drivers vandalize professionals who are paying taxes , who respect the rules , rachid boudjema , president of the taxi drivers union in marseille , told ap.in response to the protests , uber sent a message to its french customers which said that the goal of the demonstrations was to put pressure on the government to limit competition .
here is an example of a violent clash today in paris : meanwhile , a planned walkout from air traffic controllers prompted the french civil aviation authority , dgac , to call on airlines to cancel one in five flights.easyjet said it had cancelled 35 flights , although air france said it would operate more than 80 percent of its short and medium-haul flights in france and europe .
it did , however , stress that last-minute delays or cancellations can not be ruled out .
hundreds of thousands of civil servants and teachers also went on strike on tuesday , protesting against a pay freeze and poor salaries .
teachers are scheduled to march in cities across the country on tuesday afternoon.it s the newest challenge to francois hollande s socialist government and its stop/start efforts to modernize the economy , in response to low economic growth and record-high unemployment .
earlier this month , hollande announced what he called a state of economic and social emergency , involving a 2 billion ( us $ 2.1 billion ) plan to revive hiring and catch up with the world s economy.the protests come just one day after french farmers demonstrated against the prices of dairy and meat products in the province of brittany , blocking roads and burning tires .
the farmers demanded that prices be increased because the proceeds from their sale don t cover the cost of production .
via : rtwatch shocking video of calais residents attacked by migrants in front of their home :