brussels ( reuters ) - the european union s executive may trigger a process on wednesday to begin to strip poland of its voting rights in the bloc , officials say , as months of tensions between brussels and warsaw come to a head .
in what would be an unprecedented move , the european commission could invoke article 7 of the european union s founding lisbon treaty to punish warsaw for breaking its rules on human rights and democratic values .
unless the polish government postpones these court reforms , we will have no choice but to trigger article 7 , said a senior eu official before a commission meeting on wednesday , where poland s reforms are on the agenda .
poland s new prime minister mateusz morawiecki said in brussels last week that the decision has already been made .
the commission s deputy head frans timmermans warned in july that poland was perilously close to facing sanctions .
such a punishment could still be blocked .
hungary , poland s closest ally in the eu , is likely to argue strongly against it .
but the mere threat of it underlines the sharp deterioration in ties between warsaw and brussels since the socially conservative law and justice ( pis ) won power in late 2015 .
the commission says poland s judicial reforms limit judges independence .
polish president andrzej duda has until jan. 5 to sign them into law .
if all eu governments agree , poland could have its voting rights in the eu suspended , and may also see cuts in billions of euros of eu aid .
the pis government rejects accusations of undemocratic behavior and says its reforms are needed because courts are slow , inefficient and steeped in a communist era-mentality .
following a non-binding european parliament vote last month calling for article 7 to be invoked , the commission appears to have little leeway to grant warsaw more time to amend its legislation .
the reforms would give the pis-controlled parliament de facto control over the selection of judges and end the terms of some supreme court judges early .
the council of europe , the continent s human rights watchdog , has compared such measures to those of the soviet system .
the commission fears letting poland off the hook could weaken its hand , especially in the ex-communist east , and risk damaging the eu s single market and cross-border legal cooperation .