bratislava ( reuters ) - the far-right people s party-our slovakia lost saturday s regional elections , turning the central european country against the trend of far-right gains in germany , austria and the czech republic in recent months .
right-wing and anti-immigrant parties have been on the rise across europe after years of slow economic growth and the arrival of more than a million migrants and refugees from the middle east and africa .
slovakia s economy has boomed and the country has seen little immigration , but rising public anger over graft scandals linked to conventional parties has generated support for fringe parties and protest groups .
regional election four years ago saw a surprising first-time victory of people s party chairman marian kotleba as governor in banska bystrica , central slovakia , and his party won 8 percent of the vote and its first-ever seats in national parliament last year .
support for the party , which has launched a petition to hold a referendum to exit the eu and nato , has since risen to about 10 percent , making it the third strongest group after leftist smer and euroskeptic liberals , according to opinion polls .
on saturday , kotleba lost the reelection bid to an entrepreneur jan lunter , a non-partisan endorsed by all parties except the far-right , near-complete results from the statistics office showed on sunday .
kotleba s right hand , the party s deputy chairman milan uhrik also lost the governor s race in the southwestern nitra region .
kotleba and two other lawmakers are facing extremism charges and prosecutors took steps in may to ban the entire party , saying it posed a threat to slovakia s democratic system .
the party , whose members have organized torch-lit marches wearing black uniforms modeled on a world war two nazi puppet state , denies any links to fascism .
last year they started patrolling trains , some carrying legally-held weapons , in regions with a strong roma population .
in another upset , prime minister robert fico s leftist smer party only won two reelection bids , losing four regions to center-right opposition candidates , a sign of its weakening grip on power in the euro zone country .
general elections last year saw smer s support shrink to 28.3 percent from 44.4 percent in 2012 , but it is still the strongest party with double the support of the euroskeptic liberal freedom and solidarity party , whose candidate was elected governor of the capital bratislava region .