luanda ( reuters ) - the leader of angola s main opposition party called on the country s electoral commission on saturday to explain how it compiled provisional election results giving the ruling mpla party a landslide victory .
isaias samakuva said his unita party , which has rejected the published results of wednesday s national ballot , was conducting a parallel count using polling station records and computer software that did not tally with the commission s figures .
where did those results come from ?
samakuva asked supporters at the party s campaign headquarters in luanda .
the cne ( commission ) must explain to angolans what it did wrong and why it did it .
based on nearly 98 percent of the vote counted , cne figures announced on friday put the people s movement for the liberation of angola ( mpla ) on 61.1 percent and the national union for the total independence of angola ( unita ) on 26.7 percent .
definitive results may not be announced until sept. 6. international observers described the election as reasonably free and fair and the mood in luanda has remained calm .
unita said the results released so far were not legally binding and it would release its national tally early next week .
the country still doesn t have a president-elect , samakuva said .
president-in-waiting joao lourenco , a former defense minister , is set to become the country s first new leader for 38 years , replacing jose eduardo dos santos , who will continue as head of the mpla .
unita and smaller opposition party casa-ce say the provisional results were processed without input from provincial counting centers or certain representatives on the electoral commission , going against angolan law .
the commission has said the process of vote-counting was going well but has not extensively explained how provisional numbers were tallied .
even if the parties have summary records of the polling stations and minutes of electoral operations , it is necessary to realize there is another set of elements and documents that will contribute to the provincial and national tally and this information is not available to the parties , commission spokeswoman julia ferreira said on friday , without elaborating .
unita published on friday its parallel count for four provinces huambo , bie , cabinda and luanda which in all cases showed the party doing better than the commission results indicated .
the mpla , which emerged victorious over unita after 27 years of civil war in 2002 , has dismissed the complaints , saying its old foe always take issue with election results .