tokyo ( reuters ) - a special panel to debate the timing of emperor akihito s abdication , japan s first in nearly two centuries , meets on friday , setting the stage for a formal decision by the government .
akihito , who turns 84 on dec. 23 and has had heart surgery and been treated for prostate cancer , said last year he feared age might make it hard to fulfill his duties .
following are some highlights from akihito s career as the first emperor not to be considered divine from the time he ascended the chrysanthemum throne in 1989 .
middle-class monarchy akihito s 1959 marriage to michiko shoda , the daughter of a wealthy industrialist , was the first by an emperor to a commoner and was hailed as a symbol of a new japan .
the two courted at a tennis club and he won her promise to marry him over the phone .
they worked to craft an image of a middle-class monarchy in an attempt to draw the imperial family closer to the people .
all three of their children went to university and married commoners , and the public was informed when akihito was diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2002 - in contrast to the secrecy around emperor hirohito s ultimately fatal illness .
akihito and michiko have worked to smooth relations across asia , which suffered from japan s aggression before and during world war two , with numerous visits abroad .
in 1992 , he became the first japanese monarch in living memory to visit china , where bitter memories of the war run deep , and deeply deplored an unfortunate period in which my country inflicted great suffering on the people of china .
at a news conference marking his birthday in 2001 , he said he felt a certain kinship with korea because one of his ancestors had come from there , an unprecedented statement from a japanese royal that made front page headlines in seoul .
in 2005 , the couple went to the island of saipan , the scene of bloody fighting during world war two , to pay respects at memorials honoring japanese , american and korean war dead .
akihito has often urged japan to remember the suffering of the war , comments that have attracted increased attention in recent years , when japanese prime minister shinzo abe appears to be pushing for a less apologetic tone towards japan s past .
on aug. 15 , 2015 , the 70th anniversary of the war s end , akihito departed from his annual script to express deep remorse .
the day before , abe had expressed utmost grief but said future generations should not have to keep apologizing .
one of the duties the royal couple has taken most seriously has been comforting victims of disasters .
akihito has knelt to talk to evacuees and michiko has hugged women who lost their homes .
in 2011 , akihito took the unprecedented step of addressing the nation in a televised speech after the march 11 earthquake and tsunami that triggered the world s worst nuclear crisis in 25 years .
he again turned to television in 2016 to tell the people he feared he was getting too old to carry out his duties , implying he wished to abdicate .