jerusalem ( reuters ) - prime minister benjamin netanyahu described the united nations as a house of lies ahead of a vote on thursday on a draft resolution calling on the united states to withdraw its recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital .
the state of israel totally rejects this vote , even before ( the resolution s ) approval , netanyahu said in a speech at a hospital dedication in the port city of ashdod .
the 193-member u.n. general assembly will hold a rare emergency special session on thursday at the request of arab and muslim countries to vote on the draft resolution , which the united states vetoed on monday in the 15-member u.n. security council .
generating outrage from palestinians and the arab and muslim world , and concern among washington s western allies , president donald trump abruptly reversed decades of u.s. policy on dec. 6 when he recognized jerusalem as israel s capital .
palestinians have protested daily in the occupied west bank and in the gaza strip since trump s announcement , throwing stones at security forces and burning tires .
gaza militants have also launched sporadic rocket fire .
eight palestinians have been killed by israeli gunfire during the demonstrations and dozens wounded , palestinian health officials said .
two militants were killed in an israeli air strike in gaza after a rocket attack .
trump threatened on wednesday to cut off financial aid to countries that vote in favor of the u.n. draft resolution , and his ambassador to the world body , nikki haley said the united states will be taking names .
netanyahu , in his speech , thanked trump and haley for their brave and uncompromising stance .
he repeated his prediction that other countries would eventually follow washington s lead in pledging to move their embassies from tel aviv to jerusalem .
the attitude towards israel of many countries , on all continents , outside the walls of the united nations , is changing and will ultimately permeate into the u.n. - the house of lies , he said .
most countries regard the status of jerusalem as a matter to be settled in an eventual israeli-palestinian peace agreement , although that process is now stalled .
israel considers jerusalem its eternal and indivisible capital and wants all embassies based there .
palestinians want the capital of an independent palestinian state to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in the 1967 middle east war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .
several senior diplomats said haley s warning was unlikely to change many votes in the general assembly , where such direct , public threats are rare .
some diplomats brushed off the warning as more likely aimed at impressing u.s. voters .