21st century wire says while politicians and news media alike are accusing trump of pushing an arms race in his december 22nd tweet about strengthening america s nuclear capability , the obama administration made a landmark change to the policies governing space based weapons under the guise of missile defense .
why is the mainstream media silent on what obama just did ?
not only does this potentially damage relationships with other military powers such as russia and china but is being called a massive waste of money .
leading defence scientists said the idea that a space-based system could provide security against nuclear attack is a fantasy tyler durden zero hedgeas politicians and mainstream media blast trump s apparently incendiary tweet regarding nuclear arms , none other than president obama just signed legislation that , by striking a single word from longstanding us nuclear defence policy , could heighten tensions with russia and china and launch the country on an expensive effort to build space-based defense systems.oh the irony following trump s tweet the united states must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear capability until such time as the world comes to its senses regarding nukes donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) december 22 , 2016the mainstream media has lambasted the president-elect for endangering the world and starting another nuclear arms race .
however , that same mainstream media appears mute in their response to what president obama just did the national defence authorisation act , a year-end policy bill encompassing virtually every aspect of the us military , contained two provisions with potentially momentous consequences .
as ap reports , one struck the word limited from language describing the mission of the country s homeland missile defence system .
the system is said to be designed to thwart a small-scale attack by a non-superpower such as north korea or iran.a related provision calls for the pentagon to start research , development , test and evaluation of space-based systems for missile defence.together , the provisions signal that the us will seek to use advanced technology to defeat both small-scale and large-scale nuclear attacks.that could unsettle the decades-old balance of power among the major nuclear states.huge bipartisan majorities in both houses of congress approved the policy changes over the past month , with virtually no public debate.although the white house had earlier criticised the changes , it stopped short of threatening a veto .
on friday , obama signed the legislation.leading defence scientists said the idea that a space-based system could provide security against nuclear attack is a fantasy it defies the laws of physics and is not based on science of any kind , said l. david montague , a retired president of missile systems for lockheed and co-chair of a national academy of sciences panel that studied missile defence technologies at the request of congress .
even if we darken the sky with hundreds or thousands of satellites and interceptors , there s no way to ensure against a dedicated attack , montague said in an interview .
so it s an opportunity to waste a prodigious amount of money .
he called the provisions passed by congress insanity , pure and simple .
republican congressman trent franks , who introduced and shepherded the policy changes in the house , said he drew inspiration from former president ronald reagan s strategic defence initiative of the 1980s , which was intended to use lasers and other space-based weaponry to render nuclear weapons impotent and obsolete .
known as star wars , the initiative cost taxpayers us $ 30 billion , but no system was ever deployed.philip e. coyle iii , a former assistant secretary of defence who headed the pentagon office responsible for testing and evaluating weapon systems , described the idea of a space-based nuclear shield as a sham .
to do this would cost just gazillions and gazillions , coyle said .
the technology isn t at hand nor is the money .
it s unfortunate from my point of view that the congress doesn t see that .
he added : both russia and china will use it as an excuse to do something that they want to do .
continue this article at zero hedgeread more msm lies at : 21st century wire msm watch files