washington ( reuters ) - the united states should significantly cut spending on the north atlantic treaty organization , republican presidential front-runner donald trump said on monday , questioning a policy that has underpinned u.s. foreign relations for nearly 70 years .
trump , whose worldviews have been rebuked by a section of the republican establishment , made the comments as he unveiled a partial list of foreign policy advisers , who are relatively little known .
“ we are paying disproportionately ( for nato ) .
it ’ s too much and frankly it ’ s a different world than it was when we originally conceived of the idea , ” trump said in an interview on cnn .
“ we have to reconsider .
keep nato , but maybe we have to pay a lot less toward nato itself. ” nato , now consisting of 28 members , was formed after world war two as a western military alliance against the soviet bloc .
the comments reinforced trump ’ s relatively isolationist stance on foreign policy .
the new york billionaire businessman has alarmed establishment republican foreign policy thinkers with comments denigrating muslims and mexican immigrants , and with his vows to tear up international trade deals .
announcing his foreign policy advisers in an interview with the washington post editorial board , he said the united states should not be “ nation-building anymore , ” adding that washington could not afford to keep funding nato at current levels .
“ we certainly can ’ t afford to do this anymore , ” he said .
trump has said he is willing to work more closely with authoritarian russian president vladimir putin , whose military intervention in ukraine has increased tensions with nato .
washington is the biggest contributor to nato , and u.s. officials have long been critical of its european allies for not spending more .
nato is planning its biggest buildup in eastern europe since the cold war to deter russia , helped by an increase in planned u.s. spending .
“ the happiest person hearing this would be vladimir putin , ” said retired admiral james stavridis , nato ’ s former supreme allied commander europe .
“ we are all frustrated with low european defense spending , but pulling away from nato would be an extraordinary geopolitical mistake. ” trump ’ s advisory team includes terrorism expert walid phares , energy industry executive carter page , international energy lawyer george papadopoulos , former pentagon inspector general joe schmitz and former army lieutenant general keith kellogg .
he said he would soon name more people helping him shape his foreign policies as part of the team , led by u.s .
senator jeff sessions , a republican from alabama who endorsed trump last month .
“ taken as a group , it ’ s a fairly obscure set of individuals , ” said michael o ’ hanlon , a national security and defense policy specialist at the brookings institution , adding he did not recognize most of the names on trump ’ s list .
trump , one of three remaining republican presidential candidates for the nov. 8 election , has been under increasing pressure in recent weeks to say who advises him on foreign and security matters .
one hundred and twenty republican national security experts who served in past presidential administrations have signed a letter saying they can not support trump and will work to ensure he is not elected .
phares told reuters he began advising trump on friday .
he previously served as a national security adviser to 2012 republican presidential candidate mitt romney , who has roundly criticized trump .
phares said in an email he had not met trump in person since last year .
the others on the list could not be immediately reached to confirm their roles with trump ’ s campaign .
schmitz was pentagon inspector general under president george w. bush and worked for blackwater worldwide , a now-defunct private u.s. security firm whose personnel were involved in a deadly shooting that killed iraqi civilians in 2007 .
kellogg has considerable military experience , having served as chief operating officer of the coalition provisional authority , the u.s.-run provisional government imposed on iraq after the u.s.-led 2003 invasion under bush .
he has worked at caci international , a virginia-based intelligence and information technology consulting firm .
trump has vigorously criticized the invasion .
asked at a news conference about why he chose kellogg despite his role in iraq , trump said : “ i don ’ t have to agree with them but i have to hear different opinions. ” according to the post , papadopoulos previously advised trump ’ s former rival ben carson , who has now backed trump .
the london center of international law practice ’ s center website lists him as the head of its center for international energy and natural resources law & security .
page serves as a managing partner of global energy capital , a private energy services company , the post said .
sessions is not seen as an influential foreign policy or national security player in the u.s. congress .
he does not serve on the senate foreign relations committee , although he is a member of the armed services committee .
last week , trump said in a television interview on msnbc , which had been pressing him to name his foreign advisory team , that he relied on his own instinct .
“ i ’ m speaking with myself , number one , because i have a very good brain , ” he told msnbc .
“ i know what i ’ m doing .
... my primary consultant is myself . ”