john kerry and al gore are jubilant that we ve struck a deal ( sort of ) to limit carbon emissions what a couple of jokesters these guys are .
it s really embarrassing that all these important people came together to discuss the weather and not our most pressing topic of what to do about terrorism .
this is what happens when you let the liberals rule unicorns and rainbows : john kerry told fellow negotiators , it will help the world prepare for the impacts of climate change that are already here and also for those that we already know are on our way inevitably .
he added the pact would prevent the worst most devastating consequences of climate change from ever happening .
a deal to attempt to limit the rise in global temperatures to less than 2c has been agreed at the climate change summit in paris after two weeks of intense negotiations .
the pact is the first to commit all countries to cut carbon emissions .
the agreement is partly legally binding and partly voluntary .
earlier , key blocs , including the g77 group of developing countries , and nations such as china and india said they supported the proposals .
president of the un climate conference of parties ( cop ) and french foreign minister laurent fabius said : i now invite the cop to adopt the decision entitled paris agreement outlined in the document .
looking out to the room i see that the reaction is positive , i see no objections .
the paris agreement is adopted .
as he struck the gavel to signal the adoption of the deal , delegates rose to their feet cheering and applauding.john kerry told fellow negotiators , it will help the world prepare for the impacts of climate change that are already here and also for those that we already know are on our way inevitably .
he added the pact would prevent the worst most devastating consequences of climate change from ever happening .
former u.s. vice president al gore says years from now , our grandchildren will reflect on humanity s moral courage to solve the climate crisis .
and they will look to december 12 , 2015 , as the day when the community of nations finally made the decision to act .
south african environment minister edna molewa calls the pact the best we can get at this historic moment .
she says it can map a turning point to a better and safer world but she added that developed countries still have to cut emissions more and help poorer nations to counter the effects of global warming.read more : bbcread more : ap