julissa arce , who is now a vice president at goldman sachs was a guest on tucker carlson s show last night .
tucker asked her about her use of an illegal social security number .
arce claimed that she was very fortunate to marry a us citizen and is now a us citizen .
tucker reminds her that using a fake social security number is a felony .
arce quickly explained to carlson that using a fake social security number is not a felony in every state .
she then went on to explain to tucker how she had to violate our laws because they were unjust .
while her story is compelling because she became an american citizen ( through marriage ) and is a contributing member to our economy and to our tax base , the bottom line is that she was in our country illegally and used a fake social security number that allowed her to deceive employers , educational facilities and likely social services reserved for legal american citizens.tucker carlson tried to ask her why she was against the building of a wall to protect our nation , at which point , she started to use an argument that it would cost taxpayers too much money .
tucker called her out , and reminded her that she had called the building of a wall on our us-mexican border ( that most americans want to see built ) a symbol of hate , tucker then went on to tell her that he found her opinion on the building of wall to be ungrateful to a country that has given her so much .
carlson continued , i don t understand why a country s desire to protect its border is an expression of hate .
arce went back to her argument about the cost of the wall being her real objection to construction of the wall .
tucker pressed on asking , why is hateful to want to build a wall ?
after arce finally realized carlson was not about to let her off the hook , she answered the question honestly , it is a hateful symbol .
it is a symbol of hate against immigrants .
it is a symbol of hate against uh mexican immigrants , which you know , the precedent , uhh that mr. trump ran his campaign on .
tucker pressed on , i just want to get to the bottom of this because you re throwing around language that has an effect on people s attitudes and it s pretty heavy duty , because it presumes motives that you can t know .
you don t know that people who support the wall hate mexicans immigrants .
a lot of people come across that border , are not from mexico as you know , they re central americans .
is it legitimate , is it morally legitimate for an american to say , i want to control of who comes into my county and we don t have that , so a wall will reestablish that control .
for you to denounce that as hate seems a little much .
watch :