kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - a senior malaysian opposition leader was detained by anti-corruption authorities on thursday , a source said , as part of a nationwide campaign against graft launched by prime minister najib razak .
hundreds of people including many high-profile figures have been arrested this year by the malaysian anti corruption commission ( macc ) , at a time when a multi-billion dollar scandal involving state fund 1malaysia development berhad ( 1mdb ) hangs over najib .
shafie apdal , a former close ally of najib , was detained at the macc office in the state of sabah in connection with a rm1.5 billion ( $ 355 million ) embezzlement probe , according to a source in the anti-graft agency .
the investigation covers alleged corruption involving projects doled out by the federal government through the rural and regional development ministry between 2009 and 2015 , when it was run by shafie .
he will be brought before a magistrate for a remand hearing tomorrow , said the source , who was not authorized to issue statements on behalf of the macc .
shafie could not be contacted .
darell leiking , deputy president of his parti warisan sabah party , described the arrest as political persecution .
we shall ensure that we shall fight for justice for all those who this ( najib ) regime intends to suppress and intimidate , darell told reuters .
prior to shafie s arrest , the anti-graft agency detained two of his brothers and several senior warisan leaders .
shafie , a former vice-president of najib s ruling united malay national organisation ( umno ) , quit the party after he was suspended for questioning the prime minister over his handling of the 1mdb scandal .
he later founded warisan to run for office in his home state .
over the past two years , najib has grappled with the 1mdb scandal which has been the subject of investigations in at least six countries for money-laundering and misappropriation of funds .
malaysia s attorney-general closed the 1mdb probe in january 2016 , and cleared najib of any wrongdoing .