warsaw ( reuters ) - poland s president unexpectedly dropped his demands for a greater say in nominating judges on monday , in an effort to secure broader political support for an overhaul of the judiciary that the european union fears will harm democracy .
andrzej duda , an ally of the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , conceded that it should ultimately be for parliament to pick poland s top judges , hours after saying he would seek a constitutional amendment to give himself the final say on such appointments .
in july , duda unexpectedly vetoed the ruling party s own reform proposals following nationwide protests and warnings from poland s western allies about politicization of the courts .
earlier on monday , he made counter-proposals which still envisaged greater political control over the courts but to be exercised by the president as well as by parliament .
however , lawmakers from both pis and opposition parties criticized his plans .
after meeting the heads of parliamentary factions , duda said it was clear he would be unable to win the required parliamentary majority to change the constitution .
the point is not about me , as the president , to have the power to choose , the point is about the choice being a cross-party one , duda said after the meeting .
the eurosceptic pis says reform of the judicial system is needed because the courts are slow , inefficient and steeped in a communist-era mentality .
but critics of the government plans said its proposed rules were part of a drive toward authoritarianism .
the eu is already at loggerheads with the pis government over a range of issues and a meeting of the bloc s foreign ministers on monday was expected to gauge the appetite for taking punitive action against warsaw .
after duda s u-turn , parliament will still need a three-fifths majority to appoint new top judges - but if lawmakers can not agree , a special voting mechanism in parliament will decide the issue rather than the president .
pis currently has a parliamentary majority , but not three-fifths .
duda also said the retirement age for supreme court judges should be set at 65 and that the president should decide whether they can work longer .
under the vetoed reforms , all current supreme court judges would have stepped down immediately unless they had the approval of the justice minister , who is also prosecutor general .
since coming to power , pis has not only increased government influence over the courts but has also brought prosecutors and state media under direct government control and introduced some restrictions on public gatherings .
pis denies retreating on democracy and argues that it has a broad mandate to implement reforms .
it says its plans aim to improve a poorly functioning state , bolster poland s standing in the global arena , preserve its conservative values and correct mistakes by previous governments that it argues were too dependent on foreign influence .
in proposing his own judiciary reforms , duda had to weigh their potential impact on his re-election prospects in 2020 .
though he remains poland s most popular politician , with approval ratings of more than 70 percent , duda may need pis support to win enough votes .
jaroslaw flis , a sociologist at jagiellonian university in krakow , said the rift between duda and the government was an internal power struggle among poland s conservatives .
duda knows his legislative proposals need pis support , but pis also needs him .
they can not push anything through without the president , flis said .