tokyo ( reuters ) - israel is willing to resort to military action to ensure iran never acquires nuclear weapons , the intelligence minister said on thursday in japan where he is seeking backing for u.s. president donald trump s tougher line on tehran .
trump said on oct. 13 he would not certify iran is complying with an agreement on curtailing its nuclear program , signed by his predecessor , barack obama , opening a 60-day window for congress to act to reimpose sanctions .
if international efforts led these days by u.s. president trump don t help stop iran attaining nuclear capabilities , israel will act militarily by itself , intelligence minister israel katz said in an interview in tokyo .
there are changes that can be made ( to the agreement ) to ensure that they will never have the ability to have a nuclear weapon .
israel has taken unilateral action in the past without the consent of its major ally , the united states , including air strikes on a suspected nuclear reactor in syria in 2007 and in iraq in 1981 .
a strike against iran , however , would be a risky venture with the potential to provoke a counter strike and roil financial markets .
an israeli threat of military strikes could , nonetheless , galvanize support in the united states for toughening up the nuclear agreement but it could also backfire by encouraging hardliners in iran and widening a rift between washington and european allies .
so far , none of the other signatories to the deal - britain , france , germany , russia , china , iran and the european union - has cited serious concerns , leaving the united states isolated .
japan relies on the u.s. military to help defend it against threats from north korea and elsewhere .
tokyo s diplomatic strategy in the middle east , where it buys almost all its oil , is to maintain friendly relations with all countries , including iran .
i asked the japanese government to support steps led by president trump to change the nuclear agreement , said katz , who is a member of prime minister benjamin netanyahu s right-wing likud party .
the question of whether japanese companies will begin to work in iran or not is a very important question .
katz s visit to tokyo comes ahead of a planned trip by trump from nov. 5 for a summit with prime minister shinzo abe .
officials at japan s ministry of foreign affairs were not immediately available to comment .
israel , katz said , wants the nuclear agreement to be revised to remove an expiration date , and to impose tighter conditions to stop tehran from developing new centrifuges used to make weapons-grade nuclear material .
he also urged sanctions to stop iran from establishing syria as a military base to launch attacks on israel and action to put a halt to tehran s development of ballistic missiles .
we will not allow iran to transform syria into forward base sea harbors , air bases and shia militias , he said .
we will act together with the united states and other countries in the world until they stop the ballistic missiles that threaten israel .
the u.s. house of representatives on wednesday backed new sanctions on lebanon s iran-backed hezbollah militia .