huautla , mexico ( reuters ) - yesenia vergara grabbed her two daughters and abandoned her home in the isolated mexican hamlet of huautla late last month when rain-swollen river waters burst through her window , flooding her house with branches , boulders and mud .
just two weeks later , mexico s deadliest earthquake in a generation delivered a second blow to her simple riverside home , financed with money sent back by her husband from the united states .
this is the end of the world , i thought .
now is the time that god has called us to be judged , vergara said , recalling the moment when the quake struck in the early afternoon last tuesday .
the village was just getting back on its feet and now another tragedy has come , she said .
the epicenter of the 7.1 magnitude tremor , which has claimed nearly 300 lives so far , leveled dozens of buildings in mexico city , sparking a desperate search for survivors .
the quake struck 70 km ( 45 miles ) from huautla , a charming settlement nestled amid the lime-green mountains of morelos state .
while the mexican capital has been over-run with eager volunteers amid an outpouring of support , the villages of morelos and puebla states that lie near the epicenter have received much less attention .
a growing cadre of well-wishers sought to rectify that on friday , fanning out across the states backroads , trudging through knee-high streams to deliver food , water and medicine to remote populations high up in the mountains .
far outpacing the government response , the volunteers patriotic reaction has cheered a traumatized country .
it has also provided a sharp contrast to the increasingly politicized reaction to the tremor , which sparked a virtual arms race between political parties seeking to outdo each other with donations to relief efforts .
we feel very grateful , vergara said of the volunteers .
but also very disappointed with the government .
although the quake didn t destroy any buildings in huautla , mayor miguel medina said 10 families out of roughly 1,000 people were evacuated because some 100 structures were damaged .
by friday afternoon , vergara said nobody had yet come to inspect the thick cracks menacing her home , exiling her and her young family to her mother s house .
fortino garcia , a 48-year-old taxi driver from the city of cuernavaca , was among eight people who had driven from mexico city to deliver aid to villages in the area .
although he approved of the government s reaction to the quake , he criticized politicians who he said were trying to capitalize on the tragedy by placing stickers with their name or party on supplies collected by volunteers .
lots of politicians are sadly jumping on this to campaign , he said in huautla s main square , after delivering diapers , sanitary towels and water .
a growing resentment over how the aid was being distributed by village officials was on display as residents accused officials of cherry-picking better quality donations of clothes and food and leaving less desirable ones for the villagers .
in a warehouse in the center of the village where hundreds of women were lining up for food and water , medina denied he or any of his employees had been profiting from the aid , which he said came from all over the world .
people from other countries have come to give us their little grain of sand , he said .
we re very surprised and thankful .
still , rumors of official malfeasance could be found on every corner .
like much of mexico , crime and violence in huautla had risen dramatically over the last few years , according to a shopkeeper who declined to give her name out of fear .
she said some villagers took up arms last month and installed themselves at the entrance to the town to ward off outsiders .
in july , she said , an elderly woman was killed when she interrupted a burglary in her home , something previously unheard of in this quiet farming settlement .
given the impact of the flood , the quake and rising violence , she said she was less optimistic for the future of her teenage daughter , who was listening by her side .
we re scared , the shopkeeper said .
things aren t like they used to be .