21st century wire says iowa s democratic party primary was one of the closest races in history reported by the media as being decided by only .3 % of the vote , with hillary clinton supposedly taking that narrow victory .
but has hillary really secured a victory in iowa ? according to national review , the answer is no .
beltway correspondent quinn hillyer explains : the final count of delegates to the state convention ( aside from the seven won by martin o malley ) was clinton 699 , sanders 695 .
but by actual voter decisions , the count was sanders 695 , clinton 693 , and six ties .
sure , clinton right now goes to the state convention with four more committed delegates than sanders , but she didn t win her margin via voters , but by a mathematically bizarre series of coin flips .
for those with a short-term memory , fours years ago in 2012 , the mainstream media called the iowa primary for then gop candidate mitt romney , only to retract this later when it was discovered that rick santorum had actually won the caucus majority .
and even then , neither romney , nor santorum won the majority of delegates from iowa going into the national convention .
that victory went to party rebel ron paul an uncomfortable fact universally ignored at the time by major u.s. broadcast media outlets .
paul achieved this incredible victory because his campaign organizers understood what the iowa caucuses essentially are : a giant , statewide straw poll , by pursuing one of the most aggressive delegate strategies ever .
so bad was the gop fall-out from this event , that the republican national convention drafted new bylaws to deal with the ron paul problem , making sure that no insurgent candidate could ever gain a state foothold without the approval of the gop party elite.likewise , if bernie sanders has done the necessary groundwork in pursuing a more aggressive county-level delegate strategy on election day , and then follows-up with securing candidate martin o malley s at least 5 of the 7 free agent delegates who will be available to switch their loyalties ( due to o malley dropping out of the race ) at the upcoming iowa state convention , then sanders could eventually be iowa s real delegate winner.21wire s patrick henningsen spoke to rt international about the sanders campaign s latest call for a vote recount , as well as other controversial aspects of the 2016 u.s. presidential election , including the donald trump vs ted cruz scandal .
watch