it s been less than a week since donald trump took the oath of office , and already he s breaking records left and right ( and none of them are good ) .simply put : donald trump is the most hated incoming president this country has seen in at least 60 years.according to gallup polling : president donald trump is the first elected president in gallup s polling history to receive an initial job approval rating below the majority level .
he starts his term in office with 45 % of americans approving of the way he is handling his new job , 45 % disapproving and 10 % yet to form an opinion .
trump now holds the record for the lowest initial job approval rating as well as the highest initial disapproval rating in gallup surveys dating back to dwight d. eisenhower.congratulations , america .
you nominated a man you vehemently hate ( more so than george w. bush ) .to put it in perspective , let s look at the numbers for trump and past presidents : donald trump approve : 45 percent .
disapprove : 45 percentbarack obama approve : 68 percent .
disapprove : 12 percentgeorge w. bush approve : 57 percent .
disapprove : 25 percentbill clinton approve : 58 percent .
disapprove : 20 percentgeorge h.w .
bush approve : 51 percent .
disapprove : 6 percentronald reagan : approve : 51 percent .
disapprove : 13 percentjimmy carter approve : 68 percent .
disapprove : 8 percentrichard nixon approve : 59 percent .
disapprove : 5 percentjohn f kennedy approve : 72 percent .
disapprove : 6 percentdwight d. eisenhower approve : 68 percent .
disapprove : 7 percentouch .
if trump can t even beat out richard nixon and george w. bush ( who won a contentious and blistering recount ) , that says something.of course trump s biggest base of support men , whites and no college education loved him while all the others women , people of color and the educated despise him .
ninety percent of republicans give him approval while 81 percent of democrats disapprove .
independents have a slightly more negative view than they do positive ( 44-40 percent ) .knowing that his pre-inaugural numbers and the turnout for the women s march sent him into a frenzy , these numbers should only exasperate the new authoritarian-in-chief.featured image via getty images