washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump should under no circumstances take military action against north korea without the consent of the government in seoul , the chairwoman of south korea s ruling party , choo mi-ae , said on wednesday .
president trump often emphasizes that he put all options on the table , choo told a washington think-tank .
we want to make sure that this option of another war is not placed on the table .
under no circumstances should the u.s. go ahead and use a military option without the consent of south korea .
we must seek a peaceful resolution of the matter in any manner that is available to us .
the remarks by choo , who is expected to meet trump administration officials in washington , underscored south korean concerns that any u.s. strikes against north korea s nuclear and missile programs could provoke devastating north korean retaliation against south korea .
visiting seoul last week , trump warned north korea he was prepared to use the full range of u.s. military power to stop any attack , but also urged pyongyang to make a deal .
trump , who had previously called negotiations with north korea a waste of time , has offered no clear path to talks and has sent mixed signals about his interest in negotiations .
speaking on his return from asia , trump said he and chinese president xi jinping had rejected a freeze for freeze agreement .
china and russia have previously advocated such a plan , where the united states and south korea stop major military exercises in exchange for north korea halting its weapons programs .
it was not clear if this was what trump meant .
we agreed that we would not accept a so-called freeze for freeze agreement like those that have consistently failed in the past , trump said .
there was no immediate comment from china s embassy in washington .
pyongyang has shown little interest in negotiations , at least until it has developed a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the u.s. mainland .
choo , whose president and fellow democratic party leader moon jae-in has advocated dialogue with north korea , said seoul backed trump s policy of maximum pressure on pyongyang through sanctions and there should be no talks for the sake of talks .
however , she said blocking opportunities for dialogue could prompt north korean miscalculation .
she declined to say whether she was satisfied with the trump administration s limited efforts to talk to pyongyang to resolve the crisis stemming from north korea s efforts to develop nuclear-tipped missiles capable of hitting the united states .