pristina ( reuters ) - kosovo police arrested three lawmakers on friday , including the popular main opposition leader whom they handcuffed in the street , after the three failed to appear in court on charges of releasing tear gas in parliament in 2015 and 2016 .
opposition lawmakers obstructed parliament for almost two years by letting off tear gas in the chamber in a protest against a border deal with montenegro and an eu-brokered agreement with serbia .
albin kurti , leader of kosovo s biggest opposition party vetevendosje , was seized and handcuffed by police close to parliament building when he was on his way to attend a regular session .
police used paper spray to disperse several other lawmakers from kurti s party who tried to hold onto him and prevent police from taking him away , kosovo media showed .
he was eventually moved into a police van .
kurti won more votes than any other political candidate and his party came first in june snap elections , but he did not enter the ruling coalition .
all three mps were given one month detention , dukagjin gorani of vetevendosje told reuters later in the day .
dozens of other mps have been indicted so far for releasing tear gas in the 120-seat parliament .
this is the continuation of a massive and wide-ranging persecution that has started against vetevendosje , the party president , visar ymeri , said .
last week a court in pristina sentenced four people , including one member of parliament , to prison terms ranging from two to eight years for taking part in a grenade attack against the parliament building last year .
they were all loyalists of vetevendosje .
opposition parties oppose the border deal with montenegro saying the country of 1.8 million is losing land by handing over some 8,000 hectares ( 19,700 acres ) .
the opposition is also against a deal signed in 2013 between pristina and belgrade as part of an eu-sponsored dialogue that would give more rights to the local serb minority .
they say the deal will practically divide the poor balkan country on ethnic lines .
kosovo declared independence from serbia in 2008 , nearly a decade after nato bombing drove serb forces from the territory .