misrata/benghazi , libya ( reuters ) - a man seized by u.s. forces in libya accused of involvement in an attack that killed the u.s .
ambassador in benghazi in 2012 is a syrian who had links to the suspected ringleader , libyan military officials said on tuesday .
u.s. special forces captured mustafa al-imam in the past few days and he is being transported to the united states , u.s. officials said on monday , without giving more details .
speaking on condition of anonymity , eastern-based military officials told reuters imam was believed to be a syrian national aged between 35 and 40 .
he was captured near misrata , the country s third-largest city located some 190 km east of the capital tripoli , said mohammed al-ghasri , spokesman of the defense ministry of the u.n.-backed government in tripoli .
he was caught near the city of misrata after his movements had been monitored , ghasri told reuters in the first official statement of the tripoli-based government .
when asked whether libyan authorities had been present during the u.s. operation he only said : yes ... ( there ) was coordination with the security agencies inside misrata city .
he declined to elaborate .
the man had been originally from eastern libya but spent time in misrata where he had roots while he also had been moving around , ghasri added .
he did not live in misrata .
imam had previously lived in the benghazi district of laithi where he frequented the same al-awza i mosque as suspected ringleader ahmed abu khatallah who was snatched by u.s. forces in 2014 , eastern military officials said .
u.s. prosecutors opened their case against abu khatallah this month .
imam has been charged with killing a person in the course of an attack on a federal facility and providing material support to terrorists resulting in death , the u.s. justice department said .
he will appear before a federal judge in washington when he arrives in the united states .
laithi was an islamist stronghold that saw some of the heaviest fighting in a battle for control of benghazi that began in 2014 .
in july , eastern-based military commander khalifa haftar announced victory in the campaign , which pitted his libyan national army ( lna ) against islamists and other opponents .
libya has rival governments : one in the capital and another in the east allied to haftar .
an eastern news agency backing the lna published what it said was a picture of imam standing in front of the benghazi barracks of an armed group before it was taken by haftar s forces .
the benghazi attack , which killed ambassador christopher stevens and three other americans , was the topic of numerous congressional hearings , with republican lawmakers critical of the way in which then-secretary of state hillary clinton handled the attack .
libya has been mired in conflict since the 2011 overthrow of muammar gaddafi , with islamist militants gaining ground as fighting between rival factions created a security void .