washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama will propose a $ 2.5 billion tax credit over five years for businesses that invest in programs at local community colleges and hire their graduates , administration officials said on friday .
the proposal , dubbed the community college partnership tax credit , would require businesses to donate funds for equipment , instruction , or internships related to programs in areas such as healthcare , energy and information technology .
employers that hire students from such programs would get a one-time , $ 5,000 tax credit per individual brought aboard .
the program , to be proposed formally in the president ’ s fiscal 2017 budget on tuesday , is meant to shore up community colleges ’ educational offerings , while helping businesses find high-skilled workers in certain fields .
“ employers can define those skills and help colleges develop the curriculum that teaches them , ” said james kvaal , white house deputy director of domestic policy .
he estimated the initiative would produce 500,000 highly skilled graduates over five years .
obama ’ s budget requires congressional approval , which is unlikely .
administration officials expressed confidence , however , that the proposal would garner bipartisan support and the idea could gain traction .
“ the idea of ... bringing together community colleges and the local employer base is a very powerful one and really doesn ’ t break along party lines , ” said ted mitchell , under secretary at the u.s. department of education .
obama ’ s final budget is likely to garner less attention than in previous years .
washington ’ s focus is moving to the 2016 presidential campaign and the republican-controlled congress does not want to hand legislative victories to the white house .
administration officials are aware similar proposals by the president have had limited success .
though his proposals to raise the minimum wage and make community college tuition free have not been enacted nationally , they say his championing of such ideas has spurred action on the state and local level .
under his latest proposal , states would get part of the tax credit money and be responsible for selecting businesses and community colleges based on a competition for applications .
employers could be involved in designing curriculums on advanced manufacturing , for example , or donating instruction time and equipment .
community colleges would get needed capital investment and businesses would recoup their investments through the tax credits gleaned from hiring graduates .
( this version of the story was refiled to correct spelling of surname in paragraph 5 )