madrid ( reuters ) - dinner at the barcelona home of catalonia-born montserrat armisen , an independence supporter , can be a tense affair .
he criticizes us and doesn t let us eat in peace , said armisen of her husband , gustavo gomez , a colombian who favors keeping the spanish state intact , and their children , jordi , 18 , and nicolas , 27 .
we go to our protests , return and don t say anything , but he just carries on , said armisen , 55 .
it bothers us because there is no respect for us from his part .
for many in spain , the catalonia crisis that threatens to fracture the country is also tearing at ordinary families and evoking painful memories of spain s 1936-39 civil war .
the prospect that catalonia , a former principality which prides itself on its distinct language and culture , might break away has created divisions across spanish society , from the kitchen table to the soccer pitch .
many in spain regard catalan secessionists as a noisy minority whose national identity is built on a misreading of history , ungrateful to a spanish state that has underwritten the region s peace and prosperity .
in their turn , some secessionists decry unionists as fascists , harking back to dictator francisco franco , who suppressed catalan language and traditions after his forces won the civil war until his death in 1975 .
most catalans backed the republican side against franco .
small groups of far-right activists have taken part in recent anti-independence protests , with a few giving fascist salutes or carrying the flag of the falange , the dominant party under franco .
neo-fascists are disowned by the vast majority of those who want to keep spain intact but their appearance in public shows how the catalonia crisis has reopened some of spain s deepest and most painful wounds .
if i say things i am called a fascist , said armisen s husband , gomez , 58 , who has lived in barcelona with his family for a decade .
telling them they should not be independent is not being a fascist .
everything that has been done , in my view , is completely illegal , he told reuters television , adding that his wife had even asked him to leave home - something she denies .
what am i doing here ?
gomez asked , holding back tears .
catalan leader carles puigdemont had pledged to proclaim the region s independence from spain after catalans defied a ban and police crackdown and , according to his government s count , voted overwhelmingly to break away in an oct. 1 referendum .
but , in a speech to the catalan regional parliament on tuesday , puigdemont stepped back from a formal declaration of independence , claiming a mandate to launch secession but saying he would delay doing so to allow time for talks with madrid on the region s future .
spanish deputy prime minister soraya saenz de santamaria savaged puigdemont s speech , saying he should come back to the path of the law if he wanted talks with madrid .
she said the spanish cabinet would meet on wednesday to discuss its response .
on monday , pablo casado , a spokesman for spain s ruling popular party , recalled that 83 years ago , the then catalan leader , lluis companys , was jailed for declaring a catalan state .
he was executed by firing squad in 1940 during franco s rule .
casado said anyone who declared independence might end up like companys , in prison .
in response , the pro-independence catalan cup party said on twitter : thanks for being so franco , pablo casado , using a play on the spanish word for frank and franco .
the dispute has touched spain s sacred pastime , soccer .
on the day after the referendum , the spanish national team s catalan defender , gerard pique , an independence supporter , was jeered by fans as he trained with the team .
trade unions are also divided .
the catalan arm of one of spain s biggest unions , comisiones obreras ( workers committees ) , initially backed calls for a general strike in catalonia on oct. 3 in response to the police crackdown on the referendum , according to media reports .
but at a national level , comisiones obreras and another big union , the ugt , later said their catalan affiliates would not take part in the strike , only protests against the crackdown .
in no case are we going to support positions that give cover to a unilateral declaration of independence , they said in a joint statement .
rosa borras , 47 , took part in a demonstration in favor of national unity in madrid last weekend .
thinking of her relatives in catalonia , the situation is deeply saddening , she said .
i ve come because i feel very spanish and it makes me very sad what s happened , she said .
i wanted to be here for unity , because i also feel very catalan .