warsaw ( reuters ) - poland s prime minister beata szydlo will announce a cabinet reshuffle in coming days , she said on tuesday , declining to respond to talk that her own job might be at risk .
media and market speculation about a reshuffle has been rife , with the governing law and justice ( pis ) party thought to be planning to get rid of some ministers weighing on the party s broadly positive popularity ratings as it prepares for regional elections in 2018 .
on monday , weekly sieci prawdy suggested szydlo , 54 , might herself be replaced by jaroslaw kaczynski , who heads the right-wing pis to which they both belong .
tabloid fakt said on tuesday that szydlo was likely to keep her job , but that others including foreign minister witold waszczykowski and environment minister jan szyszko both relatively unpopular among the electorate might be replaced .
kaczynski , 68 , a divisive figure who is one of the least trusted politicians in poland , exerts huge influence behind the scenes and media have said he might be targeting szydlo s job ahead of national elections due in 2019 .
i do not want the speculation regarding changes in the government to continue .
my decisions will be announced soon , szydlo told private broadcaster tvn 24 .
this decision has been taken - there will be changes in the government .
i have discussed this decision with jaroslaw kaczynski , which is a natural thing .
asked about her own possible departure , szydlo said she did not want to speculate , adding she was not tired or burned out .
opinion polls show szydlo is the second most trusted politician in poland , just behind president andrzej duda .
if the reshuffle is limited to a few ministers , then it will done out of the natural desire to get rid of the weakest links ( in the cabinet ) , said jaroslaw flis , a sociologist at the krakow-based jagiellonian university .
the pis government has divided opinion , putting poland on a collision course with the eu with policies including increasing control over the judiciary and state media that critics say undermine the rule of law .
but the party continues to enjoy strong backing from voters .
in a survey released ( when ) by state pollster cbos , 44 percent of respondents described themselves as supporters of the government , the largest share in six years .