we should not allow our political differences to escalate to violent attacks .
we must all refuse to allow the politics of our country to be defined in this way , she wrote .
now more than ever , we must unite as a one nation under god .
it is incumbent upon all of us to work together in a civil and productive way , even when we disagree .
georgia congressional candidate karen handelplease note that handel and democrat john osoff are in a battle that will take place on june 20th in the 6th district georgia runoff get out and vote handel ! if you want to donate to karen handel : donate herekaren handel , the republican candidate for congress in georgia s sixth district , on wednesday afternoon addressed that morning s shooting at a republican congressional baseball team practice.a gunman who police identified as james t. hodgkinson opened fire on republican lawmakers practicing for a charity baseball game in alexandria , va. , wounding five people including house majority whip steve scalise ( r. , la . ) .
hodgkinson had penned a facebook rant against handel last week .
my thoughts are with the victims of this morning s despicable , unprovoked attack on the republican congressional softball team , wrote handel , georgia s former secretary of state .
representative scalise is a friend , and my heart goes out to him and his family .
steve and i wish him and the others wounded a speedy recovery .
they remain in our thoughts and prayers .
i also want to commend the heroic actions of the capitol police officers who clearly prevented today s attack from being a much bigger tragedy , she wrote.handel also addressed expletive comments that hodgkinson made about her on social media.hodgkinson posted an article about handel to his facebook , calling her a republican bitch who wants people to work for slave wages , nbc affiliate wxia reported .
republican bitch wants people to work for slave wages , when a livable wage is the only way to go !
vote blue , it s right for you !
hodgkinson wrote on facebook .
i am aware that the suspect recently made vile comments about me on social media , handel said in her statement .
it also appears that the suspect targeted members of congress specifically because he disagreed with their views .
hodgkinson s social media posts indicate he was a supporter of sen. bernie sanders ( i. , vt. ) and loathed president donald trump and republican policies.handel echoed calls by others , including house speaker paul ryan ( r. , wis. ) , for bipartisan unity following the attack .
we should not allow our political differences to escalate to violent attacks .
we must all refuse to allow the politics of our country to be defined in this way , she wrote .
now more than ever , we must unite as a one nation under god .
it is incumbent upon all of us to work together in a civil and productive way , even when we disagree .
read more : wfb