while trump is busy trying to convince the world that he s the most popular president in history , others who know the truth are sitting back and laughing .
that includes the dallas stars , the hockey team from the very-red state of texas .
they decided they were going to poke fun at trump over his claim that there had to be at least 1.5 million people at his inauguration ( there weren t ) , and they did so using their jumbotron : stars jumbotron with a topical joke .
pic.twitter.com/9vsmtg1agj kate morrison ( @ unlikelyfanatic ) january 22 , 2017yes , that says their attendance was 1.5 million .
this is their way of drawing attention to the fact that , as mashable put it : donald trump is really , really obsessed with numbers , especially those that reflect his popularity , sending members of his staff into the world armed with lies and alternative facts to claim the attendance at his inauguration was hyuge .
kate morrison , the person who tweeted the pic of the stars jumbotron , apparently received several thousand retweets within a half hour .
as of the time of this posting , she had well over 18,000 retweets , and more than 37,000 likes.the stars do tend to be irreverent when it comes to egotistical celebrities and their own opponents .
they ve trolled justin bieber and toronto ; and they went after the city of winnipeg , too , where they posted a list of reasons to visit winnipeg that included , any suggestions ?
and go visit vancouver instead .
so this isn t anything new , but it is hilarious given trump s inauguration and his ego .
he s so embarrassed by the size of his inaugural crowd that his press secretary , sean spicer , told a a series of outright lies in an attempt to convince us that all evidence to the contrary , no matter how obvious , was fabricated.the stars actually had a crowd closer to 18,500 there s no sports arena in the u.s. that can hold anything close to 1.5 million people .
but that doesn t matter if trump will lie about his numbers , then there are people who will counter with something as embarrassing as possible for him.featured image via screen captures from embedded tweet