21st century wire says in a stunning turn of events 11 days before the 2016 presidential election , the fbi announced it is reopenning its investigation into hillary clinton s email server case , by probing newly emerging emails linked to hillary clinton .
new probe the fbi gives hillary clinton a second look .
( photo illustraion 21wire ) fbi october surprise ? according to reports , in a letter written today , fbi director james comey , stated that the fbi has begun a new probe into hillary clinton related emails once again .
comey offered scant details about the new probe , but due to an unrelated case , additional classified material may have been mishandled on clinton s personal email server.cnbc reported the latest fbi developments , including a passage from comey s letter discussing the new investigation : in previous congressional testimony , i referred to the fact that the federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) had completed its investigation of former secretary clinton s personal email server .
due to recent developments , i am writing to supplement my previous testimony , comey wrote.in connection with an unrelated case , the fbi has learned of the existence of emails that appear to be pertinent to the investigation .
i am writing to inform you that the investigative team briefed me on this yesterday , and i agreed that the fbi should take appropriate investigative steps designed to allow investigators to review these emails to determine whether they contain classified information , as well as to assess their importance to our investigation , he added.although the fbi can not yet assess whether or not this material may be significant , and i can not predict how long it will take us to complete this additional work , i believe it is important to update your committees about our efforts in light of my previous testimony , comey concluded .
huma s estranged sexting husbandaccording to a new report released via the new york times : the presidential campaign was rocked on friday after federal law enforcement officials said that emails pertinent to the now-closed investigation into hillary clinton s private email server were discovered on a computer belonging to anthony d. weiner , the estranged husband of a top clinton aide .
in a letter to congress , the f.b.i .
director , james b. comey , said the emails had surfaced in an unrelated case , which law enforcement officials said was an f.b.i .
investigation into illicit text messages from mr. weiner to a 15-year-old girl in north carolina .
mr. weiner , a former democratic congressman from new york , is married to huma abedin , the top aide .
comey has come under fire recently for apparently letting clinton off the hook for mishandling , and lying to congress , about classified emails coming through her home brew email server while she was secretary of state .
after previously closing the case , comey has done a u-turn and is now saying the fbi will review the new emails to for classified information , and see whether it was mishandled.this unprecedented investigative move comes just two days after a wikileaks docu-dump revealed a memo containing detailed financial information between clinton foundation donors and former president bill clinton s private financial activities .
among those included in the memo , was a $ 30 million dollar business arrangement under bill clinton , inc. , with another $ 66 million dollar deal scheduled over nine years.the following is a tweet from brad jaffy of nbc nightly news containing the new fbi recommendation the new investigation into the clinton camp will most certainly spark new pay-to-play allegations , as the new fbi revelations also comes days after a project veritas hidden camera sting operation revealed that the democratic consultant robert creamer of democracy partners , discussed ways to commit large-scale voter fraud as well as paying political agitators to cause violence at donald trump rallies.out of creamer s 342 visits to the white house , also included his wife , a 9-term illinois democratic congresswoman , jan schakowsky some 47 times.white house visitor records show that schakowsky took 47 private meetings with obama or his senior staff , also over the past year .
the consultancy democracy partners appears to have applied schakowsky as a political buffering point , possibly in the event of a fallout over their operations at a grassroots level .
the impetus of this type of procedural separation is to keep certain high-ranking officials of the hook in case of a massive upheaval over various underhanded campaign tactics thus giving a political campaign or political entity plausible deniability .
caught on film robert creamer resigns over a massive democratic party controversy .
( image source : cnn ) creamer , a convicted felon , ( in 2005 , creamer plead guilty $ 2.3 million in bank fraud and tax violations ) was promptly shoved out of the hillary clinton campaign s inner circle , following a heavily publicized video sting revealing his discussion about voter fraud and violence at trump rallies .
pay to play ?
virginia governor terry mcauliffe closely allied with the clinton s negotiated a a campaign contribution involving the fbi .
( image source new republic ) it remains unclear what exactly reopened the new clinton probe , but perhaps the fbi had its own cobwebs to clear out after it was revealed that a longtime clinton associate , virginia gov .
terry mcauliffe , helped steer $ 675,000 to the election campaign of the wife of an fbi official who went on to lead the probe into hillary clinton s use of a private email system , according to a report .
the ny post also reported on the matter this past week : the political action committee of mcauliffe , the clinton loyalist , gave $ 467,500 to the state senate campaign of the wife of andrew mccabe , who is now deputy director of the fbi , according to the wall street journal.the report states jill mccabe received an additional $ 207,788 from the virginia democratic party , which is heavily influenced by mcauliffe.the money directed by mcauliffe began flowing two months after the fbi investigation into clinton began in july 2015 .
around that time , the candidate s husband was promoted from running the washington field office for the fbi to the no .
3 position at the bureau .
in a cnn report from october 18th , a week before the mcauliffe revelations , according to notes from interviews conducted during an fbi investigation into clinton s email practices , undersecretary of state patrick kennedy personally tried to convince fbi officials that the email should be declassified .
one interviewee described feeling pressured by another fbi official at kennedy s request .
the newly reopened fbi investigation into clinton could be related to all or some of the items listed above , but there s no doubt that due to public backlash the fbi received following the first clinton investigation , in addition to concerns over dealings between the fbi and clinton associates the agency needed to save face.it remains to be seen how new case will impact the us presidential election.more from rt below ( image source : youtube ) fbi reopens clinton investigation as new emails found comeyrtthe fbi has learned of more emails involving hillary clinton s private email server while she headed the state department , fbi director james comey told several members of congress , telling them he is reopening the investigation .
in connection with an unrelated case , the fbi has learned of the existence of email that appear to be pertinent to clinton s investigation , comey wrote to the chairs of several relevant congressional committees , adding that he was briefed about the messages on thursday .
i agree that the fbi should take appropriate investigative steps designed to allow investigators to review these emails to determine whether they contain classified information , as well as to assess their importance to our investigation .
rt continues here read more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 files