thank goodness for mandatory financial disclosures otherwise we d never know what complete grifters the clintons are !
every american should read this list !
it s a complete sellout for millions !
there have been cries for transcripts of the speeches to be released but the more concerning thing is the simple fact that the clintons have taken money from horrible dictators and from all the huge banks and businesses you could possibly think of .
also , does anyone remember hillary s dead broke comment ?
when you look at the list below , you ll know it was just another lie from crooked hillary ! mandatory financial disclosures released this month show that , in just the two years from april 2013 to march 2015 , the former first lady , senator and secretary of state collected $ 21,667,000 in speaking fees , not to mention the cool $ 5 mil she corralled as an advance for her 2014 flop book , hard choices .
throw in the additional $ 26,630,000 her ex-president husband hoovered up in personal-appearance honoraria , and the nation can breathe a collective sigh of relief that the former first couple who , according to hillary , were dead broke when they left the white house in 2001 with some of the furniture in tow can finally make ends meet.no wonder donald trump calls her crooked hillary .
a look at mrs. clinton s speaking venues and the whopping sums she s received since she left state gives us an indication who s desperate for a place at the trough and whom another clinton administration might favor.first off , there s wall street and the financial-services industry .
democratic champions of the little guy are always in bed with the street they don t call barack obama president goldman sachs for nothing , but mrs. clinton has room for bob and carol and ted and alice and their 10 best friends .
multiple trips to goldman sachs .
morgan stanley .
deutsche bank .
kohlberg kravis roberts .
ubs wealth management.as the character of che guevara sings in evita : and the money kept rolling in .
and all at the bargain price of $ 225,000 a pop .
.
.
to say what ?
we don t know , because hillary won t release the transcripts.read more : nyp