kampala ( reuters ) - uganda s main opposition leader was arrested and charged with murder , police said on friday , after they broke up a rally organized to protest moves to extend president yoweri museveni s rule .
kizza besigye , who has contested and lost four elections against long-time leader museveni , was detained on thursday .
police blamed besigye for the deaths of two protesters during wednesday s rally , in which officers fired bullets and teargas during clashes with government opponents .
besigye and his colleagues led these youths who stoned police and caused deaths , police spokesman denis namuwoza told reuters .
wednesday s clash in rukungiri near the rwandan border was one of several violent anti-museveni protests that have spread across uganda since the president last week for the first time openly expressed support for proposed legislation aimed at allowing him to stay in power .
in office for more than three decades , 73-year-old museveni would be barred from running again in the next election in 2021 by a law that caps the age of presidential candidates at 75 .
the proposed legislation would remove that age ceiling .
besigye , museveni s former physician during the guerrilla struggle that brought him to power in 1986 , has claimed the four elections the pair contested were all rigged - something museveni has denied .
the president has been a staunch western ally widely seen as an anchor of stability in east africa s often volatile great lakes region .
he has deployed troops in somalia to help fight islamist group al shabaab , earnings plaudits from his western backers .
heavy-handed tactics besigye was arrested near the rwandan border on thursday , along with two other senior officials of his opposition forum for democratic change ( fdc ) .
police spokesman namuwoza said they had been charged with murder , assault , inciting violence and unlawful assembly , and transferred to a prison near the capital kampala .
there was no immediate reaction to the arrests from uganda s opposition .
the proposed new law is widely seen by critics as paving the way for museveni to rule for life .
similar moves in the democratic republic of congo and burundi have spurred unrest .
civil society organizations accused of helping rally support against extending museveni s rule have had their premises raided , offices searched and equipment confiscated .
two of them , great lakes institute for strategic studies ( gliss ) , a think tank , and actionaid , a south africa-based international charity , have had their bank accounts frozen on police orders .
in a statement on thursday , the u.s. embassy in kampala criticized what it called heavy-handed tactics of security forces which it said harmed democracy .
government must protect people s rights of assembly and expression , it said .