beijing ( reuters ) - china said on monday that regional cooperation should neither be politicized nor exclusionary , responding to u.s. president donald trump s use of the term indo-pacific during his trip to asia .
indo-pacific has grown in usage across diplomatic and security circles in australia , india and japan in recent years , shorthand for a broader and democratic-led region in place of the asia-pacific , which to some places an authoritarian china too firmly at the center .
trump and his team have given it fresh currency in recent days , starting during stops in tokyo and seoul , building on the rhetoric of his secretary of state , rex tillerson , who last month talked of the need to support a free , open and thriving indo-pacific .
although trump was addressing a meeting alongside the apec summit of asia-pacific leaders in the vietnamese city of danang on friday , he repeatedly referred to the indo-pacific region and mentioned the importance of india in his speech .
asked about china s view of the indo-pacific concept , chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said that peaceful development and win-win cooperation were the trends of the times .
all sides can come up with their own plans and positions on how to promote regional cooperation , geng told a daily news briefing in beijing .
but we hope that plans and positions can accord with and conform to this trend , can suit the general trend of events in the world , and that the relevant plans and positions are open and inclusive , benefiting the promotion of win-win cooperation by all sides , and avoid politicized or exclusionary arrangements .
china has been busy promoting president xi jinping s belt and road initiative , an extensive infrastructure plan to recreate the ancient silk road , linking asia with the middle east and europe , which critics say is more about spreading chinese influence .
china says it is simply a development project for common prosperity that any country is welcome to join .