for weeks and weeks we ve heard the propaganda and dnc talking points about how president trump was going to trick americans with the tax cuts .
well , cbs news just lost one of their false narratives today.despite their earnest efforts , they were forced to broadcast financial results from three families they used as representative examples of the trump tax plan.the weeks-long media spin ran into the wall of reality : we asked an accountant to crunch the numbers for three working families to see how much they could be saving .
tony dokoupil reports .
it s safe to say that all three families were surprised at their savings .
they were like so many other americans who bought into the gloom and doom narrative with tax reform.here s another example of how brainwashed people are against trump s tax plan : liberal college students don t care much for donald trump s new tax plan unless of course they re told that bernie sanders came up with it they can t help it they ve been taught trump=bad bernie=good so they know nothing else maybe this will teach them to think for themselves ya think ? president donald trump s proposal for comprehensive tax reform was almost immediately dismissed as heartless and impractical by his political opponents.but what would some of those opponents think if they were told the same plan was being proposed by someone they adore senator bernie sanders ? to find out , we headed to george washington university to ask students their opinions on trump s new tax plan .
without much explanation , the students immediately made clear their distaste for the plan .
it s not the most efficient , nor beneficial to the general populus , said one student when asked her opinion of trump s plan .
it s better for the upper class than anyone else , added another.after watching student after student express their disapproval of the plan , we then asked those same students what they thought of senator bernie sanders new tax plan.immediately , they expressed excitement and support after hearing the details of the plan.the only problem for them ?
there was no tax plan for senator sanders .
the plan they loved was actually president trump s.read more : campus reform