tokyo ( reuters ) - japan s health ministry is likely to drastically water down a proposal restricting smoking in restaurants , media said on friday , a move that risks tokyo becoming one of the unhealthiest hosts of the olympic games hosts in years .
japan ranks at the bottom globally in anti-smoking measures , going by the types of public spaces entirely free of smoke , says the world health organization , which has teamed up with global olympics officials to guarantee smoke-free games venues .
ahead of the 2020 summer olympics , the international olympics committee ( ioc ) is among those pressuring the japanese capital to follow rio de janeiro and other recent games hosts in banning smoking in all public areas .
ioc vice president john coats has said the body can not force a ban beyond the venues and the olympic village , however .
the health ministry was forced this year to scale back a proposed bill for a blanket ban on public smoking in the face of opposition by pro-smoking politicians , restaurateurs and japan tobacco , which is one-third government owned .
but even the weaker bill foundered , due to opposition from the ruling liberal democratic party ( ldp ) .
in august , anti-smoking health minister yasuhisa shiozaki lost his job in a cabinet reshuffle .
now the ministry contemplates allowing smoking indoors at establishments that have a floor area of up to five times the 30 square meters ( 323 square feet ) and adequate ventilation stipulated in the earlier bill , media said .
however , a health ministry official told reuters the new proposal was still in such an early stage of discussion that none of its content had yet been decided .
fifty years ago , around half of japanese smoked , a figure that has shrunk to less than a fifth now .
smoking areas have been dramatically restricted , but laws vary among cities .
there is still a cigarette vending machine in a health ministry annex .
health officials say 15,000 japanese die every year from second-hand smoke .
the new proposal is terrible , says anti-smoking activist manabu sakuta , since nearly 90 percent of food and beverage establishments in tokyo are smaller than 150 square meters ( 180 sq yards ) .
but he is pinning his hopes on tokyo governor yuriko koike , who vowed in july to push for a smoking ban before the olympics .
there s some possibility here , so we ll have to focus on that , he said .