conservative media company the blaze has suspended political commentator tomi lahren , multiple sources with knowledge of the situation confirmed to the daily caller.lahren s show is suspended for effect for at least one week starting monday , according to thedc s sources .
a source with direct knowledge of the situation previously told thedc that lahren s contract with the company goes until september , but that she may leave the company before then.lahren s inflammatory style placed her at odds with other employees at the blaze , as previously reported by thedc .
tensions were high between lahren and her coworkers at the blaze even before she called pro-life conservatives hypocrites in an appearance on abc s the view on friday.in her appearance on the view , lahren said she is pro-choice and called pro-lifer conservatives hypocrites , saying , i can t sit here and be a hypocrite and say i m for limited government but i think the government should decide what women do with their bodies .
watch here : https : //youtu.be/got3eikcl-wlahren s denouncement of pro-lifers sparked a backlash from her coworkers , as well as other prominent conservatives.in her typical adversarial style , lahren fired back at critics on twitter , saying , i speak my truth .
if you don t like it , tough .
i will always be honest and stand in my truth .
i have my beliefs and you have yours .
does n't make you right .
never said y'all have to agree with me .
get over it .
https : //t.co/wresxuunet tomi lahren ( @ tomilahren ) march 19 , 2017watch lahren s passionate monologue as she expresses her disgust in anyone who supports abortion ( only 3 months ago ) : soon after lahren s tweet , a reporter at the blaze , kate scanlon , tweeted , there is no my truth .
there is only the truth .
another reporter at the blaze , kaitlyn schallhorn , tweeted soon after : even hillary clinton didn t call pro-life conservatives hypocrites .
latest from @ mattwalshblog : pro-lifers are n't the ones being hypocrites , @ tomilahren https : //t.co/4v2eluds8q jon street ( @ jonstreet ) march 20 , 2017on monday , founder of the blaze glenn beck in an unusual move played a clip of lahren seemingly flip-flopping on the abortion issue on his radio show .
he also argued against lahren s stance that pro-life conservatives are hypocrites.from glenn beck s radio show : tomi lahren , host of tomi on theblaze tv , revealed friday as a guest on the view that she is a pro-choice conservative , which seems to contradict her stance from less than a year ago .
while some may find her newly-stated beliefs at odds with conservatism , the real controversy surrounded her comment that pro-life conservatives , who believe in limited government , are hypocritical for believing the government should intervene in a women s issue like abortion .
the response was visceral from both the left and right .
i would disagree that you re a hypocrite if you want limited government and yet you want the government to protect life of the unborn .
it s very , very clear .
but it takes intellectual honesty , and it takes a willingness to actually think these things through and to do more than just read twitter or facebook to get your news and your political opinions .
you actually have to study things these things out in your mind .
especially at a time period like today , beck said .
bomb throwing is bomb throwing in today s world is dangerous .
freedom of speech , it s not free .
speech isn t free .
it comes with a very high price tag .
first , being intellectually honest and intellectually curious .
speech is not free .
it comes with another cost and usually to the other people at the other end of your argument .
the pen is mightier than the sword , and it can destroy people if your aim is clicks , views , and ratings , he continued .
daily caller