patrick henningsen 21st century wirewhen us secretary of state , john kerry , on thursday said there was no point in pursuing further negotiations with russia over syria , you had to question on what basis this man is holding his current position as the nation s highest ranking diplomat .
really ?
no more diplomacy ?
at this point , even a conservative assessment would have to grade his performance as a failure.regarding russia , kerry proclaimed , we are on the verge of suspending the discussion , adding , it is one of those moments where we re going to have to pursue other alternatives for a period of time .
at the time of this statement earlier this week , kerry was not clear about what those other alternatives would be , but yesterday , a new leaked audio presented by a new york times journalist seems to answer this question according to a leaked taped conversation acquired by the new york times of a backroom meeting at the united nations general assembly , john kerry was never been interested in a diplomatic solution to the conflict in syria .
quite the opposite : his priority has always been to topple president bashar assad by military means and through the implementation of a no fly zone which would most certainly give a tactical advantage to us and gulf-backed terrorist proxy fighting groups like al nusra front , arar al sham and others .
i ve argued for use of force .
i stood up .
i m the guy who stood up and announced we re going to attack assad because of the weapons , and then you know things evolved into a different process .
there it is : after all the diplomatic doublespeak , the underlying us policy is and always has been regime change.more shockingly , he then told a us-backed opposition operatives that , you have nobody more frustrated than we are ( the us ) that the syrian conflict is now being solved diplomatically a clear betrayal of his job description , but also of the fundamental principles on which the un was founded.kerry also added further insult to injury by admitting that both saudi arabia and nato member turkey are financing wahabist terrorist fighters on the ground : the problem is that , you know , you get , quote , enforcers in there and then everybody ups the ante , right ?
russia puts in more , iran puts in more ; hezbollah is there more , and and saudi arabia and turkey put all their surrogate money in , and you all are destroyed .
in the audio , kerry keeps referring to the opposition but is careful and never brackets the confab of terrorist forces on the ground in that conversation , thus making the theoretical fantasy of a ceasefire somehow viable in his own parallel universe.the reality is that if syria and russia grounded their airforces in a ceasefire , then al nusra front , jaesh al fatah , isis and other terrorists ( many of whom are armed by the us ) would simply step-up their own advances and attacks on civilian and saa protected areas .
the us knows this , and would like to see that happen for reasons now revealed by john kerry in this recording.something else in the tape was significant .
after saying that russia do not observe international law , kerry then admitted that , russia was invited in ( legally into syria ) while the us was not.incredibly , kerry also admitted that , hezbollah are not plotting against us ( the united states ) , and that , hezbollah are being targeted by the opposition who we ( the us ) are arming and training .
now , leaks are rarely if ever accidental in washington , especially when a pro-obama administration newspaper like the new york times is involved in the operation .
is kerry trying to extricate himself from this 5 year-long foreign policy debacle ?
with washington s crown jewel in the destabilzation project , aleppo , due to fall any time now , perhaps he might be opening an intermediary exit door for this administration from the current losing path to partitioning syria .
time will tell.listen to this incredibly informative leaked audio here : interestingly , back in april , raed salah , the leader of the white helmets , was denied entry into the us at washington s dulles international airport and deported , supposedly told due to extremist connections .
salah was on his way to receive a humanitarian relief award at a gala dinner hosted by usaid .
it turns that usaid has also pumped at least $ 23 million into the white helmets .
how did salah get back into the us for this month s un general assembly festivities ?
did kerry intervene personally to help sidestep his travel ban ?
it seems that these days in washington , the term conflict of interest has lost all meaning with the ruling mandarin class.samantha power s meltdownmuch could be gleaned by samantha power s flippant tantrum after walking out of a crucial un security council emergency session after the us had attacked and massacred over 80 syrian military soldiers after a coalition airstrike on dier azor a us attack which allowed isis to strategically advance past syrian army defensive positions .
undoubtedly , this act by the us is what ruined any chance of a viable ceasefire agreement .
power then went on the blame russia for the crisis.here , the us was caught red-handed , and it seems that power s only recourse was to lash out in an adolescent huff , indicating that she is not capable of maintaining a professional demeanor in public while tasked with managing the sensitive job of international diplomacy .
as a result , many now believe that power was promoted well above her own level of incompetence .
watch power here : kirby s jejune diplomacy as if the shrill antics of power were not enough , us state dept spokesman john kirby did his part this week in undermining america s reputation a trusted international broker of diplomacy .
what s telling , however , about kirby crass , passive aggressive evasive diatribes is the sound of desperation .
his defensive reactions make it sounds as if the united states is losing in syria .
the truth is they are losing very badly .
still , like a good corporate soldier , he s trying to project confidence , believing he s one of the good guys .
while kerry threatens to cut off all talks with moscow over syria unless they cease attacks on aleppo ( the us never want to say east aleppo ) , kirby added something even more toxic into the mix when he issued an unprecedented threat to russia , saying : russia will continue to send troops home in body bags .. just like kerry , kirby s dangerous comment should disqualify kirby from holding any diplomatic position in the us government .
maybe he should go back to the pentagon where things aren t so complicated.then kirby began wielding his isis dog whistle , saying that russia can expect terrorist attacks in russian cities .
even more disappointing though , is kirby s fallacious attempt to whitewash the war crimes of saudi arabia ( and the us , too ) in yemen , as they wage an afront to international law and order with their undeclared war of aggression against their neighbor .
in a verbal exchange with rt s correspondent gayane chichakyan over syria , saudi arabia and yemen , kirby tries to avoid the uncomfortable question by attacking chichakyan s network rt .
watch : clearly , we are witnessing the internal implosion of the un through systematic and institutional corruption , with the main players in this stage act being the united states and saudi arabia.presently , the united states and its client in saudi arabia are in direct violation of the nuremberg principles that were established after wwii and which provide the legal and moral basis for both the geneva convention and the united nations organization itself.so this is the dynamic trio that barack obama is hiding behind .
american diplomats like john kerry , samantha power , and john kirby have a lot to answer for , because even though they may not be aware of it , everyone else now knows that their public outbursts are nothing more than smokescreens to cover the numerous lies and covert operations that the us government continues to sell regarding two dirty wars in syria and yemen.as it stands today , they are definitely on the wrong side of history.here s more on john kirby and us duplicity in syria and yemen rtunless russia stops the violence in syria , extremists would exploit the vacuum to attack russian interests and even cities , the us state department has said .
extremist groups will continue to exploit the vacuums that are there in syria to expand their operations , which could include attacks against russian interests , perhaps even russian cities .
russia will continue to send troops home in body bags , and will continue to lose resources , perhaps even aircraft , john kirby , the state department s spokesperson , told reporters at wednesday s press briefing.if the war continues more russian lives will be lost , more russian aircraft will be shot down , kirby said.early on wednesday , us secretary of state john kerry threatened to end all cooperation between the united states and russia to stop syria s civil war , unless moscow and damascus ended the current attack on east aleppo .
we are working through steps that we might have to take to begin to suspend our engagement with russia on syria .
we haven t taken those steps yet , said kirby .
the message to the [ russian ] foreign minister today was that we are perfectly willing and able to move forward on those steps that would end with the suspension of us-russia bi-lateral engagement in syria .
russian foreign minister sergey lavrov presented a different version of the call with secretary kerry , with the demand that the us live up to its obligation to separate opposition forces from extremist groups.the us promised long ago to separate the rebels from terrorists and it needs to live up to that obligation , lavrov told kerry , bringing up the recent interview of an al-nusra commander about how the group is receiving outside support including american weapons as well as the statement of a syrian opposition leader riyad hijab that he did not consider al-nusra terrorists.foreign minister lavrov told kerry that many us-backed groups are working side by side with the al-qaeda affiliate , and brought up media reports that nusra was receiving weapons from the us.during the press briefing , kirby said the us had influence over some of the [ rebel ] groups but not all .
there are other nations that have influence .
we have admitted that not all opposition groups on every single day have abided by it , and we have continued to work with them on that , kirby said , asked about the rebels violations of the syrian ceasefire.the obama administration has consistently called for regime change in syria , and kirby told reporters on wednesday obviously , we don t want to see the regime acquire any additional territory in aleppo.in response to the statement that russia was targeting nusra front and terrorists , kirby said that s not what s happening .
they re hitting hospitals , civilian infrastructure .
when asked about the us arming saudi arabia , kirby said the state department had been critical about the lack of precision in some strikes in yemen .
we have a strong defense relationship with saudi arabia , and saudi arabia is under attack from missiles that are finding their ways to yemen from iran , said kirby , rejecting any comparison between what was happening in yemen and what was happening in syria , as a ludicrous exercise .
continue this story at rtread more syria news at : 21st century wire syria fileshelp support us by subscribing and becoming a member @ 21wire.tv