sydney ( reuters ) - china summoned australia s ambassador to lodge a complaint last week over canberra s allegation that beijing had sought to interfere in australian politics , a source familiar with the diplomatic action told reuters on thursday .
relations between australia and china became strained in recent weeks after canberra said it would ban foreign political donations as part of a crackdown aimed at preventing external influence in domestic politics , sharpening the focus on china s soft power .
australian prime minister malcolm turnbull singled out china as he said foreign powers were making unprecedented and increasingly sophisticated attempts to influence the political process in australia .
in response , china summoned ambassador jan adams to a meeting at the chinese ministry for foreign affairs on december 8 to lodge a complaint , the source said .
chinese foreign ministry spokesman lu kang confirmed the ministry had an important discussion with the australian ambassador .
the australian side should be very clear about china s position on the relevant issue , lu told a daily news briefing , without elaborating .
china s foreign ministry said last week turnbull s allegations were full of prejudice against china , were baseless and poisoned the atmosphere of china-australia relations .
turnbull s allegations have been criticized by australia s opposition labor party as showing an anti-china bias that could jeopardize bilateral trade .
china , which is easily australia s biggest trading partner , bought a $ 93 billion ( $ 70 billion ) worth of australian goods and services last year .
australia s unshakeable security relationship with the united states , however , has limited how cosy it gets with china .
turnbull denied indulging in anti-chinese rhetoric , insisting labour was using the issue to win favor with a large voter block ahead of a make-or-break by-election on saturday that analysts said will determine his political future .
i am disappointed they have tried to turn australians against each other , turnbull told reporters in sydney .