cap-haitien/port-au-prince ( reuters ) - haiti s president on saturday heralded the re-establishment of the country s military after 22 years , a divisive issue in the impoverished caribbean nation which has a history of bloody coups and political instability .
haiti has been without military forces since 1995 , when former president jean-bertrand aristide disbanded the army after returning to power following a coup , leaving the national police responsible for security .
the army s comeback has been a divisive topic in a country still suffering from a catastrophic earthquake and a fierce hurricane in recent years , with critics and activists concerned that armed forces would meddle in politics and rob essential resources from education and health care .
haitian president jovenel moise on thursday named former army colonel jodel lesage as acting commander-in-chief , moving troops closer to full operation .
the appointment still needs to be approved by haiti s senate .
on saturday , moise welcomed the army s anticipated return with a parade featuring dozens of camouflaged soldiers toting rifles in the northern coastal city of cap-haitien , calling on haitians to recall the battle of vertieres won against french colonialists exactly 214 years ago .
the army is our mother , he said .
when your mother is sick and wears dirty clothes , you do not kill her .
you take her to the hospital .
so let us join forces to provide needed care to our mother .
after haiti s independence , the military mounted dozens of coups and its forces were accused of rampant human rights abuses .
moise acknowledged that history , but vowed that the new military would be different .
the united nations has called for increased support for the haitian national police ( hnp ) with about 15,000 members .
a u.n.-backed mission to aid haiti s justice system and law enforcement arrived in october , replacing a much larger peacekeeping mission that had focused on stability efforts since 2004 .
having demonstrated its ability to maintain stability and guard against security threats , the hnp has emerged as one of the most trusted governmental institutions in haiti , u.n. spokeswoman heather nauert said in a statement last month .
haitian defense minister herve denis told reuters the army will begin with 500 soldiers in engineering , medical and aviation corps , but is still working to fill its ranks .
a recruiting process was well underway by last july , attracting many young men in a country that is the poorest in the americas .
denis said the government plans to ultimately expand to 5,000 troops working to protect haitian borders , fight terrorism , curb illegal trade and aid haitians affected by natural disasters .
government opponents fear the moise administration could use the military to crack down on foes despite the president s claims that troops will steer clear of politics .
i don t believe the moise regime really wants to reinstate the army , but instead set up a political militia to persecute political opponents , said andre michel , spokesman for an opposition coalition that has called for moise s resignation .