so many good people coming across our border all just looking for a better life thanks obama ! an illegal alien from mexico pleaded guilty on wednesday to charges of secretly filming a woman in a walmart bathroom and he might soon be released into the u.s. , according to the local sheriff.he was sentenced to 270 days in jail and could be released as early as next month .
border patrol currently has an immigration hold placed on the mexican national.jose santos argueta was arrested on valentine s day after a hispanic woman noticed a cell phone on the floor under her public bathroom stall , according to san angelo live .
she realized she was being filmed and contacted store security and the san angelo police department .
argueta gave permission for police to go through his phone and the video was found.he has been in jail since being arrested , and the 243 days he spent behind bars will be credited towards his 270-day sentence .
despite the immigration hold placed by federal authorities , under president obama s priority enforcement program ( pep ) , it is possible that argueta could be released from custody and set free as early as next month.in an interview with breitbart texas , tom green county sheriff david jones said it is a very real concern .
he certainly could be released , sheriff jones said .
we have had several people who were convicted and turned over to federal authorities released .
it is a very real concern .
sheriff jones said he has a good working relationship with the men and women who serve as border patrol agents locally .
the problem , jones stated , comes from the orders they receive from higher up .
breitbart texas lana shadwick has reported extensively on the work texas sheriffs have been doing to try and make the public aware of the dangers of this pep program .
earlier this month , shadwick reported the department of justice s plans to release 2,000 foreign citizens from federal custody beginning as early as october 30 .
law enforcement should always be concerned when this number of criminals will be released .
jackson county sheriff aj louderback told breitbart texas in an interview .
louderback also serves as legislative director of the sheriff s association of texas .
i am also concerned that although the federal government claims they will be deported , as many as 2,000 illegal aliens could be released into our communities .
the october 7 breitbart texas article explains the issues regarding pep : pep is a federal program which louderback and other law enforcement officials say endangers communities , rather than secures them , from the ravages of illegal immigrant crime .
the sheriff is talking to anyone who will listen about the program.the pep program has replaced a congressionally-mandated program that governed how u.s. immigration and customs enforcement ( ice ) officials dealt with criminal aliens .
this program replaced the secured communities program .
the more aggressive 287 ( g ) program has also been eliminated.the pep policy was released by department of homeland security secretary jeh johnson in november of 2014 .
in january , the program went into effect and breitbart texas managing director brandon darby exclusively reported leaked training documents detailing how the program would be implemented .
darby dubbed the program , catch and release 2.0 .
in august , louderback led a group of texas sheriffs to the texas capitol for a press conference announcing their concerns about the pep program .
he said the pep program forces texas sheriffs to sometimes even release violent offenders .
louderback told breitbart texas at that time , that criminal aliens know that law enforcement officials in texas have their hands tied because of these new federal policies .
they know they can come into the country illegally and stay here with impunity .
via : breitbart news