nairobi ( reuters ) - deadlock over the allocation of leadership posts has forced kenya s parliament into an unscheduled three-week recess , lawmakers said on wednesday , indicating a protracted political crisis could reverberate beyond the october election .
political stalemate has gripped kenya , east africa s most advanced economy and an ally of the west against militant islam , since the supreme court annulled the results of the aug. 8 presidential elections on procedural grounds and ordered a re-run .
the repeat election was held on oct. 26 but opposition leader raila odinga boycotted the vote , saying it would be unfair .
incumbent president uhuru kenyatta won a second , five-year term with 98 percent of the vote .
lawmakers said on wednesday that odinga s opposition coalition wanted more time to negotiate on the distribution of parliamentary leadership posts to its constituent parties .
the national super alliance ( nasa ) coalition has written to the speakers of the national assembly and senate asking to have until the end of november to fill leadership positions in the house , including minority chiefs , whips and committee heads .
the nasa parliamentary group has asked the speaker to give them until end of the month to put their house in order , adan duale , majority leader in the national assembly , told reuters via text message , adding parliament would adjourn until nov. 29 .
parliament runs its business through the parliamentary service commission ( psc ) and various committees , which set its calendar and the legislative agenda , approve expenditure and vet key appointments in the executive and the judiciary .
ayub savula , an opposition legislator , told reuters the delays were due to disagreements between nasa s four main parties - odinga s odm , anc , ford kenya and wiper - on how to share the available positions .
whereas odm has a majority 70 mps in the nasa team , the rest of the political parties under nasa feel it is better if the leadership is divided equally , savula said .
the delay has angered some , including lawmakers from the ruling jubilee party .
we have a fixed term of five years , said moses kuria , a jubilee member of parliament .
it ( the delay ) is not a good thing for this country and it is a raw deal for the taxpayers .