file this one under : wtf ?
! a woman driving a van painted to match the mystery machine van from the scooby doo cartoon decided that solving crimes was for squares and led the police on a high-speed chase in california ( not florida as we would normally expect ) .
i imagine bystanders saw the well-done replica ( it even has funky hubcaps ) flash by with cop cars in pursuit and wondered if someone was making a movie.redding.com reports : shasta county probation department officials contacted the redding police department about a subject violating their probation sometime around 12:50 p.m. sunday .
the woman was identified as sharon kay turman , 51 , of redding , sgt .
ron icely said in a news release.officers spotted turman in a 1994 chrysler town and country minivan at california shasta streets , but she fled south in the vehicle when officers tried to pull her over , said icely.amazingly , the 22-year-old minivan got up to speeds of 100 miles per hour during the pursuit .
even more amazingly , despite having zero concern for the safety of anyone else on the road , turman managed not to kill anyone , although she did blow through an intersection and almost hit four cars in the process.the police called off their pursuit , presumably to allow turman to stop fleeing in a blind panic and to avoid a fatal car accident .
instead , they followed her with a helicopter : the chp helicopter kept surveillance of turman s vehicle as she continued west toward highway 36 , where she was spotted abandoning the vehicle in northwestern tehama county .
her whereabouts were unknown sunday afternoon , police said , but her vehicle was later found and impounded.it s not clear what crime turman was on probation for but if the police were willing to let her escape rather than risk a fatal accident , it s very likely it wasn t a violent offense.but if you live in or near northwestern tehama county , keep a look out for empty boxes of scooby snacks and this woman : sharon kay turmanturman is wanted by the redding police and shasta county probation .
anyone with information regarding her whereabouts can call the redding police department at ( 530 ) 225-4200 or secret witness of shasta county at ( 530 ) 243-2319.featured image via madidon wade s krcr news twitter feed .