jamie ross courthouse news servicephoenix two towns on the arizona-utah border dominated by members of a fundamentalist mormon sect discriminated against residents who are not members of the church , a jury found monday afternoon , granting $ 2.2 million in damages to six residents.the u.s. government sued colorado city , ariz. , and hildale , utah in 2012 , accusing the border towns of denying police protection , water and housing to nonmembers of the fundamentalist church of jesus christ of latter-day saints .
the church s leader , warren jeffs , is imprisoned in texas for life plus 20 years for the sexual abuse of two young girls he had taken as his spiritual wives .
insulated : hilldale s religious enclave has triggered america s curiosity.the jury returned the verdict after nearly seven weeks of testimony , finding that the towns engaged in religious discrimination of nonmembers of the church in violation of the first amendment s establishment clause .
another aspect of the verdict found that the towns police force the colorado city marshal s office violated the fourth and 14th amendments by subjecting nonmembers to unreasonable search and seizures and arrest without probable cause.the jury also found that colorado city , hildale and the cities water utility , the twin city water authority , violated the fair housing act .
obviously , we should ve went a different way , but we respect the process , said blake hamilton , an attorney for hildale , after the verdict was announced .
the case is far from over , said colorado city attorney jeff matura .
[ the justice department ] will have to propose what kind of injunctive relief they want .
after deliberating for three days , the jury awarded six residents $ 2.2 million in damages for discrimination .
the amount is not binding.during trial , the towns and the justice department entered into a $ 1.6 million settlement to cover damages suffered by the individuals , and possible civil penalties and fines.christopher jessop testified that church security ran his son off the road , and that the marshal s office helped cover it up.nicknamed the god squad , church security is said to monitor current and former flds members and keep an eye out for outside law enforcement.jessop also testified that the marshal s office failed to investigate dozens of incidents of vandalism against his vehicle .
the jury awarded him $ 1 million.another $ 1 million will go to john cook , a man repeatedly denied a water connection on a property to park his trailer .
cook eventually received a water connection but could not afford to move his trailer onto the property since he was forced to move elsewhere read more at courthouse newsread more religious news at : 21st century wire religion files