zurich ( reuters ) - prosecutors said on thursday they had charged three senior members of a swiss muslim group with making and promoting propaganda films for al qaeda .
the indictment targeted three committee members of the islamic central council of switzerland ( iccs ) , which describes itself as the country s largest islamic organization and says it focuses on representing the local population .
iccs spokesman abdel azziz qaasim illi , who told reuters he was one of the three men charged , dismissed the case as a political show trial , and said authorities had misunderstood the video at the heart of the case .
the indictment did not name the suspects , but the iccs said in a statement the other two were its chairman , nicolas blancho , and its cultural production head , naim cherni .
the office of the attorney general said that the council had made films in syria in 2015 with a leading al qaeda member and posted two films on youtube that were promoted by the three committee members .
the state prosecutor said it alleged that the accused offered the leading al-qaeda member in question a prominent multilingual multimedia platform from which to advantageously portray and promote both himself and the ideology of al-qaeda .
qaasim illi called the indictments clearly politically motivated and said the interview had been with a senior saudi cleric who denied having links to al qaeda .
the point of the interview was to counter ( islamic state ) propaganda with a credible figure from the moderate syrian rebel spectrum .
the interview itself never concerned al qaeda , he added in an email .
the attorney general s office said the indictments were part of criminal proceedings first launched against the council in december 2015 , after the posting of the videos .
the case was launched as switzerland was in a heightened state of alert after attacks in paris that killed 130 people .
switzerland has not seen the kind of islamist attack that have rocked other western states , but authorities say they still see a significant threat .
the attorney general s office said it was involved in around 60 criminal proceedings linked to jihadists , most of them related to to propaganda in support of terrorist organizations .