new york ( reuters ) - ted cruz , donald trump ’ s closest rival in the republican race for the white house , named his national security advisers on thursday , including former staffers of president ronald reagan and members of a think tank that has been called an anti-muslim “ hate group ” by a civil rights organization .
announcing the team in a statement , cruz said he would reverse what he described as the weakening of the united states in a dangerous world , singling out militant islamist groups in the middle east and north africa as his focus .
among the most recognizable names on the senator ’ s list of 23 advisers was elliott abrams , who served in the administrations of both reagan and president george w. bush and is a senior fellow at the council on foreign relations .
but the list of advisers drew more attention for its inclusion of several critics of muslims .
among those were frank gaffney , a former official in the reagan administration , and at least two other members of a think tank gaffney founded , the center for security policy .
the center ’ s reports argue that hundreds of thousands of american muslims support islamist violence in the united states and that there is a conspiracy to erode the u.s. legal system by elevating sharia , the islamic legal code .
the southern poverty law center , a civil rights organization that monitors u.s. extremist groups , has labeled the center for security policy a “ hate group ” and gaffney a “ notorious islamophobe. ” gaffney did not respond to a request for comment , but a spokesman pointed to online essays where gaffney has rejected such criticism , saying his group is a defender of civil liberties against “ islamic supremacists. ” “ do you mention any of the other 22 members of the advisory coalition ? ” brian phillips , a cruz spokesman , said in an email , declining to respond to questions about the criticisms made against gaffney and his think tank .
the council on american-islamic relations ( cair ) , a muslim rights group , urged cruz , a christian , to reconsider having gaffney and others who have made anti-muslim remarks as his advisers , saying it suggested the candidate entertained “ anti-muslim bigotry ” .
besides gaffney and his think-tank colleagues , cair said cruz should drop william boykin , a retired u.s. army lieutenant general who has said the government should be allowed to ignore the u.s. constitution to pass laws limiting muslims ’ right to freedom of speech and religion .
some of cruz ’ s other advisers have been critical of anti-islamic rhetoric , including abrams and mary habeck , another former bush adviser ; both have said islam should not be demonized .
another adviser is katherine gorka , president of the council on global security , a group that produces research on islamist violence , who said in an email that cruz “ understands the vital role that america ’ s military strength plays across the globe but without wanting to engage the u.s. in expensive democracy-building adventures. ” trump-cruz showdown trump , a 69-year-old billionaire businessman from new york , has surged to the front of the once-crowded republican field , drawing support from voters by proposing to temporarily ban muslims from entering the united states for fear they might secretly be members of violent islamist groups .
trump cited research by gaffney ’ s group in announcing the plan last year .
cruz , a 45-year-old texan , is seeking to keep trump from winning an outright majority of delegates as states vote for party nominees in the coming months , and to wrest the nomination from him at the party ’ s national convention in cleveland in july .
conservatives who think trump strays too far from republican ideology continued to plot openly to thwart him at or before the convention .
erick erickson , a conservative blogger , said in a statement that he joined a meeting of “ grassroots conservative activists ” from around the country in washington on thursday .
he said they made plans to appoint an as-yet-unnamed candidate at what they hope will be the first contested republican convention since 1948 , where a complicated system of ballot rules would come into effect .
earlier this month , mitt romney , the party ’ s unsuccessful 2012 presidential candidate , called on republicans to use tactical voting to slow trump .
the call appeared to have been ignored by many republican voters , with trump remaining the leading candidate following the most recent round of primary elections on tuesday .
cruz has said “ everyone understands ” the proposed muslim ban by trump , also a christian , but the senator does not support it , saying there are millions of muslims who are not murderous .
instead , cruz supports stopping refugees from some predominantly muslim countries from coming to the united states .
democratic politicians and others have condemned republican candidates ’ remarks on islam , saying they foster further division and discrimination .