singapore ( reuters ) - police in singapore have arrested a man suspected of planning to join islamic state-linked fighters in the philippines and a woman who was in contact with foreign militants , the government said on thursday .
singapore , regarded as the most stable country in southeast asia , has become increasingly concerned about the risks of radicalization among its muslim minority .
at least 14 radicalized singaporeans have been put under restriction or detention orders under a tough internal security law since 2015 , up sharply from 11 cases between 2007 and 2014 , the government said in june .
the man arrested was identified as imran kassim , 34 .
the ministry of home affairs said he had tried to make his way to syria to join islamic state fighters at least twice , and had been prepared to attack members of the singaporean armed forces .
more recently , he had intended to join militants who seized control of marawi city in philippines this year , the ministry said in a press release .
imran s arrest came as a result of information given to police by people close to him .
authorities have mounted a campaign to encourage family members , friends and neighbors to report on anyone they fear was in danger of becoming radicalized .
the woman who was arrested was identified as shakirah begam binte abdul wahab , a 23-year old administrative assistant .
the ministry said she had been in contact with several foreign fighters since 2013 .
shakirah has demonstrated a propensity to engage in risky behavior which renders her vulnerable to adverse influence and recruitment by terrorists who belong to a group that poses a security threat to singapore , the ministry said .
she was put under a restriction order , which means suspects are monitored and their movements are restricted .
a child care worker arrested in june is the only singaporean woman to have been placed in custody under the internal security act , which allows for detention without trial .
an auxiliary policeman who was suspected of becoming radicalized was also arrested in june .