nairobi ( reuters ) - the head of kenya s election commission said on wednesday he could not guarantee next week s presidential election will be free and fair , citing interference from politicians and threats of violence against his colleagues .
wafula chebukati s statement came hours after another commission member resigned and left the country , saying she and her staff had been repeatedly threatened .
ironically , the very people , political leaders , who are supposed to build the nation have become the greatest threat to the peace and stability of the nation , chebukati told journalists .
the oct. 26 poll is the re-run of an election that took place in august , where incumbent president uhuru kenyatta s victory was nullified on procedural grounds .
but the run-up to the new poll has been fraught , particularly since kenyatta s main challenger , opposition leader raila odinga , pulled out , alleging a failure to improve the oversight of the election .
odinga has called nearly daily protests against the poll and the election commission , pushing east africa s largest economy - a stable western ally in a chaotic region - deeper into turmoil .
kenyatta on wednesday restated his commitment to the poll , but odinga called for a mass protest on election day - raising the prospect of confrontations between protesters and voters .
demonstrations will continue .
october 26 will be the biggest demonstration of them all , odinga told a crowd of several thousand cheering supporters in nairobi .
commission head chebukati said technical preparations for the new poll were on course , but his attempts to make critical changes , notably to staff , had been defeated by a majority of commissioners .
he said he been pressured to resign , without giving further details .
under such conditions , it is difficult to guarantee a free fair and credible election , chebukati said .
we can not move forward with a divided commission .
election staff attending training sessions in some opposition strongholds were attacked this week , police said .
a senior western diplomat in nairobi condemned the attacks , saying of odinga : there is growing frustration among western diplomats that a man who stood for democracy ... is essentially in charge of a movement trying to sabotage an election .
there is thuggery going on ... people who incite violence will be held accountable , the diplomat told reuters .
roselyn akombe , another of the board s eight members , flew to new york and issued a statement dated tuesday , saying the commission has become a party to the current crisis and was under siege .
she said commissioners were serving partisan interests , and legal advice was being skewed for political reasons .
akombe urged kenyans to remember the violence that followed a disputed 2007 poll , when more than 1,200 people were killed .
she told bbc radio she fled after receiving threats from both sides .
a week before the august poll , the election commission s head of it was found tortured and murdered in nairobi , raising fears of a possible hack of the commission s computer systems .
at least 37 people have died in violence since the august vote , including four killed in confrontations between police and protesters in the past week .
the uncertainty over the vote has affected financial markets : the central bank sold dollars in the foreign exchange market after the kenyan shilling weakened on news of akombe s resignation .
[ nl8n1mt1f5 ] central bank governor patrick njoroge told reuters on thursday that the government was revising its 2017 economic growth forecast downwards amid high political uncertainty .
[ l8n1mt4fj ] last month , kenya cut its growth forecast to 5.5 percent from 5.9 percent .
kenyan law requires that the new election be held within 60 days of the sept. 1 decision by the supreme court to cancel the results of the original vote , but odinga says his withdrawal should trigger a new , 90-day election cycle .
in withdrawing his candidacy last week , odinga said the election board had not carried out reforms , including firing of key officials who he blames for mistakes in the aug. 8 vote .
but kenyatta said in a televised speech on wednesday : we walk towards the declared date of the 26th of october both as a god-fearing leadership and government .
the ruling party has used its parliamentary majority to pass amendments to the electoral law curtailing the grounds on which the supreme court can nullify an election .
kenyatta has not yet signed the amendments after heavy international criticism .
the election board says it has conducted some reforms and the vote will go ahead with odinga on the ballot .
this week , police raided homes belonging to wealthy opposition financier jimi wanjigi and said they had found a cache of weapons .
wanjigi said in an emotional interview that the firearms were licensed and that he was being persecuted .
on tuesday , deputy president william ruto said odinga had pulled out of the race to avoid a humiliating defeat .
tweeting on wednesday , ruto criticised the election board head s comments : chebukati should stop lecturing us and oversee the elections .
efforts by diplomats , religious leaders and civil society leaders have so far failed to bridge the divide .