austin , texas ( reuters ) - a texas law previously struck down requiring voters to show authorized identification before casting ballots will be re-examined , the u.s. court for appeals for the fifth circuit said on wednesday .
the court , which said its full bench of judges will participate , did not set a date or elaborate on why it will hold the review of the law a three-judge panel from the court said in an august 2015 decision violated the u.s. voting rights act through its “ discriminatory effects. ” the measure was signed into law in 2011 by then texas governor rick perry , a republican , and has been in effect since even as the legal challenges have wound their way through the courts .
plaintiffs have argued the law hits elderly and poorer voters , including minorities , hardest because they are less likely to have such identification .
they contend the measure is used by republicans as a way suppressing voters who typically align with democrats .
the measure , which supporters say will prevent voter fraud , requires voters to present a photo identification such as a driver ’ s license , passport or military id card .
texas attorney general ken paxton , a republican welcomed the court ’ s decision .
“ today ’ s decision is a strong step forward in our efforts to defend the state ’ s voter id laws .
safeguarding the integrity of our elections is a primary function of state government and is essential to preserving our democratic process , ” he said in a statement .
critics contend that voter fraud is a miniscule problem overblown by republicans for political purposes .
republicans contend voter fraud erodes the fabric of the democratic process .
civil rights groups have urged the court not to re-hear the case .
u.s. district judge nelva gonzales ramos ruled in october 2014 that the law , which was challenged by the administration of president barack obama and civil rights groups , was unlawful under the voting rights act and u.s. constitution in part because it discriminates against minority voters .
the obama administration has been trying to counter a u.s. supreme court ruling in june 2013 that overturned parts of the voting rights act .
that ruling freed several states , mostly in the south , from strict federal oversight .