tripoli ( reuters ) - in a square behind libya s central bank , black market dealers , some of them armed , carry small plastic bags filled with dollars and larger ones with dinars in and out of one of many informal exchanges .
traders buy food and other goods from abroad at the official rate and sell them at the unofficial one , pocketing vast profits ; others make equally large sums by smuggling out heavily subsidized fuel .
in the back streets of the old city meanwhile , ordinary people have resorted to selling jewelry or dollars hidden at home as six years of post-dictatorship chaos take their toll .
i haven t been paid for four months , said fatima , 40 , from the southern city of sabha as she sold three small gold charms to pay for diabetes treatment for her sister , hasina , who added : we re helpless , there s nothing else we can do .
in other signs of rising poverty , elderly women beg motorists for cash on tripoli s streets and families queue for charity food handouts .
the u.n. estimated that about 1.3 million people in libya need humanitarian assistance this year .
their situation took another turn for the worse in the past two weeks after the black market rate of the dinar , which has long languished at record lows , slid again , fuelling inflation that is already around 25-30 percent .
the central bank blamed the audit bureau and the u.n.-backed government for restricting letters of credit that fund basic supplies to a divided country where a security vacuum and smuggling networks have destabilized the wider region .
officials had come across suspect requests - one to import tuna worth $ 120,000 , more than the country consumes in a year , according to a libyan entrepreneur who declined to be named , fearing retribution from libya s powerful armed groups .
just $ 2.5 billion of an expected $ 7.4 billion of credit has been allocated , the trader said , helping knock the dinar from around 8.5 to 9.25 against the dollar on the black market .
its value has fallen by more than 600 percent since early 2014 .
the economy ministry was not immediately available for comment on a complex credit system that passes through commercial banks and where the audit bureau had documented earlier abuses and lack of oversight .
we re talking about an extremely bad economic and financial situation , central bank governor sadiq al-kabir said in a rare news conference on tuesday .
everyone , whether legislative or executive , holds responsibility equally .
traders and economists say political uncertainty is a major factor weakening the currency , with u.n. talks to broker a deal between rival factions currently suspended .
libya is struggling to fund food imports and defend its foreign reserves , which the world bank estimates will stand at $ 67.5 billion at the end of this year , compared to $ 123.5 billion in 2012. international experts say the only way to resolve the issue is to devalue the dinar from the official exchange rate of 1.37 to the dollar , but agreeing an economic strategy in a country dominated by armed factions with rival governments and no budgets is no simple task .
a powerful or well-connected minority who are profiting from a flourishing shadow economy have little interest in change .
the central bank did not comment on devaluation , but economists and diplomats say the bank is reluctant to devalue without a policy plan in place to deal with the resulting shock .
libya managed this year to lift oil production to about 1 million barrels a day , but output is stuck well below the levels before the 2011 uprising that toppled muammar gaddafi .
revenues that normally account for about 80 percent of gross domestic product are largely used to pay salaries , including those of armed factions added to the state payroll for their role in the uprising .
subsidies include a $ 4 billion-plus annual fuel subsidy that is among the most generous in the world .
premiums on the official exchange rate and subsidized fuel make libya a criminal and terrorist cross-border funding paradise , said husni bey , chairman of hb group , one of libya s biggest private firms .
most instability in libya today is of a criminal nature ... due to the lack of equitable exchange rate for the libyan dinar and the subsidies that must be changed from goods to direct cash contributions .
last year libya spent around $ 26 billion , but earned just $ 6 billion .
this year we estimate that revenues should increase to around $ 14 billion , but spending will likely be more than double this , said mark griffiths , libya mission chief for the international monetary fund .
this is not sustainable .
the government has sought to reduce the public salary bill by 5 billion dinars annually , clamping down on abuse by removing some 100,000 people who had been claiming several salaries , according to a finance ministry report .
libyans became used to plentiful public jobs and state handouts as gaddafi sought to buy loyalty like other middle eastern oil producers .
migrant workers used to do the manual work , now libyans without contacts have taken their place .
salman rashid , a public servant , said he had received just three months-worth of pay in the past year .
it s not enough for basic needs , he said .
now i work on construction sites and in buildings maintenance .
entrepreneurs have withdrawn deposits from banks for fear of employees leaking word of them to kidnappers and others also prefer to keep money at home .
in a second shop in the old city , a woman who gave her name as karima was changing 500 euros .
i need to go to tunis for surgery and am selling my foreign currency holdings , she said .
times are very difficult now .
shop owner salahedin zarti , 52 , said up to 10 people come in daily to sell necklaces , bracelets and rings .
in the beginning it was every day , but now i think people are starting to run out of jewelry , he said .