brasilia ( reuters ) - brazil s finance minister henrique meirelles will speak to major credit rating agencies on thursday as the government scrambles to avoid a sovereign debt downgrade due to growing doubts that its proposed pension reform can rein in surging public debt .
a vote on the unpopular bill to overhaul the social security system , seen as vital to closing the fiscal deficit , has been delayed to 2018 after failing to muster support in congress .
lawmakers have warned that handling the hot-button issue ahead of next year s elections would reduce the chances of approval .
meirelles said in a radio interview he will tell rating agencies the delay until february does not mean pension reform will not be approved .
he told radio estad o it would be reasonable for the agencies to wait until the bill is voted on before deciding on a potential downgrade .
lower house speaker rodrigo maia on monday said pension reform would be hard to approve if the bill is not passed by february .
the first vote was put off last week and scheduled for feb. 19 after the christmas-to-carnival holiday recess .
maia told a news conference there is room to discuss a longer transition period for public sector employees , to include those who started working before 2003 .
while this would add to future pension costs , maia said the government will refuse to give up one more penny in fiscal savings .
the current version of the bill would save 480 billion reais ( $ 146 billion ) over 10 years , according to government estimates , down from 800 billion reais in the original proposal , before concessions were made to try to win passage .
brazil s bloated pension system , which is especially generous for public sector employees , is the main cause of a huge budget deficit that cost latin america s largest nation its prized investment-grade credit rating two years ago .
the finance ministry said meirelles will hold conference calls with rating agency representatives on thursday .
investors fear that failure to streamline social security could weaken brazil s recovery from a deep economic downturn , forcing the central bank to raise interest rates from an all-time low and triggering new sovereign rating downgrades in 2018 .
last week , moody s investors service calling the delay in voting on the pension bill credit negative .
this raises the possibility that the reform will not be approved next year , given political uncertainty surrounding the presidential elections , moody s said in a note to clients .