caracas ( reuters ) - president nicolas maduro has set his sights on venezuela s 2018 presidential election after the ruling socialist party dominated mayoral polls with the help of a partial boycott by a divided opposition .
enjoying a political breather after a year of ferocious domestic protests and damaging foreign sanctions , the 55-year-old successor to hugo chavez said the government had won at least 90 percent of the 335 mayorships in sunday s election .
latest official results gave him 21 of 23 state capitals as well as caracas main district , with full results due later on monday .
the landslide win for the socialists was no surprise , given three of the biggest opposition parties did not field candidates .
the elections left maduro favorite to be the socialist candidate in next year s presidential race , despite the ambitions of rivals within government and an economic crisis that has pummeled the opec nation since his 2013 election .
let s get ready for 2018 !
he told cheering supporters in a caracas square shortly before midnight on sunday , next to a statue of venezuela s independence hero simon bolivar .
maduro also declared fixing venezuela s broken economy a priority .
but opponents and even some government dissenters say it is his stubborn adherence to chavez-era economic policies , such as currency controls , that is to blame for the crisis .
venezuela s 30 million people are enduring one of the worst economic meltdowns in recent latin american history .
millions are skipping meals , missing medicines , and lining up for hours at shops during acute shortages and crippling inflation .
opposition parties said sunday s vote was full of irregularities and meaningless , and reiterated demands for changes to the electoral system for the 2018 vote .
what we saw yesterday was an electoral farce that in no way represents the will of the people , said popular will party leader juan andres mejia , citing abuse of state resources and coercion of government employees to vote .
maduro well-positioned for re-election three of the opposition coalition s main parties - popular will , justice first and democratic action - boycotted sunday s polls , saying the election board was a pawn of the government .
but other opposition parties did put up candidates , adding to confusion and acrimony within opposition ranks .
maduro said the three abstaining parties should be banned from participating in future elections .
that brought a rebuke from the u.s. state department , which called his remarks another extreme measure to close democratic space in venezuela and consolidate power in his authoritarian dictatorship .
venezuela s presidential election has traditionally been held in december , but there is speculation in political circles that it will be brought forward to the first half of 2018 so the socialists can take advantage of the opposition s disarray .
despite the regime s economic incompetence and the inherent weaknesses of maduro s authoritarianism , he is well positioned to achieve re-election next year , said nicholas watson , of the teneo intelligence consultancy .
with its most popular leaders barred - leopoldo lopez is under arrest and henrique capriles is prohibited from office - the opposition may struggle to find a flagbearer .
uniting parties and reigniting enthusiasm among despondent grassroots supporters will also be huge challenges .
street protests earlier in 2017 put pressure on maduro and left 125 people dead .
foreign pressure hardened too , with u.s. president donald trump imposing sanctions on venezuela for alleged government rights abuses and corruption .
yet after facing down demonstrators , pushing through a controversial legislative superbody in a july vote also boycotted by the opposition , and notching a majority in october gubernatorial polls , maduro has ridden out the storm for now .
i think the current government can fix things if they are allowed to get on with it , said mechanic melix jordan , 56 , voting for the government in a rural part of paraguana .
social discontent is running deep , however .
there is no sign so far of an alternative presidential candidate , despite calls in some quarters for popular billionaire businessman lorenzo mendoza to run .
my vote maybe doesn t change anything , said gardener hector machado , 64 , who voted for the opposition in tachira state .
but i still have hope for something better next year .