jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia s vice president said on tuesday that calls for a boycott of u.s. goods over president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel were misguided - not least because of the country s reliance on u.s. technology .
there have been a series of protests in the world s biggest muslim-majority country since trump s controversial move this month to reverse decades of u.s. policy .
at a rally of about 80,000 people on sunday , the indonesian ulema council , a body of muslim clerics , called for a boycott of u.s. and israeli products if trump did not revoke his action .
vice president jusuf kalla told reporters that indonesia was trying to put pressure on washington through the united nations and it was not even practical to stop using american products .
do not be emotional ... do we dare to boycott iphones , stop using google .
can ( you ) live without them ?
he asked .
( you ) can not live without them now .
if you go out of the house now , you put ( an iphone ) in your pocket , he said .
kalla said that even if people stopped watching u.s. movies , other american goods such as specialized petroleum equipment were vital in oil-producing indonesia , southeast asia s biggest economy .
there have been a series of protests in indonesia over the issue of jerusalem , including some where hardliners burned u.s. and israeli flags .
the status of jerusalem , a city holy to jews , muslims and christians , is one of the biggest barriers to a lasting israeli-palestinian peace .
asked about how to proceed after washington vetoed a u.n. security council resolution calling for the u.s. declaration on jerusalem to be withdrawn , kalla said that dialogue was the only solution .
there had been three wars , and palestine s territory has become smaller , so there must be a dialogue , peace , he said .
indonesia enjoys a trade surplus with the united states and is one of 16 countries that the trump administration has said could be investigated for possible trade abuses .
tutum rahanta , deputy chairman of the indonesian retailers association , said it was up to consumers whether to buy american products .
if it is advice or a call to boycott , it depends on the consumers whether to use the products or not .