habur border crossing , turkey ( reuters ) - turkey s president tayyip erdogan threatened to impose sanctions against kurdish northern iraq over a planned independence vote , piling economic pressure on kurdish authorities after turkish troops deployed near the main commercial border crossing .
turkey , home to the largest kurdish population in the region , has warned that any breakup of neighboring iraq or syria could lead to a global conflict , and is due to prepare a formal response on friday , three days before the referendum .
erdogan said the turkish cabinet and security council would discuss ankara s options .
they will put forward their own stance on what kind of sanctions we can impose , or if we will , he told reporters in new york , according to anadolu news agency .
but these will not be ordinary , erdogan said .
iraqi kurdish authorities have defied growing international pressure to call off the vote , which iraq s neighbors fear will fuel unrest among their own kurdish populations .
western allies say it could detract from the fight against islamic state .
on monday , the turkish army launched a highly visible military drill near the habur border crossing , which military sources said was due to last until sept. 26 , a day after the planned referendum .
around 100 tanks and military vehicles , backed by rocket launchers and radar , deployed in open farmlands near the frontier , guns pointed south toward the kurdish mountains .
the military buildup hit the turkish lira , which weakened on tuesday beyond 3.500 to the dollar , before recovering on wednesday to around 3.465 .
but it has so far had little impact on lines of trucks queuing to cross into territory controlled by the kurdish regional government in north iraq .
turkey , for years the krg s main link to the outside world , has built strong trade ties with the semi-autonomous region which exports hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil per day through turkey to international markets .
russian oil major rosneft will also invest in pipelines to export gas to turkey and europe .
erdogan did not spell out what sanctions turkey might be considering , but truck drivers waiting at habur on wednesday said they feared for their livelihoods if cross-border trade , crucial to the local economy , dries up .
i have four kids , i am 35-years-old , and there is neither a job nor a factory in the region , said tanker driver abdurrahman yakti , who carries crude oil from iraq to turkey s iskenderun rafinery in the southeastern province of hatay .
we are stuck with this job .
if this gate closes this would be our doom .
ferhat , who has transported dry cargo across the border for 10 years , said closing habur would paralyze turkey s southeast .
it would not affect only people like me who work for 1,500 lira ( $ 430 per month ) , but also the businessmen .
we bring crude oil from iraq , but just as many trucks are carrying goods from istanbul and all around turkey to iraq , he said .
the show of military force at the border and the threat of sanctions reflects the depth of concern in turkey that monday s referendum could embolden the outlawed kurdish pkk , which has waged a three-decade insurgency in turkey s southeast since 1984 .
the turkish air force frequently strikes against pkk units operating from the mountains of northern iraq , and limited detachments of turkish infantry have made forays across the frontier in the past .
turkey stationed troops in bashiqa near mosul , ignoring protests from iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi , ahead of the military campaign to drive islamic state out of the northern iraqi city .
ankara also sees itself as protector of iraq s turkmen ethnic minority , with particular focus on the oil city of kirkuk which kurds seized in 2014 as iraqi troops retreated in the face of islamic state advances .
erdogan said kurdish determination to hold the referendum disregarded turkey s support for krg leadership until now .
we will announce our final thoughts on the issue with the cabinet meeting and national security council decision , erdogan said .
i think it would be better if they saw this .