washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump on saturday hailed the defeat of islamic state fighters in their self-proclaimed capital of raqqa as a critical breakthrough in a worldwide campaign against the militants .
on friday , the kurdish-dominated syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) formally announced raqqa s liberation from islamic state after four months of battles and said the city would be part of a decentralized federal syria .
together , our forces have liberated the entire city from isis control , trump said in a statement .
the defeat of isis in raqqa represents a critical breakthrough in our worldwide campaign to defeat isis and its wicked ideology .
with the liberation of isis s capital and the vast majority of its territory , the end of the isis caliphate is in sight .
trump said the u.s. campaign against islamic state , which was launched by his predecessor barack obama , would soon enter a new phase , in which the united states would support local security forces , de-escalate violence across syria , and advance the conditions for lasting peace , so that the terrorists can not return to threaten our collective security again .
together , with our allies and partners , we will support diplomatic negotiations that end the violence , allow refugees to return safely home , and yield a political transition that honors the will of the syrian people , he said .
trump s statement made no mention of the future of syrian president bashar al-assad .
he also did not spell out how the united states would support local security forces .
a white house spokesman said u.s. policy towards assad remains the same .
u.s. officials have said assad has no future governing syria and u.s. envoy to the united nations , nikki haley , said last month a stable syria was not possible while he remained in place .
the fight against islamic state has taken place amid a wider , multi-sided civil war between assad s government , which is backed by iran and russia , and an array of rebel groups supported by other powers , including the united states .
experts believe the defeat of isis at raqqa may only be the start of a wider struggle by the united states to contain any insurgency launched by the militant group and to stabilize the region , as washington grapples with defining a comprehensive strategy in syria .
on friday , french president emmanuel macron said france s military would continue its fight against islamic state in syria , but that the fall of the militant group s bastion in raqqa needed to lead to an inclusive political system to restore stability .