cernobbio , italy ( reuters ) - a referendum on italy s membership of the euro currency would be held only as a last resort if rome does not win any fiscal concessions from the european union , a senior lawmaker from the anti-establishment five-star movement said on sunday .
luigi di maio s comments reflect a striking change of tone by some senior officials in the party in recent months as they have retreated from 5-star s original pledge .
seeking to reassure an audience of bankers and business leaders , di maio - widely tipped to be 5-star s candidate for prime minister at a general election due by next year - played down the referendum proposal , calling it a negotiating tool with the eu .
austerity policies have not worked , on monetary policy we deserve the credit for triggering a debate ... this is why we raised the issue of a referendum on the euro , as a bargaining tool , as a last resort and a way out in case mediterranean countries are not listened to , he said .
two years ago the party gathered the signatures from the public needed to pave the way for a referendum that it said was vital to restore italy s fiscal and monetary sovereignty .
but now , running neck-and-neck with the ruling democratic party ( pd ) in opinion polls and with the election in sight - scheduled to be held by may 2018 - it is hitting the brakes on the idea .
this underlines the crucial challenge facing the party as it seeks to please some core supporters , while trying to shed its populist image and convince foreign capitals and financial markets that it can be trusted in office .
reuters had access to the comments , which were made behind closed doors .
highlighting the sensitivity of the issue , di maio declined to answer journalists questions about the referendum before making his speech inside the ambrosetti conference in cernobbio , on the shores of lake como , about 40 km ( 25 miles ) from milan .
the party wants several changes to the euro zone s economic rules to help its more sluggish economies , like italy .
these include stripping public investment from budget deficits under the eu s stability pact and creating a european bad bank to deal with euro zone lenders bad loans .
we are not against the european union , we want to remain in the eu and discuss some of the rules that are suffocating and damaging our economy , said di maio , who serves as deputy speaker of the chamber of deputies .
an opinion poll in la stampa daily on sunday had 24 percent of respondents saying di maio most deserved to run the country in the next five years , against 17 percent for former pd prime minister matteo renzi and 12 percent for center-right leader silvio berlusconi .
di maio s presence at the ambrosetti meeting , an annual gathering of italy s elite business leaders , prompted some 5-star supporters , including a respected magistrate they had recommended as the next head of state , to accuse the movement of schmoozing with the enemy .
last year , he turned down an invitation from organizers at the last minute .
but with 5-star expected to announce its candidate for prime minister later this month , he has been rubbing shoulders with the italian establishment at a string of events .
a couple of days ago he graced the red carpet at the venice film festival , and later on sunday he will attend the italian grand prix formula one race in monza .
five-star , as a force that is putting itself forward to run the country , must talk to everybody , explaining its own vision for the government and the country .
this is why i accepted the invitation , he told reporters in cernobbio .