washington ( reuters ) - donald trump , under pressure to show a more presidential image , elevated a top adviser on thursday and said he planned to hire additional staff to prepare for the possibility of a long fight for the republican nomination .
the developments came as trump tries to rebound from a loss in wisconsin on tuesday to u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , a defeat that punctured the billionaire businessman ’ s aura of inevitability and made it more likely the nominee will be picked in a floor fight at the republican national convention in july .
the republican front-runner ’ s stumble in wisconsin exposed a variety of weaknesses .
trump alienated many female republican voters by saying that women who have an abortion if the procedure were banned should be punished , a position he later backtracked on .
he also appeared to have been outmaneuvered in the scramble for delegates in louisiana .
although trump beat cruz in that state on march 5 , cruz may end up with more delegates from louisiana than trump .
trump announced that he has assigned all functions related to the nomination process to veteran political operative paul manafort , who was hired to manage the process of corralling delegates who will pick the nominee .
“ the nomination process has reached a point that requires someone familiar with the complexities involved in the final stages , ” trump said .
trump also canceled plans for a campaign swing through california in coming days in order to concentrate on new york , which has suddenly emerged as a must-win state for him on april 19 .
he has a big lead in his home state .
a trump campaign statement said that he will add to his team as the republican national convention nears and that he would announce new hires in the weeks ahead .
the expansion of trump ’ s campaign means his team will grow beyond the close-knit group of advisers who have been at his side since he jumped into the presidential race last june .
trump said he plans to open a washington office next week .
while there has been speculation that trump might make manafort his campaign manager , the candidate ’ s statement made clear that current campaign manager corey lewandowski and deputy manager michael glassner would remain in their positions .
lewandowski has been charged with simple battery for grabbing a reporter who tried to ask trump a question in florida a month ago .
trump , famously loyal to people he trusts , has rejected calls that he fire lewandowski .