havana ( reuters ) - cuba is willing to talk with the united states about human rights , its top diplomat for u.s. relations said on thursday in reference to a historic visit by u.s. president barack obama set for march .
the white house earlier said obama would raise washington ’ s concerns about rights to free speech , free assembly and independent civil society during his two-day cuba trip , the first by a sitting u.s. president since 1928 .
“ cuba is open to speak to the u.s. government about any topic , including human rights , ” josefina vidal , director of u.s. affairs for the cuban foreign ministry , told reporters after the white house said obama would travel to cuba on march 21-22 .
the trip follows the two countries ’ move in 2014 to reopen ties after more than 50 years of hostile relations .
but vidal made clear that cuba ’ s idea of what constituted human rights did not coincide with washington ’ s perception .
“ we have different ideas ( about rights ) , in the same way that different ideas exist about other topics like democracy , political models and international relations , she told reporters .
“ we hope that president obama will have the opportunity to converse with the real cuban civil society , ” vidal said , using a term to draw a distinction from the opposition , which the government considers illegitimate .
cuba says critics of its human rights record overlook a low crime rate and guaranteed healthcare and education .
obama will meet with dissidents when he visits cuba , the white house said .
republicans complained that the trip would lend legitimacy to the island ’ s communist government .
anti-government activists face harassment and short-term detention if they gather and protest in cuba .
the cuban commission of human rights and national reconciliation , a dissident group , says there has been a spike in such detentions since november .
cuba released 53 political prisoners around the time of rapprochement in december 2014 .
but there are still about 90 political prisoners in cuba , the commission said on thursday , an increase of about 20 since it issued its annual report in june 2015 .
the cuban government see the dissidents as a tiny minority with little public support and financed indirectly by washington .