so this man who so desperately wanted children comprised of his genes , that he hired a surrogate mother to carry them .
now that he only wants two of them , which one of the three children would he like to see her have killed ?
who will choose which two babies will be lucky enough to make it out of the womb alive and into his loving home ?
who will he decide which baby will end up in a dumpster ?
melissa cook was hired to be a surrogate mother for an unidentified georgia man earlier this year.she was to be paid $ 33,000 for her efforts .
but what both parties didn t expect was triplets.cook and the man used in-vitro fertilization , combining his sperm with the egg of an unnamed 20-year-old woman .
cook was implanted with three embryos , each of them defying the odds .
the result was triplets.now , the georgia man is demanding cook to abort one of the babies or face financial ruin.cook , who is a california native , spoke to the the new york post : they are human beings .
i bonded with these kids .
this is just not right robert warmsley , the unnamed man s lawyer , warned in a letter that his client : understands , albeit does not agree , with your decision not to reduce .
as you know , his remedies where you refuse to abide by the terms of the agreement , are immense [ and ] include , but are not limited to , loss of all benefits under the agreement , damages in relation to future care of the children [ and ] medical costs associated with any extraordinary care the children may need .
in other words , she ll be stripped of her pay , and could face a lawsuit , if she doesn t comply with his wishes to abort one of the babies.melissa cook responded , penning a heartfelt letter in which she questioned the decision : the doctor put in three healthy embryos , she wrote .
the chances were high they were all going to take .
if you knew you only wanted two babies , then why put in three embryos ?
cook is currently 17 weeks pregnant.california law dictates that , aside from life-threatening exceptions , fetuses can not be aborted once they become viable , which is typically around 20 weeks .
via : ijreview