no one understands the dirty democrat underbelly better than stephen k. bannon .
he s been in the trenches fighting with the underdog conservative movement for years .
he was a close friend of andrew breitbart s and he understands better than anyone what we re really up against with hillary and how the left will stop at nothing to win .
trump didn t need another go-along to get-along rino as his ceo .
the new york times described bannon today as a media firebrand .
he needed someone who doesn t think voter fraud is some made up right-wing conspiracy .
bannon s studied the occupy movement , he even directed a film exposing the players , the organizers and the future of the radical leftist movement .
donald trump s second overhaul of his presidential campaign staff in as many months is an effort to remake his organization more in his own image , after trying and struggling to conform to the role of a traditional politician guided by political operatives.some republicans welcomed the addition of new senior staff to mr. trump s team , hoping it would bring a dramatic change to his faltering trajectory in opinion polls against democrat hillary clinton .
but some in the gop also said they were worried that mr. trump couldn t recover lost ground by choosing a provocative media entrepreneur who has never run a campaign to lead his team.in keeping with his expressed desire in recent days to be himself , mr. trump has brought in as his campaign s ceo stephen bannon , the executive chairman of breitbart news , a conservative media outlet that delights in bashing the gop establishment , among others .
i m going to do whatever it takes and do it the way i think will win , mr. trump said in a tuesday night interview with the wall street journal.when the occupy movement began a year ago , many initially dismissed it as a gathering of harmless college students .
but the late andrew breitbart saw in the movement professional left-wing anarchists and radicals who sought to use the occupy protests to violently overthrow the united states government , then destroy its institutions and the free market system.breitbart s friend , stephen k. bannon , was one of those who had initially not taken the occupy movement seriously until he saw occupiers shut down the brooklyn bridge .
he knew then breitbart was right , and immediately started a project with breitbart that would turn into occupy unmasked , a movie that opened nationwide in theaters this week that systematically dismantled the notion that the occupy movement was good-natured and peaceful.here s a clip from bannon s occupy unmasked movie , directed by trump s new ceo , stephen k. bannon : the lessons from the movie occupy unmasked are important to keep in mind as liberal intellectuals again try to mainstream a radical and violent movement to breathe life into something that , for now , has faded .
the movie documents all the violence , filth , rapes , and systemic coordination between left-wing radicals and labor unions like the seiu that was the real story behind the occupy movement.in glorifying the occupy movement and looking ahead to the its future , liberals revealed that a potential second coming of occupy could be even more dangerous and violent than the first.enter obama s black lives matter terror movement which is really nothing more than a second occupy movement , inspired and cheered on by our very own president of the united states .
today , the occupy movement has a bigger umbrella .
it s no longer just made up of misfits and anarchists , the movement now has shifted to appeal to the raw emotions of blacks living in democrat ruled ghettos .
the left has taken the focus off the democratic politicians who intentionally keep these citizens dependent on the government , and made them believe that the only chance they have of escaping the poverty that traps them in violent neighborhoods , is to target the cops who bravely patrol their neighborhoods .
young white students have been inspired by radical educators to join the violent , chaotic movement as a way to cleanse them of their perceived racist sins .
leftist radicals like george soros are helping to fund the movement and keep the chaos going at least through the election .
voter fraud efforts will be kicked into high gear , as the gop elite sit back and scoff at people like steve bannon who know the real score , and are truly ready to take on the fight we will need to win this # war ( breitbart s rally cry for conservatives to join the fight against the left and take back our country ) against hillary s radical machine.stephen k. bannon is exactly who this nation needs at this exact time in our history , and we believe trump couldn t have chosen a better general in this # war against the radical left.mr .
bannon will take a leave of absence from breitbart news , which has adopted an antiestablishment stance on the conservative right and has cheered mr. trump s call for more restrictive immigration policies and his rebukes of gop leaders such as house speaker paul ryan of wisconsin .
we don t really believe there is a functional conservative party in this country , and we certainly don t think the republican party is that , mr. bannon said at a national press club conference in 2013.for his part , the former goldman sachs investment banker , naval officer and documentary filmmaker recently wrote and produced the movie clinton cash , based on a book about the clinton family s personal wealth .