randy johnson 21st century wirethe future is coming and technology is coming with it .
are we adapting to the future or holding on to the old ways ?
is a future of technology with circuit boards , screens , and machines something that can be weaponized or used to shape and control society no different than gunpowder , nuclear energy , and marketing ? to many , often considered great minds , technology and artificial intelligence has had an ominous role in science fiction in film and literature .
george orwell , isaac asimov , arthur c. clark , and philip k. dick are some of the giants of this genre .
their work has inspired countless hollywood movies and television programs and can often get someone wondering if life is imitating art , or vice versa .
another option is that nearly everything has an element of design all along .
android affair : big business and robotics ( image source : wikicommons ) as far back as the 1927 film metropolis , robotics , class segregation , industry , and even humanity itself , appear on a collision course .
some might even argue that humanity , technology , and robotics , are already into an integration phase.since then we know the not all inclusive list of characters .
the space odyssey 2001 s hal 1000 , star wars human cyborg relations c-3po , blade runner s nexus 6 replicants , and the infamous terminator .
hollywood reality : 1980s science fiction comes to life ( image source : wikicommons ) martin ford , author of rise of the machines , is a highly sought after speaker across the globe .
he is often utilized as a consultant , for corporations and industries with regards to robotics .
in the 2015 business book of the year , in his acceptance speech ford stated even people that do everything they are supposed to do [ to get a good job ] may find it difficult to get a foothold in the economy .
piling on to the prospects of a bleak future , wired magazine states , oxford university researchers have estimated that 47 percent of u.s. jobs could be automated within the next two decades .
and if even half that number is closer to the mark , workers are in for a rude awakening .
the impact of robotics in industry and its effects in the workforce has also been reported on here at 21st century wire.it is a foreboding thing to contemplate , but are we being outsourced ? a robot will not call in sick or ask for a wage increase .
it will not fight with others unless programmed to .
it will not complain , throw a fit , collect unemployment , leave early , or join the workers union to fight the corporation .
once integrated and a part of industry , it will save money .
it will not require an annual review .
when it becomes irrelevant to newer technology , it will be replaced.getting to a robotic future will even create new jobs no doubt .
a small industry of technicians and favored class of people who monitor , fix , and improve the technology could hold the coveted jobs for those selected and chosen to deserve them.too far away ?
not in our lifetime ? watch the below video of boston dynamic s 5 9 180 pound atlas robot interact with its surroundings and perform the labor its makers designed it to do .
read more on robots : 21st century wire robot files