seoul ( reuters ) - pyongyang university of science and technology ( pust ) , north korea s only western-funded university , will start the fall semester without its dozens of american staff after failing to secure exemptions to a u.s. travel ban that starts on friday .
pust - home to the largest concentration of foreigners in the reclusive state - plans to revise courses and teaching schedules but its largely english-based curriculum will be heavily impacted , two sources familiar with pust s operations said .
pust was founded in 2010 by a korean american evangelical christian with the goal of helping north korea 's future elite learn the skills to modernize the isolated country and engage with the outside world .
( graphic : americans detained in north korea - tmsnrt.rs/2pme3ks ) in mid-july , however , the u.s. state department announced a ban on americans traveling to north korea following the death earlier this year of an american student who had been detained by the state while on a tour .
it advised u.s. citizens living there to leave .
since then , tensions on the korean peninsula have escalated significantly .
nuclear-armed north korea has undertaken a number of provocative missile tests , including two intercontinental ballistic missile launches and one medium-range missile test this week that flew over japan .
of the roughly 130 foreigners at pust including faculty members , staffers and family members , about 60 were u.s. citizens , one of the sources said , asking not to be named due to the sensitivity of the situation .
none had received special permission to stay and all have now left pyongyang .
the teaching activities and the unique international english-based character of the school are severely impacted by the u.s. travel ban and the decision of some other personnel not to return , the source said .
the school , which is open about its christian affiliation , has already been rocked by the detention of two of its staff members by the north korean regime this year .
the two were accused of acting against the interests of the state .
u.s. officials announced the ban six weeks ago due to the risk americans will be held for long-term detention in the country .
the ban was imposed after u.s. student otto warmbier was sentenced to 15 years hard labor for allegedly trying to steal a propaganda poster while on a tour last year .
warmbier fell into a coma in custody and died soon after he was released to u.s. officials .
the circumstances surrounding his death are not clear .
the last major tour involving u.s. tourists flew out of north korea on thursday .
the ban , similar to previous u.s. restrictions on travel to iraq and libya , makes north korea the only country in the world americans are currently banned by the state department from visiting .
journalists and humanitarian workers can apply for special permission .
but the u.s. government has yet to issue guidelines on how to obtain waivers , leaving pust and educators uncertain how or when it might be possible to apply for exemptions , according to the people familiar with pust s operations .
the state department said it was unable to comment on specific requests for exemptions .
over the past several weeks , pust leaders have tried to lobby for exemptions so that their work can continue , the sources said .
the school is involved in ongoing discussions with u.s. officials , they added .
the university was seen as a rare experiment in academic diplomacy with a country increasingly entirely isolated from the rest of the world due to tightening sanctions over its defiant pursuit of nuclear weapons programs .
u.s. president donald trump has vowed to stop pyongyang achieving its goal of being able to fire a nuclear warhead to the united states and has warned the u.s. military is locked and loaded in case of north korean provocation .
since pust took in its first 50 students in 2010 , the school has grown to about 500 undergraduate and 60 graduate students studying in mostly three departments - electronic and computer engineering , international finance and management and agriculture and life sciences .
a lot of effort has been spent over the past seven years that pust has been operating .
the prospect of this progress being undermined - even totally thwarted - as a consequence of the u.s. government action , is deeply worrying to everyone involved , one of the sources said .