kabul ( reuters ) - a four-year-old boy photographed in a kabul mosque last week as police desperately tried to call him to safety during an attack by islamic state gunmen is back with his family but still suffering nightmares , his father said .
ali ahmad was with his grandfather in the shi ite imam zaman mosque on friday when at least two attackers in police uniforms stormed in , one exploding a suicide-bomb vest and the other firing indiscriminately at the hundreds of worshippers inside .
a picture by reuters photographer omar sobhani showed ali standing alone in the courtyard of the mosque as policemen taking cover behind a doorway called and waved to him .
he survived the attack but his grandfather was among at least 20 killed .
click here for a photo essay - reut.rs/2wlbrg8 sayed bashir , ali s father , was nearby but not in the mosque for the initial blast and ran to check on his family .
right after the explosion i thought everything was finished , he said .
i called my father s mobile phone number and my son answered and said : they killed grandpa .
he wanted me to bring the car and get him .
we were running everywhere in search of my son but the police were stopping us and didn t let us get close , bashir said .
bashir called the number again and was speaking to ali when another explosion went off .
i lost hope .
i said to myself that everything was finished .
i tried the number again but it was switched off , bashir said .
in fact , ali had run around behind the mosque , disregarding the policeman frantically signaling to him in the courtyard .
he was rescued soon afterwards but the effects of the attack may take much longer to heal .
bashir , a building worker who lives in a district with many shi ite families , said ali was still traumatized and having difficulty coming to terms with what happened .
after the incident , my son has some problems .
he s scared a lot at night , he said .
the attack , the latest in a series targeting shi ite mosques , was claimed by islamic state khorasan , the local branch of the group which takes the name of an old region that included what is now afghanistan .
according to the united nations , at least 62 civilians have been killed and 119 injured in six separate attacks on shi ite mosques this year .