21st century wire says the war between the white house and cnn continued this week.during a recent white house press briefing for trump s new immigration restriction bill , the raise act , white house adviser stephen miller suddenly locked horns with embattled cnn political correspondent jim acosta , accusing acosta and his network of displaying cosmopolitan bias .
according to critics , the bill favors english-speaking immigrants over others , as well as special applicant s status to those who can financially support themselves .
the bill aims to scale back blanket immigration , and focus instead on a canadian-style merit-based admissions .
critics of cnn have also made a strong case , especially after the dramatic loss in 2016 election , that the news network s coverage is heavily biased towards east and west coast liberal audiences effectively shunning what america s liberal intelligentsia crassly refer to as america s flyover states ( predominantly white , rural midwest and rustbelt states ) and blaming this section of the population for the hillary clinton s epic november loss.when one considers the contempt which cnn commentators and experts displayed for american voters throughout the election , the charge of cosmopolitan bias is probably accurate.liberal media outlet city lab described how it saw the initial exchange : the dialogue continued : acosta : this whole notion , they have to learn english before they get to the united states are we just going to bring in people from great britain and australia ? miller : jim , actually , i have to honestly say : i am shocked at your statement , that you think only people from great britain and australia would know english .
it reveals your cosmopolitan bias to a shocking degree , that in your mind this is an amazing moment that you think only people from great britain and australia would speak english is so insulting to millions of hard-working immigrants from all over the world .
jim , have you honestly never met an immigrant from another country who speaks english outside of great britain and australia ?
is that your personal experience ? acosta hit back at miller with tacit accusations of institutional racism , claiming that any immigration control goes against a tradition of us immigration .
according to my timeline , jim acosta thinks the statue of liberty decides immigration laws .
stephen miller ( @ redsteeze ) august 2 , 2017that talking point triggered a fiery exchange between miller and acosta .
watch : full exchange between stephen miller & @ acosta on statue of liberty & immigration .
`` it reveals your cosmopolitan bias to a shocking degree . ''
pic.twitter.com/9ehtinar4g cspan ( @ cspan ) august 2 , 2017others fired back on twitter at acosta s increasing habit of grandstanding during press briefing : jim acosta is why people hate journalists .
what 's funny ?
other journalists applaud him that 's how disconnected from reality they are .
lauren ( @ lilmissrightie ) august 2 , 2017acosta has been previously forced to defend his employer s penchant for running actual fake news stories , most notably the fabricated trump dossier promoted heavily by cnn and their reporters jim sciutto and evan perez.meanwhile , cnn s reputation as a news network continues to plummet , with its problems compounding at a time when its parent company , time warner , is negotiating a major corporate merger with communications giant at & t one of the biggest acquisition deals in media history .
part of the deal might mean selling off the damaged brand of cnn in order to improve the value of the deal .
deadline hollywood confirmed this recently , stating : there are rumblings at the highest executive levels that at & t s top executives are considering divesting some time warner assets including news organization cnn and celebrity gossip site tmz after they merge .
regardless , there will be a shake up at cnn , which may even include the ouster of its now disgraced head , jeff zucker.stay tuned for more updates on cnn.read more cnn news at : 21st century wire cnn filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv