seldom in life are you set up so perfectly with a joke that you wonder if the moment could actually be real , but on friday evening donald trump jr. gave the internet a gift .
in an effort to try and look cool and appear to be part of the outsider campaign of his father , trump jr. posted a pic of himself , his brother eric and sister ivanka : this election is not about republican vs democrat it 's about insider vs outsider .
it 's time for a change in dc !
# pic.twitter.com/0wybx8dosp donald trump jr. ( @ donaldjtrumpjr ) september 2 , 2016now , if your first reaction wasn t that it looks like a compilation of 1990s movie villains , maybe it was one more like one of these brilliant remixes .
twitter users definitely just had way too much fun , and we re all eternally grateful : pic.twitter.com/67xufvir1f clara jeffery ( @ clarajeffery ) september 3 , 2016pic.twitter.com/eneccvx5mn jon gabriel ( @ exjon ) september 3 , 2016fixed it pic.twitter.com/nejaqyi3cf ashley feinberg ( @ ashleyfeinberg ) september 3 , 2016fixed it pic.twitter.com/jrz6ibwvye roberto baldwin ( @ strngwys ) september 3 , 2016obligatory # theylive .
pic.twitter.com/y0kskqhshl bryant frazer ( @ deep_focus ) september 3 , 2016fixed it for you , @ donaldjtrumpjr .
stay gold , ponyboy .
pic.twitter.com/pddetwrei1 lee zachariah ( @ leezachariah ) september 3 , 2016my personal favorite : the new children of the corn movie looks terrifying .
pic.twitter.com/12ckpi6tb4 pourmecoffee ( @ pourmecoffee ) september 3 , 2016honestly , these perfect mockeries of the trio could go on and on and on for days .
it s really unclear what they were trying to attempt to do by posting this image in the first place .
maybe they really are just like their dad and think they are too cool for school and don t ever realize how ridiculous they actually are .
who s to really know for sure ? however , god bless the internet and all it s been bringing to this current crazy election .
it s bringing a sense of sanity to what , most definitely , feels like an insane world .
well done.featured image via twitter