istanbul ( reuters ) - turkey s president tayyip erdogan said on monday he was pressing world leaders to do more to help myanmar s rohingya muslims , who face what he has described as genocide .
nearly 400 people have been killed in northwest myanmar over the past week in insurgent attacks on security posts and an army crackdown .
aid agencies estimate that 73,000 rohingya have fled to neighboring bangladesh from myanmar since violence erupted .
you watched the situation that myanmar and muslims are in , erdogan said in istanbul , where he was attending the funeral of a turkish soldier .
you saw how villages have been burnt ...
humanity remained silent to the massacre in myanmar .
he said turkey would raise the issue at the united nations general assembly in new york later this month .
as current head of the organisation for islamic cooperation , erdogan had discussed the violence with around 20 world leaders .
there are some leaders we can achieve results with and some that we can not .
not everyone has the same sensitivity , he said .
we will do our duty , erdogan said , adding that turkey was continuing to deliver aid to the region .
myanmar has urged muslims in the northwest to cooperate in the search for insurgents , whose coordinated attacks on security posts and an army crackdown have led to one of the deadliest bouts of violence to engulf the rohingya community in decades .
the treatment of buddhist-majority myanmar s roughly 1.1 million muslim rohingya is the biggest challenge facing leader aung san suu kyi , accused by western critics of not speaking out for a religious minority that has long complained of persecution .
erdogan said on friday that the death of hundreds of rohingya in myanmar over the past week constituted a genocide aimed at muslim communities in the region .
hundreds more refugees on sunday walked through rice paddies from the naf river separating the two countries into bangladesh , straining scarce resources of aid groups and local communities already helping tens of thousands .