( in this february 20 story , corrects in second paragraph that ibrahim came to the u.s. in 1981 , corrects the reason for ibrahim ’ s protest in paragraph 9 . )
by emily flitter myrtle beach , s.c. ( reuters ) - elhamy ibrahim , 62 , is a muslim who does not like very many other muslims these days , but loves donald trump .
the egyptian-born businessman who came to the united states in 1981 and became a citizen two decades later said in an interview on friday that he was alarmed by changes in egypt , where , in his view , high unemployment and poverty have driven many young egyptians to religious extremism .
he strongly backs trump ’ s proposal to ban muslims from entering the u.s. until authorities can determine if they pose a threat , even though such a ban could bring hassles for him if he traveled abroad .
that is one reason why ibrahim , who says he does not attend a mosque regularly , approached the real estate mogul after a rally in myrtle beach , south carolina and called out “ i ’ m a muslim and i love you ! ” nbc news published a video of the exchange , which took place the evening before saturday ’ s republican primary in south carolina .
ibrahim proudly posted the video to his facebook page .
trump has stirred outrage not just in the u.s. but around the world for comments that his critics say are anti-muslim .
but trump ’ s fans , including ibrahim , say trump ’ s rhetoric , rather than being insensitive and exclusionary , addresses their fears of the violence they see occurring halfway across the globe .
“ if he stopped me coming into the u.s. , i ’ d say ‘ fine ’ , ” ibrahim said .
“ if he said he wanted a loyalty test , i ’ d be the first to sign it. ” self-imposed exile as a university student , ibrahim was jailed twice by the security services of the late president anwar sadat , then drafted to fight in egypt ’ s 1973 war against israel , where he was wounded by an explosion that left him blind in one eye .
he said egyptian security officials ripped his toenails out with pliers because he had protested over sadat not going to war with israel .
after finishing his degree , he went to yemen and became friends with the u.s. consul general in sana ’ a , who persuaded him to come to the united states .
he lived first in new york , then baltimore , where he began buying real estate , and eventually moved to myrtle beach .
despite the torture he suffered , ibrahim is comfortable with trump ’ s call to “ bring back waterboarding and much worse ” when interrogating terror suspects .
“ torture is being used all over the world , today , tomorrow and yesterday , ” ibrahim said .
“ at least he ’ s saying it in public. ” his favorite thing about trump is his business background .
“ he ’ ll bring america back - i want to see america that i used to know , not the one that ( president barack ) obama and ( former president ) george w. bush destroyed. ” he also wants a president who sees muslims the way he does .
his mother and sister , who grew up wearing high heels and mid-length skirts , began to wear head scarves in the early 1990s to avoid harassment on the streets of cairo .
egypt became a more conservative place .
“ the media there , they make america seem evil , ” he said .
“ they destroy the spirit of the younger generation , they make them stuck in religion like a bunch of sheep in a flock. ” ( reporting by emily flitter ; editing by caren bohan and marguerita choy ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .