paris ( reuters ) - far-left trade unionists marched through cities across france on thursday in a second day of protest against president emmanuel macron s overhaul of a labor code long cherished by workers , although their numbers were lower than a week earlier .
in paris , protesters lit flares and carried banners reading withdraw all decrees , a call for macron to drop the measures , which will give companies more power to set working conditions .
the protests challenge the president s ability to push through reforms that are being closely watched in european capitals berlin in particular .
but they are also a test of union strength at a time their influence appears on the decline .
the head of the cgt union spearheading the street protests said public anger was mounting and warned workers the corporate bosses would triumph if trade unions failed to pull together .
when the union movement and workers are divided , it is generally speaking the corporate bosses who win , cgt chief philippe martinez said .
the moderate cfdt union , france s biggest , and the leftist force ouvriere ( fo ) have expressed disappointment with macron , who was elected in may pledging reforms to reboot the economy and cut unemployment , but refused to join the cgt protests .
some 132,000 people took part in protests across france on thursday , the interior ministry estimated , down from 223,000 at similar rallies last week .
police said the number of protesters in paris was a third lower , at about 16,000 protesters , though the cgt put the turnout at 55,000 .
macron says he will not bow to street pressure .
the centrist government is due to enact the labor reforms on friday before embarking on other , potentially more explosive changes .
those include a revamping of france s employment insurance and pension systems .
macron angered workers and leftist opponents when he recently said he would not cede ground to slackers .
rivals were swift to paint the president as a champion of the wealthy and big business .
he wants to rally behind him influential people , rich people , those that have and consider the rest of us to be a confused mass of savages , jean-luc melenchon , leader of the hard-left france unbowed party , told reporters before joining the protest in paris .
the ability of the unions to shut down swathes of the economy and force ministers to respond is not what it was .
strikes have become less frequent , less disruptive and less successful .
companies in france lost 81 days to strikes per 1,000 workers in 2014 , compared with more than 300 days in the late 1990s and over a thousand days in the late 1980s .
while the fight against labor reform may be lost , unions plan more protests against the 39-year-old leader s reform drive .
truck drivers will strike on monday before a rally by pensioners on sept. 28 .
civil servants will take to the streets on oct. 10 .
melenchon will lead his party s own protest on sept. 23 .
macron , whose popularity has fallen sharply since the election , says he has a mandate to re-shape the economy .
the next weeks will be critical to determine how much political capital macron will lose during the protests , said london-based think-tank eurointelligence .