chicago ( reuters ) - chicago will be able to spread out state-mandated higher payments to its police and fire pensions after the illinois legislature on monday overrode the governor ’ s veto of a bill that became entangled in a political impasse .
the senate voted 39-19 and the house voted 72-43 to undo republican governor bruce rauner ’ s veto on friday that the city claimed would lead to a $ 300 million property tax hike .
the bill gives chicago short-term budget relief but will add to the city ’ s big pension funding gap .
the override bolsters democrats , who control the legislature , as they battle with rauner over state assistance for chicago and its public school system , which is seeking state money for its teachers ’ pensions .
the political impasse had left illinois without a complete budget 11 months into fiscal 2016 .
rauner called the bill “ terrible policy , ” while chicago mayor rahm emanuel accused him of using the city as a political pawn .
rauner ’ s spokeswoman catherine kelly released a statement reiterating the governor ’ s contention that the measure would end up costing chicago taxpayers $ 18.6 billion over time .
the measure alters a 2010 state law that boosted chicago ’ s payments to its public safety workers ’ pensions in order to reach a 90 percent funded level by 2040 .
under that law , chicago ’ s contribution will jump to nearly $ 834 million this year from $ 290.4 million in 2015 , according to city figures .
the new law reduces the payment to $ 619 million and allows for smaller increases through 2020 than under the 2010 law .
it also gives the police and fire funds until 2055 to become 90 percent funded .
the police system is 26 percent funded and the fire system 23 percent funded .
chicago ’ s fiscal 2016 budget assumed the bill ’ s enactment by lowering the city ’ s contribution to police and fire pensions by about $ 220 million .
the city council also approved a $ 543 million phased-in property tax to exclusively cover higher contributions to the two retirement systems .
house speaker michael madigan was clearly delighted as he addressed reporters after budget talks with rauner .
“ i think it was interesting the governor had nothing to say about the override .
i was raised not to cause embarrassment for people so i didn ’ t raise it , ” madigan said .
the city must still deal with underfunding problems for its municipal and laborers ’ retirement systems after the illinois supreme court in march tossed out a 2014 law that cut benefits and increased contributions to keep the pension funds from insolvency .