shawn helton 21st century wirethe new york bombing attack has a list of details that don t add up.when examining what transpired this past week in new york and new jersey , we must consider a deeper social engineering agenda that may be at play as part of a larger geopolitical drama continues unfold in syria.while august ushered in a hyper-propagandized war image that went viral in the west , september delivered an alleged active-shooter false alarm played out at both jfk airport and lax as well as the apparent bombings in new york city and new jersey this past week.as bombs go off outside , obama sails through the unga.you have to wonder , were the events in new york and new jersey also a weapon of mass distraction , following a major international embarrassment for the united states both at home and abroad the brutal airstrike campaign in syria that killed over 70 syrian troops ?
this unlikely bombing incident just happened to also coincide with the un general assembly in nyc , where president obama was delivering among other speeches , his war on terror addresses to the international community .
no surprise then , with the city suddenly on high terror alert that obama quickly and confidently and comfortably used his center stage spotlight at the un , shifting into national security mode boasting how quickly his police forces solved the case .
it was almost if he was ready for events that weekend.the alleged nyc bombing suspect was named as 28 year-old ahmad khan rahami , who managed the family chicken kebab shop .
he has been charged with using weapons of mass destruction in addition to other criminal charges .
similar to what was described in the apparent boston marathon bombing of 2013 , rahami is alleged to have created a homemade pressure cooker bomb which exploded in chelsea , an affluent neighborhood of manhattan .
oddly missing are scenes depicting the transport of 31 injured individuals after the explosion in new york .
bomber or patsy ?
ahmad khan rahami was known to both us officials and pakistani officials ( image source : bbc ) nyc s known wolf after the mainstream media and officials floated the idea that a wireless emergency alert system helped to locate and find rahami with an electronic wanted poster , it turns out the fbi already knew him.according to the washington post , the fbi had already known rahami since 2014 , making this latest known wolf attack a strongly suspicious event : the fbi s probe into ahmad khan rahami , the 28-year-old named as the only suspect in the bombings , was launched based on comments his father had made .
an official said his father later recanted his comments .
agents conducted interviews , checked with other agencies and looked at internal databases , none of which revealed ties to terrorism , the bureau said in a statement.but why then , was rahami on the radar of pakistani intelligence in recent years ? during the san bernardino caper last december , we were told that supposedly pakistani-born tashfeen malik , had ties to the red mosque in pakistan , a well-known inter-services intelligence ( isi ) linked mosque : sources have told daily mail online that us officials handed over information to their pakistani counterparts about links between tashfeen malik and the red mosque in islamabad .
the mosque is infamous for its links to violence and authorities in pakistan are now considering taking action against its preacher , maulana abdul aziz , after the disclosures by us officials .
if malik was inspired by isis , as claimed by authorities ( via social media ) then why did her background suggest a pakistani/isi/cia/al-qaeda connection , if she was in fact radicalized as us plot writers insist ? the uk s telegraph stated that the part of pakistan where malik was staying is known as a recruiting ground for al-qaeda-linked islamist groups , including lashkar al-taiba , responsible for a bloody attack in mumbai , india s financial capital , in 2008 .
if true , this was a new twist in the media hyped san bernardino shooting , displaying a startling link between the al qaeda/isi affiliated red mosque and other western-backed black ops in pakistan.in may of 2011 , the council on foreign relations ( cfr ) outlined the isi s material support for various militant groups , including the formation of al-qaeda giving historical context to recent events : the isi s first major involvement in afghanistan came after the soviet invasion in 1979 , when itpartnered with the cia to provide weapons , money , intelligence , and training to the mujahadeen fighting the red army .
the cfr further stated , pakistan s government has repeatedly denied allegations of supporting terrorism , citing as evidence its cooperation in the u.s.-led battle against extremists .
the cia and isi , have had a long , sometimes contentious relationship on the surface but the reality is that their collective footprint , is all over many tribal areas in pakistan and places like afghanistan where extremism continues to grow to this day.malik s affiliations suggested that she could have been involved with one of the intelligence agencies active in the exact location she resided in pakistan was this also the case with rahami , given his link to a pakistani seminary with ties to the taliban ? the uk s guardian reported the following : the 28-year-old , who was born in afghanistan but became a us citizen , spent time at the kaan kuwa naqshbandi madrasa on his two visits to pakistan , a security official working for the government of balochistan province told the guardian .
cointinuing , the article discussed how pakistani officials have limited the information they have about rahami : us officials have revealed basic details about rahami s two visits to pakistan , the first in 2011 when he spent a couple of months in quetta and got married and almost a year in 2013 when he also made a car journey to afghanistan.but very little information has emerged from inside pakistan about what rahami did during his visits.the government official , who did not wish to be named because he was speaking about a highly sensitive subject , said pakistani security agencies have tried to hide all the details of his visits to quetta and keep as much information as possible out of the media .
it s also worth noting the similarities of this case to that of another known wolf who traveled overseas before a major domestic event , the alleged boston bomber , tamerlan tsarnaev , who had previously been recruited by the fbi , most likely as an informant .
this might help to explain why tamerlan traveled overseas to attend the american committee for peace in the caucasus in dagestan , during the summer of 2012 an event organised by the jamestown foundation itself another known cia front , and part of a vast network controlled by freedom house ( george soros ) and linked to the cia , as reported by the voltaire network .
informant or terrorist ?
what was rahami s real role in the new york and new jersey bombings and bomb attempts ?
( image source : nbcnews ) sturm und drang during a hotly contested us presidential election cycle , multiple overlapping narratives continue to contribute to an environment of confusion , fear and uncertainty in the war on terror era.mass media has worked out their own formula for laying out a familiar series of polarizing political points in the aftermath of any tragic event , as they have with many others .
appearing once again , to purposefully redirect the public to look at a ready-made laundry list of hateful rhetoric and random writings as an ironclad motive for a crime .
the aftermath in the case of new york is no different , as it rapidly descended into an overindulgent barrage of media speculation and theorizing.all too often we ve seen the stage persona of any alleged attacker or killer being touted as hard evidence , despite the fact that even strong circumstantial evidence of any apparent crime would likely result in many hours of analysis and debate , potentially without a definitive conclusion , even if the evidence eventually reached a court room setting.as 21wire has covered in recent years , very often there is much more involved behind-the-scenes when it comes to sensationalized attacks in america , particularly of those said to be lone wolf events .
the incidents themselves are quickly taken out of the political and forensic realm , giving way to a hyper-realized account , often defying logic and reason.drills , patsies & dupesin may of 2015 , the ny post stated the following , after the city s largest ever terror drill involved mock explosions : officials said the event was the largest active-shooter operation ever , involving more than 200 nypd and fdny officers.it was the ninth full-scale exercise of its kind since the beginning of 2014 .
chief of nypd counterterrorism bureau james waters explained that the drill replicated portions of events that occurred in san bernadino , in the bataclan in paris and in australia .
continuing , the article described the intricate mass exercise : on the third and the fourth floors we had additional explosions go off , replicating things that happened at the bataclan nightclub , and that pushed the esu officers up to the third floor , and finally the fourth floor , where they encountered a barricade with a hostage situation , he said , explaining that the cops again were able to stop the shooters .
for the average person , its hard to differentiate from a drill or a real event , causing one to scrutinize the legitimacy of such an operation.in recent years , the investigative tactics of various intelligence agencies have come into question , none perhaps more dubious then the newburgh fbi sting that involved entrapping four men to participate in a fabricated event created by the bureau .
here s a 2011 passage from the guardian describing how an fbi informant named shahed hussain coerced four others into a fake terror plot : the newburgh four now languish in jail .
hussain does not .
for hussain was a fake .
in fact , hussain worked for the fbi as an informant trawling mosques in hope of picking up radicals.yet far from being active militants , the four men he attracted were impoverished individuals struggling with newburgh s grim epidemic of crack , drug crime and poverty .
one had mental issues so severe his apartment contained bottles of his own urine .
he also believed florida was a foreign country.hussain offered the men huge financial inducements to carry out the plot including $ 250,000 to one man and free holidays and expensive cars.as defence lawyers poured through the evidence , the newburgh four came to represent the most extreme form of a controversial fbi policy to use invented terrorist plots to lure targets .
there has been no case as egregious as this .
it is unique in the incentive the government provided .
a quarter million dollars ?
said professor karen greenberg , a terrorism expert at fordham university .
the whole episode seemed born out wtc 1993 bombing case , which involved yet another informant working alongside officials.more below regarding the purported nyc bombing from zerohedge nyc under attack ?
in less than 48 hours law enforcement nabbed the man purportedly behind the recent nyc bombings .
( image source : observer ) 9 weird things about the nyc and nj bombs that will make you say hmmmm zero hedgezero hedge continues read more war on terror news at : 21st century wire w.o.t files