washington ( reuters ) - u.s. vice president joe biden praised democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders for tapping into americans ’ concerns about growing income inequality , potentially giving the vermont senator a boost as he gains on rival hillary clinton weeks before the iowa caucuses .
sanders has argued that he is a more authentic choice to be the party ’ s nominee as he tries to undermine clinton ’ s double-digit lead in national polls by gaining ground in the important early nominating states of iowa and new hampshire .
in an interview with cnn on monday night , biden said sanders ’ focus on the growing gap between the very rich and other americans has struck a chord with voters .
“ bernie is speaking to a yearning that is deep and real and he has credibility on it , ” biden said .
“ and that is the absolute enormous concentration of wealth in a small group of people with the new class now being able to be shown being left out. ” he said clinton , who is campaigning in iowa on tuesday , had not focused on income inequality as long .
“ it ’ s relatively new for hillary to talk about that , ” biden said .
“ hillary ’ s focus has been other things up to now and that ’ s been bernie ’ s .
no one questions bernie ’ s authenticity on those issues. ” on tuesday , biden said that was not a criticism of clinton , a former u.s. secretary of state .
he told nbc ’ s “ today ” show that her focus had rightly been on foreign policy , while income inequality had long been sanders ’ “ mantra. ” “ even when income inequality wasn ’ t as serious as it is today , it was his drumbeat , ” biden said .
“ she ’ s coming up with some very good ideas but bernie is pushing the envelope on this. ” the biden interviews came before president barack obama ’ s final state of the union address on tuesday night .
while clinton has a large national lead in the polls , she has struggled to make solid gains in iowa and new hampshire , which hold outsized influence on the election process .
on tuesday , a quinnipiac university poll showed sanders climbed to 49 percent in iowa , a 5 percentage point lead over clinton going in to the feb. 1 caucuses .
he widened his lead in new hampshire by 14 points , a monmouth university poll said .
the polls had an error margin of 4.4 and 4.8 points , respectively .
biden was courted by some democrats to seek the presidential nomination but declined , citing family obligations after his son beau biden died of cancer last year .
within the party , concerns remain whether clinton can overcome a lack of enthusiasm among voters .
biden also told cnn that he and obama want to influence the presidential nominees in november ’ s white house election , especially on gun control .
clinton has increasingly criticized sanders for past votes that were viewed favorably by the national rifle association .
biden said sanders is making improvements to his position .
“ what bernie sanders has to do is say that the second amendment says - which he has , of late - the second amendment says you can limit who can own a gun , that people who are criminals shouldn ’ t have guns , ” biden said .
“ people who are schizophrenic and have mental illnesses shouldn ’ t own guns , and he has said that. ” for more on the 2016 presidential race , see the reuters blog , “ tales from the trail ” ( here )