this former democrat is speaking out about the only man who cared enough to reach out to him after the random murder of his innocent son by an illegal alien .
the left will be calling him uncle tom in 5 4 3 2 1 a new ad released friday by donald trump s campaign team tells the story of jamiel shaw , a los angeles man who lost his teenage son in 2008 when a man in the u.s. illegally randomly shot and killed 17-year-old jas.watch ad here : i will end illegal immigration and protect our borders !
we need to make america safe & great again !
# trump2016https : //t.co/wd3llmz01i donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 13 , 2016in his first interview since the ad debuted , shaw , an african-american man , told the washington examiner why he chose to support the republican manhattan billionaire who has been criticized by some as a racist and a phony.it started on march 2 , 2008 , in the arlington heights neighborhood of los angeles were jas had been walking home , talking with his girlfriend on a cellphone .
he was three doors down from his house when a car pulled up by him .
two hispanic men in the vehicle asked jas which gang he belonged to .
police reports indicate jas did not respond , which frustrated one of the men who pulled out a gun and shot the teen.jamiel , inside the family home , heard the shots and ran outside to find his son , a boy he judged to have been on the right path , bleeding from bullet wounds .
jas later died at the hospital.in the days that followed that incident , shaw tried to piece together the perfect storm of conditions that created this tragedy .
shaw learned the man who had killed his son was an illegal immigrant who had just been released from jail.the incident gained national attention for a short time , prompting former president george w. bush to write a condolence letter .
but it was quickly forgotten , and shaw didn t quite know what to do .
since my son was dead , i pretty much gave up on being happy , shaw said .
he said he gave in to grieving day in and day out .
shaw also admitted a frustration of not being able to express the sorrow he had to others.trump unexpectedly reached out to shaw last year about the murder and asked for a meeting at the beverly hilton hotel in los angeles hotel , which left shaw stunned .
to see somebody , especially a billionaire , come out .
i can t even get a neighborhood politician to come out , that s why it s so surreal to me , shaw said.the two shared an intimate moment shortly after meeting last year .
he told me to my face , he said , i promise you i would never let your son s life be in vain .
to me it felt like the [ future ] president cared about me , an emotional shaw shared.shaw told the washington examiner that he never reached out to the trump campaign about immigration policy , and especially the deportation of violent criminals of the kind who killed his son .
he believes someone on trump s team saw an interview he did on fox news.trump s meeting with shaw and promise to reform immigration laws were a transformative moment for shaw , who was previously a democrat but had switched to independent following the death of his son .
via : washington examiner