democrats are having a tough week .
first their golden boy jon ossoff wasn t able to pull off an upset in the george special election to replace rep. tom price in a red-leaning district , and now tom perez appears to be imploding , as he travels around with the best the democrats have to offer , socialist bernie sanders .
sanders still appears to be wildly popular with the free sh * t crowd that the democrats created after decades of promising voters they would give them something for nothing in exchange for votes.when it comes to pulling the fractured democratic party together , dnc chair tom perez was clearly not the best choice following hillary s blistering loss to president trump .
the day before his interview with joy reid on msnbc tom perez was introduced by the leader of the maine young democrats claire cumming .
the video shows cumming attempting to get the crowd excited by the mere mention of socialist bernie sanders , regardless of why you showed up today , you showed up for a reason .
something compelled you to find the space and time to be here , and i want you to ask yourself what that reason is .
maybe it s because you love a certain senator from vermont , she suggested , while the crowd began to chant bernie !
maybe you came because you re curious about the new dnc chairman and the future of the democratic the boos drowned her out.watch the millennials boo perez as cumming appears to be surprised by their reaction to this name : national review -those jeers served as a stark reminder that there is a lot more to unity than the mere insistence that it exists .
sanders s popularity continues to be a thorn in the democratic establishments side.evidently , perez is working hard to rally the base .
he curses about republicans from the podium ; praises sanders often ; and has so far stuck considerably to the left of the political center .
given the state of the party and the scale of the challenge that it faces an ecumenical approach makes sense .
but the power of anti-establishment sentiment can swiftly overwhelm even the most ostensibly sensible strategies , as tom perez may soon discover to his detriment , and turning him into an asset has proven a difficult balancing act .
during his talk last night , sanders again targeted perceived democratic failures , saying our job is to radically transform the democratic party .
throughout , sanders stuck to his talking points , even touting single-payer health care , which demonstrates the ample leeway perez and the party are providing him on this speaking tour .
watch socialist bernie sanders tell msnbc s chris hayes that he s not a democrat in the midst of promoting democrats on their democratic unity tour .
lol !