for some time now , the united states has been experiencing a rapid decline in gas prices .
it s almost hard to forget when the last time filling up at the tank was a burdensome thing that s because nearly two years has gone by since gas was over $ 3.00 a gallon ( on average across the united states ) .
over the last year or so , gas prices have dropped even further , due to saudia arabia continuing to keep up output , and the iran deal that is expected to glut the global market even more so .
all of this is great news but it looks like the good news will keep on flowing ( pun intended ) according to experts in the industry.the aaa and gasbuddy , two top organizations that follow gasoline prices , say that if refinery capacity stays strong the price of a gallon of gasoline could reach historic lows of $ 1.00 a gallon in some areas a level that hasn t been reached since 1999 .
that would be quite a remarkable event.prices are already low by historical standards and depending on which part of the country you live in , already under $ 2.00 a gallon .
if you look at the map below , you will easily be able to see which parts of the united states already receive the cheapest gas .
there are very few areas colored in dark green ( lower than $ 1.38 a gallon ) .
most of the middle part of the country is either light green ( $ 1.68- $ 1.83 ) , or yellow ( $ 1.83- $ 1.98 ) .
if gas is pushed downward to $ 1.00 a gallon , that s still a huge percentage drop no matter where you live.pic via gas buddygas prices are mostly driven by four things : oil prices , proximity to refineries , refinery capacity and state taxes and levies.we already know that crude oil prices are going to continue to fall .
although , there are a few detractors , there always are .
nevermind that here s what the money managers that run the economy are doing : while 6,346 of them bet on higher prices ( okay fair enough ) 17,517 of them bet on lower prices .
it s not even close .
this is the least bullish investors have been on oil in more than five years , according to the u.s. commodity futures trading commission.all in all , gasoline futures fell 1.83 cents or 1.6 % , to $ 1.12 a gallon the lowest it s been since february 2009 .
and gasoline also fell 14.33 cents a gallon ( 11 % for the week ) which also happens to be the largest weekly loss since september 2009.if the experts are right , $ 1.00 a gallon gasoline may not be that far off .
thanks , obama ! pic via gas buddyfeatured image via white house .