davao , philippines/manila ( reuters ) - philippines president rodrigo duterte has a problem with women , says the woman who has known him longer than perhaps any other : his sister jocellyn .
he s a chauvinist , she told reuters in a recent interview .
when he sees a woman who fights him , it really gets his ire .
then jocellyn ran through a list of duterte s female critics that included his vice president , a prominent senator who is now in jail and the head of the philippines supreme court .
all three have sparred with duterte after denouncing his brutal war on drugs , which has killed thousands of people in the asian nation since he took office in june 2016 .
duterte has joked about rape , insulted the pope and baffled friends and foes with often contradictory public statements .
neither this , nor his profanity-laden reactions to women critics , seem to have dented his popularity among filipinos .
the 72-year-old president is a self-confessed womanizer who once told a large gathering of local officials , i can t imagine life without viagra .
on the campaign trail last year , he joked about the gang rape of an australian missionary who was killed in a prison riot .
speaking to philippine troops in may , he said he would take responsibility for any rape they might commit .
but women s rights advocates also praise him for handing out free contraceptives in his hometown , davao city , where he was mayor for 22 years , and for championing a reproductive health bill opposed by the country s influential catholic church .
in a recent statement , even human rights watch - a fervent critic of the drug war - acknowledged duterte s strong support for legislation aimed at protecting and promoting women .
after nearly 15 months in power , he remains highly popular with men and women alike , according to the latest survey by manila-based pollster social weather stations .
while foreigners frown at duterte s rape jokes , says gina lopez , a former environment secretary in duterte s male-dominated cabinet , filipinos judge him by his actions not his words .
when i see him dealing with women in the cabinet or whatever , he has been very above-board , very decent , she told reuters .
she said this decency also once extended to vice-president leni robredo , who has publicly fallen out with duterte .
she is from an opposition party and was elected separately .
he really liked leni .
they got along and he was always flirting , said lopez .
that s what men do , right ?
in a statement to reuters , the president s office called duterte an advocate of women s rights who had launched a massive campaign against gender bias while mayor of davao .
as president , it added , he had hand-picked the best and brightest women for his cabinet .
three of the country s 25 cabinet secretaries or ministers are women .
duterte spends up to four days a week in his far-flung hometown davao , ruling a nation of 100 million people not from the presidential palace in the capital , manila , but from a modest house shaded by a jackfruit tree .
duterte was mayor of davao for 22 years .
he sleeps until lunchtime , holds cabinet meetings infrequently and sometimes announces major policies without forewarning senior officials , leaving them scrambling to catch up .
duterte s volatility has baffled washington , which has long seen the philippines as a bulwark against chinese expansionism .
he has courted beijing and publicly berated the united states in rambling speeches .
much of duterte s venom is reserved for women who oppose him .
in august , he called agnes callamard , a u.n. special rapporteur on extrajudicial killings , a daughter of a whore after she condemned the police shooting of a teenage drug suspect .
he s a misogynist , said senator leila de lima , who spoke to reuters at a police detention facility in manila .
de lima was arrested in february on drugs charges she says were trumped up as part of a presidential vendetta .
to him , women are inferior , she said .
it s totally insulting to him that a woman would be fighting him .
according to jocellyn duterte , duterte is also fighting with the woman he hopes will cement his political legacy : his daughter sara .
sara duterte reluctantly replaced her father as mayor of davao city in the southern philippines when he became president .
father and daughter barely speak , said jocellyn .
i know in his quiet moments he considers himself a failure as a father because of sara fighting with him , she said .
jocellyn said she had her own problems with her older brother but they now get along .
they have two other brothers .
jocellyn , who refers to the president as the mayor , said duterte still eats the same simple food their mother soledad once cooked : cheap fish simmered in vinegar .
she also traces duterte s authoritarianism to soledad , who punished her children with a horsewhip or made them kneel at an altar for hours .
you can see that in the mayor , says jocellyn .
sometimes people perceive it as arrogance or call it close to being a dictator .
but we grew up in that atmosphere .
their father vicente , also a politician , was often absent , and the young duterte saw the bodyguards , police and soldiers around him as role models , his sister said .
he grew up in a macho culture where wives and daughters were expected to be submissive , jocellyn said .
his daughter sara is anything but .
in 2011 , during her first term as davao s mayor , she was caught on camera punching a local official who angered her .
in 2016 , sara ran as mayor again , but only because she was pressured by her father s supporters , she told reuters .
if it were up to me , i would not have run , she said .
she said she now only saw her father on special occasions , such as birthdays and christmas , but denied they had differences .
he s very busy , she said .
duterte and his daughter have a normal filipino parent-child relationship which has its own share of ups and downs , said the president s office in its statement .
like her father , sara is blunt , down-to-earth and thronged by admirers at public appearances in davao .
she told reuters she wanted to practice law and , once her three-year term as mayor was up , had no wish or intention to continue in politics .
but in a country famous for political dynasties spanning many generations , duterte wants his daughter to preserve what the family has done for the city , said jocellyn .
he is trying to instill in sara that it is our legacy , she said .
maybe she needs more time .