( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump signed an executive order on tuesday allowing the dakota access pipeline to go forward , after months of protests from native american groups and climate activists pushed the obama administration to ask for additional environmental review for the controversial project .
the u.s. army corps of engineers in december turned down the request for an easement for the dakota access pipeline to build under the missouri river .
most of the pipeline has been constructed already , with the short stretch under the missouri river remaining unbuilt .
the following is a timeline of the project : december 2014 energy transfer partners lp applies to the north dakota public service commission to build a 1,172-mile ( 1,885 km ) , 570,000-barrel-per-day pipeline to deliver crude oil from north dakota ’ s bakken shale fields to patoka , illinois , crossing south dakota and iowa , kicking off a year of public hearings in north dakota .
january north dakota regulators approve the pipeline unanimously .
april 29 u.s. army corps of engineers holds a hearing for native americans on the pipeline .
july 25 the u.s. army corps of engineers approves three easements for water crossings for the pipeline at sakakawea , the mississippi river and lake oahe , which is an ancestral site for the standing rock sioux tribe .
july 27 the standing rock sioux tribe sues the army corps of engineers in u.s. district court for the district of columbia , citing violation of multiple federal statutes that authorize the pipeline ’ s construction and operation , and seeks an emergency order to halt construction .
the tribe also alleges the pipeline threatens their environmental and economic well-being and would damage and destroy sites of historic , religious and cultural significance .
the sioux tribe say because the pipeline goes underneath lake oahe , approximately half a mile upstream of the tribe ’ s reservation , leaks from the pipeline would be directly in the tribe ’ s ancestral lands .
sept. 3 private security guards hired by energy transfer partners use attack dogs and mace after violence erupted at a private construction site along the pipeline route .
six people are reportedly bitten by dogs , a scene captured on video and broadcast widely .
sept. 6 brian cladoosby , president of the national congress of american indians , which represents more than 500 tribes , speaks to nearly a dozen of president barack obama ’ s cabinet-level advisers at a sept. 6 meeting of the white house ’ s three-year-old native american affairs council .
cladoosby delivers an impassioned request : stand with native americans who have united with the standing rock sioux tribe and block construction of the dakota access pipeline .
sept. 9 u.s. district judge james boasberg in washington rejects a broad request from native americans to block the project .
but herules that no construction activity on the dakota access may take place between highway 1806 and 20 miles to the east of lake oahe .
construction activity to the west of highway 1806 may proceed .
the tribe appeals the decision .
sept. 9 less than an hour after boasberg ’ s decision , the u.s. justice and interior departments and army makes an unprecedented move and orders a stop to construction near lake oahe until the army corps of engineers reviews its previous decisions and decides if it needs to conduct a fuller environmental and cultural review .
sept. 13 energy transfer partners tells employees in a letter , provided to media , that it is committed to completing the project , citing that the pipeline is 60 percent complete and that it has already spent $ 1.6 billion so far on equipment , materials and the workforce .
oct. 9 the u.s. court of appeals of the district of columbia circuit says an administrative injunction related to the emergency motion of the standing rock tribe would be dissolved , citing that dakota access has rights to construct on private land up to lake oahe .
oct. 11 environmental activists across four states disrupt the flow of millions of barrels of crude from canada into the united states in a rare , coordinate action that targets several key pipelines simultaneously .
the protest group , the climate direct action , say their move is in support of the standing rock sioux tribe .
as a safety precaution , companies operating the pipelines shut off sections of the lines for several hours while they investigate .
oct. 25 government-to-government tribal consultations begin across six regions on how federal government decision-making on infrastructure projects could better include tribal concerns .
nov. 8 energy transfer partners says it has built the pipe to the edge of lake oahe and reiterates its intentions to complete the project .
nov. 9 following the surprise victory of donald trump in the u.s. presidential election , climate activists and the standing rock sioux say they still hope president obama will be able to kill the pipeline definitively .
analysts say the line is more than likely to go through .
nov. 14 the u.s. government , in a joint notice issued by the department of the interior and the army corps of engineers , delays a final decision on permitting .
they say the permit had followed all legal requirements , but more consultation with native american tribes is needed .
nov. 18 energy transfer partners ’ ceo kelcy warren tells the associated press that the pipeline would not be re-routed .
nov. 20 about 400 activists gather on a bridge between the camp protest and the construction path ; law enforcement officers respond by using tear gas and water cannons on them in freezing temperatures .
nov. 26 the u.s. army corps of engineers tells protesters they need to leave the oceti sakowin camp , the primary protest camp located on federal land , by dec. 5 .
they later say they have no plans to enforce this order .
nov. 28 north dakota governor jack dalrymple issues an evacuation order for the oceti sakowin camp , citing harsh weather on the way .
officials the next day tell reuters they plan on blockading the camp so supplies can not get in .
they later back off that plan and say they may just issue fines , but retreat from that idea as well .
nov. 30 a group of u.s. veterans announce they will bring more than 2,000 service members to north dakota to stand as human shields between the protesters and law enforcement .
they begin arriving over the next several days .
dec. 4 the u.s. army corps of engineers denies energy transfer partners ’ request for an easement to run under lake oahe , sparking a celebration amongst protesters .
etp says it will continue to fight for the line .
the incoming trump administration has said it supports dakota access , along with other pipeline projects .
jan. 18 the army corps says it will publish a notice in the federal register stating its intent to prepare an environmental impact statement for the easement at lake oahe .
etp files a motion asking a court to bar the action in an effort to move the pipeline forward .
jan. 24 president trump , who previously owned stock in energy transfer partners , signs an order aimed at moving the pipeline , along with an unrelated pipeline , keystone xl , to go forward .