if the title of this book was white skin privilege you would likely find it in just about every college campus library or school book store .
conversely , it s highly unlikely that you ll find the black skin privilege and the american dream book on any college or high school reading lists .
after all , discrimination is a one-way street and as usual , the left gets to determine who s being discriminated against and who s guilty of discrimination in 2013 , conservative writers david horowitz and john perazzo released a kindle pamphlet titled , black skin privilege and the american dream , and today i want to give you an inside look courtesy frontpage magazine.in the pamphlet , the authors argued that , in their obsessive quest to find evidence of illusory white skin privilege , the left instead winded up creating black skin privilege .
its effects can be seen in the presumption of guilt on the part of innocent whites ( think duke lacrosse team ) on the basis of their skin color , while guilty blacks ( think o.j .
simpson ) are often presumed innocent , the authors wrote.think also of mike brown and ferguson officer darren wilson .
the left turned wilson into a bogeyman of alleged racial terror , while they portrayed brown as an innocent gentle giant .
not surprisingly , the evidence eventually vindicated wilson and proved without a doubt that the real villain had been brown all along .
blacks can commit racist attacks on whites certain that civil rights activists who sift the news obsessively for black victims will either not notice or dismiss such attacks as a form of delayed justice for the historical oppression of black people , the writers added.indeed .
i try to cover as much racial crime as possible , but frankly , too many stories of blacks assaulting whites appear on my feed for me to legitimately address them .
if you want to know more about such crimes , i suggest you follow colin flaherty on youtube : https : //youtu.be/tmsj1wc7mtwhere is an excerpt from the book : the result of such prejudice there is no better word for it is the creation of an optical illusion of deeply embedded , if largely invisible , white racism that creates vast numbers of black victims when the social facts show quite a different situation , the authors added.according to fbi crime data released earlier this year , whites and hispanics are far more likely to be killed by a black person than a black person is to be killed by either a white or hispanic person.alas , these sorts of facts are suppressed ( or shrugged off ) by the media and civil rights activists dedicated to creating a one-sided and propagandistic narrative of race in the united states .
as a result , we live in an age where every black criminal is automatically assumed to be a victim , while every white victim is automatically assumed to be a perpetrator.it s sad , but it s all part of obama s america via : downtrend