thank god hillary never worked in a rape clinic or with women who were victims of sexual abuse one of bill clinton s rape victims , juanita broaddrick tweeted this in january : i was 35 years old when bill clinton , ark .
attorney general raped me and hillary tried to silence me .
i am now 73 .it never goes away .
juanita broaddrick ( @ atensnut ) january 6 , 2016after hillary came out feigning shock over trump s words about women , juanita broaddrick struck back here : hillary calls trump 's remarks `` horrific '' while she lives with and protects a `` rapist '' .
her actions are horrific .
juanita broaddrick ( @ atensnut ) october 8 , 2016and here : how many times must it be said ?
actions speak louder than words .
dt said bad things ! hrc threatened me after bc raped me .
juanita broaddrick ( @ atensnut ) october 8 , 2016it is commonly believed by clinton victims that hillary was behind the siccing of private investigators on the many women who accused her husband of rape , sexual assault or infidelity in the 1990s.hillary clinton revealed her hidden hand when she menacingly issued a clear warning of intimidation to her husband s accusers ( and those who would pursue their charges ) on the nationally broadcast today show in early 1998 in the days after the monica lewinsky scandal broke.the today show interview with matt lauer on january 27 , 1998 is famous for hillary s claim that a vast right-wing conspiracy was behind the allegations of an affair between her husband president clinton and white house intern monica lewinsky .
( transcript source . )
this is the great story here for anybody willing to find it and write about it and explain it is this vast right-wing conspiracy that has been conspiring against my husband since the day he announced for president .
a few journalists have kind of caught on to it and explained it .
but it has not yet been fully revealed to the american public .
and actually , you know , in a bizarre sort of way , this may do it .
later in the interview , hillary bluntly issued her threat : i think we re going to find some other things .
and i think that when all of this is put into context , and we really look at the people involved here , look at their motivations and look at their backgrounds , look at their past behavior , some folks are going to have a lot to answer for .
here s the video video from today show video hosted by c-span.https : //youtu.be/beeiimrcp4evia : gateway pundit