harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s stock market has shed $ 6 billion while its main index has slumped 40 percent since last wednesday when the military seized power leading to the fall of robert mugabe , stock exchange data showed on thursday .
the main industrial index was at 315.12 points compared with 527.27 points on wednesday last week when the military announced its takeover and put former president mugabe under house arrest .
on thursday the index fell 4.4 percent .
the zimbabwe stock exchange had been on a rapid rise in the last two months , driven by investors seeking a safe haven for their investment amid fears of a return to hyperinflation in an economy suffering acute shortages of foreign exchange .
but analysts said the market had entered a period of correction on investor optimism of a change in economic policy in a post-mugabe era .
market capitalization was $ 9 billion , down from $ 15 billion last week , bourse data showed .
on the currency front , black market rates for buying cash dollars softened further on thursday .
buying $ 100 using electronic transfer cost $ 150 , down from $ 180 last week .
some black market traders said they were not buying dollars at all , anticipating further softening of rates .
zimbabwe adopted the u.s. dollar in 2009 , along with britain s pound and the south african rand , to tame inflation that topped out at 500 billion percent .
the market is adjusting back to reality , an analyst at a harare-based asset management company said .
the gains that we had seen were being fueled by an outlook of a return to hyperinflation , continued isolation of zimbabwe by international lenders as well as well as a depressed economic outlook .
an analyst at a local stockbrocking firm said mnangagwa had hit the right notes with his speech on wednesday .
mnangagwa said he wanted to grow the economy , create jobs and for zimbabwe to re-engage the international community as the country has faced isolation since 1999 when it defaulted on its debt with the international monetary fund .
most of zimbabwe s 13 million people remain poor and face currency shortages and sky-high unemployment , something mnangagwa promised to address .