tokyo ( reuters ) - born and raised in japan , three north korean soccer players are expecting to face boos from the home crowd in a match that comes less than two weeks after the latest north korean test missile splashed into the sea of japan .
an byong jun , kim song gi and lee yong jick , who play their club soccer for j league division 2 sides , will represent north korea when they take on japan in tokyo on saturday in the final round of the east asian football championship .
the sporting contest is being held with the world still on edge after the north heightened alarm in south korea , japan and the united states by test firing an intercontinental ballistic missile on nov. 29 that appeared to demonstrate increasing range .
north korea has test-fired missiles over the northern japanese island of hokkaido twice earlier this year and has threatened to sink japan into the sea with a nuclear bomb .
unsurprisingly , kim , a 29-year-old central defender , who hails from hyogo prefecture in western japan and plays his club soccer for machida zelvia in tokyo , expects a hostile reception from japanese supporters .
bring on the booing , said kim .
being booed actually gets me fired up .
i was brought up that way and it doesn t really bother me .
he is eager to avenge a one-nil loss when he first played against japan for north korea six years ago .
kim , an and lee all took up soccer when they were children attending pyongyang-affiliated schools in japan and saw playing as a north korean international as the path to the highest level .
soccer was all i thought about when i was a kid and it was my dream to play for north korea , kim said .
my biggest goal now is to go to the world cup .
japanese nationality is inherited through parents , not place of birth , meaning the three players of north korean descent are considered foreigners and ineligible to play for japan s national team .
the players status as permanent residents in japan is a throwback to the complex and conflicted relationship between the countries .
many koreans were forced to move to japan during its occupation of the korean peninsula before and during world war two , and suffered discrimination .
they and their descendants are now eligible to become naturalized japanese citizens , but many are loath to do so because that would involve giving up their korean nationality and suffering a perceived loss of cultural identity .
there were about 339,000 people with special permanent resident status - mostly those with korean or taiwanese ancestry - living in japan last year , government data shows .
i ve never thought of taking japanese citizenship , said kim .
my soul is 100 percent north korean .
lee , a 26-year-old osaka native playing his first match against japan , said he wasn t sure how the fans would react , noting that the team had expected boos when they played in south korea but received applause instead .
it s complicated , said the kamatamare sanuki defender , who switches to midfield for north korea .
i hope we re treated the same as other teams that play against japan .
to be honest i hope we don t get booed .
regarding political tensions , he said that things might seem bad looking only at the news in japan but that he and his teammates had also seen a good side to north korea on their trips to pyongyang , on school trips and for training camp .
an , who will also be playing his first match against japan , said he was looking forward to playing in his hometown tokyo and expected a good turnout from ethnic korean fans .
he said he had a lot of j league friends on the japanese squad with whom he exchanges text messages and he was looking forward to a good match regardless of international tensions .
soccer s great because teams can play fair and square and those kind of politics don t matter , said the 27-year-old roasso kumamoto forward .
all i want to do is go out and represent my country as a soccer player .
japan and north korea last met in 2015 , at the east asia football championship in china , where north korea prevailed 2-1 .
this year s men s tournament , which also features china and south korea , runs dec. 9-16 .
the women s tournament , comprising the same countries , is being held dec. 8-15 .