rush limbaugh weighed in on what he thinks happened when bill clinton met up with ag loretta lynch for 30 minutes at the phoenix airport .
the big question to ask in all this is what does lynch mean by primarily ?
doesn t she incriminate herself by opening up the possibility that there could have been conversation about the case before her that involves hillary clinton ?
according to u.s. attorney general loretta lynch , her seemingly impromptu meeting with former president bill clinton earlier this week was primarily social , but conservative talker rush limbaugh isn t convinced .
i did see president clinton at the phoenix airport as he was leaving , and he spoke to myself and my husband on the plane , lynch told phoenix news outlet knxv-tv monday .
our conversation was a great deal about his grandchildren .
it was primarily social , about our travels and he mentioned golf he played in phoenix .
radio talk show host and conservative commentator rush limbaugh speaks at an evenining with rush limbaugh event may 3 , 2007 in novi , michigan .
the event was sponsored by wjr radio station as part of their 85th birthday celebration festivities.but limbaugh feels a few too many things lined up for the meeting , which has been criticized given the fact lynch is overseeing an investigation into hillary clinton s private email server , to be a spontaneous social call .
so clinton just happens to be told that loretta lynch is arriving soon when he just happens to be arriving to depart at sky harbor international airport ?
limbaugh asked during his radio show thursday .
[ w ] e are supposed to believe here that bill clinton , a 70-year-old man with a history of heart trouble , played golf in phoenix where it was 108 , 110 degrees ?
limbaugh doesn t seem to buy lynch s recanting of the meeting .
instead , he feels the discussion which the radio personality believes was intended to be clandestine involved bill clinton blackmailing lynch , telling her to drop the email issue all together .
during his program , limbaugh posed another possibility , in which bill clinton praised the attorney general and reminded her he was one of the people that told barack obama to put you in this job , adding that he s been one of her champions for i can t tell you how long .