this is just one we caught crossing the border .
what about the thousands we haven t caught or that we haven t heard about ?
nothing to see here breitbart texas exclusively obtained leaked information on the iraqi man who was apprehended while illegally crossing the u.s.-mexico border into texas on february 12 , 2015.the border patrol agent responsible for interviewing the subject initially expressed concerns that the iraqi was sent by russia , largely due to the iraqi man s history as a military trainer , his speaking several languages , including russian , and his having lived in crimea , according to one of the leaked documents .
breitbart texas was provided with two documents by a federal agent who works under the umbrella of customs and border protection ( cbp ) .
the agent insisted on remaining anonymous.the iraqi man is named ahmed adnan taha , al khafaji .
his date of birth is 6-25-84 .
he has one sister in the u.s. , one in turkey , three brothers in turkey , one in ukraine , one in new york state , and three brothers in iraq , according to the leaked documents.the iraqi told u.s. authorities that he spoke fluent russian and lived in crimea prior to the russian invasion .
he further stated that a ukrainian paid $ 4,000 for him to get to the u.s. , however , the iraqi refused to identify the ukrainian to u.s. authorities.the public statement given by border patrol at the time of the iraqi s apprehension stated , on thursday , february 12 , 2015 , rgv border patrol agents encountered an adult middle eastern male south of pharr , texas .
the subject was taken into custody and transported to the border patrol station for further processing .
the subject was setup for expedited removal back to his country of origin and transferred to the custody of ice/ero .
breitbart texas recently asked the border patrol agency about the specifics in this report and their spokesman for the rio grande valley sector ( rgv ) responded , all record checks were conducted , our federal partners did interview the subject with no derogatory information being found .
it is significant to note that border patrol processing an individual does not mean that immigration and customs enforcement ( ice ) actually deported the individual.breitbart texas provides images of both leaked documents below .
the second document contains copy-and-pasted information from the official report , according to the federal agent who provided the information .
the typos in the report were contained in the original and therefore included .
breitbart texas redacted the tecs id number.via : breitbart news