ankara ( reuters ) - the european union does not share turkey s view that the network of u.s.-based muslim cleric fethullah gulen is a terrorist organization and would need to see substantive evidence to change its stance , the eu s counter-terrorism coordinator said .
the comments by gilles de kerchove are likely to infuriate ankara , which accuses gulen of masterminding a failed military coup last year , in which more than 250 people were killed .
gulen has denied the charge and condemned the coup .
turkey has long accused its nato allies , including the united states and germany , of failing to condemn the abortive putsch strongly enough , saying they appeared more concerned by ankara s ensuing crackdown on suspected supporters of the coup .
as for feto , we don t see it as a terrorist organization , and i don t believe the eu is likely to change its position soon , kerchove said , using the turkish government s acronym for gulen s network .
you need not only circumstantial evidence - like just downloading an app - but concrete substantive data which shows that they were involved ... , he told reuters in an interview cleared for publication on thursday .
turkish authorities have detained some 50,000 people , including teachers , police officers , journalists and u.s. consular staff for alleged links to gulen s network .
some 150,000 people have been sacked or suspended from their jobs .
some have been detained for having downloaded bylock , a messaging app the government says was used by the coup plotters .
others have been detained for having had telephone calls with bylock users .
human rights groups and some eu officials accuse erdogan of using the crackdown to muzzle dissent in turkey , a charge ankara denies .
it says the scale of the clampdown is justified because the gulen network threatens national security .
gulen was once an ally of erdogan and his islamist-rooted ak party and his movement ran schools , banks and media outlets in turkey until the two men had a public falling-out in 2013 .
germany s bnd spy agency has said it is not convinced that gulen was behind the failed coup , in which rogue soldiers used tanks and helicopters to attack turkey s parliament and other key targets .
turkey has also sought , so far unsuccessfully , gulen s extradition from the united states , where the cleric has lived in self-imposed exile since 1999 .
u.s. officials say their courts require sufficient evidence to order his extradition .
as of july , turkey had supplied 84 boxes of documents to the united states for evidence , ankara s envoy to washington has said , although he has acknowledged that more concrete evidence of gulen s direct involvement has remained elusive .
germany , which has sharply criticized the mass arrests in turkey , has refused to extradite people ankara says were involved in the plot or linked to gulen s network .
the decision on extradition is in the hands of all member states , and most of the time the judiciary , the independent judiciary , and they need hard evidence , kerchove said .