frankfurt/berlin ( reuters ) - the trade union powerhouse that won the 35-hour work week for germans more than two decades ago is mobilizing for a new campaign to reduce working hours at annual wage negotiations about to kick off nationwide .
ig metall , germany s biggest union with 2.3 million workers mainly in the car and manufacturing industries , says shorter hours will help shift workers and those who need to care for children or elderly relatives , with wide implications for how german society evolves in the 21st century .
if the union s gambit is successful , economists counting on strong wage rises will be watching to see if there are deflationary effects as domestic consumption overtakes exports as the driver of the euro zone s biggest economy .
the union begins internal discussions at the local level on thursday , just as campaigning in germany s parliamentary election enters its final phase , with issues of work and family high on the agenda .
the timing could have been made to order for a wage round in which our issues will have great support from society , ig metall president joerg hofmann told a union conference in late june , as he launched the initiative .
the value of time and the value of money will carry equal weight , hofmann told journalists last week .
ig metall will release its national list of demands at the end of october .
negotiations with employers begin in november .
buoyed by record employment , a shortage of skilled labor and a strong economy , it is in its strongest bargaining position for years .
employers are rattled .
working time is our number one concern , oliver zander , chief executive of the gesamtmetall umbrella association of employers that mirrors ig metall , told reporters last week .
we need more hours to be worked .
reducing working hours now could be problematic , particularly for small companies , he said , and argued productivity gains were not keeping up with unit labor costs .
we have a very tough wage round ahead of us .
ig metall , whose members work at giants like volkswagen ( vowg_p.de ) and siemens as well as thousands of smaller firms , is trying to wrest back control of working conditions as employers demand ever more flexibility .
according to the plan laid out in june , the union wants to establish that workers can reduce weekly hours to 28 for up to two years with a right to return to full-time work .
in the cases of low-paid workers who need the extra time to care for relatives , employers would help make up the pay shortfall .
a poll of nearly 700,000 workers at its plants earlier this year found that many shift workers in particular were dissatisfied with their influence over working patterns .
one in three of those surveyed worked shifts .
ig metall acknowledges there may have to be a trade-off with the headline pay rise .
where big sums are involved , such as compensation for the shortfall , the employers will certainly want their payback , hofmann told germany s deutschlandfunk radio last week .
bundesbank chief economist jens ulbrich said ig metall s ideas about working time autonomy and partial compensation for reductions were uncharted territory .
it s quite difficult to assess what the implications of the wage round will be on working time arrangements and wage growth , he told reuters .
both the bundesbank and the european central bank are keeping a close eye on the negotiations for any sign that wage growth is picking up , potentially lifting inflation and allowing the ecb to start winding down its massive stimulus program .
despite robust growth across the euro zone , wages have barely risen for years , likely reflecting hidden slack in the labor market - the shortfall between the work people want and the amount available .
this is putting the ecb in a tight spot as it has missed its price growth target for nearly five years .
the bundesbank s latest forecast , for 1.4 percent german inflation in 2018 , assumes actual wage rises of 2.9 percent , up from 2.4 percent in 2017 and 2.5 percent in 2016 .
it s not the first time the german work week has been cut .
a decade ago , germans voluntarily cut their hours to share the available work more equally during the global economic crisis .
but where that was a crisis measure , this could be the beginning of a social trend , experts say .
employers got a hint of the mood this year , when most of the more than 100,000 employees at national rail operator deutsche bahn [ dbn.ul ] were given a choice of more money or more holidays and chose the extra days off .
i do believe the trend will go in the direction of shorter working hours , said anke hassel , academic director of the institute of economic and social research ( wsi ) of the trade union-affiliated hans boeckler foundation .
ig metall is the pioneer .
germans already work fewer than any other nation in the oecd - 1,363 hours a year on average - partly due to large numbers of women working part-time .
jon messenger , working time specialist at the international labour organisation , said the fall in working hours could be seen as a natural evolution of working life , especially in the face of enormous technological change .
that type of working hours reduction is not something i see much of , although i think it would be a good thing , he said .
it seems to me like it would be a very logical response to increasing automation of production , for example .
willem adema , senior economist at the social policy division of the organisation of the economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) , agreed , especially when a reduction was coupled with the right to return to full-time work .
long hours are not necessarily more productive , he said .
ig metall s wage settlement will affect as many as 3.9 million workers , including members at plants not directly covered by the pact , and will have a strong influence on other agreements among the 44.4 million workers throughout germany .
if ig metall goes a step further with working time , it will certainly send out signals in many areas , said thorsten schulten , wage expert at the wsi .
i can well imagine that we will experience this as a broader issue perhaps already in the next wage rounds , and also in future rounds , he said .