of course , we d be okay with excluding three of the justices who didn t go along with the rubber stamping of obama s reckless socialized medicine plan .
while we re at it , it s only fair for barry and his family to be forced to use his signature obamacare insurance plan as well a house republican on thursday proposed forcing the supreme court justices and their staff to enroll in obamacare.rep .
brian babin ( r-texas ) said that his scotuscare act would make all nine justices and their employees join the national healthcare law s exchanges .
as the supreme court continues to ignore the letter of the law , it s important that these six individuals understand the full impact of their decisions on the american people , he said .
that s why i introduced the scotuscare act to require the supreme court and all of its employees to sign up for obamacare , babin said.babin s potential legislation would only let the federal government provide healthcare to the supreme court and its staff via obamacare exchanges .
by eliminating their exemption from obamacare , they will see firsthand what the american people are forced to live with , he added.his move follows the supreme court s ruling thursday morning that upheld the subsidies under obamacare that are provided by the government to offset the cost of buying insurance.the 6-3 decision , authored by chief justice john roberts , said consumers purchasing health insurance from the federal exchange in roughly 34 states could continue to do so.the ruling in king v. burwell has spurred anger on the right , with conservatives questioning the logic of the decision .
they deserve an olympic medal for the legal gymnastics , rep. joe pitts ( r-pa. ) , the chairman of the house energy and commerce health subcommittee , told the hill.roberts argued in his decision that eliminating subsidies would have pulled state healthcare markets into a death spiral .
that chain of effects , he added , was not consistent with obamacare s intent .
the argument that the phrase established by the state would be superfluous if congress meant to extend tax credits to both state and federal exchanges is unpersuasive , he wrote.justice antonin scalia strongly criticized that interpretation in his dissent .
we should start by calling this law scotuscare , he wrote , lambasting roberts for the obamacare decision in 2012 declaring the law s mandate that people buy insurance constitutional.via : the hill