( reuters ) - the world is this generation s oyster .
china s class of 2012 is mostly ambitious and pragmatic .
what do they want out of life ?
for some , it 's a husband .
for others , an apartment in a city .
still others are happy with a stable job , or travel and new experiences .
wang siyue , a product specialist at an internet education company : to be honest , how can i imagine what will happen in the next five years ?
you can make some plans but the world is unpredictable ...
there s a very good saying : the luck of man is in balance .
it s balanced .
if you have good luck in the beginning , you ll have less luck later on .
i believe in fate .
hu ruixin , a computer technician , talked about his dreams when he was in university : i had a 15-year-plan for myself .
for the first five years , i d open an advertising studio .
in the next five years , i d let the studio develop into a company .
with five more years , i d grow the company .
but when i finally graduated from university and went into the world , i found this was hard to realize .
there are too many restrictions and it s difficult , so i gave up .
the most important thing in life is responsibility .
i ve got a child now and since becoming a parent feel that responsibility is really important .
zhang weixuan , an assistant secretary at a software company , who recently managed to get beijing residency - a coveted hukou : my china dream is simple .
i hope to establish myself in a big city .
last year i got my beijing hukou , i successfully got it , and now i want to get married here and start my own family .
in my work field i hope to do well and in two years time , or even now , buy a small apartment .
then i can establish myself .
i think that d be pretty good .
qi jing , a township leader for the communist party youth league , who grew up in wuhan : i think now my dilemma is when you reach a certain age you have less and less opportunities .
especially as a woman , your choices at work , your choices between work and family , you have to face them .
then you ll give up a lot of things .
maybe there s something you wanted to do when you were young and thought why not give it a shot ?
but what i feel now is i should slowly give them up , and focus on stability .