chicago ( reuters ) - a young singaporean blogger who says he was persecuted for his political opinions in the southeast asian country was released on tuesday from u.s. detention in chicago after a federal immigration panel ruled in his favor .
the federal board of immigration appeals upheld a march decision by a chicago immigration judge granting asylum to amos yee , 18 , who had been jailed twice in singapore for social media postings critical of government officials , his attorneys said on tuesday .
now i can criticize the singapore government without being sent to prison , yee told reuters after his release .
yee s trials in singapore were closely watched by rights groups and the united nations , and fueled debate in singapore over censorship , the limits of free speech and political correctness .
yee had been in u.s. immigration detention since december 2016 when he arrived seeking asylum , according to yee s attorney sandra grossman .
the court made its ruling on sept. 21 , but grossman said she only learned of the outcome this week .
the u.s. department of homeland security , which opposed yee s asylum application and argued the singapore government had legitimately prosecuted him , could not be immediately reached .
the department could appeal the ruling to a circuit court but grossman said she believed it was unlikely .
chicago immigration judge samuel cole found yee s prosecution , detention and treatment by singapore authorities constitute ( s ) persecution on account of yee s political opinions .
officials at singapore s embassy in washington could not be immediately reached for comment tuesday .
in march , the country s ministry of home affairs issued a statement in which it quoted yee s remarks against muslims and christians and noted yee had pleaded guilty to charges against him .
in september last year , yee pleaded guilty to six charges of deliberately posting comments on the internet - in videos , blog posts and a picture - that were critical of christianity and islam .
he was sentenced to six weeks in jail .
in 2015 , yee was convicted on charges of harassment and insulting a religious group over comments he made about former premier lee kuan yew and christians soon after lee s death .
his sentence at the time amounted to four weeks in jail .
the case now goes back to a chicago immigration court to complete any security investigations or exams as part of the asylum process .