speaking to bbc newsnight in a rare interview , justice ginsburg reiterated the importance of the free press .
i read the washington post and the new york times every day , and i think that the reporters are trying to tell the public the way things are , she said.justice ginsburg was nominated by bill clinton and is regarded as a liberal.justice ginsburg was careful to avoid commenting directly on donald trump s presidency.before the election , in july 2016 , justice ginsburg criticised donald trump calling him a faker .
she later said she regretted making the comments.watch : think of what the press has done in the united states , she said citing the watergate scandal .
that story might never have come out if we didn t have the free press that we do .
asked about the rise of the so-called post truth world , justice ginsburg said : i am optimistic in the long run .
a great man once said that the true symbol of the united states is not the bald eagle .
it is the pendulum .
and when the pendulum swings too far in one direction it will go back .
some terrible things have happened in the united states but one can only hope that we learn from those bad things .
justice ginsburg said she was encouraged by the women s march , which saw millions in the us and around the world take part in anti-trump protests .
i ve never seen such a demonstration both the numbers and the rapport of the people in that crowd .
there was no violence , it was orderly .
so yes , we are not experiencing the best times but there is there is reason to hope that that we will see a better day .
justice ginsburg has been on the supreme court since 1993 and at 83 years-old is the oldest serving member.asked how much longer she would stay in post , she said : at my age you have to take it year by year .
i know i m ok. what will be next year ?
she added : i m hopeful however , because my most senior colleague the one who most recently retired , justice john paul stevens , stepped down at age 90 .
so i have a way to go .
bbc