seoul ( reuters ) - japan said on wednesday any attempt by south korea to revise a 2015 deal meant to have resolved a row over comfort women forced to work in japan s wartime brothels would make relations unmanageable after seoul said the agreement had failed .
the two u.s. allies , which share a bitter history including japanese colonizations , are key to international efforts to rein in north korea s nuclear and missile programs that it pursues in defiance of u.n. security council resolutions .
south korean foreign minister kang kyung-wha apologized for the controversial deal on wednesday , as a panel investigating the negotiations leading up to the agreement unveiled its results .
the investigation concluded that the dispute over the comfort women , a japanese euphemism for the thousands of girls and women , many of them korean , forced to work in wartime brothels , could not be fundamentally resolved because the victims demand for legal compensation had not been met .
south korea wants japan to take legal responsibility and provide due compensation .
japanese foreign minister taro kono said the 2015 settlement , which includes a 1 billion yen ( $ 8.8 million ) fund to help the victims , resulted from legitimate negotiations , warning any amendment may complicate relations .
if ( south korea ) tries to revise the agreement that is already being implemented , that would make japan s ties with south korea unmanageable and it would be unacceptable , kono said in a statement .
kang apologized for giving wounds of the heart to the victims , their families , civil society that support them and all other people because the agreement failed to sufficiently reflect a victim-oriented approach , which is the universal standard in resolving human rights issues .
under the deal , endorsed by south korean president moon jae-in s predecessor and japanese prime minister shinzo abe , japan apologized to former comfort women and provided the fund to help them .
they agreed the issue would be irreversibly resolved if both fulfilled their obligations .
tokyo says the matter of compensation for the women was settled under a 1965 treaty .
it says that in 2015 , it agreed to provide the funds to help them heal psychological wounds .
the south korean government will review the result of the investigation and translate it into policy after consulting victims and civic groups that support them , kang said .
the comfort women issue has been a regular cause for contention between japan and neighbors china and north and south korea since the war .
japan colonized the korean peninsula between 1910 and 1945 and occupied parts of china before and after the war .
( the moon government ) has said it will seek a two-track policy by separately dealing with the comfort women issue and the relationship in the face of north korea s threats , but japan may not agree with that , lee sung-hwan , a professor of japanese studies in keimyung university in south korea , told reuters .
japan wants south korea to remove statues near the japanese embassy in seoul and the japanese consulate in busan city commemorating korean comfort women .
seoul says the memorials were erected by civic groups and therefore out of its reach .
according to the investigation , however , the sides struck a separate , secret deal in which south korea promised to persuade the groups to relocate the statues , provide no support for their overseas statue-raising campaign and refrain from calling the women sex slaves on the world stage .
in 2014 , the u.n. human rights committee requested tokyo to clarify the comfort women euphemism , with an independent expert on the panel calling for it to be replaced with enforced sex slaves .
such an issue of universal value and historical awareness as that of comfort women can not be resolved through short-term diplomatic negotiations and a political bargain , said oh tai-kyu , a former journalist who led the investigation .
andrew horvat , a visiting professor at josai international university in japan , said that the pact was flawed from the beginning because it failed to produce real reconciliation .
the agreement was not reconciliation , but an agreement not to talk about it anymore , horvat said .