kabul ( reuters ) - a suicide bomber blew himself up at the entrance to a shi ite muslim mosque in kabul as other attackers stormed the building , killing at least 30 people including worshippers gathering for friday prayers , officials said .
islamic state , which has launched several attacks against minority shi ite targets in afghanistan , claimed responsibility , the jihadist group s news agency said .
the assault sparked chaos as worshippers fled and others frantically searched for missing family members .
the attackers are slaughtering people like sheep but there s no one to go and rescue them , said murtaza , a young boy whose parents were trapped inside as the attack unfolded .
a lot of people are on the ground and no one is trying to rescue them .
by friday evening police said they had secured the mosque in the khair khana area of the capital , and all three attackers were dead .
witnesses said they had thrown grenades , and police officials said a suicide bomber detonated himself at the gate .
a second suicide bomber detonated among a group of women in the mosque , an official said .
security sources put the overall toll at 30 people killed and dozens wounded .
at least 10 civilians were killed , including women and children , while another 30 were wounded , ministry of interior spokesman najib danish said earlier in the day .
at least three policemen were also killed and eight wounded , he said .
police said they rescued more than 100 worshippers .
at least 15 of the wounded were taken to city hospitals , said ismail kawosi , a spokesman for the ministry of public health .
one witness , sayed pacha , said four attackers had entered the mosque .
at first a suicide bomber opened fire and martyred two security guards at the entrance of the mosque and then they entered inside , he told reuters .
human rights activists condemned the attack , the latest in a campaign of sectarian violence .
insurgents who carry out atrocities against a specific ethnic or religious community are committing war crimes and possibly crimes against humanity , patricia gossman , a senior researcher for human rights watch , said in a statement .