washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama cut short the prison terms of 214 convicts on wednesday , the largest number of commutations a u.s. leader has granted in single day since at least 1900 , the white house said .
obama has now granted a total of 562 commutations during his presidency , more than the number by the past nine presidents combined , it said .
in wednesday ’ s batch , 67 convicts were serving life sentences .
the convicts were serving time for crimes including possession of crack cocaine and methamphetamine , with intent to distribute .
some were imprisoned on charges of gun possession .
one of the convicts , james wright of baltimore , maryland , was serving a 20 year sentence that began in 2006 for possession of crack with intent to distribute .
he will be released in december .
obama has worked to reform the u.s. criminal justice system and reduce the number of people serving long sentences for nonviolent drug offences .
it is a rare issue on which obama gets support from republican lawmakers .
for years crack offenders faced stiffer penalties than powder cocaine offenders , even though the substances are similar at the molecular level .
critics have said the disparity has unfairly harmed minority and poor communities .
in 2014 , obama announced the most ambitious clemency program in 40 years , inviting thousands of drug offenders and other convicts to seek early release .
but the program has struggled under a flood of unprocessed cases .
“ our work is far from finished , ” white house counsel neil eggleston said about the commutations .
eggleston urged congress to take action .
“ while we continue to work to act on as many clemency applications as possible , only legislation can bring about lasting change to the federal system , ” he said .
the program automatically expires when obama leaves office next january and it is uncertain whether the next president would continue with a similar plan .
donald trump , the republican candidate in the nov. 8 election , has championed “ law and order ” in his campaign .
democrat hillary clinton has called for criminal justice reform .