washington ( reuters ) - legislation that would grant u.s. privacy rights to europeans is being delayed in the u.s. senate , which may complicate negotiations over a broader trans-atlantic data transfer pact that faces a january deadline for completion , sources said on wednesday .
the judicial redress act , which would allow citizens of european allied countries to sue over data privacy in the united states , is “ likely to be held ” from a scheduled vote on thursday in the senate judiciary committee , a panel aide said .
passage of the legislation is viewed as an important step toward securing a new “ safe harbor ” framework after the previous one was struck down by a top european union court last year amid concerns about u.s. surveillance .
more than 4,000 firms , including tech behemoths such as google and ibm , have been relying on the 15-year-old safe harbor framework to freely transfer data between the united states and europe , which has far stricter rules on the privacy of personal information .
but that deal was ruled invalid last october by the court of justice of the european union , which cited revelations about u.s. mass surveillance by former national security agency contractor edward snowden .
european union data protection authorities have given brussels and washington until the end of january to strike a new safe harbor agreement for transferring personal data .
industry executives are growing increasingly alarmed that the new safe harbor agreement will not be completed in time .
the information technology industry council , a washington-based trade organization that represents apple , microsoft and other major tech companies , sent some of its executives to europe on wednesday to press for a quick resolution .
a spokesman for the organization , which warned of “ enormous ” consequences in a letter this week to president barack obama and european commission president jean-claude juncker if a pact is not forged soon , said its leaders are meeting with government and data protection authorities in several cities , including dublin , amsterdam , berlin and london , ahead of the deadline .
eu privacy regulators are due to meet on feb. 2 to decide if they should begin enforcement action against companies if they determine all transfer mechanisms violate eu law and there is no new framework in place .