please understand that our government is unable to know the exact number of somalis we re taken in through all the different ways the government imports them .
the number above does not include all the somalis who got in to the us through other means including the diversity visa lottery ( 50k admitted in the name of diversity ) , those who received student visas and disappeared into the american woodwork , are here protected by temporary protected status , or who came across one of our borders and applied for asylum ( or simply disappeared ) over the last 3 decades.and , in order for there to be only 129,000 people of somali ancestry here it would require us to believe some who came to the us left the country , that a whole heck of a lot of them died while they weren t having babies for nearly 35 years !
it is nuts ! when the government does census counts do they rely completely on who is willing to answer surveys , or do they make some attempt to look at government-held numbers about those who entered the country ?
apparently they rely on somalis willing to tell them something ! in addition to the 136,376 through fy16 , we have admitted 4,478 in the last 4 months and 19 days.and , we pick up somalis all over the world , and i can assure you that vetting the wandering somalis is impossible.here is where that 4,478 were placed since october 1 , 2016 ( according to wrapsnet ) : please check out wrapsnet if you want to dig into your state or any other numbers .
it s a great resource !
the top five states welcoming somalis since october 1 , 2016 are minnesota ( 609 ) , new york ( 397 ) , ohio ( 306 ) , kentucky ( 283 ) and arizona ( 276 ) .
virtually all somalis are muslims .
where are the congressmen from these top five states ?
rand paul , john mccain and others have been silent on the effort for the un to push somalis into our towns !
and , of all the ethnic groups entering the us right now , somalis ( i believe ) lead the pack in the number of terrorist attacks or attempted terrorist attacks , or who have been arrested and convicted of helping to support jihadists in some form or another.frankly , there is absolutely no reason for the us to take in more somalis !
the un is pushing them on us ! read more : rrw