on april 3 , 2017 , brooklyn-born sarsour , daughter of palestinian immigrants , shared the dais sunday another darling of the feminist resistance , rasmea odeh convicted in israel of killing two hebrew university students in a 1969 terrorist attack and of planning an attack on the british consulate .
after her release , odeh was able to immigrate to the united states by hiding her crime .
she s now being deported to jordan.it was a curious embrace of terrorism and anti-semitism from a recipient of a $ 500,000 taxpayer grant from mayor de blasio , as sarsour s group , the arab american association of new york , was last year .
sarsour , in fact , has been an important ally of de blasio s since his election a role she s sure to reprise in the mayor s bid for a second term.sarsour said last month feminism is about the rights of all women .
yet in the same interview , when asked whether there s room for people who support the state of israel in the women s movement , she said : there can t be in feminism .
apparently , sarsour doesn t believe all women deserve equal rights israeli and israel-supporting women are an exception .
and , by her logic , since she isn t for the rights of all women , she isn t a feminist .
nypthe daily caller reported that sarsour spoke at the 54th annual convention of the islamic society of north america ( isna ) last week and that she said she was not advocating for a violent form of jihad .
a word of truth in front of a tyrant ruler or leader , that is the best form of jihad , she said , quoting the islamic prophet muhammad .
i hope , that when we stand up to those who oppress our communities , that allah accepts from us that as a form of jihad , that we are struggling against tyrants and rulers not only abroad in the middle east or the other side of the world , but here in these united states of america where you have fascists and white supremacists and islamophobes reining in the white house , said sarsour , who was named a champion of change by the obama administration in 2012.the activist , who helped organize the women s march , spent much of her 22-minute speech attacking trump .
when i wake up every morning and remember who is sitting in the white house , i am outraged , she said at one point.at the beginning of her speech , sarsour thanked siraj wahaaj , a brooklyn-based cleric who was named an unindicted co-conspirator in the first world trade center bombing.isna , the group hosting sarsour , was named an unindicted co-conspirator in the holy land foundation terror financing case .
the holy land foundation helped funnel money to the terror group hamas.sarsour recently met a former hamas operative named salah sarsour .
it is unclear if the two are related , though the daily caller reported in january that the pair posed for a photograph on the sidelines of a convention held in chicago in december .
sarsour has also come under fire for some of her past comments about other female activists .
in 2011 , she posted a tweet saying that activists ayaan hirsi ali and brigitte gabriel , both critics of islam , should not be allowed to have vaginas .
brigitte gabriel = ayaan hirsi ali .
she s asking 4 an a $ $ whippin .
i wish i could take their vaginas away- they don t deserve to be women , she wrote at the time.in her isna speech , sarsour suggested that muslims in america should be wary of assimilation if it comes at the price of sacrificing their identity .
our number one and top priority is to protect and defend our community .
it is not to assimilate and to please any other people in authority .
and our top priority is to please allah , and only allah , she said .