21st century wire says it appears that putin has had enough with being accused of tampering with the us election process this year .
the russian president s spokesman , dmitry peskov , pointed out that it was indecent of the us to accuse russia of tampering with its election .
remember : on thursday evening cnn reported that barack obama vowed to retaliate against russia for the hack that has not been verified by any independent sources nor has it provided a shred of evidence to support the claim tyler durden zero hedgeputin has had enough of the relentless barrage of us accusations that he , personally , hacked the us presidential election .
the russian president s spokesman , dmitry peskov , said on friday that the us must either stop accusing russia of meddling in its elections or prove it .
peskov said it was indecent of the united states to groundlessly accuse russia of intervention in its elections .
you need to either stop talking about it , or finally show some kind of proof .
otherwise it just looks very indecent , peskov told reporters in tokyo where putin is meeting with japan pm abe , responding to the latest accusations that russia was responsible for hacker attacks.peskov also warned that obama s threat to retaliate to the alleged russian hack is against both american and international law , hinting at open-ended escalation should obama take the podium today at 2:15pm to officially launch cyberwar against russia.previously , on thursday , peskov told the ap the report was laughable nonsense , while russian foreign ministry spox maria zakharova accused western media of being a shill and a mouthpiece of various power groups , and added that it s not the general public who s being manipulated , zakharova said .
the general public nowadays can distinguish the truth .
it s the mass media that is manipulating themselves .
meanwhile , on friday sergei lavrov , russia s foreign minister told state television network , russia 24 , he was dumbstruck by the nbc report which alleges that russian president vladimir putin was personally involved in an election hack.the report cited u.s. intelligence officials that now believe with a high level of confidence that putin became personally involved in a secret campaign to influence the outcome of the u.s. presidential election .
i think this is just silly , and the futility of the attempt to convince somebody of this is absolutely obvious , lavrov added , according to the news outlet.as a reminder , last night obama vowed retaliatory action against russia for its meddling in the us presidential election last month .
i think there is no doubt that when any foreign government tries to impact the integrity of our elections that we need to take action and we will at a time and place of our own choosing , obama told national public radio.us intelligence agencies in october pinned blame on russia for election-related hacking .
at the time , the white house vowed a proportional response to the cyberactivity , though declined to preview what that response might entail .
meanwhile , both president-elect donald trump , the fbi , and the odni have dismissed the cia s intelligence community s assessment , for the the same reason putin finally lashed out at obama : there is no proof.that , however , has never stopped the us from escalating a geopolitical conflict to the point of war , or beyond , so pay close attention to what obama says this afternoon.according to an nbc report , a team of analysts at eurasia group said in a note on friday that they believe the outgoing administration is likely to take action which could result in a significant barrier for trump s team once he takes office in january .
it is unlikely that u.s. intelligence reports will change trump s intention to initiate a rapprochement with moscow , but the congressional response following its own investigations could obstruct the new administration s effort , eurasia group analysts added.continue the story at zero hedgeread more msm lies at : 21st century wire msm watch files