seoul ( reuters ) - a north korean court sentenced two south korean journalists and their publishers to death for seriously insulting the dignity of the country by reviewing and interviewing the british authors of a book about life in the north , its state media said on thursday .
north korea has previously issued harshly worded accusations against south korean entities and individuals for allegedly violating its dignity , by slandering its leadership and its political system .
the book in english titled north korea confidential was authored by james pearson , a seoul-based correspondent for reuters , and daniel tudor , former correspondent in south korea for the economist magazine .
the book , based on interviews with north korean defectors , diplomats and traders , depicts a growing market economy where ordinary north koreans enjoy access to south korea music and tv dramas , fashion and smuggled chinese and american films .
pearson wrote the book , published in 2015 , before joining reuters .
the korean-language edition , published earlier this month with the title translated as capitalist republic of korea , was reviewed by south korea s dong-a ilbo and chosun ilbo newspapers .
a spokesman for the north s central court said in a statement carried by the country s official kcna news agency that the book viciously slandered the reality of the dprk , the initials for north korea s official name of the democratic people s republic of korea .
the book painted life in the country as increasingly capitalistic where money can buy power and influence , the spokesman said .
the south korean journalists who reviewed the book committed a hideous crime of seriously insulting the dignity of the dprk with the use of dishonest contents carried by north korea confidential , the court spokesman said .
the central court has ordered the execution of the journalists , son hyo-rim of the dong-a ilbo and yang ji-ho of the chosun ilbo , and the publishers of the newspapers .
it also demanded the south korean government investigate their crimes and punish them , the state media said .
the court statement did not make any mention of punishment for the book s authors .
a dong-a ilbo representative said the newspaper declined to comment and its reporter son did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
chosun ilbo reporter yang declined to comment while a newspaper representative could not be immediately reached for comment .
tudor , the co-author of the book , declined to comment .
a reuters spokeswoman declined to comment .
dong-a ilbo , chosun ilbo and other conservative media in south korea have so far committed smear campaign against the dprk nonstop , kcna quoted the court as saying .
the criminals hold no right to appeal and the execution will be carried out any moment and at any place without going through any additional procedures .