washington ( reuters ) - u.s. defense secretary ashton carter has decided not to impose further punishment on david petraeus , a former u.s. military commander and cia director who admitted sharing classified information with his mistress , according to a letter seen by reuters .
the short letter was sent by stephen hedger , the assistant secretary of defense for legislative affairs , and the decision is in line with an army review .
petraeus resigned as head of the cia in 2012 after it was revealed that he was having an affair with his biographer , army reserve officer paula broadwell .
when he pleaded guilty to mishandling classified information , a court document signed by petraeus and prosecutors said that in 2011 , petraeus illegally gave broadwell access to official binders .
in april , the retired four-star general was sentenced to two years of probation and fined $ 100,000 but was spared prison time after pleading guilty to mishandling classified information .
the pentagon could have sought to further reprimand petraeus under military law .
hedger ’ s letter was addressed to senate armed service committee chairman senator john mccain and senator jack reed , who had recently asked carter not to take further action .
the pentagon declined to comment on the letter .
petraeus , a counter-insurgency expert with a princeton university doctorate , served as the top u.s. commander in the wars in iraq and afghanistan and was once considered a possible vice presidential or presidential candidate .
known as “ black books , ” the binders that petraeus shared with broadwell contained classified information including identities of covert officers , code word information , war strategy , intelligence capabilities , diplomatic talks and information from high-level white house national security council meetings , according to court records .
petraeus now serves as chairman of the private equity firm kohlberg kravis roberts ’ captive economic and geopolitical think tank , the kkr global institute , according to its website .