san juan ( reuters ) - puerto rico ’ s governor on wednesday signed an emergency bill allowing the government to halt payments on its debt , throwing into doubt broader restructuring plans to stave off a financial collapse of the u.s. territory .
the measure , which earlier passed puerto rico ’ s legislature , lets governor alejandro garcia padilla declare a moratorium on any debt payment he deems necessary and could alter the structure of the government development bank ( gdb ) , the island ’ s primary fiscal agent .
“ this legislation provides us with the tools to address the highest priority of needs — providing essential services to our people — without fear of retribution , ” garcia padilla said in a statement .
puerto rico , burdened by a $ 70 billion debt load it says it can not pay , a 45 percent poverty rate and shrinking population , faces economic collapse without measures that either change its laws or involve an agreement with creditors .
wednesday ’ s emergency law was rushed into existence as the gdb faces possible default on a $ 422 million debt payment due on may 1 .
garcia padilla had said he would consider a debt moratorium ahead of that deadline .
gdb and its creditors are trying to work out a consensual restructuring .
but the new law could spark “ a new era of litigation ” from creditors , said daniel hanson , an analyst with height securities .
“ we believe the overwhelming majority of puerto rican issuers have violated their creditors ’ rights , ” he said in a wednesday note .
some gdb creditors on monday sued to prevent a run on the bank , asking a federal court to block depositors from taking out their money while talks continue .
the passage of the law drew a quick rebuke from some creditors .
stephen spencer , a financial adviser to bondholders including oppenheimerfunds and franklin advisers , said it might violate the terms of a prior restructuring deal at prepa , the island ’ s power utility .
that deal , under which creditors agreed to take 15 percent repayment cuts , “ should be explicitly preserved , rather than being cast into a state of uncertainty , ” spencer said in a statement .
he said the law could “ close the door to anyone extending new credit to puerto rico , seriously impeding its ability to meet citizens ’ needs. ” in a statement on wednesday night , prepa executive director javier quintana mendez said the agreement “ remains in place and should not be negatively affected by the new law. ” “ we continue working in collaboration with our creditors , focused on the implementation of our recovery plan , ” quintana said .
a second group of creditors holding debt issued by puerto rico ’ s sales tax authority , cofina , expressed support for the debt freeze bill , citing delays in legislative efforts by federal lawmakers in washington to address puerto rico ’ s crisis .
“ with entrenched private institutions obstructing the legislative process in washington , it is understandable that puerto rican leaders are taking steps to equip the island with the tools it needs , ” susheel kirpalani , counsel to the cofina senior bondholders group at law firm quinn emanuel , said .
a rescue bill being drafted by the u.s. house of representatives natural resources committee so far uses u.s. bankruptcy rules as guidance for a solution , something many creditors oppose .
hearings are expected next week in washington .
relations between puerto rico and its creditors are growing tenser as major debt payments in may and july loom .
on tuesday , some of puerto rico ’ s general obligation bondholders criticized the debt moratorium law , at the time still being debated by lawmakers , saying puerto rico was ignoring their offer to restructure debt by extending principal payments .
garcia padilla appeared to fire back on wednesday , saying “ our creditors have engaged in public relations efforts that contain falsehoods about their proposed ‘ fixes ’ – all of which are aimed at misinforming the public and dissuading congress from doing what is right for our 3.5 million american citizens. ” puerto rico ’ s benchmark 2035 go bond 74514le86=msrb is down sharply since talk of a debt moratorium bill surfaced earlier this week .
on wednesday the bond fell 2.45 points in price to bid 63.299 , yielding 13.33 percent , according to municipal securities rulemaking board data .
“ puerto rico ’ s problems stopped being legal problems and they ’ ve started being a math problem ... at the end of the day puerto rico can ’ t pay , ” said nicholas venditti , portfolio manager at thornburg investment management in santa fe , speaking at a luncheon for reporters in new york .