milwaukee ( reuters ) - republican ted cruz easily won the wisconsin presidential primary on tuesday , dealing a blow to front-runner donald trump ’ s hopes of amassing enough delegates for the party ’ s nomination and boosting chances of a rare contested convention .
cruz ’ s double-digit win over trump was a breakthrough for republican party forces battling to block the controversial new york billionaire , and it raised the prospect of a prolonged nomination fight that could last to the july convention in cleveland , ohio .
democratic presidential contender bernie sanders also won in wisconsin , gaining momentum in his fight against front-runner hillary clinton and trimming her commanding lead in delegates .
trump entered the night with 737 convention delegates to cruz ’ s 481 , leaving him 500 delegates short of the 1,237 needed to become the party ’ s nominee in the nov. 8 election .
cruz said the result in wisconsin showed the party was beginning to rally behind him , but he acknowledged the growing possibility that the fight could go all the way to the convention .
“ either before cleveland , or at the convention in cleveland , together we will win a majority of the delegates and together we will beat hillary clinton in november , ” cruz told cheering supporters in milwaukee .
“ we ’ re winning because we ’ re uniting the republican party. ” cruz , a conservative u.s. senator from texas , was aided in wisconsin by republican governor scott walker , who dropped his own presidential bid in september , and by a barrage of ads from super pacs - independent funding groups - backed by party establishment figures worried that trump will lead republicans to a broad defeat in november .
trump ’ s campaign released a blistering statement saying cruz had been propped up “ by countless millions of dollars of false advertising ” from anti-trump super pacs .
“ ted cruz is worse than a puppet - he is a trojan horse , being used by the party bosses attempting to steal the nomination from mr. trump , ” the trump campaign statement said .
the wisconsin primary capped a difficult week for trump , who was forced to backtrack after saying women who have abortions should face punishment if the procedure is outlawed , and who voiced support for his campaign manager after he was charged with misdemeanor assault for grabbing a reporter .
a new reuters/ipsos poll on tuesday showed cruz about even with trump nationally , with cruz ’ s recent gains the first time since november that a trump rival has threatened his standing at the head of the republican pack .
the poll of 568 republicans , taken between april 1-5 , showed cruz winning the support of 35 percent of republicans to trump ’ s 39 percent .
cruz and trump were also briefly about even early last week .
in the democratic race , the win for sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont , is his sixth in the last seven contests for the nomination .
sanders said his message of breaking up big banks , reining in wall street and reducing income inequality was bringing new and young voters into the process .
“ what we have been seeing throughout this campaign is extraordinary voter turnout in state after state , ” sanders said at a rally in laramie , wyoming .
clinton , who did not appear in public on tuesday night , tweeted her congratulations to sanders .
“ congrats to @ berniesanders on winning wisconsin , ” clinton said on twitter .
“ to all the voters and volunteers who poured your hearts into this campaign : forward !
-h. ” sanders still faces a difficult task overtaking clinton as the race moves to new york on april 19 and to five other eastern states on april 26 .
heading into tuesday , clinton led sanders by 263 pledged delegates in the race for the 2,383 needed to be nominated at the party ’ s july convention in philadelphia .
she also has a big lead in superdelegates , who are party leaders free to back any candidate .
sanders needs to win up to two-thirds of the remaining delegates to catch clinton , who will keep accumulating delegates even when she loses under a democratic party system that awards them proportionally in all states .
sanders needs to rack up big winning margins over clinton in the remaining states to close the gap .
he has vowed to stay in the race until the convention , and his campaign says superdelegates could begin to shift their support to him if they see he has popular support .