paris ( reuters ) - lebanon s saad al-hariri can only prove he is free by returning home from saudi arabia where he went to announce his resignation as prime minister , lebanon s foreign minister said on tuesday .
hariri s abrupt resignation on nov. 4 threw lebanon into crisis and put it center stage in a power struggle between sunni muslim saudi arabia and shi ite iran , whose ally hezbollah is powerful in lebanese politics .
hariri said on tuesday he would return to lebanon within two days .
we hope to resolve this with the quick and immediate return of prime minister hariri to his country ... where he has the right to do what he wants , foreign minister gebran bassil said after meeting french president emmanuel macron in paris .
the only thing that proves he is free is that he returns .
right now he is in a situation that is ambiguous and not normal .
we want to return to a normal situation , he told reporters after the talks about how to end the crisis .
france is a permanent member of the u.n. security council and lebanon s former colonial power .
it is also penholder on lebanon for potential resolutions .
there has been some talk that beirut could go to the u.n. if hariri did not return this week .
the president ( michel aoun ) spoke of a timeframe of one week from when this diplomatic campaign started to try to find a solution otherwise we would have to go to international laws , he said .
french officials say there is no u.n. action in the works at the moment .
lebanese politicians and bankers say saudi arabia intends to do to their country what it did to qatar - corral arab allies into enforcing an economic blockade unless its demands are met .
bassil said any saudi sanctions on his country would hurt syrian refugees and destabilize the region .
any ( saudi ) measures would not only be targeting lebanon and its stability , this would be a punishment for the region because any instability in lebanon would cause instability in the region , he said .
the first to be affected in this would be syrians in lebanon , he said , adding that sanctions could make it harder for lebanese population to absorb the syrian refugees in their midst .
lebanon hosts some 1.5 million syrian refugees that have fled the neighboring civil war .
in the first such statement by a french official , prime minister edouard philippe on tuesday called on hariri to return to lebanon .
foreign minister jean-yves le drian is due in the saudi capital riyadh on wednesday to discuss the crisis and is expected to meet hariri .