beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon believes saad al-hariri is being held in saudi arabia , from where he resigned as lebanese prime minister , two top government officials in beirut said , amid a deepening crisis pushing lebanon onto the frontlines of a power struggle between saudi arabia and iran .
a third source , a senior politician close to saudi-allied hariri , said saudi arabia had ordered him to resign and put him under house arrest .
a fourth source familiar with the situation said saudi arabia was controlling and limiting his movement .
in a televised statement indicating deep concern at hariri s situation , his future movement political party said his return home was necessary to uphold the lebanese system , describing him as prime minister and a national leader .
hariri s resignation last saturday , read out on television from saudi arabia , came as a shock even to his aides and further embroiled beirut in a regional contest between riyadh and tehran .
hariri s exit fueled wide speculation that the sunni muslim politician , long an ally of riyadh , was coerced into stepping down by saudi arabia as it seeks to hit back against iran and its lebanese shi ite ally , hezbollah .
in his resignation speech , hariri denounced iran and hezbollah for sowing strife in arab states and said he feared assassination .
his father , a former prime minister , was killed by a bomb in 2005 .
saudi arabia has denied reports he is under house arrest .
but hariri has issued no statements himself to that effect , and has not denied that his movements are being restricted .
keeping hariri with restricted freedom in riyadh is an attack on lebanese sovereignty .
our dignity is his dignity .
we will work with ( foreign ) states to return him to beirut , said the senior lebanese official , speaking on condition of anonymity because the government had yet to declare that position .
saudi arabia says hariri resigned because hezbollah , which was included in hariri s coalition government , had hijacked lebanon s political system .
hariri aides had until thursday denied he was under house arrest but took a dramatically different tone after a meeting of the future movement convened at hariri s beirut residence on thursday .
a statement read by former prime minister fouad siniora said his return was necessary to recover respect for lebanon s internal and external balance , and in the framework of full respect for lebanese legitimacy .
hariri s aunt , bahia , sat next to siniora as he read the statement .
the party stood behind his leadership , it said .
hariri came to office last year in a political deal that made the hezbollah-allied christian politician michel aoun head of state and produced a coalition government grouping most lebanese parties including hezbollah .
saudi arabia blessed the government at the time , but has been fiercely critical of the hariri-led government since he stepped down , saying it failed to act against hezbollah , whose guerrilla army is far more powerful than the weak state .
saudi arabia had wanted hariri to take a tougher stance toward hezbollah , and he failed to do so , the fourth source said .
he was functioning as if it is business as usual , so the saudis had to accelerate the process and to force a resignation .
saudi arabia this week lumped lebanon together with hezbollah as parties that are hostile to it , breaking with a long-established policy that has drawn a line between them and raising concerns of further saudi measures .
hariri flew to saudi arabia last friday .
the top lebanese government official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said : lebanon is heading toward asking foreign and arab states to put pressure on saudi arabia to release prime minister saad al-hariri .
the official said hariri was still lebanon s prime minister , echoing other lebanese government officials who say his resignation had not been received by aoun , and his government therefore remained in place .
the resignation of hariri , a business tycoon whose family made its fortune in saudi arabia , happened at the same time as a wave of arrests of saudi princes and businessmen accused of corruption by crown prince mohammed bin salman .
the senior lebanese politician close to hariri said : when he went ( to saudi arabia ) he was asked to stay there and ordered to resign .
they ordered him to read his resignation statement and he has been held under house arrest since .
two u.s. officials said the saudis , led by crown prince mohammed , had encouraged hariri to leave office .
the fourth source said : he is under controlled movement by the saudis , limited movement .
hezbollah s parliamentary bloc said saudi arabia must halt its interference in lebanese affairs .
he made a one-day flying visit to the united arab emirates , a close saudi ally , earlier this week before returning to saudi arabia .
hariri s office said in a statement he had received the french ambassador to saudi arabia at his riyadh residence on thursday .
he had also met the head of the eu mission to saudi arabia on wednesday , and on tuesday the british ambassador and the u.s. charge d affaires .
state department spokeswoman heather nauert confirmed u.s .
charge d affaires chris henzel met with hariri .
asked about reports hariri was being held in saudi arabia , nauert declined to elaborate on his status or what was discussed , calling the talks sensitive , private , diplomatic conversations .
nauert indicated the united states would not treat the lebanese government any differently as a result of the uncertainty over hariri .
saudi arabia warned its citizens on thursday against travel to lebanon and said those already there should leave .
it has issued similar advice about lebanon to its citizens before .
lebanon s maronite patriarch will visit saudi arabia next week and has received a positive response from saudi officials over the possibility of seeing hariri , his spokesman said .
patriarch beshara al-rai s visit had been decided on a long time ago .
in light of the developments , his mission has become national , walid ghayyad said .
the patriarch will take a message to the kingdom that lebanon can not handle conflict .