yangon ( reuters ) - when the former u.n. chief kofi annan wrapped up his year-long probe into myanmar s troubled northwest on aug. 24 , he publicly warned that an excessive army response to violence would only make a simmering conflict between rohingya insurgents and myanmar security forces worse .
just three hours later , shortly after 8 p.m. , rohingya insurgent leader ata ullah sent a message to his supporters urging them to head to the foot of the remote mayu mountain range with metal objects to use as weapons .
a little after midnight , 600 km northwest of the country s largest city yangon , a rag-tag army of rohingya militants , wielding knives , sticks , small weapons and crude bombs , attacked 30 police posts and an army base .
if 200 or 300 people come out , 50 will die .
god willing , the remaining 150 can kill them with knives , said ata ullah in a separate voice message to his supporters .
it was circulated around the time of the offensive on mobile messaging apps and a recording was subsequently reviewed by reuters .
the assault by ata ullah s group , the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) , was its biggest yet .
last october , when the group first surfaced , it attacked just three police border posts using about 400 fighters , according to myanmar government estimates .
the myanmar army is now estimating up to 6,500 people took part in the august offensive .
its ability to mount a much more ambitious assault indicates that many young rohingya men have been galvanized into supporting arsa following the army crackdown after the october attacks , according to interviews with more than a dozen rohingya and rakhine villagers , members of the security forces and local administrators .
the brutal october response led to allegations that troops burned down villages and killed and raped civilians .
the crisis in ethnically-riven rakhine state is the biggest to face myanmar s leader aung san suu kyi , and her handling of it has been a source of disillusionment among the democracy champion s former supporters in the west .
united nations secretary-general antonio guterres appealed to myanmar authorities on tuesday to end violence against rohingya muslims , warning of the risk of ethnic cleansing , a possible humanitarian catastrophe , and regional destabilisation .
rohingya leaders and some policy analysts say suu kyi s failure to tackle the grievances of the muslim minority , who have lived under apartheid-like conditions for generations , has bolstered support for the militants .
the fledgling militia has been transformed into a network of cells in dozens of villages , capable of staging a widespread offensive .
myanmar s government has declared arsa a terrorist organisation .
it has also accused it of killing muslim civilians to prevent them from cooperating with the authorities , and of torching rohingya villages , allegations the group denies .
the latest assault has provoked a major counteroffensive in which the military says it killed almost 400 insurgents and in which 13 members of the security forces have died .
rohingya villagers and human rights groups say the military has also attacked villages indiscriminately and torched homes .
myanmar government says it is carrying out a lawful counter-terrorism operation and that the troops have been instructed not to harm civilians .
nearly 150,000 rohingya have fled to bangladesh since aug. 25 , leading to fears of a humanitarian crisis .
some 26,750 non-muslim villagers have also been displaced inside myanmar .
suu kyi has said she would adopt recommendations of kofi annan s panel that encouraged more integration .
she has also previously appealed for understanding of her nation s ethnic complexities .
in a statement on wednesday , she blamed terrorists for a huge iceberg of misinformation on the strife in rakhine .
she made no mention of the rohingya who have fled .
suu kyi s spokesman , zaw htay , could not be immediately reached for comment .
on monday , however , he told reuters myanmar was carrying out a counterterrorism operation and taking care of the safety of civilians , including muslims and non-muslims .
in an interview with reuters in march , ata ullah linked the creation of the group to communal violence between buddhists and muslims in rakhine in 2012 , when nearly 200 people were killed and 140,000 , mostly rohingya , displaced .
we can t turn the lights on at night .
we can t move from one place to another during the day , he told reuters in previously unpublished remarks , referring to restrictions placed on the rohingya population s behaviour and movements .
everywhere checkpoints : every entry and every exit .
that s not how humans live .
a rohingya community leader who has stayed in northern rakhine said that , while the rest of myanmar enjoyed new freedoms under suu kyi after decades of military rule , the muslim minority have been increasingly marginalized .
support for the insurgents grew after the military operation last year , he said .
when the security forces came to our village , all of the villagers apologised and asked them not to set the houses on fire - but they shot the people who made that request , he said .
people suffered because their sons got killed in front of them even though they begged for mercy , their daughters , sisters were raped - how could they live without constantly thinking about it , that they want to fight against it , whether they die or not .
reuters couldn t independently confirm the villagers accounts .
last month , a myanmar government probe - led by former head of military intelligence and now vice president , myint swe - rejected allegations of crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing during the crackdown last year .
villagers and police officers in the area say that arsa had since last october established cells in dozens of villages , where local activists then recruited others .
people shared their feelings with others from the community , they talked to each other , they told their friends or acquaintances from different regions and then they exploded , said the rohingya community leader .
rohi mullarah , a village elder from the kyee hnoke thee village in northern buthidaung , said the leaders sent their followers regular and frequent messages via apps like whatsapp and wechat , encouraging them to fight for freedom and human rights and enabling them to mobilize many people without the risk of being caught going into the heavily militarised areas to recruit .
they mainly sent phone messages to the villagers , they didn t ... move people from place to place , he said .
he said his village was not involved in the insurgency and even posted a signboard in front of it that said any militants would be attacked by the villagers if they attempt to recruit people .
many rohingya elders have for decades rejected violence and sought dialogue with the government .
while arsa has now gained some influence , especially among young , disaffected men , many rohingya elders have condemned the group s violent tactics .
in recent months there had been reports of killings of local administrators , government informers and village chiefs in the rakhine region , leading to speculation the insurgents were adopting brutal tactics to stop information on their activities from leaking to the security forces .
they cut out the government communication by instigating a campaign of fear and took charge in the region , said sein lwin , police chief in rakhine .
.
an army source directly involved in operations in northern rakhine also said it was now much more difficult to get information on arsa s plans .
the strategy resulted in the shut down of government mechanisms in some places because no government servants dared to stay there , the army source said .
a village head from northern buthidaung township , who asked not to be named , said the insurgents called him several times pressing him to allow some young villagers to take part in their training - an offer he refused .
i tried to stay safe and sometimes i had to sleep at the police station and local administrator s house , he said .
despite the largely successful clamp down on information by the insurgents , it was a tip off by an informer that stopped the aug. 25 attacks from being much worse for the myanmar security services , the army source said .
about an hour after ata ullah s men headed for the jungle in the evening of aug. 24 , the army received a signal from the rohingya informer saying the attack was coming .
the 9 p.m. message mentioned imminent multiple attacks , but it did not say where they would occur .
the warning was enough for the security forces to withdraw some troops to larger stations and to reinforce strategic locations , saving many lives on the government side , the military source said .
the raids by the insurgents came in waves from around 1 a.m. until sunrise , and took place mostly in maungdaw township where ata ullah staged his three attacks in october .
this time , though , the distance between the northern- and southern-most points was as long as 100 km ( 60 miles ) .
the rohingya also struck in the north of the neighbouring buthidaung township , including an audacious bid to storm an army base .
we were surprised they attacked across such a wide geographical area - it shook the whole region , said the army source .
( this version of the story corrects date in paragraph 39 to aug. 24 )