( this version of the december 12th story corrects headline and paragraph one to remove references to corruption ) by camillus eboh abuja ( reuters ) - nigeria s court of appeal on tuesday dismissed 15 charges against the senate president related to alleged false declarations of assets , but it upheld three other charges against him .
bukola saraki s three-year tenure as president of the upper house has been marred by numerous accusations of misconduct and investigations , though none have led to convictions .
the original charges are related to allegations that saraki falsely declared his assets when he was a state governor from 2003 to 2011 , to which he pleaded not guilty .
a code of conduct tribunal cleared the senate president of the charges in june , saying the case against him lacked substance .
the government mounted a legal challenge which led to tuesday s ruling by the court of appeal that saraki should be retried by the tribunal on three of the 18 charges against him .
the three counts relate to saraki s acquisition of two houses in ikoyi , an upmarket district in the southern commercial metropolis of lagos .
the appeal is dismissed in part in respects of the other 15 counts , said the judge , tinuade akomolafe-wilson , at the appeal court in the capital abuja .
the senate president s camp has previously denied any wrongdoing and on tuesday issued a statement in which it said saraki had been victorious due to the 15 charges being dropped .
the full details of the judgement on the final three charges against saraki have not been released and will be addressed by his lawyers once they have been , the senate president said in a statement .
saraki ran unopposed for the post of senate president , mainly with the backing of the opposition .
he was not the ruling party s preferred candidate , which led to strains in his relationship with president muhammadu buhari .
the senate president has been dogged by legal cases since taking office .
in october 2016 saraki was cleared of altering senate rules to get himself elected , and in march this year lawmakers cleared him of any wrongdoing over allegations that he attempted to evade payment of customs duties on a car .