( this version of the oct. 25 story corrects story to change name to emilio lozoya in paragraph three ) mexico city ( reuters ) - a prosecutor who led an investigation into a graft scandal involving the campaign of mexican president enrique pena nieto said on wednesday he was fired without justification , as the senate prepares to vote on whether to reinstate him .
mexico s acting attorney general fired santiago nieto , the attorney general for election-related crimes , last week on grounds that he broke a code of conduct .
his summary dismissal came just days after an explosive interview with newspaper reforma in which nieto accused emilio lozoya , the former boss of state oil firm pemex and a senior member of pena nieto s 2012 campaign team , of writing to him to ask that he be declared innocent of funneling odebrecht cash into the president s campaign .
brazilian construction firm odebrecht is at the heart of a brazilian bribery and kickback probe , known as lava jato or car wash , that has reverberated across latin america .
javier coello trejo , lozoya s lawyer , said on wednesday he had filed two criminal complaints against nieto , alleging the former prosecutor had violated laws governing criminal proceedings , broadcaster televisa reported .
nieto s firing angered opposition politicians and has even threatened to delay discussions among lawmakers about next year s budget .
in wednesday s television interview , nieto denied breaking any rules , or revealing any sensitive information .
i didn t violate any code of ethics , said nieto , who was leading the probe targeting both lozoya and the president s campaign .
the senate is due to vote in coming days on whether to reinstate nieto , but it is still not clear when the vote will be and if it will be public .
in a sign of how tempers have frayed over the issue , opposition lawmakers have promised to delay voting on the 2018 budget until nieto s case is resolved .
the dispute is complicating efforts to shake off graft allegations that could hurt the ruling institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) ahead of next year s presidential election .
nieto could not be reached immediately for comment on wednesday .
both the president and lozoya , his close ally , have previously denied involvement in any wrongdoing related to the 2012 campaign .
mindful that corruption has become a key issue in the 2018 election , the pri has overseen the arrest of various former state governors .
lozoya poses a more difficult challenge , given his proximity to the president .
opposition lawmakers have also criticized a decision by the senate s governance body to hold the nieto vote in private , vowing to appeal against the ruling .