sylville smith s sister sherelle , was suddenly thrust into the spotlight after her brother was shot dead by police after a traffic stop on august 13th .
she uses her time in front of several microphones to ask rioters for calm in her city .
she implores them to instead to take their fight to the same suburbs where ironically , the semi-automatic handgun found on her brother had been stolen , along with 500 rounds of ammunition only months before .
we need our shit says the girl who lives in a city run by democrats that relies on the working citizens in the suburbs to sustain them.sylville smith 's sister sherelle encourages `` protestors '' to burn the suburbs @ cernovich @ cassandrarules @ rooshv pic.twitter.com/prxr2prcuv deeconx ( @ deeconx ) august 15 , 2016cnn praised his sister for her comments : this how how @ cnn praises people that incite riots @ cassandrarules @ cernovich @ mongoaggression # milwaukee # msm pic.twitter.com/61jrpk2q7w deeconx ( @ deeconx ) august 15 , 2016the incident started saturday afternoon when two officers stopped two people who were in a car in the north side , according to the milwaukee police department.shortly after , both car occupants fled on foot as officers pursued them , police said.during the chase , an officer shot one of the two 23-year-old sylville smith , who was armed with a handgun , according to authorities .
he ( officer ) ordered that individual to drop his gun , the individual did not drop his gun , milwaukee mayor tom barrett said .
he had the gun with him and the officer fired several times .
sylville smith refused to obey the orders of the police officers.smith was shot twice in the arm and chest , the mayor said .
his handgun was stolen during a burglary in waukesha in march , according to police .
the victim of that burglary reported 500 rounds of ammunition were also stolen with the handgun , police said in a statement.the officer , 24 , was assigned to district 7 and has six years of service with the milwaukee police department three of those as an officer .
fox6nowresidents who had no evidence of any wrongdoing on the part of the police officer began to burn the city down .
firefighters were slow to respond , as rioters were throwing bricks at police officers , smashing police cars and firing several shots into the crowds.the violence continued again last night : # breaking : blm rioters arerunning through # milwaukeestreets , vandalizing property # milwaukeeunrestpic.twitter.com/isdvm7qdpz alwaysactions ( @ alwaysactions ) august 15 , 2016