bogota ( reuters ) - colombia s leftist farc rebel group is introducing its political party at a conference that began on sunday , a major step in its transition into a civilian organization after more than 50 years of war and its first chance to announce policy to skeptical voters .
the six-day meeting in bogota of farc members , who have handed in more than 8,000 weapons to the united nations during their demobilization , is expected to conclude on friday with a platform that the party will campaign on in elections next year .
under its 2016 peace deal with the government to end its part in a war that has killed more than 220,000 people , the majority of fighters in the group formally known as revolutionary armed forces of colombia were granted amnesty and allowed to participate in politics .
whether the rebels will get backing from colombians , many of whom revile them , remains to be seen .
the farc s often old-fashioned marxist rhetoric strikes many as a throwback to their 1964 founding , but proposals for reforms to complicated property laws may get traction with rural voters who struggle as subsistence farmers .
the peace accord , rejected by a less than 1 percent margin in a referendum before being modified and enacted , awards the farc s party 10 automatic seats in congress through 2026 , but the group may campaign for others .
in a sight that would have been unthinkable just a few years ago , farc delegates arrived by bus to the center of the capital , escorted by police on motorcycles .
from this event on , we will transform into a new , exclusively political group that will carry out its activity by legal means , farc leader rodrigo londono , who is known by his nom de guerre timochenko , told hundreds of attendees at the event center in bogota .
we have in front of us many challenges and many difficulties , londono said .
nothing is easy in politics .
rural improvements will remain a focus for the party , he added .
many delegates wore conference t-shirts with the slogan a new party for a new country and carried branded tote bags .
a painting featuring images of cuban revolutionary leaders fidel castro and ernesto che guevara , deceased venezuelan president hugo chavez and jesus christ was on display .
the party will initially be called the revolutionary alternative force of colombia , preserving the farc initials in spanish .
both legislative and presidential elections will take place in 2018 .
it is not yet clear in which races the farc will run candidates .
i think the farc will try for a regional consolidation , using the presence and influence they have in certain provinces , said catalina jimenez , politics professor at externado university .
at a national level , they need a large amount of votes they still don t have .
the farc is open to coalitions , the group said this week .
fractured by infighting , leftist parties have long struggled in conservative-leaning colombia , despite some success in winning urban positions .
widespread corruption scandals will probably be a top issue for the crowded field of 2018 presidential candidates .
campaigns are also likely to focus on proposals to improve the daily lives of colombians , many of whom say they desperately need better security , public education and healthcare .
the farc says the government of president juan manuel santos , which gives a certain amount of regulated funding to each party , should help carry the costs of the conference , given the rebels have handed over their assets as reparations for victims of the war .
but while the peace deal is the cornerstone of santos legacy , the government has raised doubts about the veracity of the rebels $ 324 million asset list .
the government said this week that it was forming a commission to verify that the farc had included all profits it may have earned from extortion , ransoms and drug trafficking , and the group must play by the same rules as any other party .