washington ( reuters ) - a democratic lawmaker will introduce a bill on thursday that seeks to broaden the powers of a u.s. government panel that reviews mergers for national security concerns , including giving it the ability to block a deal if it could cause job losses , but it faces an uphill battle in the republican-controlled house .
according to a draft copy of the proposed legislation reviewed by reuters , the multi-agency committee on foreign investment in the united states ( cfius ) would be able to review a deal “ to determine whether such transaction is of net benefit to the united states. ” if the legislation passed , cfius would consider a proposed deal ’ s effect on employment , product innovation , and public health and safety , as well as national security , according to the draft reviewed by reuters .
it would also consider factors like whether a foreign company purchasing a u.s. company abides by u.s. rules concerning disclosure and transparency .
but it is unclear whether the measure , which will be introduced by connecticut rep. rosa delauro , has support from other lawmakers in the house .
a spokesman for republicans in the house committee on financial services , which considered an earlier version of the bill in 2014 , did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
even if the delauro bill passed the house , there would need to be companion legislation passed in the senate and then it would still need to get signed into law by president barack obama .
there is currently no companion bill in the senate , according to a source on capitol hill .
delauro introduced her previous bill following the u.s. approval of china-based shuanghui international holdings ltd ’ s $ 4.7 billion acquisition of pork producer smithfield foods inc , but it never went to the full house for a vote .
while the house bill does not target china specifically , it could have most implications for the country .
in 2014 , the last year for which data is available , cfius looked at more deals involving china than any other country for the third year in a row .
it comes amid signs of increased concerns in washington about a flurry of proposed takeovers of american companies by chinese entities .
still , such sweeping legislation could be a tall order for the administration at a time of already tense sino-u.s. relations .
earlier this month , 46 u.s. lawmakers , most of them republicans , urged cfius to take a hard look at a bid by a chinese company , chongqing casin enterprise group , to buy the storied chicago stock exchange because of fears that the deal would give china access to the data of u.s. companies who use the exchange .
in the past few weeks alone , cfius concerns have killed three proposed chinese investments .
on tuesday , western digital corp ( wdc.o ) said china ’ s unisplendour corp ltd ( 000938.sz ) backed out of buying a stake in the u.s. company because cfius planned to probe it .