facebook ceo mark zuckerberg appears to be concerned about being spied on .
a photo that he shared to help celebrate instagram s 500 million monthly active users shows the camera and audio jack on the billionaire s macbook covered with pieces of tape .
in the photo posted on tuesday , zuckerberg is sporting a wide smile and his signature gray t-shirt and dark denim jeans .
he s holding a life-sized instagram frame that reads : thanks to everyone in our community for helping us reach this milestone !
after posting the photo online , several internet users spotted and pointed out the tape covering his camera and audio jack on his macbook at his desk .
it s rumored that skilled hackers are able to take over the front facing cameras on laptops when they re not covered up .
it appears as though zuckerberg , who is worth $ 35.7billion , is trying to prevent that from happening by placing a piece of tape over his camera , making the webcam useless .
zuckerberg has been previously photographed at the same desk .
roughly nine months ago while on a tour , he showed off the same desk that s complete with the same items on it then as it is now , according to gizmodo.read more : daily mailthe future of facebook : liberal video , video , videofacebook is paying huge money to liberal news sights to produce live video and other news to push out buzzfeed , new york times and other liberal news sources like cnn are involved in producing live video which they say is the future of facebook .
you might ask why only liberal news sites used except for the fact that suppression of conservative news has been exposed in the last few weeks .
it s been known for some time that facebook is paying media companies and celebrities cash in return for using its facebook live video feature , but what hasn t been known is exactly how much it is paying them .
according to a document recently obtained by the wall street journal , the social networking giant has signed as many as 140 contracts worth a total of $ 50 million.the list of media outlets being paid by facebook includes traditional players such as cnn and the new york times , the journal says , as well as digital-only publishers like vox , mashable , and buzzfeed .
the celebrities who are being compensated for creating live video include comedian kevin hart and chef gordon ramsay.some contracts are worth smaller amounts , while 17 of the deals facebook has signed are worth more than $ 1 million , according to the document obtained by the journal .
two media outlets are getting paid more than $ 3 million to create live video buzzfeed and the new york times , and cnn is not far behind , with a reported payment of $ 2.5 million.get data sheet , fortune s technology newsletter.the first reports about facebook fb 0.90 % paying media companies and/or celebrities to create live video emerged in march , when recode reported that coo sheryl sandberg was in hollywood talking with talent agencies and artists representatives , and offering to get out her checkbook to get them using the platform .
the live-streaming feature was launched first for celebrities in 2015 , then rolled out to everyone.in april , the executive in charge of facebook live , fidji simo ( who we spoke with recently about the platform ) told recode that the company was also working with media partners , and said in some of the cases that includes a financial incentive .
( time inc. , which owns fortune , has a relationship with facebook that relates to the creation of facebook live video ) .also in april , buzzfeed confirmed in a roundabout way that it was one of the partners being paid by facebook .
a story about paying video creators quoted an anonymous source as saying that the social network was paying media partners around $ 250,000 for 20 posts per month over a three-month period , and then mentioned parenthetically that buzzfeed was one of them .
via : fortune