harare ( reuters ) - a zimbabwean court found a pastor not guilty on wednesday of attempting to subvert the government in a case seen as a barometer of judicial independence under new president emmerson mnangagwa .
evan mawarire was a strident critic of former president robert mugabe who resigned last week after 37 years in power week under pressure from the army and ruling zanu-pf party .
mawarire s # thisflag movement last year organized the biggest protests in a decade against mugabe over a deteriorating economy , cash shortages and accusations of government corruption .
he was arrested in september and faced up to 20 years in jail if convicted .
mugabe s critics say he used the courts as a tool of repression .
they want to see if mnangagwa s government breaks with the past , particularly given that he served in mugabe s administration since independence from britain in 1980 .
amnesty international said in a statement they hoped that the ruling represents a new beginning for the country .
mawarire said he would keep up the pressure .
if they ( the new government ) do to us what robert mugabe s government did to us , we will do the same thing to them that we have done to robert mugabe , mawarire told reporters in court room soon after high court judge priscilla chigumba s judgment .
this could be evidence of a freer zimbabwe but this case had no legs to stand on .
i think a lot more needs to be seen to determine whether this is a free judiciary going forward , he said .
chigumba said state prosecutors failed to show evidence that mawarire s actions were a criminal offense .
she also found him not guilty of inciting people to commit public violence .
he urged passive resistance , he urged prayers for peace .
how can prayers for peace be considered an unconstitutional means of removing a constitutional government ?
said chigumba .
there was a sigh of relief from the handful of people in court when the ruling was made .
mnangagwa must address a crisis facing zimbabwe s economy that includes balance of payments problems and rampant inflation and steer the country towards an election next year .
britain could take steps to stabilize zimbabwe s currency system and extend a bridging loan to help it clear world bank and african development bank arrears , but such support depends on democratic progress , foreign secretary boris johnson said .
those are indeed the things that we would try to do to help zimbabwe forward , but we ve got to see how the democratic process unfolds , he said on wednesday on the sidelines of an african union-eu summit in abidjan .