hillary clinton always putting a radical ideology and her own personal financial gain before the best interests of america .
is this really the kind of leader america needs after 8 miserable , lawless years of barack obama ?
under two terms of a president hillary clinton , the u.s. muslim population would exceed germany s current muslim population , according to data from pew research center and the department of homeland security.according to a pew report published earlier this week , as of 2010 , there were 4.8 million muslims in germany .
in september , 2015 , democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton that the united states should accept 65,000 refugees from syria to help alleviate the humanitarian crisis created by the war there .
we re facing the worst refugee crisis since the end of world war ii and i think the united states has to do more , the former secretary of state said sunday on cbs face the nation .
i would like to see us move from what is a good start with 10,000 to 65,000 and begin immediately to put into place the mechanisms for vetting the people that we would take in .
via : cbs newshere s trump on the out-of-control refugee crisis and common sense ideas on how he thinks america should deal with it : a pew report from january of this year estimated that there are roughly 3.3 million muslims living in the united states .
this means that today the u.s. already has a larger muslim population than does kuwait , or brunei , or bahrain , or djibouti , or qatar .
under current policy , pew projects the number of muslims in america will outnumber jews by 2040 .
however , under a president hillary clinton it s possible that date could come much sooner.under two terms of a hillary clinton presidency , the u.s. would have a muslim population that is larger than germany s muslim population of 4.8 million.based on the most recent dhs data available , the u.s. permanently resettled roughly 149,000 migrants from predominantly muslim countries on green cards in 2014.yet , as donald trump explained during thursday night acceptance speech at the republican national convention , clinton has called for a radical 550 % increase in syrian refugees on top of existing massive refugee flows coming into our country under president obama .
specifically , clinton had said that , as president , she would expand muslim migration by importing an additional 65,000 syrian refugees into the united states during the course of a single fiscal year .
clinton has made no indication that she would limit her proposed syrian refugee program to one year.as trump explained , clinton s syrian refugees would come on top of the tens of thousands of refugees the u.s. already admits from muslim countries.adding clinton s 65,000 syrian refugees to the approximately 149,000 muslim migrants the u.s. resettled on green cards in the course of one year , means that clinton could permanently resettle roughly 214,000 muslim migrants in her first year as president .
if clinton were to continue her syrian refugee program throughout her presidency , she could potentially resettle roughly 1.5 million muslim migrants during her first two terms.these projections suggest that after seven years of a hillary clinton presidency , the u.s. could have a muslim population that is larger than germany s muslim population of 4.8 million.these projections are rough estimates , and the population size could be impacted by additional various factors including births , deaths , and conversions .
via : breitbart news