paris ( reuters ) - france opened a counter-terrorism inquiry after a man wielding a knife attacked a soldier in a paris subway station on friday , the latest incident targeting troops protecting the capital s transport hubs and tourist sites .
paris and other european capitals are on high alert after a wave of attacks in past years by islamist militants , many of them inspired by islamic state .
the paris incident occurred hours before several people were hurt at a london underground station .
witnesses reported a blast which police were treating as a terrorism incident .
the assailant in paris was wrestled to the ground and arrested .
the soldier , part of operation sentinel , a force deployed in the wake of lethal islamist attacks on france , escaped unhurt .
police said the attack happened just before 6.30 a.m. ( 0430 gmt ) as the morning rush hour got under way at the chatelet subway station , where tens of thousands of commuters converge from paris s sprawling suburbs every day .
government spokesman christophe castaner said the investigation was being handled by counter-terrorism specialists .
a source close to the investigation said the assailant was moroccan-born and about 40-years-old , with no known criminal background .
police raids at an address linked to the suspect were ongoing , the source added .
there have been more than half a dozen attacks against troops belonging to operation sentinel .
in early august , a man rammed his car into a group of soldiers on patrol in the wealthy paris suburb of levallois-perret .
france announced on thursday that the 7,000-strong force was being adapted to make it more mobile and its movements less predictable .
days earlier , interior minister gerard collomb said security agencies had thwarted several bigger plots this year , including one plan to strike a paris night club in late august .
islamist militants have killed more than 230 people in a wave of attacks on french soil since early 2015 and dozens more have been killed in attacks in london , manchester and brussels .
french war planes have carried out bombing raids against islamic state strongholds in syria and iraq and the militant group has urged its followers to target france .
french media said the chatelet aggressor shouted references to islamic state as he attacked the soldier .