malia s internship with pedophile lena dunham comes on the heels of her taxpayer funded european tour to london , venice and milan with her sister sasha , mooch and of course , mooch s mom ( as no taxpayer funded vacation would be complete without ) .dream job ? malia obama has landed a summer internship on the set of hbo s raunchy show girls during which she ll be working with actress and proud feminist lena dunham , according to a report in us weekly.specifically , a source close to the television show s production team told the magazine of malia , she s a fan , and she mentioned that to lena [ dunham ] when she came to the white house .
i m not sure how long she ll be interning for .
it s a bit of a trial thing for her .
they ve known each other and discussed for a while .
lena and her get along great .
the gig would make sense , as malia was was photographed last week in brooklyn drinking a soda on the set of girls , though at the time it was uncertain whether she was working on the set or perhaps playing a guest role in an episode .
via : red alert politicstruth revolt : in her newly published collection of personal essays , not that kind of girl , lena dunham describes experimenting sexually with her younger sister grace , whom she says she attempted to persuade to kiss her using anything a sexual predator might do .
in one particularly unsettling passage , dunham experimented with her six-year younger sister s vagina .
this was within the spectrum of things i did , she writes .
anything a sexual predator might do to woo a small suburban girl i was trying .
in the collection of nonfiction personal accounts , dunham describes using her little sister at times essentially as a sexual outlet , bribing her to kiss her for prolonged periods and even masturbating while she is in the bed beside her .
but perhaps the most disturbing is an account she proudly gives of an episode that occurred when she was seven and her sister was one.here s the full passage ( p. 158-9 ) : do we all have uteruses ?
i asked my mother when i was seven .
yes , she told me .
we re born with them , and with all our eggs , but they start out very small .
and they aren t ready to make babies until we re older .
i look at my sister , now a slim , tough one-year-old , and at her tiny belly .
i imagined her eggs inside her , like the sack of spider eggs in charlotte s web , and her uterus , the size of a thimble .
does her vagina look like mine ?
i guess so , my mother said .
just smaller .
one day , as i sat in our driveway in long island playing with blocks and buckets , my curiosity got the best of me .
grace was sitting up , babbling and smiling , and i leaned down between her legs and carefully spread open her vagina .
she didn t resist and when i saw what was inside i shrieked.my mother came running .
mama , mama !
grace has something in there !
my mother didn t bother asking why i had opened grace s vagina .
this was within the spectrum of things i did .
she just got on her knees and looked for herself .
it quickly became apparent that grace had stuffed six or seven pebbles in there .
my mother removed them patiently while grace cackled , thrilled that her prank had been a success.dunham describes the book as a work of nonfiction in which some names and identifying details have been changed .
she also states that she considers herself an unreliable narrator , which gives her some wiggle room on the truth of her accounts .
as national review s kevin d. williamson notes , this passage is especially suspicious .
the one-year old grace s prank is supposedly done with the expectation of her older sister poking around in her genitals .
there is no non-horrific interpretation of this episode .
updateafter lena dunham went on a self-described rage spiral in response to this article , which she called f * cking upsetting and disgusting , her lawyer sent a cease and desist letter to truthrevolt threatening to sue us for millions of dollars if we did not pull the piece and post a retraction stating that this story was false .
truthrevolt refused.monday , truthrevolt editor-in-chief ben shapiro posted a response to the cease and desist letter , which includes more of the passages from her book upon which our assessment was based and argues that quoting a woman s book does not constitute a false story : lena dunham may not like our interpretation of her book , but unfortunately for her and her attorneys , she wrote that book and the first amendment covers a good deal of material she may not like .