nbc news handpicked anti-trump tykes for two propaganda videos to make it appear that every child in american thinks pres .
trump is an ignorant racist and threat to the country.the video starts out with a blurry picture of president trump ( the kind of picture used in political ads by the opponent to make the candidate look bad ) and goes downhill from there : not one child in either dear mr. president : kids talk trump or dear mr. president : letters from the american children says he actually supports trump s efforts to keep america safe from terrorism or stop the influx of illegal aliens.both videos open with smarmy , false compliments to give the illusion that these kids haven t been indoctrinated by leftist teachers and liberal media but , then , both launch into unrelenting snide rebukes couched in innocent-kid-speak.the kids accuse trump of racism and violence against blacks : most of my family is black .
i m afraid that you re gon na hurt some of us blacks .
you are here , attempting to white-wash america .
i don t like your definition of american , because i don t seem to fit within it .
these adolescent activists really , really don t want a border wall or travel ban on state-sponsors of terror , because it s not nice and fair : not letting immigrants into america is really not nice , so please let them in .
it s not fair for refugees .
just because i m mexican , doesn t mean you can build a wall around the country .
please don t build a wall , and don t let people have guns .
p.s .
please don t build a wall around mexico .
p.p.s .
please , please don t stop the refugees from coming .
you re going to separate me away from the rest of my family , and i really don t what that because i love them too much .
some of my friends are really scared about you building a wall , and the travel ban , because a lot of their families live in different places .
watch : and , then , there s this rebuke from a young lady who appears in both videos : when you speak on things that make me feel uncomfortable or i disagree with , you make me feel small , because i know i can t change it .
apparently , the president should never disagree with her or say things she doesn t like because it ll hurt susie snowflake s feelings .
cns news here s the second video :