berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel on saturday welcomed the prospect of talks on a grand coalition with her social democrat ( spd ) rivals and defended the record of the previous such government , saying it had worked well .
merkel s fourth term was cast into doubt when the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) walked out of three-way coalition talks with her conservative bloc and the greens last sunday , causing a political impasse in europe s biggest economy .
but on friday , the spd reversed a previous decision and agreed to talk to merkel , raising the possibilities of a new grand coalition which has ruled germany for the last four years , or of a minority government .
addressing party members on saturday , merkel argued voters had given her conservatives a mandate to rule in the sept. 24 election which handed her party the most parliamentary seats but limited coalition options .
her conservatives bled support to the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) .
europe needs a strong germany , it is desirable to get a government in place quickly , merkel told a regional party meeting in northern germany , adding , however , that her acting government could carry on day to day business .
asking voters to go to the polls again would , i think be totally wrong , she said .
on monday , merkel had said she would prefer new elections to a minority government in which her party would be only held in power by others .
without even mentioning the option of a minority government , merkel said she wanted to look ahead after the setbacks of the last week .
sounding self-assured and drawing applause during her speech , she turned her attention fully to the spd .
welcoming the prospect of talks with her former partner , she defended the record of the last coalition .
we worked well together , she said , adding under the grand coalition , germany enjoyed the strongest labor market for decades , a balanced budget and pensioners and families had benefited , she argued .
president frank-walter steinmeier is to host merkel , spd leader martin schulz and the leader of her conservative csu sister party for a meeting on thursday .
steinmeier had exerted considerable pressure on schulz to change course for the sake of stability in germany .
however , no one is saying things will be easy and the two former partners are already jostling over policy .
merkel said her aims are to maintain germany s solid finances , cut some taxes and expand the digital infrastructure .
in a nod to her csu conservative allies , she also said she aims to limit the number of migrants entering germany to 200,000 per year .
this , however , may be hard for the spd to swallow .
a cap , which may not be called that , breaches the constitution and the geneva convention .
with the spd there will be no limit put on family members who want to join asylum seekers , spd deputy leader ralf stegner told the funke media group .
schulz , who had until friday rejected any deal with merkel , said there was nothing automatic about the outcome and promised party members a vote on talks .
the spd is split as many members fear that renewing a grand coalition would be political suicide .
it scored its worst result since 1933 in the september election .
several other leading spd members have called for other commitments , such as investment in education and homes .
some senior spd members have made clear that they will not let merkel hold them hostage .
mrs merkel is not in a position to be setting conditions , malu dreyer , premier of the state of rhineland palatinate , told the trierscher volksfreund .