san juan/washington ( reuters ) - republican lawmakers are writing a fix to the puerto rico debt crisis that would give an independent financial review board sweeping power to arbitrate creditor disputes and map a future for the u.s. territory ’ s pension system .
rather than pick winners and losers among investors who hold roughly $ 70 billion of puerto rican debt , the republican plan envisions leaving key questions to a newly-created board , according to legislative sources familiar with the work .
republicans control both houses of congress and so the party leaders often write the first draft of legislation .
under the proposal , white house and congressional leaders would appoint a board of financial experts to arbitrate politically-charged questions like whether bonds issued by utilities or even the island ’ s government should be written down .
“ we expect to have a framework that protects taxpayers and restores solvency to the island , ” said parish braden , spokesman for the natural resources committee that is writing legislation in the house of representatives .
a crucial issue for lawmakers is whether puerto rico will have a clear path to restructure debt through the courts , in a process akin to u.s. bankruptcy , if the new board could not facilitate a deal among stakeholders .
the u.s. treasury department has long called for a debt restructuring for puerto rico .
so have congressional democrats , and puerto rico ’ s leaders .
a spokesman for the treasury department said officials were “ encouraged by the increased legislative activity , ” but declined to speculate on the republican legislation that was expected to be finished before the end of the month .
and while republicans will write the first draft of the rescue bill , democrats in congress and the white house will have a say as legislation moves toward approval from president barack obama .
on monday , new jersey senator robert menendez , a democrat , proposed putting roughly $ 45 billion in unfunded pension liabilities at the top of the list of creditors .
some creditors are concerned where they might rank with such a move and many oppose any provision that would allow the island to file for bankruptcy .
municipal bond markets would be roiled if puerto rico were cleared , some republican lawmakers have argued .
“ these are complicated issues and congress needs to empower people qualified to handle them , ” said one staffer working on the plan .
the 3.5 million residents of puerto rico may face a reduction of “ essential government services ” like public safety and health care if there is no fix before the next debt payments in may , puerto rico governor alejandro garcia padilla told congress last year .
the menendez plan would restructure all of puerto rico ’ s debt , establishing a chief financial officer , a “ fiscal stability and reform board ” and require the island ’ s governor to develop a 5-year fiscal plan .
if puerto rico accepts the plan menendez proposes then an automatic 12-month stay on debt payments would go into effect , after which a restructuring plan with creditors would be crafted .
the plan would see that pensions would be paid before the island ’ s general obligation debt , which is typically the first in line for payment .
padilla praised menendez ’ s plan for providing tools needed to stave off the immediate impact of the crisis while helping to stabilize the economy .
orrin hatch , the utah republican who is chairman of the powerful senate finance committee , swatted away menendez ’ s proposals .
“ while i have yet to see the full legislative text of the proposals , from what i ’ ve read , senate democrats appear to want to move the goal posts on broad debt restructuring , ” hatch said in a statement emailed to reuters .