lima ( reuters ) - brazilian builder odebrecht [ odbes.ul ] said saturday that its recently-disclosed business ties to embattled peruvian president pedro pablo kuczynski were not part of the corrupt deals it struck with politicians that it has acknowledged to prosecutors .
the assertion might strengthen kuczynski s bid to survive a vote to remove him from office on thursday in the opposition-ruled congress over allegations he took bribes from odebrecht , which is at the center of latin america s biggest graft scandal .
earlier this week , odebrecht sent congress a requested report detailing deposits totaling $ 4.8 million that it paid to two companies owned by kuczynski or a close business associate of his for financial and advising services .
kuczynski , who previously denied any links to the company , has resisted calls to resign over the transactions and said there was nothing improper about them .
odebrecht denied accusations by an influential journalist with the newspaper la republica that the disclosure was an attempt to overthrow kuczynski in collusion with the right-wing opposition .
it was able to disclose the transactions because there was no sign they were part of any of its past criminal activities , which it can only discuss with public prosecutors , odebrecht said .
they were duly paid and officially accounted for , odebrecht said in a letter to la republica that it made public on twitter on saturday .
odebrecht is obligated by law to send requested information to relevant authorities , including an investigative committee in congress , the company said .
odebrecht has rocked latin american politics with its public confession a year ago that it orchestrated sophisticated kickback schemes across a dozen countries for more than a decade - landing elites in jail from colombia to the dominican republic .
late on friday , lawmakers passed a motion to start presidential vacancy procedures with enough votes to unseat kuczynski in a vote it scheduled for thursday .
the center-right president s supporters cited odebrecht s letter to la republica to argue that his only fault was misleading peru about his connections to odebrecht .
if kuczynski is ousted by congress , he would lose his presidential immunity from prosecution and first vice president martin vizcarra would be authorized to replace him for the rest of his term ending in 2021 .
two former presidents in peru , ollanta humala and alejandro toledo , have been ensnared in the odebrecht probe over alleged payments they deny .
humala was jailed in july pending trial and authorities hope to extradite toledo from the united states .