washington ( reuters ) - u.s. house speaker paul ryan , a republican , will not accept a nomination to be a u.s. presidential candidate , his spokeswoman , ashlee strong , said on wednesday .
“ the speaker is grateful for the support , but he is not interested .
he will not accept a nomination and believes our nominee should be someone who ran this year , ” strong said in an email to reuters .
she was responding to a report by politico that quoted former speaker john boehner as saying that ryan should be the republican nominee for president if the party fails to choose a candidate on the first ballot at the convention in july .
“ if we don ’ t have a nominee who can win on the first ballot , i ’ m for none of the above , ” boehner said at the futures industry association conference in boca raton florida , politico reported on wednesday .
“ they all had a chance to win .
none of them won .
so i ’ m for none of the above .
i ’ m for paul ryan to be our nominee. ” ryan , who is from wisconsin and became house speaker last year , has been touted as a possible dark horse candidate for president , should the republican convention fail to agree on any of the current contenders on the first ballot .
ryan has repeatedly insisted that he does not want to run for president this year , and a committee that sought to draft him closed last week after ryan ’ s office urged a halt to its activities .
ryan ran for vice president in 2012 on the unsuccessful republican ticket with presidential contender mitt romney .
u.s. republican front-runner donald trump scored big wins in republican primaries in florida , illinois and north carolina on tuesday which brought him closer to the 1,237 delegates he needs to win the nomination .
but he still might fall short of the majority required , enabling the party establishment to put forward another name at the july convention in cleveland .
a spokesman for boehner said wednesday that the former speaker , who is from ohio , had endorsed that state ’ s governor john kasich in the presidential race .
“ his ( boehner ’ s ) off-the-cuff comments this morning were about a hypothetical scenario in which none of the current candidates are able to secure the nomination at the convention , ” the spokesman , dave schnittger , said .