kabul ( reuters ) - more than 60 percent of afghans still believe the country is headed in the wrong direction , but signs of better governance and rebuilding has slightly lifted the national mood , according to a survey by the asia foundation .
just over half of the 10,000 people surveyed said they had confidence in president ashraf ghani s government , which has struggled to establish security in the face of a growing taliban insurgency .
last year , just under half of afghans said they had confidence in ghani .
however , nearly 39 percent of those surveyed said they would be willing to leave if they had the opportunity , the second highest figure in the survey s more than decade-long history .
the main reason was increased security concerns .
more than 70 percent of afghans fear for their personal safety .
attacks are up across the country .
in may , more than 150 people were killed by a blast in kabul s diplomatic zone - one of the deadliest since the taliban s ouster in 2001 .
on the day the survey was released , more than 20 policemen were killed in fighting with taliban insurgents in the southern province of kandahar .
the survey which was conducted in all 34 provinces of afghanistan in july , primarily in rural households , pointed to a mixed picture , with steady gains in education and health over the past decade and a half matched by continuing concern over corruption , unemployment and security .
around a third of afghans , or 33 percent , believe the country was heading in a positive direction , up slightly from 29.3 percent last year to buck a years-long declining trend .
after a historic decline in 2016 , confidence in public institutions has slightly improved ; growing confidence in the afghan national security forces stabilized in 2017 , abdullah ahmadzai , asia foundation s country representative in afghanistan said in a statement .
the increase in optimism applied across ethnic groups except uzbeks , who make an important minority in pashtun- and tajik-dominated afghanistan .
while there was a slight rise in positive sentiment , it was down significantly from a peak in 2013 before the withdrawal of most foreign forces .
back then nearly 60 percent of afghans were positive about their future .
the survey comes as the united states in august announced a boost in u.s. troops to afghanistan , which could push optimism higher in the coming months .