paris ( reuters ) - barely six months into office , president emmanuel macron is already preparing for his third visit to sub-saharan africa .
yet while the energetic young leader is eager to reshape france s relationship with the continent , old problems die hard .
his nov. 28-30 trip to burkina faso , ghana and ivory coast is aimed at boosting cooperation on education , the digital economy and the environment .
the visit will be capped by an eu-africa summit in abidjan , when migration will top the agenda .
africa is not just the continent of migration and crises .
it s a continent of the future , the 39-year-old president told french ambassadors in august .
but even then , french forces were being sucked deeper into a years-long battle to quell islamist militancy in mali .
last month , a raid by french special forces in the malian desert illustrated how deep that quagmire is becoming .
french troops stormed an islamist training camp , killing 15 suspected militants .
french officials said the operation was based on intelligence the camp housed malians who had joined the islamists .
mali said government soldiers held hostage by the ansar al-dine group were among the dead .
as recriminations flew , a defense official spoke of a real trust problem .
laurent bigot , a former under-secretary in the french foreign ministry , was blunt : mali is a disaster , he said .
we re repeating mistakes made in iraq and afghanistan .
that assessment underlines just how much work macron faces if he is to strengthen security and migration policy without getting bogged down in costly military ventures .
more than 7,000 french troops are already deployed across africa .
macron will make his first stop in ougadougou , burkina faso , where he will set out his vision for franco-african relations in his favored style - a speech .
language and tone are critical .
french presidents usually make early visits to africa , but some have misjudged .
nicolas sarkozy declared the tragedy of africa is that the african has not fully entered into history .
the comment has haunted him .
a presidency official said macron would emphasize education and investing in youth across the continent , themes he has touched on in his first six months in power .
in ghana , a former british colony where france has ramped up investment , including in oil , telecoms and technology , macron is to promote the digital economy and a broadening of french education initiatives .
in ivory coast , environment will be the main topic , before eu and african leaders meet to discuss security and migration , with both macron and germany s angela merkel keen to limit the flow of migrants to europe by introducing tighter checks and controls on african soil , not in europe .
macron s proposals to bolster african growth and create jobs echo germany s call for a marshall plan for africa .
he also promises to raise france s aid budget from 0.38 percent of national income to 0.55 percent by 2022 .
after french colonialism ended in the 1950s and 60s , france wielded a tight grip over its former dominions , using military might to install leaders in return for french companies securing lucrative contracts a policy dubbed francafrique .
but french diplomats say the days of france throwing its weight around for commercial favors are over .
macron , born months after djibouti became the last french colony to gain independence , has shown little inclination to revive the old networks that linked french businessmen and intelligence agents with african politicians .
we have a president who has never known the colonies and never had those close links to the region s leaders .
he has more freedom to say what he thinks , said one diplomat .
macron has created an african presidential council to help shape his thoughts .
its 11 members are mostly young , dual-national entrepreneurs with backgrounds in art , media , finance and ecology .
it reports directly to the president , irking some in diplomatic circles .
france s shift away from francafrique has eroded the privileges once enjoyed by companies such as total , orange and areva , just as globalization has opened the field to china and india .
french business group medef is lobbying macron for a greater role for the private sector in his vision for africa , although some acknowledge french companies face huge competition and can still suffer an image problem .
africa is a fast growing continent , business opportunities are not a problem , said patrice fonlladosa , president of veolia africa & middle east and head of medef s africa committee .
the problem is being chosen as the partner of choice .