( advisory : this story contains content that may offend some readers ) by jon herskovitz austin , texas ( reuters ) - republican texas governor greg abbott on thursday distanced the party from its newly elected leader in travis county , a self-described caustic tweeter and author of political conspiracy books who says he uses sexually explicit language on social media to educate people .
robert morrow , 51 , beat the current republican party chairman in the county in tuesday ’ s primary , causing some officials in the party to tell local media they are seeing if they can prevent him from taking office .
“ robert morrow in no way speaks for the republican party or its values .
he can not adequately represent the travis county gop , ” said john wittman , a spokesman for the texas governor .
morrow said on his twitter feed shortly after his win , “ i am the face of the re-pube-licking party , ” and posted an idea for a pornographic video involving former first lady barbara bush .
“ i put out caustic and inflammatory tweets because i am trying to educate people , ” he said in a reuters interview , adding he provides internet links to support his arguments .
morrow boasted he did not spend a penny on his campaign and probably won because his name appeared first on the ballot .
travis county , which contains the texas capital austin , is one of the few democratic strongholds in a heavily republican state .
but party officials may be over a barrel in that there is little they can do to remove someone who has been duly elected .
some party leaders have floated the idea of starting a new county organization for the republican party and leaving morrow to preside over an empty operation .
“ they are neutered gerbils , ” morrow said .
“ the people have spoken and morrow is the face of the travis county republican party. ” morrow , a ted cruz supporter who has also written conspiracy theory books about the clintons and the john f. kennedy assassination , has made defamatory remarks about republican leaders in the state and the current crop of presidential candidates .
“ the reason i ran for chair of the travis county republican party is because i was so disgusted with the involvement of the bush crime family in national politics and republican party politics , ” he said .
andy hogue , the communications director for the travis county republican party , said the new county chairman does not take office until june 13 .
“ at this time there are many personal opinions but no official courses of action or statements , ” hogue said .
( reporting by jon herskovitz ; additional reporting by lisa maria garza in dallas ; editing by james dalgleish ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .