washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama launched a final push on tuesday to persuade congress to close the u.s. military prison at guantanamo bay , cuba , despite strong opposition from lawmakers who do not want detainees transferred to the united states .
the president , a democrat , pressed the republican-led legislature to give his proposal a “ fair hearing ” and said he did not want to pass the issue to his successor in january .
the pentagon-authored plan proposes 13 potential sites on u.s. soil to hold some 30-60 detainees in maximum-security prisons but does not identify the facilities .
u.s. law bars transfers to the united states , and lawmakers are unlikely to lift those restrictions , especially in an election year .
“ we ’ ll review president obama ’ s plan , ” republican senate majority leader mitch mcconnell said .
“ but since it includes bringing dangerous terrorists to facilities in u.s. communities , he should know that the bipartisan will of congress has already been expressed against that proposal. ” paul ryan , the republican speaker of the house of representatives , said obama had yet to convince americans that moving the prisoners to the united states was smart or safe .
obama is considering taking executive action to close the facility , situated in a u.s. naval station in southeast cuba , if congress does not change its position .
the white house declined to rule out a unilateral option on tuesday .
republicans oppose any executive order , and issuing one would almost certainly generate legal challenges .
the guantanamo prisoners were rounded up overseas when the united states became embroiled in wars in iraq and afghanistan following the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks on new york and washington .
the facility came to symbolize aggressive detention practices that opened the united states to accusations of torture .
most detainees have been held without trial for more than a decade .
“ let us go ahead and close this chapter , ” obama said at the white house .
“ i don ’ t want to pass this problem on to the next president , whoever it is .
and if , as a nation , we don ’ t deal with this now , when will we deal with it ? ” obama pledged as a presidential candidate in 2008 to close guantanamo .
doing so would fulfill that pledge and boost his legacy during his final year in office .
pressing his case now thrust the issue into the 2016 presidential campaign .
“ not only are we not going to close guantanamo - when i am president , if we capture a terrorist alive , they are ... going to guantanamo and we are going to find out everything they know , ” said republican presidential candidate marco rubio .
the plan would send detainees who have been cleared for transfer to their homelands or third countries and transfer remaining prisoners to u.s. soil to be held in maximum-security prisons .
congress has banned such transfers to the united states since 2011 .
though the pentagon has previously noted some of the sites it surveyed for use as potential u.s. facilities , the administration wants to avoid fueling any political outcry in important swing states before the nov. 8 presidential election .
republican senator john mccain , obama ’ s 2008 presidential opponent and an advocate of closing the prison , scoffed at the plan as not being focused .
“ thirteen different possible sites .
that ’ s a recommendation ? ” he said .
the white house has sought to buttress its argument for closing the prison by focusing on its high cost .
obama said nearly $ 450 million was spent last year alone to keep it running .
the new plan would be cheaper , officials said .
the transfer and closure costs would be $ 290 million to $ 475 million , an administration official told reporters , while housing remaining detainees in the united states would be $ 65 million to $ 85 million less expensive than at the cuba facility , meaning the transfer bill would be offset in 3 to 5 years .
the administration hopes sending the plan to congress will spur lawmakers to help choose a facility they find amenable , but the white house is well aware the plan may not move at all .
“ i am very clear-eyed about the hurdles to finally closing guantanamo .
the politics of this are tough , ” obama said .
“ part of my message to the american people here is we ’ re already holding a bunch of really dangerous terrorists here in the united states ... and there have been no incidents .
we ’ ve managed it just fine. ” the guantanamo facility , which obama said once held nearly 800 people , now houses 91 detainees .
some 35 prisoners will be transferred to other countries in the coming months , bringing the final number below 60 , officials said .
more prisoners could be transferred other countries as well , potentially lowering that number further .
obama said military commissions would continue to be used to try some of the prisoners , but he said that process also required reform .
obama noted that his predecessor , republican president george w. bush , transferred hundreds of prisoners out of guantanamo and wanted it closed .