buea , cameroon ( reuters ) - thousands of demonstrators from largely francophone cameroon s english-speaking minority took to the streets to demand more rights on friday , some of them hoisting separatist flags .
two anglophone regions in the west account for about a sixth of cameroon s population .
long-standing complaints of political and economic discrimination spilled over there last year when lawyers and teachers called for reforms .
security forces killed six protesters and arrested hundreds of others , and the internet was shut down in the region from january to april , crippling businesses in a crackdown that was condemned internationally .
friday s protests were the largest and most widespread in months and came the day after a bomb suspected to have been planted by separatists wounded three policemen in bamenda , capital of the northwest region .
the protests appeared to go beyond previous demands for justice and education reform .
in buea , capital of the southwest region , a reuters reporter saw protesters take down a national flag outside a police station , while officers looked on , and hoist the blue and white striped one of ambazonia , a name for the anglophone territory .
a local journalist described a similar incident in the nearby town of ekona .
in buea , young men with their faces painted blue and white blew whistles and shouted we want freedom !
.
we need independence .
we need to be free .
we are ambazonians , said emmanuel che , one of the protesters .
the only solution to this matter is let the government solve the problem by giving our independence .
some anglophones have been demanding independence for years , but they are outnumbered by those merely demanding reforms , experts say .
still , the unrest is uncomfortable to the government of president paul biya , who has been in power for 35 years and was addressing the u.n. general assembly in new york on friday .
it is intensifying now .
it has shifted to another level of extremism , said political analyst albert nchinda .
cameroon s linguistic divide harks back to the end of world war one , when the league of nations divided the former german colony of kamerun between the allied french and british victors .
after independence in 1960 , the english-speaking part opted to join french cameroon instead of nigeria .