washington ( reuters ) - former candidate jeb bush endorsed ted cruz for the republican presidential nomination on wednesday , saying the u.s. senator from texas represents the party ’ s best chance of winning the white house .
in a statement , the former florida governor called cruz a consistent , principled conservative who has demonstrated an ability to appeal to voters and win primary contests .
“ washington is broken , and the only way republicans can hope to win back the white house and put our nation on a better path is to support a nominee who can articulate how conservative policies will help people rise up and reach their full potential , ” bush said .
the 63-year-old bush , whose father and brother served as president , dropped out of the presidential nomination fight after losing badly in south carolina on feb. 20 .
the endorsement comes as establishment republicans scramble to stop front-runner donald trump from winning the nomination because of his divisive proposals like a plan to deport 11 million illegal immigrants .
cruz has run in second place behind trump and could conceivably win enough republican delegates to take the nomination .
ohio governor john kasich ’ s lone path to the nomination is to extend the nomination race until the party ’ s national convention in july .
the idea is to deny trump the required 1,237 delegates needed and force party leaders to consider someone else .
a source close to bush said bush picked cruz because he has the most viable path to the nomination and has shown that he can win states .
the source said bush considers a push for a contested convention to be a “ hail-mary strategy at best. ” in the weeks after he withdrew , bush met in miami with former rivals cruz , kasich and u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida .
rubio dropped out of the race after losing florida last week .
bush spoke by phone to cruz on monday .
in his statement , bush resumed his sharp criticism of trump , saying republican voters must move to overcome “ the divisiveness and vulgarity ” that trump has brought into the political arena “ or we will certainly lose our chance to defeat the democratic nominee and reverse president ( barack ) obama ’ s failed policies. ” “ to win , republicans need to make this election about proposing solutions to the many challenges we face , and i believe that we should vote for ted as he will do just that , ” bush said .
in a statement , cruz said bush ’ s endorsement “ is further evidence that republicans are continuing to unite behind our campaign to nominate a proven conservative ” to defeat democratic favorite hillary clinton in the nov. 8 election .