washington ( reuters ) - u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said on friday that analysis continued on north korea s most recent missile test , but he did not believe its intercontinental ballistic missile ( icbm ) posed an imminent threat to the united states .
it has not yet shown to be a capable threat against us right now ... we re still doing the forensics analysis , mattis told reporters at the pentagon .
last month , north korea said it had successfully tested a new type of icbm that could reach all of the u.s. mainland and south korea and u.s.-based experts said data from the nov. 29 test appeared to support that .
mattis did not elaborate on what was lacking in the test to show it was not a capable threat .
he said himself immediately after the test that the missile had gone higher than any previous north korean launch and that it was part of a research and development effort to continue building ballistic missiles that can threaten everywhere in the world , basically .
u.s.-based experts , some of whom have been skeptical about past north korean claims , said last month that data and photos from the test appeared to confirm north korea had a missile of sufficient power to deliver a nuclear warhead anywhere in america .
but experts and u.s. officials have said questions remain about whether it has a re-entry vehicle capable of protecting a nuclear warhead as it speeds toward its target and about the accuracy of its guidance systems .
south korea s defense ministry said this latest test put washington within range , but pyongyang still needed to prove it had mastered re-entry , terminal stage guidance and warhead activation .
some u.s. based experts believe north korea could be only two or three tests away from being able to declare the missile operational .
u.s. president donald trump vowed it won t happen after north korean said in january is was in the final stages of developing a nuclear weapon capable of reaching the united states .
trump has said all options are on the table , including military ones , although his administration has made clear it prefers a diplomatic solution .
it continues to be a diplomatically led effort , mattis said .
when we re ready to have conversations ... dialogues , that will be up to the president and secretary of state .
at a u.n. security council session on the crisis on friday , secretary of state rex tillerson urged north korea to carry out a sustained cessation of weapons testing to allow the two countries to hold talks .