amsterdam ( reuters ) - britain accused russia on thursday of carrying out a thinly veiled political attack on the head of the world s chemical weapons watchdog , escalating a row over the agency s investigation into toxic attacks in syria .
the comments , made during a session at the hague-based organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons ( opcw ) , were the latest sign of deep political division at the body over the syrian conflict .
in an oct. 26 report the u.n.-opcw investigation team blamed the syrian government for an april 4 attack using the banned nerve agent sarin in the opposition-held town of khan sheikhoun , killing around 80 people .
the syrian government has denied using chemical weapons and moscow rejected the findings .
the mechanism was established in 2015 by the u.n. security council to identify individuals , organizations or governments responsible for chemical attacks in syria .
its mandate expires on nov. 17 , but its work is incomplete .
moscow is poised to veto efforts by britain , france , germany and the united states to extend the mandate .
u.s. representative kenneth ward told delegates at a meeting of the opcw s 41-member executive council that they were fighting for the future of the chemical weapons convention , the watchdog s founding treaty .
there can be no doubt that since 2013 , syria has engaged in a grotesque and calculated campaign of chemical weapons use , he said .
russia continues to deny the truth and , instead , collaborates with the assad regime .
a draft russian-iranian proposal circulated at the opcw and seen by reuters called for a new investigation , to be based on samples taken from the attack site .
the syrian government itself has already presented samples from the scene to the investigation team , which tested positive for sarin .
it is a thinly veiled political attack on the professional integrity of the director general , the british delegation said in a statement , referring to the opcw s outgoing turkish head , ahmet uzumcu .
it seeks to undermine the capability and competence of the ( opcw ) .
the russian delegation at the opcw could not be reached for comment .
syria joined the opcw after a sarin attack on aug. 21 , 2013 , killed hundreds of people in ghouta , a district on the outskirts of damascus .
it has said it declared and destroyed all its chemical stockpile , but chemical attacks continue in the country s civil war .