from the vanity fair article : milo yiannopoulos , the former tech editor at breitbart , has made political provocations , often deeply offensive ones , a business model .
but his career seemed to come crashing down in recent months when one of his speaking appearances , at the university of california , berkeley , led to riots .
weeks later , videos emerged of yiannopoulos seeming to condone pedophilia .
( i do not support pedophilia .
period .
it is a vile and disgusting crime , perhaps the very worst , yiannopoulos said in a statement on facebook at the time .
) yet his allies turned on him .
yiannopoulos was subsequently forced out of breitbart in disgrace .
the american conservative union disinvited him from cpac , and simon & schuster canceled a six-figure book deal.but as the free-speech conflagration he ignited at berkeley continues to burn , yiannopoulos is planning a way back in .
days after releasing a video touting his return to the campus , yiannopoulos told the hive that he would be launching a new media venture in the coming weeks with what he says is a $ 12 million investment from backers whose identities he is protecting .
( yiannopoulos showed me a page from the contract with the investors names blacked out . )
another person involved with the company , who spoke on the condition of anonymity , was similarly secretive : milo has the best instincts about these things , he said.the business , which will be called milo inc. , will be even more focused on stoking the sort of ugly political conflict that s closer to the surface of what can be best described as corporatized trolling via live entertainment , with yiannopoulos and his investors hosting events featuring right-wing talent .
the business of madonna became touring , said yiannopoulos in a phone interview , citing the artist s deal with live nation .
i m doing the same thing , but instead of signing up with live nation , i m building one .
i m building it for libertarian and conservative comedians , writers , stand-up comics , intellectuals , you name it .
this video pretty much sums up the truth about milo and his free-speech rights being shut down by violent leftists : milo inc. s first event will be a return to the town that erupted in riots when he was invited to speak earlier this year .
in fact , yiannopoulos said that he is planning a week-long celebration of free speech near u.c .
berkeley , where a speech by his fellow campus agitator , ann coulter , was recently canceled after threats of violence .
it will culminate in his bestowing something called the mario savio award for free speech .
( the son of savio , one of the leaders of berkeley s free speech movement during the mid-1960s , called the award some kind of sick joke .
) for the entire article : vanity fair