lisbon ( reuters ) - former portuguese prime minister jose socrates was indicted on graft and money laundering charges on wednesday in a vast corruption investigation that he has dismissed as politically-motivated .
socrates has repeatedly denied wrongdoing and his lawyer joao araujo said he would fight the charges contained in the more than 4,000-page indictment .
the 4,000 pages are part of a spectacle , they only serve to make believe that there is something , when there is nothing , araujo told reporters .
the indictment , issued after a four-year inquiry , accuses socrates of playing a pivotal role and receiving millions of euros in a scheme involving the disgraced former heads of the espirito santo banking empire and portugal telecom .
both entities have since ceased to exist , inflicting billions of euros in losses on taxpayers and shareholders , and their former top brass have been accused of other crimes in separate investigations .
socrates , a socialist prime minister from 2005 to 2011 , is charged with three counts of passive corruption while holding political office , 16 counts of money-laundering , nine counts of forging documents and three counts of tax fraud , committed between 2006 and 2015 .
a trial date has not yet been set .
prosecutors said socrates gave illicit commercial benefits to a construction company , lena , in return for payments received via middlemen , who were also indicted , via a swiss bank account .
a former top-level manager at state-owned bank caixa geral de depositos has also been charged with facilitating payments .
ricardo salgado , former ceo of banco espirito santo ( bes ) and head of the espirito santo banking family , is charged with paying socrates to sway portugal telecom to follow a strategy defined by salgado .
salgado is also accused of paying portugal telecom s former ceo zeinal bava and chairman henrique granadeiro - both of whom were also indicted .
bes , which was a major shareholder in portugal telecom , collapsed in 2014 under a mountain of debt , causing a default of nearly 1 billion euros at portugal telecom , which has since been sold off .
a total of 19 people and nine firms in the construction , resort development , consulting and investment sectors have been indicted .
salgado , the former portugal telecom executives and lena have denied any wrongdoing .
socrates resigned as prime minister in the middle of his second four-year term in 2011 as an escalating debt crisis forced him to request an international bailout , which imposed painful austerity measures on portugal .
he was arrested in 2014 and spent months in prison before being shifted to house arrest .
the socialists regained power in 2015 under prime minister antonio costa , who was a minister in socrates first cabinet .