washington ( reuters ) - israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has declined an offer to meet u.s. president barack obama at the white house later this month and canceled his trip to washington , the white house said on monday .
netanyahu ’ s decision to nix his u.s. visit marked the latest episode in a fraught relationship with obama that has yet to recover from their deep differences over last year ’ s u.s.-led international nuclear deal with iran , israel ’ s arch foe .
the white house said the israeli government had requested a netanyahu meeting with obama on either march 18 or 19 and that two weeks ago he was offered a march 18 encounter .
“ we were looking forward to hosting the bilateral meeting , and we were surprised to first learn via media reports that the prime minister , rather than accept our invitation , opted to cancel his visit , ” white house spokesman ned price said in an emailed statement .
“ reports that we were not able to accommodate the prime minister ’ s schedule are false , ” he said .
the white house has announced obama ’ s plans to be in havana on march 21 and 22 for a historic visit aimed at moving closer toward normalized relations with washington ’ s former cold war adversary .
there was no immediate word from netanyahu ’ s office about the cancellation , which also comes as the two close allies are struggling to negotiate a new 10-year , multibillion-dollar defense aid agreement for israel .
israel ’ s channel 10 tv , citing unnamed israeli sources , said netanyahu ’ s decision to scrap the trip appeared to be motivated by reluctance to be perceived as interfering in the u.s. presidential election campaign , should any candidates seek to meet him in washington .
netanyahu also saw little to show for such a trip , given that the new defense memorandum of understanding is “ far from being agreed yet , ” channel 10 said .
several israeli media quoted israeli officials as saying that no appropriate time could be found for the meeting before obama ’ s departure for cuba .
netanyahu had been expected to visit washington this month not only to see obama but to address the annual conference of the leading u.s. pro-israel lobby , aipac .
in the past he has sometimes spoken to the group via satellite .
the prime minister made a speech to the u.s. congress last march criticizing the then-emerging iran nuclear deal and was denied a meeting with obama during that visit in what was widely regarded as a diplomatic snub .
but the two leaders met at the white house in november and sought to mend ties .
in recent months , differences over defense aid have underscored continuing tensions over the iran deal .
netanyahu and his aides suggested in february if israel were unable to reach an accord with obama , it could wait for the next president to secure better terms .
current u.s. defense aid to israel , worth about $ 3 billion annually , expires in 2018 .
the two sides are seeking an extension before obama leaves office in january 2017 .
u.s. vice president joe biden , on a five-day trip to the middle east , is due to visit israel later this week and hold talks with netanyahu .