berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel won a fourth term in office in the german national election on sept. 24 , but a fractured vote that brings the far-right into parliament means she must try to work out a three-way coalition untested at federal level .
the new alliance would comprise merkel s conservative bloc - her christian democratic union ( cdu ) and the bavarian christian social union ( csu ) - along with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmentalist greens .
such a tie-up is called a jamaica coalition , because the three parties colors of black , yellow and green match those of the jamaican flag .
to secure a coalition deal , the unlikely bedfellows must overcome differences on issues from immigration to europe , tax and the environment .
exploratory talks between the conservative bloc and fdp and separately the conservatives and the greens took place on wednesday .
on thursday the fdp and greens meet before all four parties get together for the first time on friday .
following are remarks on the possible coalition from senior officials : we will not manage without compromises .
my impression is that all the participants want the experiment to succeed but also know how difficult it is to come together .
it is our job to make something constructive out of our differences .
no formulaic compromises but solutions .
the road to jamaica is long .
after cdu/csu , fdp exploratory talks : it was a good exchange , at times nice and above all mutually respectful and joyful .
it is totally conceivable that before christmas or in january we say that the whole thing is pointless and we ll talk to the social democrats ( spd ) .
we are open , we are constructive and creative - but also resolute in areas that are important to us .
put the chances of a jamaica coalition succeeding at 50/50 .
it can succeed .
the most important thing is that trust needs to be built between participants , and that takes time .
that s why it would be illusory to believe we could conclude negotiations by christmas .
no one would understand it if the new government does not pass an immigration law .
we need a mix of humanity and order .
we greens also want to secure the eu s external borders and build a sensible database of fingerprints .
this ( the cdu/csu immigration pact ) is an agreement between the cdu and csu , and far from the result of exploratory talks for a coalition with the fdp and greens .
no party can expect the others to accept its original wording without changes ...
but i believe that a signal about limiting immigration on humanitarian grounds will ultimately make its way into the coalition agreement .
europe s fiscal policy needs a shift away from austerity toward a common pact for tax collection and investments , which would trigger social and ecological innovations .
a red line for us in coalition talks is the mutualisation of debt in europe , the creation of new pots of money .
in a monetary union where the deficit rules of maastricht are respected , there is no need for permanent rescue funds .
what we christian democrats call preservation of creation overlaps a lot with what the greens call a sustainable approach to nature .
there can only be a jamaica tax concept if it includes the end of the solidarity surcharge without taking that money out of people s pockets somewhere else .
the chancellery and the finance ministry should be politically separate .
a greens , a csu or an fdp finance minister - anything would be better than leaving the finance ministry in cdu hands .