wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand will develop a close relationship with china , foreign minister winston peters said on tuesday , putting to rest fears that his protectionist campaign rhetoric would fuel tension with a key trading partner .
the 40-year political veteran played a decisive role in bringing the centre-left labour party to power in october after an inconclusive election left his nationalist new zealand first party holding the balance of power .
but many in china see new zealand as a model for the asian giant s relationship with western countries , with president xi jinping last year calling the depth of the bond unprecedented .
our record of trade and economic firsts is dramatic , peters , who is also deputy prime minister , told academics and diplomats in wellington , setting out his stance on china for the first time since taking office .
new zealand will continue to seek closer cooperation with china as both countries focus on sustainable economic development and the wellbeing of our peoples , peters said , giving a complimentary account of 45 years of diplomatic ties .
peters had campaigned on a protectionist platform , vowing to slash immigration and curb foreign investment , which fueled concern he could anger the asian giant , the country s top destination for goods exports .
on the previous national government s watch , new zealand became the first developed country to join the china-led asia infrastructure investment bank and helped usher in other western countries , according to treasury officials .
trade between the two countries has grown to more than nz $ 24 billion ( $ 16.54 billion ) a year and new zealand was the first western nation to formally sign up to china s sweeping belt and road global infrastructure initiative in march .
the two are in the midst of negotiations to upgrade their 2008 free trade pact , which peters said would serve as a demonstration to our shared commitment to trade liberalization .
he also defended china s human rights record , which has at times drawn fire from rights groups .
when you have hundreds of millions of people to be re-employed and relocated with the change of your economic structure you have some massive , huge problems , peters said .
sometimes commentators in the west should have a little more regard to that , and the economic outcome for those people , rather than constantly harping on about the romance of freedom .
china s crackdown on activists and lawyers in its campaign to stifle dissent was alarming , new york-based human rights watch said in september .
( $ 1=1.4512 new zealand dollars )