paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet on twitter ) posted an interesting video that should cause alarm-bells to go off , no matter where , in the world you live .
if you live in sweden and have been watching your swedish traditions and culture discarded and replaced with a radical muslim culture , you probably won t be shocked by this video .
if you live in a nation like germany or the uk that s been importing unvetted refugees from muslim majority nations for several years , you will probably not be surprised by this video .
but for many americans , who are foolish enough to think that inviting millions of muslim refugees ( who have no interest in assimilating ) into your neighborhoods and communities , this video should serve as a warning to you of what a bleeding-heart nation looks like post-idiocy : the weather forecast in sweden vs the weather forecast in iraq .
pic.twitter.com/t870jhvrsu paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) july 11 , 2017so , why is sweden starting to look like a majority muslim nation ?
in 1975 , the swedish parliament unanimously decided to change the former homogeneous sweden into a multicultural country .
forty years later the dramatic consequences of this experiment emerge : violent crime has increased by 300 % .if one looks at the number of rapes , however , the increase is even worse .
in 1975 , 421 rapes were reported to the police ; in 2014 , it was 6,620 .
that is an increase of 1,472 % .sweden is now number two on the global list of rape countries .
according to a survey from 2010 , sweden , with 53.2 rapes per 100,000 inhabitants , is surpassed only by tiny lesotho in southern africa , with 91.6 rapes per 100,000 inhabitants.data also suggests the uptick is due to immigrants more controversial is what explains these increases .
some contend the increase in rape is simply a statistical phenomenon due to the application of an expanded definition of rape in 2005 and again in 2013 .
others suggest swedish women have simply grown bolder about reporting things that happened previously but went unreported .
maybe , but in the same period , as carlqvist and hedegaard point out , the number of gang rapes [ in sweden ] increased spectacularly .
in rapes of this kind culprits and victims are most often young and in almost every case , the perpetrators are of immigrant background , mostly from muslim countries .
finally , it s also worth pointing out that the rise of rape isn t peculiar to sweden either .
the same problem is plaguing germany , austria ( more information here ) , britain , and other eu nations .
the federalist