seoul ( reuters ) - south korea imposed unilateral sanctions on 18 north koreans on monday , barring any financial transactions between those sanctioned and any south koreans , as part of international efforts to dry up pyongyang s illegal cash flows .
all 18 individuals on which the south korean sanctions were imposed were directly affiliated to north korean banks , according to an official government announcement by the finance minister uploaded on the interior ministry s website .
they are all people at north korean financial institutions that have already been sanctioned by the united nations , a government official directly involved in the sanction development process told reuters .
the official asked for anonymity as he was not authorized to speak to media .
they re high-ranking employees who have been linked to north korea s nuclear and missile development program as well as the north s foreign exchange procurement efforts .
we aim to encourage people to avoid problematic transactions with north korea ( through these sanctions ) and to exercise caution with north korea-related transactions in general , said unification ministry spokesman baek tae-hyun in a regular media briefing .
we expect this will contribute to blocking north korea s main sources of foreign exchange and its developing of weapons of mass destruction .
the announcement came a day ahead of u.s. president donald trump s visit to south korea as part of his 12-day asia tour , where he is expected to discuss north korea s nuclear and missile program at length with government officials here .
when asked on the timing of the announcement , government officials denied it was tied to trump s visit to seoul .
despite the announcement , the sanctions are expected to have little impact on north korea s illegal activities to fund its weapons program as all trade and financial exchanges have been barred since may 2010 following the torpedoing of a south korean warship by north korea .
those named were : kang min , ko chol man , ku ja hyong , kim kyong il , kim tong chol , kim sang ho , kim jong man , kim hyok chol , ri un song , ri chun song , ri chun hwan , mun kyong hwan , park mun il , pak bong nam , pang su nam , pae won uk , chu hyok and choe sok min .
according to the announcement 14 of those named were based in china , two were based in libya while the remaining two were based in russia .
the institutions the 18 were affiliated with were korea daesong bank , foreign trade bank of the democratic people s republic of korea , korea united development bank , bank of east land and ilsim international bank .
as of the announcement on monday , south korea had north korea sanctions imposed on 97 individuals .