dubai ( reuters ) - iran said on saturday it had successfully tested a new ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 km ( 1,200 miles ) and would keep developing its arsenal despite u.s. pressure to stop .
the united states has imposed unilateral sanctions on iran , saying its missile tests violate a u.n. resolution , which calls on tehran not to undertake activities related to missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons .
iran says it has no such plans .
u.s. president donald trump said on twitter the missile test illustrates the weakness of the iran nuclear deal reached by his predecessor barack obama .
he also linked the action to recent aggressive moves by north korea .
iran just test-fired a ballistic missile capable of reaching israel .
they are also working with north korea , trump said on twitter .
not much of an agreement we have !
iran said in its announcement on saturday that the khorramshahr missile could carry several warheads .
state broadcaster irib carried footage of the missile test without giving its time or location .
it included video from an on-board camera which it said showed the detachment of the cone that carries multiple warheads .
you are seeing images of the successful test of the khorramshahr ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 km , the latest missile of our country , state television said , adding this was iran s third missile with such a range .
the khorramshahr was first displayed at a military parade on friday , where president hassan rouhani said iran would strengthen its missile capabilities .
britain voiced concerns about the latest test .
extremely concerned by reports of iran missile test , which is inconsistent with un resolution 2231 .
call on iran to halt provocative acts , british foreign secretary boris johnson wrote on twitter .
france also said it was extremely concerned and called on u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres to carry out a full report on the launch .
france asks that iran cease all destabilizing activity in the region , foreign ministry spokeswoman agnes romatet-espagne said in a statement .
( france ) will consider with its partners , notably european , the means to obtain from iran the cessation of its destabilizing ballistic activities .
trump told the u.n. general assembly on tuesday that iran was building its missile capability and accused it of exporting violence to yemen , syria and other parts of the middle east .
he also criticized a 2015 pact that the united states and other world powers struck with iran under which tehran agreed to restrict its nuclear program in return for relief from economic sanctions .
iran s defense minister said on saturday foreign pressures would not affect iran s missile program .
on the path to improve our country s defensive capacity we will certainly not be the least affected by any threats and we won t ask anyone s permission , brigadier general amir hatami said in remarks carried by state television .
iran denies its missile development breaches the u.n. resolution and says its missiles are not designed to carry nuclear weapons .
the weight of the khorramshahr missile s warhead has been announced to be 1,800 kg ( 4,000 lbs ) , ... making it iran s most powerful missile for defense and retaliation against any aggressive enemy , state television said .