geneva ( reuters ) - diplomats are searching for ways to prevent the global trade dispute resolution system from freezing up , after the trump administration blocked appointments to the body that acts as the supreme court for global trade .
u.s. president donald trump has vetoed the appointment of judges to fill vacancies on the seven-member apellate body of the world trade organization , which provides final decisions in arguments between countries over trade .
members are already having a conversation about what to do with this situation , wto director general roberto azevedo told reporters .
they are floating ideas , they are discussing .
we have to see how that evolves .
the wto normally has seven judges and needs three to sign off on every appeal ruling .
but two have left and another goes in december , leaving only four - just one above the minimum - to deal with a growing backlog of trade disputes .
azevedo said he did not think the situation was a threat to the wto s survival but it was already having an impact , and the longer it went on the more acutely it would be felt .
in a confidential note sent to all wto members on monday , a copy of which was reviewed by reuters , the appellate body said departing judges would continue working after they left on appeals filed before their terms ended .
the united states has objected to that practice in the past .
appointments to the appellate body are meant to be unanimously agreed by all 164 members , like all decisions at the wto .
the fine print says the wto can switch to majority voting if necessary , but diplomats are reluctant to do that for fear of unraveling a system that relies on consensus as a bulwark to protectionism .
azevedo said the trump administration had made clear it had misgivings about the way the world trade system has functioned , although it had not linked any specific demands for reform with the decision to halt appointments to the appeals panel .
the trump administration has not publicly explained why it is blocking the appointment of judges to the trade panel .
the u.s. mission to the wto in geneva declined to comment .
several trade experts said the move seemed to fit trump s ideology of favoring bilateral trade deals over the multi-lateral system embodied by the wto .
pieter jan kuijper , professor of law at the university of amsterdam , said trump s trade representative , robert lighthizer , preferred the pre-wto practice of negotiating the outcome of trade disputes rather than being bound by wto rulings .
although trump regularly says washington has been hurt by trade disputes , wto experts mainly say the united states has actually been a big winner at the wto .
but negotiating the outcome of trade disputes rather than leaving them to judges might tip the balance further in washington s favor .
kuijper compared trump s stance to that of zimbabwe s former president robert mugabe killing off the court of the southern african development community by blocking new judges when the court became too troublesome .
that example doesn t make one optimistic , he said .
we are in a true emergency where we should take into account that the end of the appellate body may come , either by design or by accident .
at a panel discussion on monday for trade officials and diplomats , kuijper and other trade experts discussed possible ways to avert a crisis if more vacancies come open .
one solution would be to switch to majority voting for appointing judges .
another would be for the judges to change their own working procedures , refusing to take any more appeals until there are more judges .
nicolas lockhart , a trade lawyer at sidley austin llp , suggested the wto could use its arbitration process more to resolve disputes and rely less on appeals .
all three approaches have drawbacks , including the risk of further alienating the united states .
a process that could lead to a situation where the united states leaves the wto in a huff is actually a situation where everyone loses , and the last thing we should be aiming for , said alice tipping , a former new zealand trade diplomat now at the international centre for trade and sustainable development .