our country is spinning out of control .
obama s orchestrated efforts with race baiters like al sharpton and leaders of black lives matter terrorists have created a divide between races like my generation has never known .
obama skips supreme court justice anton scalia s funeral and the funeral of iconic first lady , nancy reagan , but finds time to take a few pot shots at gop presidential front-runner , donald trump while attending a hipster festival with michelle .
barack s proven over and over he doesn t have the time or desire to behave like a leader , and now , he s going to tell the europeans what they need to do as it relates to the eu ?
when i heard from the baron today that our current president is planning to go to britain to make a case to the public for staying in the european union , i was momentarily stunned .
what happened to leading from behind and letting other countries handle their own affairs ? by now we re all jaded by this president .
he does nothing for free , nothing in which there is not some eventual pay-off to him .
so sticking his nose into britain s affairs should come as no surprise , given his track record of the last interminable years of his time in office.or maybe he doesn t know how deeply disliked he is by anyone who didn t sign onto his pathetic peace prize back in the beginning of his reign ?
maybe he believes what the sycophantic press tells him ?
or or wait !
is he using a kind of reverse psychology on the british i.e. , knowing how much he is held in contempt , anything he suggests , they would oppose ?
nah he s far too removed from reality to grasp that concept.so here we have london mayor boris johnson s take on the subject .
he s far more interesting to follow on this than any national government figures would be .
via : gates of viennathese excerpts are from the telegraph .
the only thing mr j got wrong is the extent to which obama has undermined america s sovereignty , particularly at our southern border and on the subject of changing our culture and monolingual character .
one could say that mr. obama s decision to drop in and lecture the brits on this particular subject is not contradictory at all ; it is congruent with his own behavior and sentiments regarding america s sovereignty.obviously , mr. johnson hasn t been paying attention to the american presidential campaign .
but they why would he ?
had he done so , though , he d have seen an unprecedented populist following for donald trump , based on that theme : sovereignty.we want ours back in one piece.i love america .
i believe in the american dream .
indeed , i hold that the story of the past 100 years has been very largely about how america rose to global greatness and how america has helped to preserve and expand democracy around the world .
in two global conflicts , and throughout the cold war , the united states has fought for the founding ideals of the republic : that government of the people , by the people , for the people should not perish from the earth.so it is on the face of it a bit peculiar that u.s. government officials should believe that britain must remain within the eu a system in which democracy is increasingly undermined.some time in the next couple of months we are told that president obama himself is going to arrive in this country , like some deus ex machina , to pronounce on the matter .
air force one will touch down ; a lectern with the presidential seal will be erected .
the british people will be told to be good to themselves , to do the right thing .
we will be informed by our most important ally that it is in our interests to stay in the eu , no matter how flawed we may feel that organisation to be .
never mind the loss of sovereignty ; never mind the expense and the bureaucracy and the uncontrolled immigration.the american view is very clear .
whether in code or en clair , the president will tell us all that uk membership of the eu is right for britain , right for europe , and right for america .
and why ?
because that or so we will be told is the only way we can have influence in the counsels of the nations.it is an important argument , and deserves to be taken seriously .
i also think it is wholly fallacious and coming from uncle sam , it is a piece of outrageous and exorbitant hypocrisy.there is no country in the world that defends its own sovereignty with such hysterical vigilance as the united states of america .
this is a nation born from its glorious refusal to accept overseas control .
almost two and a half centuries ago the american colonists rose up and violently asserted the principle that they and they alone should determine the government of america , and not george iii or his ministers .
to this day the americans refuse to kneel to almost any kind of international jurisdiction .
alone of western nations , the us declines to accept that its citizens can be subject to the rulings of the international criminal court in the hague .
they have not even signed up to the convention on the law of the sea .
can you imagine the americans submitting their democracy to the kind of regime that we have in the eu ? so why is it essential for britain to comply with a system that the americans would themselves reject out of hand ?
is it not a blatant case of do as i say , but not as i do ? for entire letter , go to : the telegraph