lanus , argentina ( reuters ) - adriana rodriguez , a 59-year-old vendor at an open-air market in an industrial city in argentina s buenos aires province , never imagined her home would be connected to the sewage system .
but as business-friendly president mauricio macri invested in infrastructure ahead of sunday s legislative election victory , sewage construction in her hometown of lanus advanced to within two blocks of rodriguez s house .
she expects pipes to reach her home soon .
my husband and i thought we would die without getting connected to the sewage system , she said .
it is a step forward .
like many of the working-class suburbs surrounding argentina s capital that collectively make up the country s most important electoral region , lanus has long been a bastion of support for the peronist movement , which generally emphasizes strong unions and redistributive policies .
macri s coalition , which initially struggled to appeal to the working class , went after those votes with a 150 billion peso ( $ 8.7 billion ) public works plan in buenos aires province , home to more than a third of argentine voters .
it paved roads and built express bus lanes after a decade of stagnant infrastructure investment under former populist president cristina fernandez .
that helped macri s let s change coalition defeat fernandez in the province s senate race on sunday .
in lanus , macri s candidate beat fernandez with 40.8 percent of votes versus 38.9 percent .
that compared to a virtual tie in an aug. 13 primary .
people now identify macrismo with public works , said marcos buscaglia , founding partner at buenos aires political and economic consultancy alberdi partners .
it has given them a lot of hope to actually see paved roads , sewers , and the like .
when a macri ally took over as lanus mayor in december 2015 from a peronist , just 35 percent of the city s residents were connected to the sewage system .
the municipality is aiming for 100 percent connection by 2019 , and state-run water service company aysa says it has invested 5.6 billion pesos ( $ 321.7 million ) in lanus , including 60 sewage pipe projects benefiting nearly 300,000 residents .
some remain skeptical .
many of the projects are being financed with debt , a hot button issue in argentina due to still raw memories of the country s 2001 debt default and economic crisis .
in august , the inter-american development bank pledged $ 305 million to fund water projects , including sewerage in the buenos aires metropolitan area .
the moment will come when the lenders want to collect , said alberto francisco , a 46-year-old shopkeeper in lanus , a fernandez supporter .
we will end up like in 2001 : without money .