baghdad/erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - baghdad heaped pressure on iraq s kurds on wednesday , demanding they cancel their overwhelming vote for independence while parliament urged the iraqi central government to send troops to take control of vital oil fields held by kurdish forces .
stepping up efforts to isolate autonomous kurdish-held northern iraq , whose people endorsed secession in a referendum on monday that angered neighboring countries , baghdad demanded that foreign governments close their diplomatic missions in the kurdish capital erbil .
final results released on wednesday showed nearly 93 percent in favor of independence , and 7.3 percent against .
more than 3.3 million people , or 72 percent of eligible voters , took part in monday s ballot , according to the electoral commission .
the referendum has stirred fears of a new regional conflict .
an iraqi armed forces delegation headed to neighboring iran to coordinate military efforts , apparently as part of retaliatory measures taken by the government in baghdad following the vote .
iran and turkey also oppose any move toward kurdish secession and their armies have started joint exercises near their borders with iraqi kurdistan in recent days .
iraq and turkey have also held joint military drills .
foreign airlines began suspending flights to kurdish airports after the iraqi civil aviation authority said on wednesday that international flights to erbil and sulaimaniya would be suspended from 1500 gmt .
kurdish authorities rejected baghdad s demands that they should annul the referendum as a condition for dialogue and hand over control of their international airports .
on wednesday evening , kurdish rudaw tv reported that the kurdistan regional government had offered to hold talks with baghdad about hosting iraqi observers at erbil and sulaimaniya airports to help defuse the crisis .
turkey , which has threatened to impose sanctions on the kurds , said its border with northern iraq remained open , although it may not remain so .
the number of trucks passing through had however decreased .
home to the region s largest kurdish population , turkey has been battling a three-decade insurgency in its largely kurdish southeast and fears the referendum will inflame separatist tension at home .
for their part , kurdish leaders in neighboring syria said the krg referendum could bolster their cause for autonomy in negotiations with the damascus government .
two meetings so far on the matter had gone nowhere , they told reuters .
turkish president tayyip erdogan and russian president vladimir putin , who have stressed the need for iraq s borders to remain unchanged , will meet in ankara on thursday .
russia s interest in the region is growing .
oil major rosneft ( rosn.mm ) is increasing investment in kurdistan and the kurds have been developing strong ties with moscow .
the russian foreign ministry warned iraq and the kurds against taking any steps that might destabilize the middle east after the referendum .
the kurds consider monday s referendum to be an historic step in a generations-old quest for a state of their own .
iraq considers the vote unconstitutional , especially as it was held not only within official krg territory itself but also on disputed territory held by kurds elsewhere in northern iraq .
the united states , major european countries and nearby turkey and iran strongly opposed the referendum , which they described as destabilizing at a time when all sides are still fighting against islamic state ( is ) militants .
iraqi kurdish leader masoud barzani announced on tuesday evening that the yes vote had won .
the outcome has caused anger in baghdad , where parliament , in a session boycotted by kurdish lawmakers , asked prime minister haider al-abadi to send troops to the kurdish-held region of kirkuk to take control of its oilfields .
kurdish peshmerga forces took kirkuk , a multi-ethnic region , in 2014 when the iraqi army fled in the face of is which overran about a third of iraq .
the kurds prevented kirkuk s huge oil resources from falling into the militants hands .
the government has to bring back the oilfields of kirkuk under the control of the oil ministry , the resolution backed by parliament in baghdad said .
the area , long claimed by the kurds , is also home to turkmen and arab communities , who opposed the independence vote , although the krg included the area in the referendum .
barzani , who is krg president , has said the vote is not binding , but meant to provide a mandate for negotiations with baghdad and neighboring countries over the peaceful secession of the region from iraq .
baghdad has rejected talks .
abadi , a moderate from iraq s shi ite arab majority , is under pressure to take punitive measures against the kurds .
hardline iranian-backed shi ite groups have already threatened to march on kirkuk .
the kurds were left without a state of their own when the ottoman empire crumbled a century ago .
around 30 million are scattered through northern iraq , southeastern turkey and parts of syria and iran .
the autonomous region they control in iraq is the closest the kurds have come in modern times to a state .
it has flourished , largely remaining at peace while the rest of iraq has been in a continuous state of civil war for 14 years .
since the fall of saddam hussein , they have had to carefully balance their ambitions for full independence with the threat of a backlash from their neighbors and the reluctance of washington to redraw borders .
in the past four years they achieved a measure of economic independence by opening a route to sell oil through pipelines to a port in turkey .
but that still leaves them at the mercy of ankara , which draws a firm line at formal independence .
the kurds say the referendum acknowledges their contribution in confronting islamic state after it overwhelmed the iraqi army .
iraq s kurds have been close allies of the united states since washington secured their protection from saddam in 1991 .
but the united states has long encouraged the kurds to avoid unilateral steps so as not to jeopardize the stability of iraq or antagonize turkey .
the u.s. state department said it was deeply disappointed by the decision to conduct the referendum , while the european union regretted that the kurds had failed to heed its call not to hold the vote .