cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - the two rohingya muslim brothers , six-year-old mohamed heron and four-year-old akhter , held each other as they showed burns on their arms and torsos that their uncle says resulted from myanmar s armed forces firing rockets at their village .
two of their siblings , one seven years old and the other a 10-month-old infant , died in the attack , according to their uncle , mohamed inus .
their father was held by the military and has not been heard of since .
these two children survived when our village was fired on with rockets , inus told reuters at kutupalong refugee camp , near cox s bazar in bangladesh .
they were among a number of rohingya who showed their wounds to a reuters photographer who visited kutupalong and the nearby camps at balukhali , leda and nayapara .
( click reut.rs/2hbzzok to view the photo essay ) fleeing along with other villagers who abandoned their scorched homes , the boys reached bangladesh after a three-day trek .
at kutupalong , they were treated for three weeks for their burns at a m decins sans fronti res ( msf ) clinic .
since the ethnic violence erupted in late august , thousands of rohingya have crossed the border each week , often travelling for days and even weeks , trekking through forests and over mountains , with many making a hazardous river or sea crossing on the last leg of their flight to fellow-muslim bangladesh .
bangladeshi hospitals and international aid agencies are struggling to provide medical care for all the refugees , many of whom have suffered horrific injuries and psychological trauma .
since the crisis began , chittagong medical college hospital has received 261 casualties suffering wounds from gunshots or explosions , according to its director , brigadier general jalal uddin .
sixteen have died from their wounds and some have been crippled .
we have had to amputate the limbs of some patients , jalal uddin said .
sadar hospital in cox s bazar had treated 1,467 rohingya since the exodus began for injuries including bullet wounds , broken bones , and cuts inflicted by knives or machetes , residential medical officer shaheen abdur rahman chowdhury said .
more than 600,000 rohingya have fled to bangladesh since myanmar s military launched what it described as clearance operations following a series of attacks by rohingya militants on security posts in rakhine state in late august .
rights monitors and fleeing rohingya say the army and rakhine buddhist vigilantes have mounted a campaign of arson aimed at driving out the muslim population .
the u.n. rights agency said it was a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
myanmar , an overwhelmingly buddhist nation , rejects the charge , saying its forces targeted insurgents of the arakan rohingya salvation army , whom it has accused of setting fires and attacking civilians .
at the camps in bangladesh , other rohingya victims of the violence recounted the horrors they had lived through .
anwara begum , 36 , said she woke to find her home in maungdaw township , in the northernmost part of rakhine state , in flames .
before she could get out the burning roof caved in on her and her nylon clothes melted onto her arms .
her husband carried her for eight days to reach the kutupalong camp in bangladesh .
i thought i was going to die .
i tried to stay alive for my children , she said , adding she was still waiting for treatment for her burns .
his right arm swathed in bandages from the knuckles of his hand to well above the elbow , imam hossain , 42 , lay exhausted on the roadside near the kutupalong camp .
he was returning home after teaching at a madrassa in his village when three men attacked him with knives .
the next day , he made his wife and two children leave with other villagers fleeing to bangladesh .
he reached cox s bazar later .
he was still searching for his family .
i want to ask the myanmar government why they are harming the rohingya , he said .
why do buddhists hate us ?
why do you torture us ?
what is wrong with us ?
suffering burns to his limbs and torso , mohamed jabair , 21 , had feared that he had also lost his sight in an explosion that ripped through his village home .
knocked unconscious and badly burned , jabair was carried by his brother and others for four days to cox s bazar .
i was blind for many weeks and admitted to a government hospital in cox s bazar for 23 days .
i was frightened that i would be blind forever , he said .
jabair said money sent by relatives in malaysia had run out and he could no longer afford treatment .
bowing to show deep cuts arcing across his scalp , 17-year-old nur kamal described how soldiers assaulted him after they found the young shopkeeper hiding in his home in kan hpu village in maungdaw .
they hit me with a rifle butt on my head first and then with a knife , kamal said .
his uncle found him unconscious in a pool of blood .
it took them two weeks to get to bangladesh .
we want justice , kamal said .
we want the international community to help us obtain justice .
her husband , daughter and one son were killed when soldiers fired on kalabarow s village in maungdaw .
the 50-year-old woman was hit in her right foot .
for several hours , she lay where she fell , pretending to be dead , before a grandson found her .
during their 11-day journey to bangladesh , a village doctor amputated her infected foot and four men carried her on a stretcher made of bamboo and a bedsheet .
as we walked through the forest , we saw burnt villages and dead bodies .
i thought we would never be safe , she said .
abdur rahaman , a 73-year-old merchant from maungdaw , was ambushed while walking on a mountain path with other refugees .
a machete thrown at his feet severed three toes as he ran from his attackers .
with his foot bleeding through a tourniquet made from his longyi , or sarong , rahaman walked for two more hours , before his nephew and friends carried him across the border .
our future is not good , he said .
allah must help us .
the international community has to do something .
curled up in a ball , 11-year-old ansar allah shows a large , livid scar on his right thigh - the result of a gunshot wound .
they sprayed us with bullets , as our house was burning , his mother samara said .
it was a bullet half the size of my index finger , she said , before adding , i can t stop thinking , why did god put us in that dangerous situation ?
setara begum , 12 , was among nine siblings in their home in maungdaw when it was hit by a rocket .
i saved eight of my nine children from the burning house , but setara was trapped inside , said her mother , arafa .
i could see her crying in the middle of the fire , but it was difficult to save her .
by the time we could reach her , she was badly burned , arafa said .
setara s father carried her for two days to bangladesh .
the young girl received no treatment for the severe burns to her feet .
her feet healed .
but she has no toes .
the trauma has scarred her psychologically .
she has been mute from that day , and doesn t speak to anyone , her mother said .
she only cries silently .
her face heavily bandaged , momtaz begum told how soldiers came to her village demanding valuables .
i told them i was poor and had nothing .
one of them started beating me saying , if you have no money , then we will kill you .
after beating her , they locked her in her home and set fire to the roof .
she escaped to find her three sons dead and her daughter beaten and bleeding .
momtaz fled to bangladesh , where she spent 20 days at the msf clinic being treated for burns to her face and body .
what can i say about the future , if now we have no food , no house , no family .
we can not think about the future .
they have killed that as well .