melbourne ( reuters ) - australian prime minister malcolm turnbull slumped to a new low in a poll released on monday as his government cobbled together a deal with the main opposition party to stem a citizenship crisis that has left his government hanging precariously to power .
turnbull has been heavily criticized for failing to act decisively in a crisis that has so far seen his deputy , along with six other lawmakers , ejected from parliament because they were dual citizens , leaving turnbull presiding over a minority government .
in the latest twist in a drama that has played out over several months , independent lawmakers threatened over the weekend to use their new-found power in the lower house to push through controversial legislation that has been blocked by the government , including a royal commission into the banking sector .
the latest newspoll , published by the australian , showed the main opposition labor party leading turnbull s liberal-national party coalition on a two-party basis , marking a 23rd consecutive loss since turnbull ousted tony abbott to become prime minister in september 2015 .
turnbull , then riding high in the polls , cited the fact that abbott lost 30 consecutive newspolls to justify the spill .
on a personal basis , turnbull s support crumbled from 41 percent to 36 percent .
at the time of becoming prime minister , his support was at an all-time high of 55 percent .
he s probably had one of the fastest falls in personal standing in our history , former liberal party leader john hewson told australian broadcasting corp television .
and worse still , no outcomes that really matter to the average voter .
the citizenship saga has overshadowed turnbull s attempts to turn the domestic agenda to voter-friendly issues like tax reform , infrastructure and housing affordability .
a contentious national survey on same-sex marriage and a checkered rollout of a multibillion dollar broadband network have added to perceptions of chaos in the country s leadership .
with turnbull in vietnam for a meeting of asia-pacific leaders , his foreign minister and acting prime minister julie bishop told reporters the polls were not surprising and the government had a plan to resolve the dual citizenship issue .
dual citizenship is banned for members of parliament under australia s constitution in a bid to prevent split allegiances .
but adherence to that rule has only come under the spotlight in the current crisis , with the high court confirming a strict interpretation of the law .
with both sides of politics threatening to out lawmakers from the other side as dual citizens , the government and opposition agreed on monday to a deadline of dec. 1 for all politicians to disclose the birthplace of their parents and grandparents .