beirut ( reuters ) - a british-iranian charity worker serving a jail sentence in tehran received a letter from ex-prime minister david cameron that showed she had ties to the british government , a prosecutor said on tuesday , according to mizan , the news site of the iranian judiciary .
nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe , a project manager with the thomson reuters foundation , a charity organization , is serving a five-year jail sentence after being convicted of plotting to overthrow iran s clerical establishment .
the prosecutor , abbas jafari dolatabadi , said the letter demonstrated zaghari-ratcliffe s importance to the british authorities but he did not say when it was sent or provide any other details about it .
a spokeswoman at the british foreign office said she was not immediately able to comment on whether cameron had written a letter , but confirmed that both he and his successor , theresa may , had raised the zaghari-ratcliffe case with iranian authorities .
we will continue to raise all our dual national detainees , including mrs zaghari-ratcliffe s case , with the iranian government at every available opportunity , she added .
zaghari-ratcliffe was arrested by the elite revolutionary guards in april 2016 at a tehran airport , as she was about to return to britain with her two-year-old daughter after a family visit .
her family and the thomson reuters foundation have both denied the charges against her .
thomson reuters is a charity organization that is independent of thomson reuters and operates independently of reuters news .
last week her family said iranian authorities had opened a new case against zaghari-ratcliffe , leveling charges that could carry a sentence of 16 additional years in prison .
the new charges include joining and receiving money from organizations working to overthrow the islamic republic , and attending a demonstration outside the iranian embassy in london , the family said .
the foreign office spokeswoman referred reuters to a statement it issued last week in which it expressed concern that zaghari-ratcliffe was facing additional charges and said it was seeking more information from the iranian authorities .
on tuesday jafari dolatabadi also said zaghari-ratcliffe was responsible for teaching online journalism for the bbc persian language service with the goal of attracting and teaching individuals for propaganda operations against iran , mizan reported .
francesca unsworth , director of the bbc world service group , said earlier this year that zaghari-ratcliffe had never worked for the bbc s persian service .