tunis ( reuters ) - tunisia s parliament on wednesday approved a controversial law granting amnesty to officials accused of corruption during the rule of autocrat zine el-abidine ben ali , triggering angry protests from the opposition and activists outside .
opposition lawmakers sang the national anthem and shouted slogans before the session was temporarily suspended .
outside , dozens of demonstrators chanted this law will not pass and whitewash corruption .
the law was approved by 117 deputies .
the opposition withdrew from the session in protest against the insistence of the ruling coalition on passing the law in an extraordinary session .
i congratulate you on the return of the dictatorial state and reconciliation with the corrupt , ahmed seddik a deputy of the popular front said .
tunisians will not forgive you , he added .
after months of protests , the bill was amended from an original draft which would have also granted amnesty to corrupt businessmen .
as it stands , they will be liable to prosecution for crimes committed during ben ali s 24-year rule .
witnesses said police beat protesters who had shouted slogans against the president and the ruling parties ennahda and nidaa tounes which supported the law .
the opposition no longer has a pretext , they resorted to unacceptable methods .
they rejected democracy , sofian toubel a lawmaker of nidaa tounes said .
critics of the so-called economic reconciliation law say it is a step back from the spirit of tunisia s 2011 revolution to oust ben ali , who fled after weeks of protests against corruption and inequality .
this law is an advanced stage of counter-revolution , opposition lawmaker ammar amroussia said .
but government officials say the law helps to turn the page on the past , improves the climate for investment and gives confidence to the administration and officials .
the time has come to stop the isolation of those officials who could contribute to the building of the new tunisia , said mohamed souf of the governing nidaa tounes party .
we must reconcile , as happened in south africa and rwanda .
the bill was proposed by president beji caid essebsi , himself a former ben ali official , and sent to parliament in 2015 .
but debate was postponed after criticism that the original bill benefited business elites tied to the government .
at wednesday s session , tensions flared between the ruling coalition and the opposition lawmakers , who said the supreme judicial council had not yet given its answer after being consulted by the parliament on the legality of the bill .
despite the consensus between secular and islamist parties that helped the country s transition toward democracy , the bill has divided tunisians between those who want to draw a line under the past and those who say they must deal with past graft .
since the 2011 uprising , tunisia has been held up by western partners as a model of democracy for the region .
economic progress has lagged , though , and corruption remains a major problem in the north african state .