bangui ( reuters ) - seven people were killed and around 20 others were injured in a grenade attack on a peace concert and reprisal violence in central african republic s capital , bangui , on saturday and sunday , government officials and city residents said .
the riverside city has in the past been a flashpoint for inter-religious violence that erupted between muslims and christians in 2013 and has since engulfed most of the impoverished , landlocked nation .
interior minister henri wanzet linguissara said two individuals on a motorcycle approached revelers attending a concert organized to foster reconciliation and social cohesion late on saturday night and threw a grenade into the crowd .
following this heinous act , we have registered four deaths and 20 wounded , including four who are in serious condition and have been taken into the operating room , he said .
heavy gunfire concentrated in and around bangui s pk5 neighborhood a muslim enclave in the majority christian city erupted after the attack .
access to pk5 was blocked off by improvised barricades on sunday , a reuters witness said .
three of our youth were killed , apparently in reprisal because they think that the muslims were behind the grenade attack .
we deplore that attack , said pk5 resident habib soule .
we set up barricades to ensure provocateurs don t infiltrate our neighborhood .
a second pk5 resident and a security source , who asked not to be named , confirmed that three motorcycle taxi drivers were killed in retaliation for the concert attack .
even now there is sporadic gunfire in pk5 and the surrounding neighborhoods are emptying , said gedeon leki , a resident of the nearby castors neighborhood .
people are afraid the muslims could take revenge for their dead .
nearly five years into the conflict in car , which has been marked by successive waves of ethnic cleansing , the security situation is worsening , particularly in the east .
bangui , where the headquarters of 12,000-troop-strong united nations peacekeeping mission is located , has been relatively stable in recent months , and the weekend s violence was a reminder of the city s darkest days .
the enemies of peace ... have just set a trap , prime minister simplice mathieu sarandji said in a radio address on sunday .
i call upon the population not to slide back into violence .
the u.n. security council is this week scheduled to vote on a french-drafted resolution to authorise an extra 900 troops to protect civilians in central african republic .