quetta , pakistan ( reuters ) - pakistan s army chief on thursday criticized madrassas that have mushroomed nationwide for mostly teaching only islamic theology , saying the country needs to revisit the religious school concept .
modernizing madrassa education is a thorny issue in pakistan , a deeply conservative muslim nation where religious schools are often blamed for radicalization of youngsters but are the only education available to millions of poor children .
general qamar javed bajwa s remarks , apparently off-the-cuff during a prepared speech , were a rare example of an army chief criticizing madrassas , which are often built adjacent to mosques and underpin islamisation efforts by religious hardliners .
bajwa said a madrassa education in pakistan was inadequate because it did not prepare students for the modern world .
i am not against madrassas , but we have lost the essence of madrassas , bajwa told a youth conference in quetta , the capital of the southwestern province of baluchistan .
bajwa said he was recently told that 2.5 million students were being taught in madrassas belonging to the deobandi , a sunni muslim sub-sect that shares the beliefs of the strictly orthodox wahhabi school of islam on the arabian peninsula .
so what will they become : will they become maulvis ( clerics ) or they will become terrorists ?
bajwa asked , saying it was impossible to build enough mosques to employ the huge number of madrassa students .
we need to look ( at ) and revisit the concept of madrassas ... we need to give them a worldly education .
pakistan has over 20,000 registered madrassas , though there are believed to be thousands more unregistered ones .
some are single-room schools with a handful of students studying the koran .
security services have kept a close eye on madrassas associated with radicalizing youths and feeding recruits to islamist militant outfits that have killed tens of thousands of people in the south asian country since 2000 .
but only a handful of the schools have been shut down , the authorities hand stayed by fears of a religious backlash .
islamist hardliners hold great sway in pakistani society , with the capital , islamabad , paralyzed for nearly three weeks last month by a blockade staged by a newly formed ultra-religious party .
bajwa said poor education was holding back the nation of 207 million people , and especially in madrassas .
most of them are just teaching theology .
so what are their chances ?
what is their future in this country ?
the military last year proposed a plan to deradicalize religious hard-liners by mainstreaming some into political parties , a plan initially rejected by the civilian government but which now appears to be taking form .