washington ( reuters ) - the pentagon is expected to submit to congress on tuesday president barack obama ’ s long-awaited plan for closing the u.s. military prison at guantanamo bay , setting up a battle with lawmakers who oppose his efforts .
obama , whose pledge to shut the facility at the u.s. naval base in cuba dates back to the start of his presidency in 2009 , is seeking to make good on his promise before he leaves office next january .
pentagon spokesman captain jeff davis said the administration intended to meet tuesday ’ s deadline to present its detailed proposal for closing the facility .
there are still 91 prisoners detained there .
“ we understand the deadline is tomorrow and it ’ s our intent to meet it , ” davis told reporters .
u.s. officials have said the plan would call for sending to their homelands or third countries detainees who have been cleared for transfer , now numbering 35 , and bringing remaining prisoners , possibly several dozen , to u.s. soil to be held in maximum-security prisons .
congress has banned such transfers to the united states since 2011 .
another option that will be cited in the administration ’ s blueprint will be the possibility of sending some prisoners overseas for prosecution and trial , one u.s. official said .
the closure plan could also serve as a template for how to deal with future terrorism suspects captured in the fight against the islamic state militant group .
however , the document will not name the alternative u.s. prisons under consideration for housing detainees , u.s. officials said .
the administration wants to avoid fueling any political outcry over specific sites during a u.s. presidential election year .
still , pentagon officials have already surveyed a federal prison in florence , colorado , a military jail at fort leavenworth , kansas , and the navy brig at charleston , south carolina .
an effort will also be made to speed up parole-style reviews to determine whether more prisoners can be added to the group cleared for release , officials said .
the plan will include costs for upgrading u.s. facilities and housing the inmates there , according to a source familiar with the matter .
the white house last year rejected one pentagon proposal as too expensive , sending it back for revisions .
republicans and some democrats in congress largely oppose proposals to move any of the prisoners to the united states .
republican senator kelly ayotte said on monday the obama administration refused to “ level with the american people regarding the terrorist activities and affiliations of the detainees who remain at guantanamo. ” white house spokesman josh earnest reiterated obama ’ s view of guantanamo as a terrorist “ recruiting tool ” and urged lawmakers to look at the plan “ with an open mind , ” although he expressed doubt about whether they would do so .
the white house has left open the possibility that obama might resort to executive powers to close the facility .
the prison was opened in 2002 by former republican president george w. bush to house foreign terrorism suspects rounded up after the sept. 11 , 2001 attacks on new york and washington .
the united states quickly drew criticism from human rights activists and foreign governments over guantanamo , where most prisoners have been held for more than a decade without trial .