rome ( reuters ) - italy s traditional political parties have pledged to back a new electoral law this week that is seen penalizing the anti-establishment 5-star movement ahead of next year s national election .
the lower house of parliament is due to start voting on tuesday on an electoral law supported by the country s main right- and left-wing parties .
unlike the current system , it would allow the formation of broad coalitions before a vote , a factor likely to hurt 5-star , which refuses to join alliances .
the only aim ( of the law ) is to allow others to gang up on us , 5-star lawmaker danilo toninelli said on sunday , a day after a parliamentary committee signed off on the new proposal .
for the traditional parties , the important thing is to stop the 5-star , he said .
a national vote is due to be held during the first half of 2018 , between march and may .
polls show matteo renzi s ruling center-left democratic party ( pd ) , which proposed the new law , is neck-in-neck with the 5-star .
but if the pd runs in alliance with smaller centrist and left-wing parties , together they would likely surpass the 5-star , now led by the 31-year-old luigi di maio .
the new law may be even more beneficial to silvio berlusconi s center-right forza italia ( go italy ! )
party and the far-right northern league , which also back the bill .
in a coalition , polls show they could win the most votes .
the wind is blowing in the sails of the center-right and of forza italia , the lower-house speaker of berlusconi s party , renato brunetta , said .
but polls give neither renzi s center-left or berlusconi s center-right enough votes to govern alone , suggesting a right-left alliance may be the only way to form a government after the election .
the bill could pass as early as this week in the chamber , after which it would go to the senate for approval .
the risk is that it could be sunk by dozens of secret votes in which parliamentarians can break with the official party line .
secret voting is what killed a previous election law proposal in june that initially had been supported by the 5-star movement .
the 5-star catapulted into parliament in 2013 with nearly a quarter of the national vote , but it has struggled to further expand its support .
it has vowed to rescue italy from the clutches of what it says is a corrupt political system .
five-star s policies include the introduction of universal income support for the poor , rewriting european union public spending limits , and phasing out fossil fuels .
it now says holding a referendum whether to dump the euro , which had been a pillar of its platform , is not a priority .
the proposed election law would distribute almost two-thirds of the seats in parliament on a proportional basis , while a third would be decided in a first-past-the-post vote on specific candidates .
coalitions would need to get 10 percent of the national vote to get into parliament , while parties running alone would need only 3 percent .
candidates would be chosen by party chiefs .