islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistani authorities issued a final warning on friday to members of an islamist party blocking a main road into the capital , raising fears of a violent clash .
hundreds of supporters of the tehreek-e-labaik pakistan party have been blocking the route into islamabad for nearly 10 days , demanding the minister of law be sacked for what they say is blasphemy .
you all are being given a last warning , the islamabad deputy commissioner said in the order .
a court had already ordered the party to end the protest , the order added .
after this final announcement , you all are being warned to end the illegal sit-in immediately .
tehreek-e-labaik blames the minister , zahid hamid , for changes to an electoral oath that it says amount to blasphemy .
the government puts the issue down to a clerical error .
pakistan s blasphemy law is a lightning rod for islamists , especially since 2011 when the liberal governor of punjab province , salman taseer , was murdered by a bodyguard for questioning it .
the law mandates the death penalty for insulting islam or the prophet mohammad .
a spokesman for the labaik party , ejaz ashrafi , said the group would not comply with the deputy commissioner s ultimatum .
we re not moving , he told reuters by phone from the sit-in .
pakistan s interior minister ahsan iqbal appealed to the protesters to end the sit-in before a delegation of chinese investors arrived in islamabad on monday , making a last offer to negotiate on their demands .
but he added : if some group tries to hold the state hostage , that behavior will not be tolerated .
a government official , khalid abbasi , said protesters on the road were carrying rods and sticks .
since they were given the warning , he said , hundreds more party workers had joined the sit-in .
the government has blocked several roads with shipping containers in an effort to corral the protesters , causing hours-long traffic jams in and around the capital .
in 2007 , a confrontation between authorities and supporters of radical preachers at an islamabad mosque led to more than 100 deaths .
all resources can be used to break this sit-in , the deputy commissioner s warning said .