venice ( reuters ) - the italian government is ready to open negotiations with lombardy and veneto after the two wealthy regions voted overwhelmingly for greater autonomy , prime minister paolo gentiloni said on tuesday .
unlike a recent referendum on independence in catalonia , which sparked a political crisis in spain , the italian votes this weekend were legal , but not binding on rome .
making clear he had no intention of making a drama out of the twin ballots , gentiloni said he was ready to discuss how lombardy and veneto wanted to proceed .
here we are talking about how to make italy work better .
we are not calling into question italy and its unity , gentiloni said during a visit to an oil refinery close to venice , the capital of the northeastern veneto region .
the government is ready to look into the merits of this ... it will be a complex discussion that can t be done in five minutes , he added .
regional governments have the right to ask for greater oversight in 23 policy areas , including the environment , infrastructure , health and education .
the most delicate negotiations are likely to be over tax returns , with veneto demanding that it be allowed to spend 90 percent of all the taxes raised on its own territory .
among italy s 20 regions , lombardy and veneto account for just under a third of its economic output and are home to around 25 percent of its population .
italy s poorer , less developed southern regions are worried that they will receive less funding in future if lombardy and veneto get to keep more of their own tax take .
five regions in italy the islands of sicily and sardinia and three relatively small border areas with linguistic minorities already have special autonomous status under the constitution .
veneto wants to join them .
however , this would need a change to the constitution , which the government seems unwilling to accept .
we are ready ( to grant greater powers ) within the limits fixed by our laws and by our constitution , gentiloni said .
negotiations are likely to take many months and look certain to be interrupted by national elections due by next may .
any deal between the government and the regions will have to be approved by parliament .
the latest opinion polls suggest a hung parliament will emerge from the forthcoming election , making it impossible to predict the government formation that will carry on the negotiations .
( refiles , changing headline )