like father , like son , donald trump jr. twitter account is getting him into a lot of trouble.the morning after republican karen handel won the georgia special election to fill in a vacant seat in the u.s. house of representatives , don jr. was giddy and eager to brag about the win .
sidestepping the fact that handel had to spend $ 18 million ( two-and-a-half times her opponent ! )
to win a nailbitter in a district republicans won by over 20 points just 7 months ago , don jr. chose to focus on the historic nature of the win : karen is a woman.karen handel becomes 1st woman rep ga has sent to congress .
still waiting for the glass ceiling stories , or do conservatives not get them ?
donald trump jr. ( @ donaldjtrumpjr ) june 21 , 2017unfortunately for don jr. , his tweet shows the dangers of getting all your information from right-wing media .
it s completely wrong.handel is not the first woman representative georgia has sent to congress .
democrats have been electing women in georgia for years .
and democrats elected the state s first congresswoman cynthia mckinney in 2005 .
the glass ceiling was shattered in georgia long ago and by democrats.unintentionally , don jr gave america an opportunity to look at just how backwards the republican party is .
as the hill notes , the gop is pathetically behind on gender equality for their elected officials.handel will become just the 22nd gop female lawmaker in the 435-member house , not including nonvoting delegates .
overall , there are 104 women in the house.in the senate , there are 21 women , including five republicans.georgia has sent a handful of democratic women to congress , most recently rep. cynthia mckinney , who served one term from 2005 to 2007.nine other states appear to have never sent a republican woman to congress : arkansas , delaware , louisiana , mississippi , north dakota , oregon , south carolina , vermont and wisconsin.republicans have yet to send a single woman to congress in nine states .
that s just sad .
and waiting until 2017 to finally start to catch up shouldn t allow republicans to get any glass ceiling points .
this year they are particularly guilty .
republicans chose to stand by a man who had repeatedly sexually harassed women around him , bragged about it on tape , and later used sexist attacks against both his critics in the media and his opponent .
they elected him president and continue to support him.don jr. , having been humiliated for passing along the false information , decided to lie about it rather than just admit his mistake and move on .
in a bit of shameless dishonesty his own father might blush at , he claimed the rep in his tweet universally understood to be short for representative really meant republican .
how do we know it s a lie ?
because his original tweet makes absolutely no sense if we replace representative with republican .
as the above tweet illustrates , mckinney broke the glass ceiling for all women in georgia .
a decade ago .
republicans don t get to shatter the already-shattered glass ceiling 12 years too late , much less celebrate it as a huge step forward in women s rights.nice try , don .
glad to see you re becoming your father s son ! featured image via david becker/getty images