this is the second major blow today to obama and his plans to fundamentally transform america .
the first blow to obama was today s us supreme court ruling against his unlawful executive amnesty proclamation .
both of these decisions are victories for americans who are sick and tired of watching our nation being torn apart and divided by racist hate mongers , whose only goal is to build a coalition of democrat voters a judge explained why he found a police driver not guilty in the death of freddie gray , a 25-year-old black man whose neck was broken on the way to the station : he didn t see any evidence of a crime.baltimore judge barry williams ruled thursday that the state failed to prove officer caesar goodson committed murder , manslaughter , assault , reckless endangerment or misconduct in office .
there has been no evidence that this defendant intended for a crime to happen , williams said .
the state had a duty to show the defendant corruptly failed in his duty , not just made a mistake .
goodson s acquittal is the worst blow yet to efforts to hold police accountable in a case that triggered riots in the troubled city .
the state s third failure to convict also casts doubt on whether any of the six indicted officers will be found guilty.baltimore s police union president , gene ryan , called on state s attorney marilyn mosby to reconsider her malicious prosecution , since he s certain the remaining officers also will be found without guilt.the case became a rallying cry for the growing black lives matter movement and sparked more outrage nationwide over how black people are treated by police and the criminal justice system.but the case hasn t fit quite so neatly into the american narrative of white authorities imposing justice unfairly on black people .
in this case , the defendant , trial judge , state s attorney and mayor are african-american ; at the time of gray s death , so was the police chief.after the verdict , black lives matter activist and baltimore native deray mckesson aimed his criticism at the entire system .
today is a reminder that there is a set of laws , policies and police union contracts across the country that will protect any form of police behavior , he said.goodson was the only one of the six officers charged in gray s death to be accused of murder .
he s the second to be found not guilty , and another officer s case ended in a mistrial.mosby appeared crestfallen as she hurried out of the courthouse and sped away in a black suv .
when she confidently announced the charges last year , she reflected the anger of many people who saw the case as open-and-shut .
via : ap