of course this is the first you ve heard of this crime .
the attacker didn t use a gun and a gun was used to stop the attacker from committing mass murder .
it took an entire day to identify the name knife attacker as faisal mohammad .
he was likely a racist , christian with tea party ties the uc merced student who wounded four people in a stabbing spree at the campus has been identified as faisal mohammad , a freshman student from santa clara.merced couty sheriff vern warnke confirmed the identity of the 18-year-old computer science and engineering major to the sun-star early thursday.mohammad was shot and killed by uc merced police just after 8 a.m. on wednesday morning as he ran from the two-story classroom building where investigators said his violent spree began.warnke said investigators , including the fbi , were still trying to determine the motive for mohammad s attack , which wounded two students , a female student advisor and a construction worker who was on campus for a remodeling project .
the four suffered non-life-threatening injuries.as of thursday morning , one student remained hospitalized but was expected to recover and the other student was released after being treated , according to a statement from university spokeswoman lorena anderson .
the student advisor , a member of the uc merced staff , suffered a collapsed lung and was recovering thursday after successful surgery , she said.little information about mohammad was immediately available , other than he turned 18 in late october .
the university said more details would be released at a press conference led by the sheriff s office thursday at 10:30 a.m ..
the sun-star will livestream the conference on its periscope account.investigators believe mohammad was armed with a large hunting knife when he entered a second-floor classroom as class was starting wednesday and struggled with a male student , who was stabbed.byron price , a 31-year-old construction worker , was leading a crew in a nearby room when he heard the commotion and went to intervene .
warnke described price s actions as heroic .
without him , the first victim could have been a lot worse off , or even dead , he said.price drew the suspect s attention and was slashed around the waist during the confrontation .
price s co-workers drove him to mercy medical center where he was treated and later released.detectives believe mohammad then left the building and stabbed another male student outside .
he then found the student advisor sitting on a bench and stabbed her twice , officials said.other than price , the names of the victims have not been released.two university police officers chased mohammad to a bridge on the campus , where he was shot and killed .
the identities of those officers have not been released .
one of the officers was placed on an automatic three-day leave from the department , a standard protocol in officer-involved shootings .
via : merced sun star