raqqa/dubai ( reuters ) - while syrian president bashar al-assad was accusing the west of turning a blind eye to islamic state smuggling , a member of his parliament was quietly doing business with the group , farmers and administrators in the militants former stronghold said .
the arrangement helped the syrian government to feed areas still under its control after islamic state took over the northeastern wheat-growing region during the six-year-old civil war , they said .
traders working for businessman and lawmaker hossam al-katerji bought wheat from farmers in islamic state areas and transported it to damascus , allowing the group to take a cut , five farmers and two administrators in raqqa province told reuters .
katerji s office manager , mohammed kassab , confirmed that katerji group was providing syrian government territories with wheat from the northeast of syria through islamic state territory but denied any contact with islamic state .
it is not clear how much assad knew of the wheat trading .
cooperation over wheat between a figure from syria s establishment , which is backed by shi ite power iran , and the hardline sunni islamic state would mark a new ironic twist in a war that has deepened regional sunni-shi ite divisions .
reuters contacted katerji s office six times to request comment but was not given access to him .
his office manager kassab , asked how the company managed to buy and transport the wheat without any contact with islamic state , said : it was not easy , the situation was very difficult .
when asked for details he said only that it was a long explanation .
he did not return further calls or messages .
damascus , under u.s. and eu sanctions over the conflict and alleged oil trading with islamic state , strongly denies any business links with the hardline islamist militants , arguing that the united states is responsible for their rise to power .
the self-declared caliphate they set up across large parts of syria and iraq in 2014 has all but collapsed after western-backed forces drove them out of their iraqi stronghold , mosul and surrounded them in raqqa , where they are now confined to a small area .
russian and iranian-backed syrian forces are attacking them elsewhere , such as deir al zor on syria s eastern border , where kassab says he was speaking from , in a continuing struggle for the upper hand between world powers .
five farmers in raqqa described how they sold wheat to katerji s traders during islamic state rule in interviews at the building housing the raqqa civil council , formed to take over once the city is retaken .
the operation was organized , said mahmoud al-hadi , who owns agricultural land near raqqa and who , like the other farmers , had come to the council s cement offices to seek help .
i would sell to small traders who sent the wheat to big traders who sent it on to katerji and the regime through two or three traders , he said .
he and the other farmers said they all had to pay islamic state a 10 percent tax , or zakat , and sold all of their season s supplies to katerji s traders under the multi-layered scheme .
local officials said katerji s traders bought up wheat from raqqa and deir al-zor and gave islamic state 20 percent .
if a truck is carrying 100 sacks , they ( islamic state ) would keep 20 and give the rest to the trucker , said awas ali , a deputy of the tabqa joint leadership council , a similar , post-islamic state local body allied to the kurdish-led forces now attacking raqqa .
ali said he learned of the details of the arrangement with katerji by speaking with islamic state prisoners and others who worked in the group s tax collection and road tolling systems .
katerji s trucks were well known and the logo on them was clear and they were not harassed at all , ali said , adding that katerji s people were active during the last buying season , which lasts from may to august .
the farmers also said the trucks were identifiable as katerji s. the truck drivers were even allowed to smoke cigarettes as they passed through the checkpoints , something islamic state enforcers punished with whippings elsewhere , ali and several other sources said .
i would sell an entire season s supplies to katerji s traders , said farmer ali shanaan .
they are known traders .
the checkpoints stopped the trucks and daesh would take a cut and let them pass , he said , using an arabic acronym for islamic state .
the wheat was transported via the new bridge over the euphrates river to a road leading out of raqqa , the farmers and local officials said .
control of the bridge is now unclear as the militants in raqqa come close to defeat .
raqqa-based lawyer abdullah al-aryan , who said he had been a consultant for some of katerji s traders , said katerji s trucks brought goods into islamic state territory as well as wheat out .
food used to come from areas controlled by the government .
medicine and food , he said .
islamic state rule involved shooting or beheading perceived opponents in public squares , imposing its own extreme version of sharia , islamic law , and then providing basic goods such as bread and setting up ministries and taxation .
several farmers said they saw islamic state documents which were stamped at checkpoints to allow the wheat trucks to pass .
they belonged to the department which imposes taxes .
islamic state may have exported some of the wheat .
local officials and farmers said the militants , as well as a rebel group , had sold the contents of grain silos in the northeast to traders across the turkish border .
assad has accused his enemies , including turkey and western countries , of supporting the group , something they deny .
in an interview in march with a chinese news agency , published by syrian state news agency sana , assad said : as for the other side , which is the united states , at least during the obama administration , it dealt with daesh through overlooking its smuggling of syrian oil to turkey , and in that way daesh was able to procure money in order to recruit terrorists from all over the world .
asked whether syrian companies were dealing with islamic state to secure wheat , internal trade and consumer protection minister abdullah al-gharbi said in august : no , not at all .
speaking to reuters at a damascus trade fair , he added : this doesn t exist at all .
we are importing wheat from russian companies in addition to our local crop and this talk is completely unacceptable .
the wheat buying season ended in august and is has lost control of the wheat-growing areas , either to government forces or the syrian kurdish-led syrian defense forces .
assad has traditionally relied on a close-knit set of businessmen most notably rami makhlouf , his maternal cousin , to help keep syria s economy afloat .
makhlouf is subject to international sanctions and relies on various associates to do business .
katerji is a household name around raqqa and elsewhere .
farmer hadi likened him to a late greek shipping tycoon , aristotle onassis .
katerji is the onassis of syria , he said .
katerji s facebook profile page shows him shaking hands with assad and he regularly posts pictures of the president , who he describes as a beacon of light for pan-arabism , patriotism and loyalty .
he is member of parliament for aleppo , a key battleground recovered by the government late last year , and is part of a new business class that has risen to prominence during the war .
the united states and eu have imposed a range of measures targeted both at the government and some of the many armed groups operating in syria , but foodstuffs are not restricted .
u.s. and european sanctions on banking and asset freezes have , however , made it difficult for most trading houses to do business with assad s government and made local supplies increasingly vital .
flat bread is a subsidized staple for syrians , who have suffered under a conflict estimated to have killed several hundred thousand people and forced millions to flee their homes .
the government needs around 1.5 million tonnes annually to feed the areas it controls and keep syrians on assad s side .
syria s bread-basket provinces of hasaka , raqqa and deir al-zor account for nearly 70 percent of total wheat production .
while the government looks set to retake much of deir al-zor province soon , hasaka is mostly under the control of u.s.-backed syrian kurdish ypg militia , who are also likely to hold sway in raqqa along with arab allied groups .
ali , from the tabqa council , predicted that would not stop the wheat trade .
people like katerji , with a lot of money and power , their activities will never be completely frozen , he said .
it is just going to disappear from one area and go to another .