manchester , england ( reuters ) - british foreign secretary boris johnson offered theresa may unsolicited public advice about how to make brexit a success on tuesday , delicately testing the extent of the prime minister s weakened authority while pledging overt loyalty .
alongside public proclamations of backing for may , he used media articles and interviews ahead of the conservative party conference in manchester to offer up his own vision of a bold brexit .
after praising may for winning a snap june election which lost her party its majority in parliament , johnson used his main speech to say that her top ministers were united behind every syllable of her brexit plans set out last month in florence .
the whole country owes her a debt for her steadfastness in taking britain forward , as she will , to a great brexit deal , based on that florence speech on whose every syllable , i can tell you , the whole cabinet is united , johnson said .
just hours later , though , the man who led the main leave campaign in the 2016 referendum on britain s eu membership told activists at a separate event that there was far too much gloom surrounding brexit .
he then sketched out his own views on how britain s exit would look and how britain might need different regulations on everything from data to bioscience .
i campaigned on a slogan of ... take back control ....
i think that s what the prime minister also believes in very strongly , johnson told the gathering .
if you re going to do this , do it well .
do it in such a way as to get a great result for the uk , he said .
we want an arrangement that means we are not just locked in strict rotational orbit around the eu .
johnson , widely regarded in britain as concealing a fierce political ambition behind a clownish exterior , has overshadowed the party conference which may had hoped to use to claw back some authority after her election gamble went so wrong .
arriving with his trademark blonde hair tousled and rummaging through a suit jacket pocket , boris enthused conservative members but was careful to make no explicit pitch to replace may .
ahead of johnson s speech , may had repeatedly faced questions from reporters about whether she would sack johnson after he appeared to undermine her brexit strategy by setting out his own vision .
she has sidestepped those questions .
the european parliament savaged the british government s handling of brexit negotiations on tuesday , voting against opening talks yet on future trade and condemning disarray in may s team .
a german ally of conservative chancellor angela merkel , manfred weber , said british cabinet in-fighting was putting a deal at risk and called on may to sack johnson .
but johnson also provided a rare spark in manchester where conservative ministers lined up to cast the opposition labour party as dangerous marxists while failing to offer any striking new policies .
to me , that was real leadership : motivating , inspirational .
what s a good leader ?
it s somebody who can do that , said vanessa churchman a local government official from the isle of wight in the south of england .
everybody who goes away from here will feel inspired .
at previous party conferences , boris , as he is widely known in britain , also repeatedly upstaged then-prime minister david cameron , though after the referendum sank cameron s career , johnson dropped out of the race to be leader when a colleague broke a pact to back him .
while johnson is popular with party members , many conservative lawmakers are angry that he has overshadowed may with what they say were unhelpful and disloyal interventions .
may , the staid daughter of a vicar , has a presentational style that is in many ways the polar opposite of johnson s swashbuckling on-stage persona .
she is due to close the conference on wednesday .