komotini , greece ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan gave out toy cars and dolls to children on the final leg of a visit to greece on friday , a trip meant to boost ties but which has exposed the deep rifts between the two neighbors .
erdogan visited the muslim community in komotini , a town in northern greece which once belonged to the ottoman empire .
a day earlier , he riled his greek hosts by suggesting the 130,000 muslims in the region were discriminated against by athens .
we have made very important decisions to meet the needs of our ethnically greek citizens , and it is our right to expect similar behavior from greece , he told cheering crowds outside a school in the region .
turkey has frequently found fault with the appointment by athens of local muslim clerics - known as muftis - instead of recognizing those elected by the local population .
erdogan is the first turkish president to visit greece in 65 years , but he has put athens on the defensive by remarking that a decades-old treaty needs revision .
the treaty , among other things , defines the boundaries between the two countries .
none of that controversy was apparent on friday , as hundreds of well-wishers gathered outside a mosque in komotini to welcome erdogan .
aides carried bags stuffed with toys , which erdogan gave out to children .
some supporters shouted leader as he made his way through the crowds .
greek police snipers were stationed on nearby buildings and security was tight .
erdogan is very popular among the muslim community in the area .
he is an ordinary person close to the people , said ahmet hoca , 57 , a farmer .
closer to istanbul than to athens , this community in northern greece sometimes feels uneasy with the disputes between the two countries , which range from airspace in the aegean sea to minority rights .
when someone asks you whom you love more , your mother or your father , what are you supposed to answer ?
you love them both , said resident hussein kara , 64 .
after world war one and the collapse of the ottoman empire , the 1923 treaty of lausanne pushed modern turkey s borders eastwards .
about 1.3 million ethnic greeks , and 356,000 turks , moved between turkey and greece in a population exchange .
the deal excluded muslim inhabitants of western thrace , which includes komotini , and more than 200,000 greeks then living in istanbul .
fewer than 3,000 ethnic greeks now live in istanbul .