havana ( reuters ) - opponents of the cuban government are putting forward an unprecedented number of candidates for municipal elections in late october , the first step in a process to select a new president after nearly 60 years of the castro brothers rule .
the electoral cycle comes at a tricky time for the caribbean nation as the castros revolutionary generation dies off , an economic reform program appears stalled , aid from key ally venezuela shrinks , and the trump administration threatens .
the municipal vote , the only part of the electoral process with direct participation by ordinary cubans , is expected to attract 35,000 candidates for the island s 168 municipal assemblies .
it will be followed by provincial and national assembly elections in which candidates are selected from slates by commissions .
the new national assembly will in late february select a successor to president raul castro , 86 , who has announced he will step aside after two terms .
raul , younger brother and successor to fidel castro who died in november , will retain a grip on power as head of the communist party , the only legal party in cuba .
the elections are being cast in state-run media as a show of support for the castros 1959 revolution rather than an opportunity to debate the pressing issues .
campaigning is prohibited and candidates for the 12,515 ward delegate positions are nominated at neighborhood meetings based on their personal merits , not policy positions .
they need not belong to the communist party and many candidates are independents but only few government opponents have ever competed .
during the last election , the three dissidents nominated lost at the polls .
this year , however , one coalition of opposition groups , otro18 ( other18 ) , says it is running more than 160 candidates in the municipal elections , demanding electoral reform and government transparency .
this is unheard of , said boris gonzalez , 41 , one of the aspiring otro18 candidates , explaining they wanted to challenge the communist party from within the system .
otro18 spokesman manuel cuesta morua said in an interview that its candidates had faced harassment and threats by state security forces for months and had been warned not to participate .
the government has not responded to these accusations .
the communist party says it does not intervene in the elections , but a video circulating on social media of first vice president miguel diaz-canel , raul castro s probable successor , suggested otherwise .
there are six initiatives for the 2018 elections that seek to propose counter-revolutionaries as candidates , diaz-canel told communist party cadres in the video .
we are taking steps to discredit all that .
in this battle , which we are already fighting , we are going to be involved in this whole process in the second half of the year , he said .
the government has not commented on the video .
cuba brands all dissenters as mercenaries funded by foreign governments and exiles , out to topple the government .
even if a few dissident candidates beat the odds and are elected to municipal assemblies , they have little chance of getting any further .
the candidates for the provincial and national assemblies are nominated by commissions composed of representatives of communist party-controlled organizations such as the trade union federation and committees in defense of the revolution .
the slates have had the same number of names as seats in previous elections .
up to 50 percent of those names must be ward delegates .
after the general election , the assemblies elect their respective executives and on feb. 24 the new national assembly is scheduled to name a new president and other members of the council of state .
i have never voted for anyone important , not even our president , said retired air force mechanic and staunch castro-supporter eduardo , who requested his last name not be used .
i can only vote for my neighborhood representative and they never go anywhere , he said , but i still think it s a better system than one based on money and lies .