( reuters ) - democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton has moved to the left in key policy areas such as trade during her primary campaign against rival u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont , who is known for his liberal stances .
here is a look at what the former secretary of state has said she would do should she win the white house in the nov. 8 election .
these policies are drawn from white papers released by her campaign , stump speeches , debates and interviews .
clinton supports comprehensive immigration reform with a path to full citizenship .
she has pledged to defend president barack obama ’ s executive actions on immigration and , if legally possible , expand on them .
she has called for an end to deportation raids and family detentions .
clinton has , however , disagreed with liberal democrats about the best way to handle the influx of young people fleeing cartel violence and other issues in central america .
obama said in 2014 that the united states would send these youths back to deter others from attempting the same dangerous journey – a position that clinton has defended , including in a recent presidential debate .
“ the fact is that there was a great effort made by the obama administration and others to really send a clear message , because we knew that so many of these children were being abused , being treated terribly while they tried to get to our border , ” clinton said .
“ i think now what i ’ ve called for is counsel for every child so that no child has to face any kind of process without someone who speaks and advocates for that child , so that the right decision , hopefully , can be made. ” clinton supports some free-trade agreements and opposes others , saying her decisions are based on whether she feels the specific agreement will adequately protect the interests of u.s. workers .
clinton has had to deal with the legacy of the north american free trade agreement reached by her husband ’ s administration during her own political career .
she backed away from nafta when she ran for a u.s. senate seat representing new york .
as a senator , she supported trade agreements with australia , chile , morocco , oman and singapore .
she opposed the central american free trade agreement .
during her first presidential campaign in 2008 , she criticized possible agreements with colombia , panama and south korea .
but once she became obama ’ s secretary of state , she worked to finalize agreements with colombia and south korea – a deal that in 2007 she had called “ inherently unfair. ” clinton also worked on the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) as secretary of state , saying it would be the “ gold standard ” of trade agreements .
as a presidential candidate in 2015 , she stalled on taking a position on tpp , saying she would wait until it was finalized by the administration .
clinton eventually said she would not support tpp because it does not adequately protect u.s. workers .
clinton has pledged to not raise taxes on the middle class in any way , in contrast to sanders , her democratic rival , who favors a nominal income tax premium to fund universal healthcare .
clinton has focused on “ reforming the tax code so the wealthiest pay their fair share. ” she has proposed ending the carried interest loophole that categorizes the bulk of a hedge fund manager ’ s income as return on investment and not compensation ; enacting the “ buffett rule ” so the wealthy with investment income do not pay lower effective tax rates than “ truck drivers or nurses ; ” and pushing back against “ quarterly capitalism ” and incentivizing long-term investment by wall street .
clinton has called for an “ intelligence surge ” to combat the islamic state militant group , and diplomatic efforts feature prominently in most of her foreign policy plans .
she does not believe there should be a surge in ground troops in the middle east , including in syria .
she has said she supports increased “ specialized forces ” there and enforcing a no-fly zone .
she believes russia ’ s participation will be essential for any solution in syria .
clinton has also called for stepped-up efforts by u.s. technology companies to combat terrorism .
in a major foreign policy speech she said “ social media companies can also do their part by swiftly shutting down terrorist accounts so they are not used to plan , provoke or celebrate violence. ” she has not said how far she would go to compel the cooperation of private companies in this effort .