new delhi ( reuters ) - nearly nine out of 10 indians hold a favorable opinion of prime minister narendra modi and more than two-thirds are satisfied with the direction he is taking the country , a pew survey has found , two years before he heads into a general election .
modi s bharatiya janata party-led coalition won the biggest parliamentary majority in three decades in a 2014 election and the poll by the u.s.-based research center showed that his personal ratings remain high .
critics have accused hardline hindu groups linked to the ruling coalition of promoting a partisan agenda , including targeting minority muslims , since he came to power .
they have also blamed modi for slowing economic growth and for failing to generate the hundreds of thousands of jobs needed for young people joining the workforce each month .
but the pew poll found that 88 percent of indians held a favorable view of modi , a shade higher than the 87 percent who gave him a thumbs-up in 2015 , a year after he swept to power promising to transform india into a high-growth economy .
such high ratings are unusual for political leaders three years into office in south asia , where governments are more often voted out than retained as people become frustrated with broken campaign promises .
modi s favorable rating is 31 percentage points higher than that of sonia gandhi , the leader of the main opposition congress party , and is 30 points more than that for her son , rahul gandhi , who is expected to take over the party leadership .
three years into modi s five-year tenure , the honeymoon period for his administration may be over but the public s love affair with current conditions in india is even more intense , pew said in comments on its findings .
the survey was conducted in february and march , a few months after modi withdrew most high-value bank notes in a shock move aimed at illegal wealth , but which put millions of people in difficulty as cash was sucked out of the economy .
modi defended the measure as an attack on the rich hiding their wealth from the taxman and said gains would come to the poor .
economic growth eased to a three-year low in the june quarter and experts said part of the reason was that the withdrawal of most of the currency had hurt consumer demand in a largely cash-driven economy .
a poorly implemented goods-and-services tax that went into effect in july has further unsettled small businesses , many of which are part of the bedrock of the bjp s political base .
but the poll found that more than 80 percent of those surveyed said economic conditions were good , up 19 percentage points since just before the 2014 election .
overall , seven-in-ten indians are now satisfied with the way things are going in the country .
this positive assessment of india s direction has nearly doubled since 2014 , pew said .
the next general election is due in 2019 .
but several states are voting for new assemblies over the next few months including modi s home state of gujarat .