new york ( reuters ) - u.s. prosecutors on tuesday urged a new york jury to find mehmet hakan atilla , an executive at turkey s majority state-owned halkbank , guilty of helping iran evade u.s. sanctions , while atilla s lawyers said he was a blameless pawn .
the closing arguments in manhattan federal court capped off a three-week trial that has strained diplomatic relations between the united states and turkey .
this is a case about lies , assistant u.s. attorney michael lockard told the jury , saying atilla lied to u.s. authorities that halkbank was complying with sanctions .
halkbank has denied involvement in illegal activities .
lockard pointed to the testimony of turkish-iranian gold trader reza zarrab , who was charged in the case but pleaded guilty and testified for the prosecutors .
zarrab testified that atilla helped design fraudulent gold and food transactions that allowed iran to spend its oil and gas revenues abroad , including through u.s. financial institutions , defying u.s. sanctions .
atilla denied conspiring with zarrab while testifying in his own defense during the trial .
lockard said zarrab s testimony was supported by other evidence , including an april 2013 message in which halkbank s then-general manager , suleyman aslan , asked zarrab if he had any problem with the method proposed by hakan atilla .
attempts by reuters to reach aslan for comment have been unsuccessful .
lockard also said that zarrab s scheme continued even as aslan and others at the bank were replaced .
the only person who s been involved at every step is mr. atilla , he said .
atilla s lawyer , victor rocco , said zarrab was not credible .
he noted that zarrab had hired prominent american lawyers to try to negotiate his release through diplomacy , and said he decided to turn on atilla after that failed .
hakan atilla is a blameless pawn , collateral damage in a story that belongs in the twilight zone , not in american court , rocco said .
rocco argued that evidence pointed to atilla s innocence .
he cited a call in which zarrab told one of his employees that atilla threw a wrench in the gears , but that zarrab resolved the problem by going to aslan .
rocco also pointed to an april 2013 call in which zarrab said he lied to atilla , even though zarrab had said atilla was already in on the scheme by october 2012 .
if in october of 2012 hakan atilla was part of a conspiracy with zarrab , why is zarrab lying to him six months later ?
rocco asked .
u.s. prosecutors charged nine people in the criminal case , though only zarrab , 34 , and atilla , 47 , have been arrested by u.s. authorities .
u.s. district judge richard berman is expected to instruct the jury wednesday morning , after which jurors will begin deliberating on the case .