manchester , new hampshire ( reuters ) - democratic presidential hopefuls hillary clinton and bernie sanders are fighting to be best in class on an issue that resonates loudly with young americans - runaway student debt .
days ahead of the iowa caucuses and the new hampshire primary election that kick off the party nomination process , the white house contenders are shopping rival plans that would make college more affordable .
sanders is pitching a scheme to make public colleges and universities tuition-free , and clinton is promoting one that would ensure students pay what they can without taking on crippling loans .
“ it ’ s important ( to address student debt ) , so i can actually do something with my life , ” said selena alcantara , a 17-year-old freshman at southern new hampshire university , who estimates she will graduate $ 70,000 in the red .
u.s. student debt has surged about 24 percent to around $ 1.2 trillion since 2012 , according to the latest figures from the new york federal reserve , leaving many graduates with mortgage-sized tabs before they enter the workforce .
the problem is acute in new hampshire - which stages its primary on feb. 9 .
there , college debt runs about $ 33,410 per student , 15 percent above the u.s. average , according to the institute for college access and success , a nonprofit advocacy group .
only delaware has a higher figure , at $ 33,808 .
while sanders is leading clinton in new hampshire polls , they are in a dead heat in iowa .
nationwide , clinton has an edge with support from 55 percent of her party compared to 36 percent for sanders , in the fight to win the party nomination for the november election .
but voters aged 18-49 , most likely to be affected by student debt , are nearly evenly split between the two , according to recent polls .
democratic candidates have targeted the issue of student debt more aggressively than their republican counterparts .
donald trump and rival ted cruz , for example have not issued formal proposals on the subject .
tuition-free vs debt-free sanders , who polls show is the favorite to win new hampshire , has a plan that would make all state colleges and universities tuition-free , a $ 75 billion per year project that his campaign says would be funded by a tax on wall street speculation .
“ this country made a commitment a very long time ago to provide tuition free education from kindergarten to the 12th grade , ” said warren gunnels , a policy adviser to sanders .
“ and right now a college education is just as important as a high school degree was 50 years ago. ” critics have questioned whether the estimates for both the costs and financing are realistic .
when sanders outlined the plan at southern new hampshire university this month , the crowd of several hundred clapped and cheered loudly , even though snhu is private and not under the purview of sanders ’ proposal .
in contrast , clinton has pushed a more cautious plan targeting “ debt-free ” college education , with proposals to increase access to tuition grants , push for income-based repayments , and - like sanders - to allow graduates to refinance student loans at lower interest rates .
addressing a crowd of around 1,000 people in manchester , new hampshire last week , clinton asked how many people carried student debt .
“ oh my goodness .
yeah , me too , me too , ” she said as hands shot up around the room .
her plan would require students to work about 10 hours a week and would require higher-income families to contribute .
her campaign estimates it would cost $ 350 billion over 10 years - less than half of sanders ’ price tag .
“ i ’ m a big proponent personally that the kids should have to have some skin in the game , ” said scott mcgilvray , the president of the new hampshire branch of the national education association , which has endorsed clinton .
jennifer and david speidel , an adult couple from new hampshire , worry their children ’ s student loans will hit shortly after they pay off their own .
“ there ’ s no break , ” jennifer said .
they are not the only adults who , for one reason or another , are dealing with student debts .
about a fifth of households headed by people 45 to 54 years old have them , according to a 2014 study from the government accountability office .
for students already enrolled in college , though , the debts are mounting even as the candidates campaign .
“ i try not to think about that too much , ” said may mullen , 19 , another freshman at snhu .
( editing by richard valdmanis and frances kerry ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .