beijing/taipei ( reuters ) - taiwan will gradually get used to chinese air force drills that encircle the island , china said on wednesday , while taiwan s premier reiterated the self-ruled island s desire for peaceful relations with its giant neighbor .
china considers democratic taiwan to be its sacred territory and has never renounced the use of force to bring what it views as a wayward province under chinese control .
it has taken an increasingly hostile stance toward taiwan since tsai ing-wen , from the island s pro-independence democratic progressive party , won presidential elections last year and has stepped up its rhetoric and military exercises .
beijing suspects her of pushing for the island s formal independence , a red line for china .
tsai says she wants peace with china , but also that she will defend taiwan s security and way of life .
chinese state media has given broad coverage to island encirclement exercises near taiwan this month , including showing pictures of chinese bomber aircraft with what they said was taiwan s highest peak , yushan , visible in the background .
asked about the continuing drills and the footage released by the air force , china s policy-making taiwan affairs office said it and the defense ministry had repeatedly described the exercises as routine .
everyone will slowly get used it , spokesman an fengshan told a routine news briefing , without elaborating .
china s air force has carried out 16 rounds of exercises close to taiwan in the past year or so , taiwan s defense ministry said in a white paper this week .
china s military threat was growing by the day , it warned .
proudly democratic taiwan has shown no interest in being run by autocratic china , and taiwan s government has accused beijing of not understanding democracy when it criticizes taipei .
taiwan premier william lai told a year-end news conference in taipei that the united states , japan and south korea were all paying close attention to the activities of china s air force .
lai said his government would take its lead from the president , who was in charge of relations across the taiwan strait .
under the president s leadership the executive yuan pushes forward government affairs , stabilizing cross-strait relations toward peaceful development , lai said , using the formal name for taiwan s cabinet .