baghdad ( reuters ) - iraq wants the kurdistan region to stop independent crude exports and to hand over sales operations to the iraqi state-oil marketer somo , the company s director said on thursday .
iraq is talking to turkey to allow somo to sell the kurdish crude that arrives by pipeline in ceyhan , the turkish terminal on the mediterranean , acting somo director general alaa al-yasiri told reporters in baghdad .
about 530,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) used to arrive in ceyhan via the pipeline until mid-october , of which about half came from the kurdistan regional government s oilfields and the rest from kirkuk , a disputed province claimed by both the kurdish region and iraqi authorities in baghdad .
output from kirkuk fell in mid-october , when iraqi forces took back control of the northern region s oilfields from kurdish fighters who had been there since 2014 .
kurdish peshmerga forces deployed in kirkuk in 2014 , when the iraqi army fled in the face of an advance by islamic state militants .
the kurdish move prevented the militants taking control of the oilfields .
the pipeline carried on average 419,000 bpd in october , down from 600,000 bpd in september , said farid al-jadir , the director general of north oil company , which operates kirkuk .
noc should resume exports from kirkuk through the kurdish pipeline this month , after the two sides agree on terms of use , yasiri said .
kirkuk would also export by tanker trucks about 15,000 bpd to the refinery of kermanshah in iran , he added .
yasiri expected an old pipeline that bypasses most of the kurdistan region to resume operation in three months .
the pipeline was severely damaged by islamic state after it took over mosul s nineveh province in 2014 .
u.s.-backed iraqi forces ousted the group from mosul in july , after a nine-month campaign supported by kurdish peshmerga fighters .
iraq , the second-largest producer of the organization of the petroleum exporting countries after saudi arabia , supported any future decision by the group to support oil prices , yasiri said .
opec is expected to extend curbs on oil output when it meets in vienna at the end of month .