with absolutely nothing to back it up , sarah jessica parker tells reporters that she fears for her life , and for the life of her husband ny liberal actor , matthew broderick if trump is elected .
i know hollywood and ny liberal actors live an insulated life , safe from the security or financial concerns everyday americans face , but seriously ?
does she not have a tv ?
does she not have access to youtube or the internet ? how is it possible that she s missed the vicious attacks launched at trump supporters by black lives matter terrorists , anarchists and leftists of every size , shape and color against innocent trump supporters ? just the other day , we reported about a young man who attended a black lives matter rally in ca and was beaten by a mob of around 300 people for simply wearing a trump hat .
did she somehow miss the rioting and attacks on senior citizens , or the woman who was trapped by mobs of anti-trump attackers who proceeded to throw eggs and various items at her head and body ? donald trump might have made two guest appearances in hbo s iconic comedy sex and the city , but the show s star , sarah jessica parker , has speculated his political ascendancy is putting her life in danger.throwback to when trump was on sex and the city .
pic.twitter.com/d72fflvx8w billo rani ( @ prabhjotkp ) september 27 , 2016parker , a high-profile hollywood liberal who has hosted fundraisers for president obama , says the political climate generated by donald trump has left her fearing she , actor husband matthew broderick , and their friends will end up getting hit or worse.sjp , whose new hbo show divorce begins this sunday , told time out new york : the thing i keep saying is that even if please , god trump is not elected , i m afraid there is now a climate that has said in silence that it is okay to hurt anybody you not-so-secretly disagree with .
whether it s how they look or the lifestyle you think they re leading or the color of their skin , or they ve come here to , you know , take advantage of this country .
i m terrified .
she adds of the unnamed trump-inspired posse of haters : i said to [ matthew broderick ] , i feel like someone is just going to hit us .
they re just going to reach out and smack us or beat the shit of us or , i don t know , shoot us , shoot my friends .
i m not being dramatic when i think of this .
i m shocked .
sjp is so shocked that she winds up issuing a rallying cry for trump : i will fight to the very end for you to go and vote for mr. trump .
go do it .
but you don t have to hurt me to do it .
and you don t have to hate me to do it .
i don t hate you ; i wish i understood you .
via : heat streetare these hollywood and ny liberals so self-absorbed that they don t see what is really happening in america who is really being attacked for their political views ?
news flash sj parker it s not the left who s being attacked .
how about you just go back to your little safe-space , and we ll call you when it s all over .
if america votes for freedom , trump fans will rejoice .
we won t burn any cop cars , we won t loot any stores , we ll likely just say a prayer of thanks and count our blessings that the reign of tyranny is over in america .
if america votes for the most crooked president in our history , we will likely feel crushed , but we won t come looking for sarah jessica parker and her whiny husband .
we won t be looking for innocent people to harm or buildings to burn .
you see , that s not how conservatives do it .
so you can rest easy sarah , knowing that whatever the result , there isn t a single conservative in america who will give you any more thought than we do today .
to tell you the truth , i can t remember the last time i even heard your name .
rest easy