buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentina s congress was on track to pass a pension reform measure on monday , even as stone-throwing protesters rushed police outside the capitol building and the country s main union called a 24-hour general strike in opposition to the proposal .
president mauricio macri , elected in 2015 with a mandate to lift the heavy-handed currency and trade controls favored by his predecessors , says argentina needs pension reform to cut its deficit , attract investment and promote sustainable growth .
debate on the bill was suspended on thursday due to violent demonstrations .
macri then promised to decree a bonus payment to the neediest retirees .
but that did nothing to satisfy the opposition and union activists who marched on congress again on monday as lawmakers debated the proposal inside .
balaclava-wearing protesters used sling shots to fire rocks at police , who answered with water canon and tear gas , turning the vast lawn in front of the capitol into a battleground .
this bill will put millions of retirees at risk .
it changes the whole pension system , laura rivas , a 34-year-old teacher told reuters , standing back from the most violent protest areas .
we are going to have to work more years before we can retire , and then the pension payments we get will be minimal , so it hurts us as workers , she added .
others closer to the front line shouted attacks on macri , accusing him of balancing the budget on the backs of the poor .
scores of people were injured , including police officers , and dozens were arrested , authorities said .
macri s cambiemos , or let s change , coalition does not have a majority in congress .
but it was expected to cobble together enough votes to approve the bill on monday or tuesday .
the measure has already passed the senate , leaving the lower house to give final legislative approval .
opposition lawmakers joined the protesters in dismissing the bonus sweetener .
it will be a one-time bonus payment made in march , opposition lawmaker agustin rossi told reporters , adding that the overall bill remained inadequate to meet pensioners needs .
the 24-hour-long strike called by argentina s main cgt labor group started at noon ( 1500 gmt ) , threatening to paralyze tuesday morning commuter traffic .
the pension bill would change the formula used to calculate benefits .
payments would adjust every quarter based on inflation , rather than the current system of twice-yearly adjustments linked to wage hikes and tax revenue .
economists say the current formula means benefits go up in line with past inflation .
left unchanged , that could harm macri s efforts to cut the deficit .
under the proposed formula , benefits would increase by 5 percentage points above inflation .
the plan would take effect at a time of lower inflation expectations , hence slowing the pace of pension benefit increases .
macri is aiming to cut the fiscal deficit to 3.2 percent of gross domestic product next year from 4.2 percent this year , and reduce inflation to between 8 percent and 12 percent from more than 20 percent this year .