dortmund ( reuters ) - a german-russian man suspected of detonating three bombs targeting the borussia dortmund soccer team bus in a plan to profit from a plunging share price appeared in a german court on thursday charged with 28 counts of attempted murder .
the team was heading to the club s stadium for a champions league match against as monaco on april 11 when the explosions went off , wounding spanish defender marc bartra and delaying the match by a day .
letters left at the scene had initially suggested islamist militants were behind the bomb attack , but prosecutors later said the 28-year old suspect , a dual german and russian national identified as sergei v. , was motivated by greed .
the attack near the signal iduna park stadium , the largest in germany , holding more than 80,000 fans , nonetheless revived memories at the time of the november 2015 attacks in paris that targeted entertainment venues including the stade de france where france were playing germany in a soccer friendly .
the start of the trial also comes only days after the anniversary of a deadly truck attack at a berlin christmas market , which killed 12 people and put the issue of security at the heart of political debate in germany .
sergei v. , who was led into a courtroom at the dortmund regional court in handcuffs on thursday , may face a life sentence in prison if he is found guilty .
no plea was entered .
in addition to the attempted murder charges , he is accused of inflicting grievous bodily harm and of causing an explosion .
prosecutors have said that he bought about 44,000 euros ( $ 52,000 ) worth of options on the day of the attack entitling him to sell shares in borussia dortmund at a pre-determined price .
his goal was allegedly to push the price of the shares down through the attack and earn a high profit of around 500,000 euros through the options , a spokesman for the regional court in dortmund said .
but shares in bvb rose after the attack and are up 16 percent so far this year .
defence lawyer carl heydenreich declined to comment on the allegations against his client on thursday , saying the matter was complicated by what he said was a smear campaign ahead of the trial .
the dortmund court has set trial dates through march for now .