donald trump fired acting attorney general sally yates on monday and proceeded to whine about how democrats are blocking his nominees .
twitter responded by teaching him about karma.for eight years , republicans blocked many of president obama s nominees , including one nominee who died waiting to be confirmed as the ambassador to the bahamas .
cassandra butts waited for two long years and died without getting the opportunity to serve her country .
and republicans blocked president obama s nomination of merrick garland to the supreme court for almost a year before it expired due to the end of obama s second term in office.this unprecedented obstruction has rallied democrats to do the exact same thing to trump , but democrats have far better reasons to block trump s nominees since they intend to help him destroy this country.one particular nominee democrats are blocking is jeff sessions , whom trump nominated as attorney general .
the problem is that sessions is a racist who wants to cripple civil rights and voting rights and that will be easy to do if he is allowed to control the justice department.so trump complained about the obstruction on monday night and again on tuesday morning.the democrats are delaying my cabinet picks for purely political reasons .
they have nothing going but to obstruct .
now have an obama a.g. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 31 , 2017nancy pelosi and fake tears chuck schumer held a rally at the steps of the supreme court and mic did not work ( a mess ) -just like dem party !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 31 , 2017when will the democrats give us our attorney general and rest of cabinet !
they should be ashamed of themselves !
no wonder d.c. doesn t work !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 31 , 2017trump is a hypocrite .
again , republicans did the same thing to president obama for eight years , and his nominees were at least qualified for the jobs .
trump s nominees are not .
and i don t recall trump ever telling republicans that they ought to be ashamed of themselves.the internet , of course , ripped trump a new one .
@ realdonaldtrump none of your cabinet picks are qualified .
i would vote no on all of them .
betsy devos has no experience .
matthew schueller ( @ booshoe37 ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you are putting our entire country in danger .
step down now .
jen vargas ( @ jenvargas ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump as the republicans reminded us in 2016 with merrick garland , the senate has to advise * and * consent .
try to be patient .
dave hogg ?
( @ stareagle ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump dude your party literally stole obama s rightful scotus pick after obstructing it for nearly an entire year ken klippenstein ( @ kenklippenstein ) january 31 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump betrayal ? !
# sallyyates swore an oath of loyalty to the constitution , not a bullying , narcissistic fascist .
we # resist danielle muscato ( @ daniellemuscato ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump that s because you couldn t be trusted to pick out a cabinet from ikea declan cashin ( @ tweet_dec ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump or maybe your cabinet picks are garbage humans .
their moral compasses smaller than your tiny , pathetic hands .
neil miller ( @ rejects ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump if by political reasons you mean objecting to appt of unqualified folks w/huge conflicts of interest then , well , yeah .
rebeccaloebe ( @ rebeccaloebe ) january 31 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump maybe if you didn t pick a guy who in 1986 was deemed too racist to be a judge \_ ( ) _/ jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you re running america like a reality tv show .
you can t just say you re fired to everyone you don t like , mr trump .
ben rachinger ( @ bensrachinger ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump this is how it s supposed to work : no one gets all the power .
while you re waiting , maybe read up on checks and balances ?
rebeccaloebe ( @ rebeccaloebe ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you re surprised they re making it difficult for you to ruin the us ?
henry hall ( @ hj_hall ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump merrick garland , 321 days ago .
obstruction is the o in gop .
nick jack pappas ( @ pappiness ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump your party explicitly stated that their job was to stop obama at every turn through obstructionism .
damn hypocrite .
matthewdicks ( @ matthewdicks ) january 31 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump right ?
it s almost like refusing to move forward with a supreme court nomination for a president with 11 months left .
aaron gouveia ( @ daddyfiles ) january 31 , 2017featured image via andrew harrer-pool/getty images