ottawa ( reuters ) - canada will impose targeted sanctions against 40 venezuelan senior officials , including president nicol s maduro , to punish them for anti-democratic behavior , the foreign ministry said on friday .
canada s move , which followed a similar decision by the united states , came after months of protests against maduro s government in which at least 125 people have been killed .
critics say he has plunged the nation into its worst-ever economic crisis and brought it to the brink of dictatorship .
canada will not stand by silently as the government of venezuela robs its people of their fundamental democratic rights , foreign minister chrystia freeland said in a statement .
the measures include freezing the assets of the officials and banning canadians from having any dealings with them .
the actions were in response to the government of venezuela s deepening descent into dictatorship , canada said .
there was no immediate reaction from caracas , where the government established a pro-maduro legislative superbody that has overruled the country s opposition-led congress .
maduro has said he faces an armed insurrection designed to end socialism in latin america and let a u.s.-backed business elite get its hands on the opec nation s crude reserves .
the united states imposed sanctions on maduro in late july and has also targeted around 30 other officials .
the canadian measures name maduro , vice president tareck el aissami and 38 other people , including the ministers of defense and the interior as well as several supreme court judges .
canada is a member of the 12-nation lima group , which is trying to address the venezuelan crisis .
a government official said freeland wanted to host a meeting of the group within the next 60 days .
cyndee todgham cherniak , a trade sanctions expert at toronto law firm lexsage , said although limited in scope , the canadian measures were symbolic .
when you join other countries ... it makes the message louder , she said by phone .
canadian prime minister justin trudeau said on thursday he believed there was a chance for a political solution .
this is a situation that is obviously untenable .
the violence ... needs to end and we are looking to be helpful , he told reporters at the united nations .
experts say individual measures have had little or no impact on maduro s policies and that broader oil-sector and financial sanctions may be the only way to make the venezuelan government feel economic pain .
u.s. president donald trump last month signed an executive order that prohibits dealings in new debt from the venezuelan government or its state oil company .
earlier this month , spain said it wanted the european union to adopt restrictive measures against members of the venezuelan government .