here is a screen shot of the facebook post by warren , mi mayor jim fouts where he explains what happened to him at the democrat debate last night .
it s interesting that the mayor accuses the democrat party of using totalitarian control to silence him .
where the heck has he been for the last several decades ?
i mean , no one forced him to be a democrat , and certainly nothing has changed in decades if not for centuries .
the democrat party just seems to be more open about their unscrupulous behavior now , since stealing and cheating their fellow americans seems to be more acceptable under the reign of their community organizer in chief .maybe the real reason they didn t want the mayor at the debate is because the democrat mayor lauded gm valet driver , didarul sarder , a concealed carrier , who stopped a woman from stabbing her mother to death at the gm tech center last month .
fortunately didarul sarder was able to prevent any further stabbing by threatening the aggressor with his gun .
sarder was also able to hold her at gunpoint until the police were able to arrive .
any democrat mayor who celebrates a concealed carry hero is not someone who the gun-grabbing hillary wants supporting her campaign.here s a screen shot of the loving daughter who stabbed her mother so many times , she was clinging to life by a thread.watch dramatic video here : the man who broke up a stabbing at the general motors tech center last week was honored thursday for stopping a crime that could have ended worse.didarul sarder was given a proclamation from warren mayor jim fouts and a $ 1,000 gift certificate to a shelby township jewelry store .
my first reaction was to try to save this woman s life , the warren resident said when he saw a 32-year-old woman stabbing her 52-year-old mother multiple times outside the main door of one of the buildings on the automaker s warren campus on van dyke.said fouts : any of us we never know when we ll need a didarul sarder .
without his help , i believe the woman would ve passed away .
sarder intervened , but how he did it nearly cost him his job.legally licensed to carry a weapon , sarder pointed his gun at the younger woman and gave a warning drop the weapon or i ll shoot and the woman complied .
the problem is , sarder s employer , chicago-based contractor sp plus , and general motors , which contracts with the valet service , have a no-gun policy at the tech center.gm interceded on sarder s behalf and sp plus agreed he should keep his job , with the understanding he would comply with the no guns policy .
he returned to work monday.the incident happened around 9:17 a.m. last wednesday when sarder heard from the valets he manages that a woman was being attacked .
video shown at thursday s event shows sarder , 32 , ran through the building s lobby , got outside and saw a woman being stabbed .
he pulled his gun and ordered her attacker to stop.the aggressor is facing charges and the victim is recovering in the hospital.fouts said if his political role model , president harry truman , were around , sarder might have received a presidential proclamation , not just a mayoral one .
via : detroit news