tokyo ( reuters ) - a korean woman who was forced to work at a japanese wartime military brothel and later lost a supreme court case seeking compensation from the japanese government has died in japan at the age of 95 , a civic group said on tuesday .
the death of song shin-do leaves 32 women registered with the south korean government as surviving comfort women , as those forced to work in wartime brothels are euphemistically known in japan .
japan s 1910-1945 colonization of the korean peninsula and the legacy of world war two remain highly sensitive in south korea .
the issue of comfort women , is especially contentious .
song was born in korea and said she was forced into sexual slavery by the japanese military for seven years in china , according to the korean council for women drafted for military sexual slavery by japan , a seoul-based civic group that supports the women , which confirmed her death .
after the war , song moved to japan with a japanese soldier who later left her .
after that , she lived with an ethnic korean man in japan , the group said .
in 1993 , song filed a lawsuit with the tokyo district court seeking an official apology and compensation from the japanese government .
the case eventually went to japan s supreme court , which dismissed her appeal in 2003 on the grounds that japan had no legal obligation to pay for her suffering because a 20-year stature of limitations had expired , according to a summary by the columbia law school s center for korean legal studies .
the south korean civic group said song had suffered for seven years as a sex slave for the japanese military .
some japanese ultra-conservatives deny that the women were forced to work in the brothels .
japan says the matter of compensation for the women was settled under a 1965 treaty with south korea .
in addition , japan s then-chief cabinet secretary , yohei kono , apologized in a 1993 statement acknowledging authorities involvement in coercing the women .
two years later , japan created a fund to make payments to the women from donations , budgeted money for their welfare support and sent letters of apology from successive premiers .
under a pact endorsed by japanese prime minister shinzo abe and south korean president moon jae-in s predecessor , in 2015 , japan apologized again to the women and promised 1 billion yen ( $ 9 million ) for a fund to help them .
the two governments agreed the issue would be irreversibly resolved if both fulfilled their obligations .
but moon has said the south korean people did not accept the deal .
reminders of japan s brutal rule are inflammatory for both sides .
japan wants south korea to remove a statue near the japanese consulate in busan city commemorating korean comfort women , as well as another near the japanese embassy in seoul .