it s amazing the sheep mentality of students attending a school that should be promoting individual thought and encouraging students to not buy into propaganda without first exploring the facts.the price of carbon dioxide emissions could be the next thing to drive up the cost of a university education , as ivy leaguers at yale plan to set precedent by becoming the first school in the u.s. to enact a campus-wide carbon charge after signing a pledge at the white house earlier this week.more than 200 universities attended a white house climate change summit thursday to sign a pledge on taking steps to transition to a low-carbon economy and reduce the effects of global warming .
many scientists blame greenhouse gas emissions , primarily carbon dioxide , for raising the earth s temperature , causing more severe weather , droughts and coastal flooding.president obama has been enlisting academic institutions and businesses to reduce their carbon emissions in the runup to a major united nations climate conference in paris nov. 30 .
obama intends to agree to a deal there that would commit the u.s. to reducing its emissions 26-28 percent by 2030.thursday s pledge reads : today our school pledges to accelerate the transition to low-carbon energy while enhancing sustainable and resilient practices across our campuses .
although it does not obligate campuses to enact so-called carbon charges , yale university has chosen to begin testing out the idea this year.on friday , yale said the pledge renews the university s commitment to maintaining a leadership role on climate change .
it notes that in 2005 , the university established itself as a global leader for climate change action with an aggressive target of reducing greenhouse gases by 43 percent by 2020 .
and to that end , it announced a series of practices that includes the launch of a campus-wide , internal carbon charge experiment .
based on a report issued earlier this year by yale , the charge appears to be derived from an economic model the white house has developed called the social cost of carbon metric .
republicans have criticized the administration s use of the metric in creating costly regulations to reduce emissions , saying the white house has not been transparent in the creation of the metric .
in september 2014 , yale convened the presidential carbon charge task force to consider whether it would be feasible and effective to institute a university-wide carbon charge , the university said .
based on the task force s recommendation , and consistent with yale s policy of leading by example on sustainability , yale will soon announce a campus-wide plan for testing internal carbon charge mechanisms .
the task force said yale would implement a pilot project on carbon pricing .
the task force s report said the charge on carbon dioxide emissions would provide incentives for decision makers to reduce reliance on carbon-intensive activities .
via : washington examiner