madrid ( reuters ) - a spanish court has suspended a catalan law that outlined a legal framework for an independent state , a court source said on tuesday , the day after hundreds of thousands rallied in barcelona to support secession from madrid .
prime minister mariano rajoy s government is increasing the pressure to prevent an independence referendum , scheduled for oct. 1 , from going ahead .
it has declared the vote illegal and challenged laws linked to the ballot in the courts .
the constitutional court , spain s highest authority on such matters , suspended the law while judges consider whether it is against the country s constitution .
it suspended a law approving the oct. 1 vote last week .
the catalan parliament approved both laws on wednesday in a move which brought a long-running tussle between the pro-independence regional government and the madrid-based central government to a head .
rising tension between madrid and barcelona has prompted some investors to ditch spanish sovereign debt .
catalan leader carles puigdemont , who faces criminal charges for his role in organizing the referendum , only has the power to call an election not a referendum , a government spokesman said on tuesday .
if puigdemont wants to consult the people , it s very simple , he should call an election , government spokesman and minister of education , culture and sport inigo mendez de vigo told antena 3 television .
polls have shown support for independence waning in recent years with those wanting a separate state in a minority .
however , a majority of catalans want to vote on the issue .
most of catalonia s 948 mayors have pledged to permit use of public spaces for the vote , but ada colau , head of the region s biggest city barcelona , has asked for assurances that civil servants involved will not risk losing their jobs .
justice minister rafael catala on tuesday warned the regional administration against coercing municipal leaders to take part .
i trust they will be left in peace and not be obliged to do what they can not , catala told rtve television .