beirut ( reuters ) - with islamic state near defeat in syria , damascus is setting its sights on territory held by kurdish-led forces including eastern oil fields , risking a new confrontation that could draw the united states in more deeply and complicate russian diplomacy .
president bashar al-assad and his iranian allies appear to have been emboldened by events in iraq , where kurdish authorities have suffered a major blow since regional states mobilised against their independence referendum , analysts say .
rivalry between the kurdish-led syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , supported by the united states , and the syrian government backed by iran and russia is emerging as a fault line with their common enemy - islamic state - close to collapse in syria .
syria s main kurdish groups hope for a new phase of negotiations that will shore up their autonomy in northern syria .
assad s government , however , is asserting its claim to areas captured by the sdf from the jihadist group , known in arabic by its enemies as daesh , in more forceful terms .
on sunday , damascus declared islamic state s former capital at raqqa would be considered occupied until the syrian army took control - a challenge to washington which helped the sdf capture the city in months of fighting .
and the eastern oil fields seized by the sdf in october , including syria s largest , will be a target for the government as it tries to recover resources needed for reconstructing areas it controls , according to a syrian official and a non-syrian commander in the alliance fighting in support of assad .
the message is very clear to the sdf militants and their backers in the coalition , headed by america : the lands they took from daesh are rightfully the syrian state s , said the non-syrian commander , who requested that his name and nationality be withheld .
regarding the resources of the syrian people in the east - oil and so on - we will not allow anyone to continue to control the country s resources and to create cantons or to think about self government , added the commander , who is part of a military alliance that includes numerous iran-backed shi ite militias from across the region .
the syrian official said the sdf could not keep control of oil resources .
we won t permit it , said the official , speaking to reuters on condition of anonymity as he was giving a personal view .
the united states has not spelt out how military support for the sdf will evolve after islamic state s defeat , a sensitive point due to the concerns of its nato ally turkey .
ankara regards syrian kurdish power as a threat its national security as its forces are fighting kurdish pkk rebels over the border in turkey .
the u.s.-led coalition , which has established several military bases in northern syria , has been helping the sdf shore up control of the recently captured al-omar oil field in deir al-zor province .
many people will say that will help them with ( political ) negotiations , but only if the united states remains with them , otherwise they are going to get clobbered , said joshua landis , an expert on syria and head of the center for middle east studies at the university of oklahoma .
i think the syrian government is going to push on some of these oil wells , in the same way as iraq just pushed to get kirkuk oil , and in the same way the iraqi push is going to embolden the syrian army , he said .
iraqi kurds took control of large areas outside their autonomous region during the fight against islamic state .
however , last month s independence referendum prompted western opposition and fierce resistance from baghdad , ankara and assad s iranian allies , and the kurdish authorities have since lost much territory to baghdad , including oil producing areas around the city of kirkuk .
the syrian official said this should serve as a lesson for the kurds in syria , so they think about the future .
regional sources say the u.s. unwillingness to stop iraqi government forces , backed by shi ite militias , from recapturing kirkuk sent an encouraging message to assad and his iranian allies to retake the sdf-held oil areas in syria .
with critical military support from russia and the iran-backed militias , assad has recovered swathes of central and eastern syria from islamic state this year , having defeated many anti-assad rebel factions in western syria .
the kurdish ypg militia , the dominant force in the sdf , controls the second largest chunk of syrian territory - around a quarter of the country .
syrian kurdish leaders say they are not seeking secession .
the ypg and damascus have mostly avoided conflict during the syrian civil war , setting aside historic enmity to fight shared foes .
kurdish-led regions of northern syria have meanwhile focused on establishing an autonomous government which they aim to safeguard .
moscow has called for a new congress of syrian groups that may start work on a new constitution .
the russian foreign ministry published on tuesday a list of 33 groups and political parties invited to a meeting in the black sea resort of sochi on nov. 18 .
a syrian kurdish official told reuters the administration in northern syria had been invited to the congress .
kurdish officials said they discussed their political demands with the russians as recently as last month .
a senior kurdish politician said government statements directed at the kurdish-led regions of northern syria were contradictory , noting that the syrian foreign minister had said in september that kurdish autonomy demands were negotiable .
one day they say we are willing to negotiate and then someone else denies this or puts out an opposing statement , fawza youssef said in a telephone interview with reuters .
one of them declares war and the other wants to come negotiate .
what is the regime s strategy ?
dialogue or war ?
after the final defeat of islamic state in deir al-zor , the situation will drive all the political sides and the combatants to start the stage of negotiations , youssef said .
the sdf has also pushed into arab majority areas , including raqqa and parts of deir al-zor , where it is working to establish its model of multi-ethnic local governance .
analysts believe the syrian kurdish groups could use the sdf-held arab areas as bargaining chips in negotiations with damascus .
there is no other option than to negotiate , youssef said .
either a new stage of tensions and attrition will start - which we are 100 percent against - or a stage of dialogue and negotiations will start .