seoul , ( reuters ) - in 2009 , a pop video from north korea celebrated a new national hero - one that outside experts would later realize was at the heart of the secretive state s banned nuclear and missile programs .
that hero , widely available in factories across the world , was the computer numerical control ( cnc ) machine .
big , grey and boxy , cnc machines use pre-programmed guides to produce intricate parts for everything from automobiles and mobile phones to furniture and clothes .
they offer accuracy that human machine tool operators are unable to achieve .
in north korea , thanks to a combination of homemade technology and reverse engineering , the machines now play a critical role in the weapons programs .
they allow kim jong un to build nuclear bombs and missiles without relying as heavily on outside technical aid or imports .
nuclear weapons experts say this has helped him accelerate missile and nuclear testing despite international sanctions on the transfer of sensitive equipment .
special section : north korea revealed .
interactive : nuclear north korea interactive : kim s latest act of defiance north korea s centrifuges and new missiles all depend on components made with cnc machine tools , said jeffrey lewis , head of the east asia nonproliferation program at the middlebury institute of strategic studies at monterey , california .
( they ) are the essential underlying technology for producing missiles and nuclear weapons , said lewis .
since 1996 , cnc machines have been included in the wassenaar arrangement an international arms control regime aimed at stopping the proliferation of equipment with both civilian and military uses .
north korea is not a signatory .
the country s celebrations of its cnc technology have been fulsome .
hundreds of dancers in luminous orange and green performed the cnc pop song , titled break through the cutting edge , at a korean workers party celebration in 2010 .
in 2012 , the year the south korean hit gangnam style was released , the north s cnc title was on karaoke machines nationwide , according to choson exchange , a singapore-based company that trains north koreans in business skills .
the official video for the song opens with a long-range north korean rocket soaring into a blue sky .
north korea likely started to develop its own cnc machines in the early 1990s as part of a drive to build sophisticated missiles and nuclear weapons , nuclear experts say .
it probably learned how to make them by taking apart machines it had imported from the soviet union .
its first homemade cnc machine was introduced in 1995 .
former leader kim jong il gave the machine the ryonha brand , according to a 2009 article in the country s official newspaper , rodong sinmun .
that was the first time state media mentioned the technology .
by 2009 , the machines had become a mainstay of north korean propaganda , as pyongyang launched a nationwide campaign to boost domestic industry .
sanctions were mounting after its second nuclear test and a long-range missile launch that year .
at the time , arms control experts raised concerns about a visit by former leader kim jong il to a north korean factory where homemade cnc machines appeared to be producing aluminum tubes .
these could be used for nuclear centrifuges .
by around 2010 , it seemed they were capable of manufacturing various types of cnc machines , said kim heung-gwang , a north korean defector who taught at pyongyang s hamhung computer technology university before defecting to south korea .
but it wasn t until 2013 that the korea ryonha machinery joint venture corporation , which produced the machines , was blacklisted by the u.n. security council for supporting the weapons programs .
and it was only in august this year that u.s. intelligence officials told reuters north korea likely has the ability to produce its own missile engines themselves .
( full story ) now , kim heung-gwang estimates , north korea has about 15,000 cnc machines .
he bases this on north korean state media reports and photos as well as interviews with more than a dozen defectors who were scientists , professors or factory workers .
pyongyang hailed the homemade machines as a triumph for its governing ideology of juche , which champions self-sufficiency .
but that wasn t strictly true .
in august 2016 , state media released photos of kim jong un visiting a factory using cnc machines with the logo of swiss engineering firm abb abb.ul , one of the leading players in the global cnc machine market .
it s not clear when or how the machine reached north korea .
abb said the firm respects all applicable trade sanctions against north korea , and undertakes not to deliver abb equipment to the country .
that said , we can not rule out that some of our equipment may have been resold to dpr of korea without our knowledge or permission , the company said in response to a reuters inquiry , using north korea s official title .
a united nations panel monitoring sanctions on north korea said in a report this year that tengzhou keyongda cnc machine tools co of china had been a supplier of pyongyang s new cnc machines .
a sales representative for tengzhou keyongda told reuters the company stopped selling cnc machines to north korea four years ago , and no longer maintains trade relations with the country .
despite sanctions , cnc machines are commonplace across north korean manufacturing and can be brought in through china and russia , said lee choon-geun , a senior fellow at the science and technology policy institute in south korea .
the biggest loophole has been that while some cnc machines are banned because they can have both military and civilian functions , most serve civilian industry .
given their dual-use capability , you could even import the machines for other purposes , take them to pieces and use them however you want , said lee .
the cnc song highlights this in its opening line : whatever it is , once we put our mind to it , there s a program to make it , it says .