new delhi ( reuters ) - india s ruling bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) was set to win an election in prime minister narendra modi s home state on monday , the vote count showed , but with a reduced margin , which will be a boost for the opposition .
a combined opposition led by the congress party had mounted a tough challenge in the western state of gujarat , hoping to weaken modi in his home base by exploiting discontent over a lack of jobs and a national sales tax that hit business .
the bjp won more than 100 seats in the 182-member state assembly , projections by india today , cnn news18 and timesnow showed .
a party needs 92 seats to rule the state .
congress , led by rahul gandhi , who formally took over as party president at the weekend , was set to win more than 70 seats , far better than it had done in the past .
a relieved bjp said modi s popularity remained intact .
there is no other leader close , said shyam jaju , party vice president .
the mood in the bjp headquarters in new delhi and in gujarat s main city ahmedabad was initially tense as early trends showed a close fight .
but later workers gathered to shout slogans and cheer victory .
modi s party was also ahead in himachal pradesh , the himalayan state in the north also voting for a new state assembly .
modi faces a general election in 2019 , but before then , the opposition aims to slow down modi s momentum in state elections , with two more next year .
businesses across india have been struggling with the poor implementation of a goods and services tax that aims to harmonize an array of state and federal taxes but entangled them in cumbersome procedures .
modi s shock ban of high-value currency notes in november last year , as part of his fight against corruption , also disrupted small business that forms the bedrock of his support base .
indian stock markets opened weaker , with the 50-share nse index down almost 2 percent as early trends showed a close contest in gujarat .
but stocks reversed the losses later - the 50-share nse index was trading up 0.7 percent at 0455 gmt .
the partially convertible rupee was trading at 64.32/33 to the dollar versus its previous close of 64.04 .
the rupee had dropped to a low of 64.74 in early trade .
almost all pre-vote and exit polls had predicted a comfortable victory , but the polls have often gone wrong in the past .
to ensure his party s prospects , modi addressed dozens of rallies during his campaign in gujarat , performed rituals and even waved from a seaplane on his last day on the campaign trail .
if they had lost gujarat , the bjp would have collapsed like a pack of cards , said congress member sharmistha mukherjee .
this is their citadel , they threw everything at it .
in the congress party office in ahmedabad , posters of rahul gandhi were being pasted on the wall .
rahul gandhi s hard work has paid off in the state and it proves that modi s governance is not making anyone happy , said a congress leader , shaktisinh gohil .