( reuters ) - u.s. republican presidential front-runner donald trump doubled down on his threat to stay away from an upcoming republican debate , when he took to social media tuesday to complain about one of the moderators , fox news correspondent megyn kelly .
on tuesday afternoon , donald trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) tweeted “ should i do the # gopdebate ? ” with a twitter poll and a link to an instagram video of himself complaining about kelly of fox news , which is owned by twenty-first century fox inc ( foxa.o ) .
she is expected to moderate the thursday debate .
“ megyn kelly ’ s really biased against me , ” trump said in the video .
“ she knows that , i know that , everybody knows that .
do you really think she can be fair at a debate ? ” that same video garnered more than 190,000 views on facebook in roughly an hour .
the poll , which was embedded in trump ’ s tweet , showed a near-split between respondents who felt he should attend the debate ( 52 percent ) and those who felt he should skip it ( 48 percent ) .
overall , the poll had received more than 11,000 responses in the first two hours after it went live .
fox news appeared unfazed by trump ’ s comments .
“ we learned from a secret back channel that the ayatollah and putin both intend to treat donald trump unfairly when they meet with him if he becomes president , ” a spokesperson for fox news said .
“ a nefarious source tells us that trump has his own secret plan to replace the cabinet with his twitter followers to see if he should even go to those meetings. ” trump accused kelly last august of asking him tougher questions than other candidates during a debate .
his comments drew outcry , with some accusing the business tycoon of sexism .
trump ’ s bravado led some on social media to compare the republican candidate to a pro wrestler psyching out his competition before a big match .
“ not a chance he or she won ’ t show , ” author harlan coben ( @ harlancoben ) tweeted tuesday , in reference to both trump and kelly .
“ this is straight out of pro wrestling hype handbook. ” “ i always think donald trump reminds me of a wwe character , ” tweeted rob e\m/ ( @ harvesterofsoro ) , “ then i remember he actually was. ” the wwe website lists trump as a 2013 wwe hall of fame inductee .
wwe chairman and ceo vince mcmahon is one of just 49 people trump follows on twitter .
trump leads a crowded field of republican candidates vying to represent the party in the november election .
( reporting by amy tennery in new york ; editing by lisa shumaker and david gregorio ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .