juba ( reuters ) - residents of south sudan s capital say they are collecting cash to pay police unofficially to patrol their neighborhoods , amid a crime wave and a cash crunch that means authorities often can not pay their wages .
robbers killed more than 60 people last month in juba , twice as many as in july , according to the community empowerment of progress organisation , a civil society organization in juba that tallies violent incidents .
in one incident this month , around 50 gunmen in army uniforms attacked homes .
armed residents repulsed them and there were no known casualties , the organization said .
it was unclear whether the attackers were members of the security forces .
edmund yakani , head of the progress organisation , said security was improving in some areas since communities began collecting cash to pay for police patrols .
south sudan s nearly four-year-old civil war has slashed oil production and the cash-strapped government struggles to pay security forces .
it has asked foreign donors for help , but the request is unlikely to be granted since rights groups accuse security forces of torturing , raping and killing civilians .
the war has displaced a third of the east african nation s 12 million people and spilt into neighboring states .
at a community meeting last week in the juba neighborhood of kator east , dozens of residents each agreed to give 100 south sudanese pounds ( just under $ 1 ) to hire police to join youth volunteers in patrolling , said lucy ramada , 38 .
every household was asked to contribute ... for the payment of extra police personnel that will assist our youth at night , she said .
since the patrols began with the paid police , she added , there is no sound of gunfire and no robberies .
police spokesman daniel boulogne said he was unaware of residents offering police extra pay .
a south sudanese police officer is paid about 1,500 south sudanese pounds on average , about $ 83 at the current exchange rate .
we have not asked for any ( extra ) incentives because it is our duty to do our best to give them security , he said .
he did not comment on police wages .
monthly inflation has reached triple digits , and the scramble for food forces many people into crime , said james okuk , a lecturer at juba university .
the situation is forcing people to become robbers , he said .
the situation has been made worse by the government not paying salaries to its employees , including those carrying guns , for some months .
defence minister kuol manyang juuk told reuters that some members of the army and police were under investigation for robbery but the number was small .