berlin ( reuters ) - german civil rights groups are mobilizing against the newly elected far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party and other more hardline groups , vowing to avert the even stronger rightward lurch seen in neighboring countries .
thousands of protesters are expected in the eastern city of dresden on saturday when the anti-islam pegida movement celebrates its third anniversary .
pegida - patriotic europeans against the islamisation of the west - has seen dwindling crowds since early 2015 , with the afd absorbing some of its supporters .
the afd won almost 13 percent of the vote in the sept. 24 national election , making it the third largest party in the bundestag , or lower house of parliament , and the first far-right party to win seats in more than half a century .
exit polls showed that 60 percent of afd voters cast a protest vote , with many angry at chancellor angela merkel s 2015 decision to allow in over a million mainly muslim migrants .
experts say the party s rise is also part of a global trend that has brought right-leaning parties or leaders to power in poland , hungary , and most recently , austria .
germany s mainstream parties have said they will not work with the afd at a national level , but activists say they must stake out clear resistance to afd comments on islam and other issues in the parliament , and 14 out of 16 state legislatures .
we ve seen a strong and growing movement of people resisting the afd in recent months in big cities , in small towns , and now we need that movement on a national scale , said nora berneis of aufstehen gegen rassismus , or standing up against racism .
the group is planning a large protest in the northern city of hanover on dec. 2 when the afd meets for a party conference .
the party has drawn sharp criticism from a german journalists group for seeking data on the ethnic backgrounds and political views of journalists who want to cover the conference .
christoph schott , with the global activist group avaaz , said more than 500,000 people had signed an open letter to the afd , rejecting the party s xenophobic and racist messages .
the afd rails against what it calls the islamisation of europe and denies it is racist .
beginning with allied re-education efforts after world war two , germany has developed an intense civic education program .
the government doubled funding for projects aimed at combating right-wing , left-wing and islamist extremism to over 100 million euros in 2017 alone .
some credit such policies with keeping support for far-right parties lower than in neighboring countries .
but axel ruppert with the european network against racism said the afd s aggressive rhetoric was pressing the boundaries of acceptable discourse and hate crimes were rising .
police data showed a 14-percent rise in right-wing extremist violent acts in 2016 , and anti-semitic crimes rose 4 percent to 681 in the first eight months of 2017 .
the afd s entry into parliament has triggered a long-overdue dialogue about what went wrong during the unification of eastern and western germany in 1990 , said michaela glaser with the german youth institute , a non-profit research association .
one silver lining ... may be that things that were hidden before have become visible .
and only if something has been articulated can it be addressed , she said .