madrid ( reuters ) - catalan secessionist parties on tuesday failed to agree on a united ticket to contest a december snap regional election , making it more difficult to rule the region after the vote and press ahead with their collective bid to split from spain .
catalonia s secessionist push has plunged spain into its worst political crisis in four decades , triggered a business exodus , forced madrid to cut its economic forecast and reopened old wounds from spain s civil war in the 1930s .
pro-independence groups have called for a general strike in the restive region on wednesday .
catalan political parties had until midnight on tuesday to register coalitions ahead of the dec. 21 vote , but the two main forces which formed an alliance to rule the region for the last two years did not manage to agree on a new pact in time .
while they could still find an agreement after the vote , political analysts say the lack of a deal on a joint campaign may also trigger a leadership fight at the top of the movement .
this is because center-right pdecat ( catalan democratic party ) of sacked catalan president carles puigdemont is expected to be overtaken by leftist esquerra republicana de catalunya ( erc ) of former regional vice president oriol junqueras .
puigdemont and junqueras are the two main leaders behind the current secession bid that last month led to a unilateral declaration of independence which spain thwarted by imposing direct rule on the region .
junqueras is currently in custody pending a potential trial on charges of sedition , rebellion and misuse of public funds .
puigdemont , who faces the same charges , is currently in self-imposed exile in belgium and has said he would oppose extradition .
an opinion poll released on sunday by barcelona-based newspaper la vanguardia showed junqueras erc could garner between 45 and 46 seats in the 135-strong regional assembly while puigdemont s pdecat would win between 14 and 15 seats .
in order to reach the 68-seat threshold for a majority , they would then have to form a parliamentary alliance with anti-capitalist cup , which is expected to get seven or eight seats .
such an alliance previously existed between 2015 and 2017 .
by standing together , erc and pdecat could have held more seats , separate polls and projections based on the results of the 2015 regional election showed .
according to a comprehensive official survey released last week , a coalition between erc and pdecat would have won between 60 and 63 seats , while cup would have won eight or nine seats under such a scenario , virtually guaranteeing a secessionist majority .
it has been impossible to form a joint list and we will therefore have to create a joint front from various candidacies , said erc lawmaker sergi sabria in a statement .
sabria said on monday that each party could stand under its own brand though parts of their manifestos relating to independence would likely be jointly agreed upon .