berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel won a fourth term in office on sunday but europe s most powerful leader will have to govern with a far less stable coalition in a fractured parliament after her conservatives haemorrhaged support to a surging far right .
two years after merkel left german borders open to more than 1 million migrants , the anti-immigration alternative for germany ( afd ) stunned the establishment by becoming the first far-right party to enter parliament in more than half a century .
the afd won 13.0 percent of the vote - more than expected and one of many shocks on a night of drama that saw merkel s conservatives get their worst result since 1949 , and her main social democrat ( spd ) rivals their worst since 1933 .
describing the far right s success as a test for germans , merkel insisted she had a mandate to govern - a formidable challenge as she has little choice but to cobble together a three-way coalition with a pro-business group and the greens .
of course we had hoped for a slightly better result , a humbled merkel said after her conservative bloc slumped to 32.9 percent of the vote - down from 41.5 percent at the last election in 2013 .
but she added : we are the strongest party , we have the mandate to build the next government - and there can not be a coalition government built against us .
the euro eur=e4 slipped around 0.4 percent in early asian trading as it became clear the results would make forming a coalition tricky for merkel .
coalition building could take months as merkel s only straightforward path to a majority in parliament would be a three-way tie-up with the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens - an arrangement untested at national level .
the social democrats , who have served with merkel s conservatives as junior partners in a grand coalition for the past four years , won just 20.6 percent of the vote , as nearly half of voters repudiated the two parties that have dominated germany since world war two .
spd leader martin schulz said the party would refuse to rejoin a coalition and instead take up its position as the main opposition .
the social democrats appear to have been hurt badly by being in government , making it difficult to distinguish themselves from merkel s conservatives .
after shock election results last year , from britain s vote to leave the eu to the election of u.s. president donald trump , leaders of europe s establishment have looked to merkel to rally the liberal western order .
a pastor s daughter who grew up in communist east germany , she has acted as an anchor of stability in europe and beyond .
now , she faces an unstable situation at home as she must form a coalition , an arduous process that could take months .
sunday s election , fought against the tense backdrop of surging support for far left and far right parties across europe , delivered a fractured german parliament with six party groups , up from four previously .
josef joffe , publisher-editor of germany weekly die zeit , said the vote marked a tectonic shift in german politics and that the three-way coalition merkel looks likely to try to forge will be highly unstable .
leading afd candidate alexander gauland vowed his party would hunt the new government , whatever its make-up , adding : we ll get our country and our people back .
in france , far-right leader marine le pen congratulated the afd , tweeting : bravo to our afd allies for this historic showing !
a large group of protesters gathered outside the afd s post-election party and police said they made several arrests .
the european jewish congress expressed alarm at the afd s success , adding : we trust that centrist parties in the bundestag will ensure that the afd has no representation in the coming governing coalition .
the afd says immigration threatens german culture , but denies that it is racist : we will neither tolerate xenophobia nor racist positions .
but we simply don t have them either , afd co-leader joerg meuthen said .
the result makes kingmakers of both the fdp and the greens , both of which have played the role in the recent past but neither of which now has enough support on its own to give merkel a majority .
fdp leader christian lindner , an ambitious 38-year-old who preaches an ultra-hard line on europe and has unsettled the german political establishment , said he was open to coalition talks with merkel but that germany needed a change of course .
the greens katrin goering-eckardt said : we will see if there can be cooperation .
a three-way tie-up of merkel s conservatives , the fdp and the greens - known as a jamaica coalition because the black , yellow and green colours of the three parties match the jamaican flag - is widely seen as inherently unstable .
the greens - keen on regulation - and the business-friendly fdp are at opposite ends of the political spectrum and a clash of policy visions would be likely on tax , energy , the european union and migrants .
despite losing support , merkel , europe s longest serving leader , will join the late helmut kohl , her mentor who reunified germany , and konrad adenauer , who led germany s rebirth after world war two , as the only post-war chancellors to win four national elections .