brasilia/sao paulo ( reuters ) - brazil s top prosecutor asked the country s supreme court late on friday to approve the arrest of billionaire joesley batista , one of the owners of the world s largest meatpacker jbs sa , a person with knowledge of the matter said .
brazil s prosecutor-general rodrigo janot had told a news conference on monday that he was considering revoking a plea bargain deal struck by batista and a fellow state s witness after they appeared to have inadvertently recorded themselves discussing crimes not covered in the deal .
the source , who asked for anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly , said that janot had requested the arrest of batista and ricardo saud , a former executive at the batista family holding company j & f investimentos , based on the four-hour recording .
janot s office did not respond to calls and email requests for comment .
joesley batista and his brother wesley confessed to bribing scores of politicians in plea bargain testimony that allowed them to avoid prosecution .
amongst the evidence they provided to prosecutors was a recording of president michel temer apparently endorsing hush payments to a possible witness in a graft probe .
the source said that janot had revoked the benefits granted under the plea bargain deal to joesley and ricardo saud , a former executive of holding company j & f investimentos , through which the batista family controls jbs .
he also asked supreme court justice edson facchin to authorize the arrest of a former prosecutor , marcelo miller , the source said .
the taped conversation , which was made public by the supreme court this week , was inadvertently submitted to prosecutors with unrelated material last week .
in it , batista and saud say miller helped the batista brothers strike their plea bargain before leaving the prosecutors office in april to work in a private law firm .
in a statement this week , j & f said batista and saud were simply discussing hypotheses in the conversation , not facts .
batista s lawyer , pierpaolo bottini , filed a request on saturday for the supreme court to hear defense arguments before authorizing the arrest of his client and saud .
the lawyer also said batista and ricardo saud are willing to surrender their passports .
a lawyer for miller , andr perecmanis , said on saturday his client did not help the batistas in their plea deal while working as a prosecutor .
another source with knowledge of the matter said the leniency agreement of j & f investimentos sa , which the company signed in may agreeing to pay a record leniency fine of 10.3 billion reais ( $ 3.3 billion ) for its role in the political bribery scheme , had been validated on friday by a federal court .
the source , asking for anonymity to discuss the matter freely , said that if a plea bargain by j & f investimentos is canceled , the leniency agreement may also lose effect .
a string of asset sales depend on the validity of the leniency agreement .
in three months , the holding company has signed agreements to sell havaianas flip-flops maker alpargatas sa alpa4.sa , dairy company vigor alimentos sa and pulpmaker eldorado brasil celulose sa , but the sales may only be finalized if the leniency agreement is still valid .