i m sure the apple doesn t fall far from the tree in this case .
many of us have known about the father-in-law but this digs deeper into valerie jarrett s own family .
federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) files obtained by judicial watch reveal that the dad , maternal grandpa and father-in-law of president obama s trusted senior advisor , valerie jarrett , were hardcore communists under investigation by the u.s. government.jarrett s dad , pathologist and geneticist dr. james bowman , had extensive ties to communist associations and individuals , his lengthy fbi file shows .
in 1950 bowman was in communication with a paid soviet agent named alfred stern , who fled to prague after getting charged with espionage .
bowman was also a member of a communist-sympathizing group called the association of internes and medical students .
after his discharge from the army medical corps in 1955 , bowman moved to iran to work , the fbi records show.according to bowman s government file the association of internes and medical students is an organization that has long been a faithful follower of the communist party line and engages in un-american activities .
bowman was born in washington d.c. and had deep ties to chicago , where he often collaborated with fellow communists .
jw also obtained documents on bowman from the u.s. office of personnel management ( opm ) showing that the fbi was brought into investigate him for his membership in a group that follows the communist party line .
the jarrett family communist ties also include a business partnership between jarrett s maternal grandpa , robert rochon taylor , and stern , the soviet agent associated with her dad.jarrett s father-in-law , vernon jarrett , was also another big-time chicago communist , according to separate fbi files obtained by jw as part of a probe into the jarrett family s communist ties .
for a period of time vernon jarrett appeared on the fbi s security index and was considered a potential communist saboteur who was to be arrested in the event of a conflict with the union of soviet socialist republics ( ussr ) .
his fbi file reveals that he was assigned to write propaganda for a communist party front group in chicago that would disseminate the communist party line among the middle class .
it s been well documented that valerie jarrett , a chicago lawyer and longtime obama confidant , is a liberal extremist who wields tremendous power in the white house .
faithful to her roots , she still has connections to many communist and extremist groups , including the muslim brotherhood .
jarrett and her family also had strong ties to frank marshal davis , a big obama mentor and communist party member with an extensive fbi file.jw has exposed valerie jarrett s many transgressions over the years , including her role in covering up a scandalous gun-running operation carried out by the department of justice ( doj ) .
last fall jw obtained public records that show jarrett was a key player in the effort to cover up that attorney general eric holder lied to congress about the fast and furious , a disastrous experiment in which the bureau of alcohol , tobacco firearms and explosives ( atf ) allowed guns from the u.s. to be smuggled into mexico so they could eventually be traced to drug cartels .
instead , federal law enforcement officers lost track of hundreds of weapons which have been used in an unknown number of crimes , including the murder of a u.s. border patrol agent in arizona.in 2008 jw got documents linking valerie jarrett , who also served as co-chairman of obama s presidential transition team , to a series of real estate scandals , including several housing projects operated by convicted felon and obama fundraiser/friend antoin tony rezko .
according to the documents obtained from the illinois secretary of state , valerie jarrett served as a board member for several organizations that provided funding and support for chicago slum projects operated by tony rezco.via : judicial watch