21st century wire says cnn s chris cuomo ( image , above ) is certainly one of america s most maligned and gaff-prone mainstream media pundits .
but are these really gaffs , or is there more to this media operative ? this week , cuomo went into full establishment mode , by attempting to scare the american public into not viewing wikileaks emails online.cuomo declared this week , also interesting is remember , it s illegal to possess , ah , the stolen documents it s different for the media .
so everything you re learning about this , you re learning from us .
after cuomo s fatal misstep , he quickly began back-pedaling and obfuscating his troubling position regarding public access to items that are in the public interest : what is even more disturbing about cuomo s off-hand legal declarations here , is that he is doing so in defense of hillary clinton s presidential run whose numerous scandals are pervasive throughout the wikileaks emails .
this is hardly the role of a journalist .
newsflash for cnn : if the leaked documents are about elected and appointed public officials ( especially those seeking the presidency ) , and the content exposes illegal and unethical activities and is clearly in the public interest ( which these emails are ) then any decent journalist worth their salt ( no such thing at cnn ) would publish them and even encourage the public to comb over the documents , unless the media outlet in question functions as a gatekeeper ( which cnn does ) .
see also : congressman jim jordan stops cnn gatekeeper chris cuomo on benghazi cover-upas the son of former new york governor mario cuomo , and the brother of new york governor andrew cuomo , chris is part of a political dynasty family and member of an elite establishment .
it s doubtful he would ve been given such a prominent position in a major broadcast network if he wasn t part of that establishment.last year , 21wire ran a scathing report criticizing cnn s cuomo over his reliance on dubious isis and al qaeda online magazines for his news breaking news reports .
after a bomb brought down a russian metrojet airbus a321 leaving sharm el-sheikh , egypt , cuomo cited an isis monthly aka dabiq magazine claiming that a schweppes bomb brought down the airliner.21wire tweeted the cnn host our critique and in response , chris cuomo then blocked @ 21wire from viewing his twitter page : for a self-described journalist hosting a major broadcast tv network program , is cuomo so insecure that he blocked a small independent news site for criticizing a cnn report which relies on isis as its source ? q : is chris cuomo a media gatekeeper ?
a : in the case of the above wikileaks story , the answer is yes .
it is well documented that the cia has a number of media infiltration and propaganda programs , including operation mockingbird.is cuomo participating in such a program , in this case , being run out of cnn ?
* * * see also : cnn s new source is isis magazine claims a schweppes bomb brought down russian airlinerread more wikileaks news at : 21st century wire wikileaks files