berlin ( reuters ) - an israeli man appealed on monday against a german court s ruling upholding kuwait airways right to ban him from boarding a flight due to his citizenship , a legal decision that triggered sharp criticism from german officials and jewish groups .
the appeal argues that the ruling accepted a racist kuwaiti law and allowed the airline to override german laws requiring that airlines transport any passenger with valid travel documents , according to the lawfare project , which filed the appeal .
we can not allow our laws to be subverted by the state-sponsored racism of other nations , said nathan gelbart , the german attorney for the group , which fights anti-jewish and anti-israeli discrimination around the world .
he said the decision by the frankfurt district court had allowed anti-semitic discrimination to be imported into our country and helped whitewash and sanitize it .
kuwait airways has not commented on the decision .
german chancellor angela merkel and other top officials have vowed to fight anti-semitism and xenophobia with the full force of the law in recent weeks after protests that included the burning of israeli flags .
merkel s spokesman steffen seibert said germany had a historic responsibility to stand by israel and jews everywhere .
anti-semitism remains a sensitive issue in germany , one of israel s closest allies , more than 70 years after the end of the nazi-era holocaust , in which six million jews were killed .
the frankfurt court last month ruled kuwait airways had the right to refuse to carry the israeli man on a flight to bangkok that began in frankfurt and included a stopover in kuwait city since it was abiding by the laws of kuwait , a country that does not recognize the state of israel .
it said germany s anti-discrimination law applied only in cases of discrimination on the basis of race , ethnic background or religion , not citizenship .
the ruling was sharply criticized by german government officials and the central council of jews in germany , which said the kuwaiti law was reminiscent of nazi policies .
three german state parliaments in bavaria , hesse and north rhine-westphalia , have passed resolutions condemning the airline for its policy .
acting transportation minister christian schmidt also raised concerns about the issue in a letter to kuwaiti officials , saying it was fundamentally unacceptable to exclude citizens because of their nationality , according to the lawfare project .
no comment was immediately available from schmidt s office .
a foreign ministry spokesman said germany s ambassador to kuwait had met kuwaiti officials on nov. 28 to deliver the letter and discuss the issue .
a spate of anti-semitic acts in germany in recent weeks , including the burning of israeli flags , have triggered concern and calls by top officials to put more emphasis on the holocaust in integration courses for migrants .
rights groups say anti-semitism and violent acts have increased in recent years amid growing support for far-right political groups and the influx of over a million migrants from syria and other countries that are at war with israel .