sanaa ( reuters ) - her bruised eyes still swollen shut , buthaina muhammad mansour , believed to be four or five , doesn t yet know that her parents , five siblings and uncle were killed when an air strike flattened their home in yemen s capital .
despite concussion and skull fractures , doctors think buthaina will pull through her family s sole survivor of the aug 25 attack on an apartment building that residents blame on a saudi-led coalition fighting in yemen since 2015 .
the alliance said in a statement it would investigate the air strike , which killed at least 12 civilians .
yemen s long war involving competing yemeni factions and regional power struggles has killed at least 10,000 people .
millions more have been forced to leave their homes and face disease and hunger .
aid agencies have called for a speedy resolution to the conflict , warning that the impoverished country is now victim to the world s greatest man-made humanitarian disaster .
lying disoriented in her hospital bed on saturday , buthaina called out for her uncle , mounir , who was among those killed in the attack .
another uncle , saleh muhammad saad , told reuters mounir had rushed to the family s house when buthaina s father called him at 2 a.m. to say war planes were bombing their neighborhood in sanaa s faj attan district .
he never returned .
by the time saleh got to the house , it was a ruin of broken concrete blocks and wooden planks .
hearing survivors groaning from beneath the rubble , he battled to free them .
i could hear the shouts of one of their neighbors from under the rubble , and tried to remove the rubble from on top of ( buthaina s father ) and his wife , but i couldn t. they died , he said .
we lifted the rubble and saw first her brother ammar , who was three , and her four sisters , all of them dead .
i paused a little and just screamed out from the pain .
but i pulled myself together , got back there and then heard buthaina calling .
he said her survival had given him some solace as he mourned the rest of the family .
her sister raghad always used to come up and hug me and kiss me when i visited .
i used to say to her , come on , that s enough .
and she would say oh no it isn t !
and just keep hugging and kissing .