springfield , ill. ( reuters ) - president barack obama paid a nostalgic visit on wednesday to the place that launched his political career and made a renewed call for better relations between republicans and democrats to create a more positive tone in u.s. politics .
obama won the white house in 2008 partially on a promise to overcome partisan divides in washington .
he has called his failure to do that , seven years after taking office , a regret .
on the ninth anniversary of his 2007 announcement in springfield that he was running for president , obama addressed illinois lawmakers at the state capitol where he once worked as a state senator in what he described as a collegial , friendly atmosphere .
“ i was able to be part of that here , and yet i couldn ’ t translate it the way i wanted to in our politics in washington , ” he said .
obama said reducing the influence of money , making it easier to vote and ending the way voting districts were drawn politically would help solve the problem .
“ we ’ ve got to build a better politics , ” he said .
“ when i hear voices in either party boast of their refusal to compromise as an accomplishment in and of itself , i ’ m not impressed. ” congressional republicans have said the democratic president is often unwilling to work with them to pass legislation .
“ ” the central premise of the obama presidency was to unite the country , and that ’ s been an unquestionable failure , ” doug andres , a spokesman for republican speaker of the u.s. house of representatives paul ryan , said in a statement .
obama has made clear he views republican presidential front-runner donald trump ’ s rhetoric as corrosive .
trump , who has called for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states , won the new hampshire republican primary on tuesday as the parties hold state-by-state nominating contests for the nov. 8 election to succeed obama .
the chamber in which obama addressed illinois lawmakers also became a microcosm of the challenges he was hoping to address .
democrats stood and clapped when obama said the country was better off since he became president .
republicans stayed seated .
the situation was similar to what occurred at his annual state of the union addresses in washington .
obama chided both sides , however , and said he believed republicans shared some of his values even if they disagreed on how to enact them .
he noted the importance of basic governance such as fixing roads and passing budgets , a reference to a crisis facing his home state .
republican governor bruce rauner has refused to sign a spending plan for illinois ’ 2016 fiscal year without winning democratic concessions that would weaken collective bargaining rights for public-sector unions , impose term limits , freeze property taxes and make it harder for workers injured on the job to collect damages from their employers .
democrats , who control both of illinois ’ legislative chambers , have resisted his demands , setting up a stalemate that has left the state ’ s public universities and social-service programs starved for funding .
chicago state university , for example , last week declared a financial emergency , and furloughs have been imposed at other public universities .
obama ’ s trip was aimed both at solidifying his legacy in a familiar place and making good on a promise to spend his last year working toward healing partisan wounds .
shortly after arriving , he stopped at a restaurant he frequented as a state senator , then shook hands with onlookers outside the old state capitol , where obama announced his bid for the white house exactly nine years ago .