washington ( reuters ) - senator lindsey graham said on thursday he would seek an emergency appropriation of “ multiple billions ” of dollars to help egypt , jordan and lebanon as they try to cope with the fallout from the war with islamic state .
graham , who recently returned from a trip to the region , said the three countries are facing severe stresses as a result of the political and refugee crisis caused by the syrian civil war and the overrun of parts of syria and iraq by islamic state .
“ one thing i ’ m going to talk ... about is an emergency appropriation that would help egypt , jordan and probably lebanon to deal with the stresses they ’ re facing , ” said graham , chairman of the senate appropriations subcommittee overseeing foreign aid .
he said he also wanted money for israel to help protect its borders , especially with syria .
graham said he expected opposition from budget hawks , mostly his fellow republicans .
he said he expected democratic support , although he acknowledged deep concern from some , including senator patrick leahy , the party ’ s leader on his subcommittee , about egypt ’ s human rights record .
egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi ousted former president mohamed mursi in 2013 after mass protests against mursi ’ s rule .
sisi then launched a crackdown on dissent , drawing allegations from rights groups of abuse , which his government denies .
sisi initially gained the support of millions of egyptians , who saw him as a decisive figure who could deliver stability .
but that support has thinned as the public has grown frustrated with unemployment and high prices .
graham said egypt is too crucial an ally , to both the united states and israel , not to bolster sisi ’ s government militarily to fight terrorism , and economically , if he improves on human rights .
a member of the senate armed services committee , graham said he would ask the pentagon to approve egypt ’ s requests for additional military equipment .
“ if al-sisi did something that would be seen by me and others as a real serious move on the rights front , it makes it easier for a guy like me to help , ” he said .
longer term , graham said he wanted a “ marshall plan ” for the region , similar to what washington provided to europe after world war two .
“ we need to think broadly as a nation about some kind of marshall plan for front-line states that would allow egypt to have access to low-interest loans , preferential trade agreements and bolstering their civil society , ” he said .