london ( reuters ) - the bbc said on wednesday it had filed an urgent complaint to the united nations after iran began a criminal investigation into 152 bbc persian staff and contributors , accusing them of conspiracy against national security in iran and abroad .
iran has frozen the assets of bbc persian staff , meaning they can not inherit family assets and preventing them and their families from selling assets , such as property or cars , in iran .
all individuals on the list work , or have worked , for bbc persian , part of the bbc world service .
a reuters correspondent who was working for the bbc until 2015 was also on the list .
this is the latest in a sustained campaign of harassment and persecution which is designed to pressure journalists against continuing their work for the bbc , britain s publicly funded broadcaster said in a statement .
tony hall , director general of the bbc , added in the statement : this is not just a campaign against bbc persian staff but against fundamental human rights , and the bbc calls on the government of iran to end this legal action immediately .
iran accused the bbc of inciting unrest after the disputed re-election of president mahmoud ahmadinejad in 2009 and said its journalists were broadcasting against the national interests of the islamic republic .
the following year it banned iranians from contact with dozens of foreign organizations , including the bbc , which it said were seeking to topple the islamic theocracy .
the corporation said harassment had been going on since iran s 2009 presidential election and included staff being attacked in the press and on social media with defamatory allegations .
many staff had been subjected to fake news accusing them of sexual impropriety or sexual acts which are illegal in iran , including those which attract the death penalty .
the bbc said it had filed the complaint with david kaye , un special rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression .
bbc persian broadcasts news in persian to iran and the persian speaking world from london on tv , radio and online , reaching an estimated audience of 18 million a week .