beijing ( reuters ) - china s ruling communist party has agreed to amend the party constitution , expected to embed president xi jinping s political thought , ahead of next week s five-yearly party congress in which xi will tighten his grip on power .
the party s central committee , the largest of its elite ruling bodies , on saturday passed a previously announced proposal to amend the constitution which will now be put to the congress for formal approval .
a lengthy communique released by the party via state media offered praise for the past five years under xi s leadership , especially success in the fight against corruption , but did not say what wording would be inserted into the party constitution .
a key measure of xi s power will be whether he manages to have his name crowned in the party constitution , elevating him to the level of previous leaders exemplified by mao zedong thought and deng xiaoping theory .
xi s more recent predecessors , jiang zemin and hu jintao , both had the party constitution amended to include their guiding thoughts , but without their names directly attached .
jiang has his three represents , which embraced private entrepreneurs , written in , while hu , xi s immediate predecessor , had his economic doctrine of scientific development included .
in the section of the communique mentioning former leaders theories , there was a reference to the spirit of general secretary xi jinping s series of important speeches and new concepts , new thinking and new strategy on governing , signalling that could be the phrasing used .
the party has also been pushing xi s four comprehensives , which refer to china working comprehensively to build a moderately prosperous society and strengthen reforms , rule of law and party discipline , as well as the four greats , which focus on party building and national rejuvenation .
the four-day central committee plenary meeting also approved reports by the party s corruption watchdog of investigations into several former senior officials who have been sacked or jailed for graft , including sun zhengcai , once a contender for top leadership who was expelled from the party last month .
since assuming power five years ago , xi has mounted a sweeping campaign against deep-rooted corruption , with more than one million people punished and dozens of senior officials jailed .
the party has vowed that the campaign , overseen by close xi ally wang qishan , will never end .
the congress will open on wednesday with a speech by xi , the party s head , details of which are a closely guarded secret ahead of time but will focus more on ideology than concrete policies .
last october , the party gave xi the title of core leader , a significant strengthening of his position ahead of the congress , at which a new standing committee , the pinnacle of power in china , will be constituted .