huma abedin , hillary s right hand woman , told in testimony that she burned hillary s schedules in a burn bag during her tenure as secretary of state .
even though the experts in this field are saying burning your schedule has never been done before , is their any doubt that this is just more underhanded secrecy from hillary clinton ?
federal records act anyone ?
i ve never seen anyone put their schedule in the burn bag because every one of them had a state.gov email address and therefore their daily schedules became public records , as required by law .
huma abedin , hillary clinton s longtime aide , testified last week that her boss burned her schedules while serving as secretary of state .
if there was a schedule that was created that was her secretary of state daily schedule , and a copy of that was then put in the burn bag , that that certainly happened on on more than one occasion , abedin told lawyers representing conservative watchdog group judicial watch , according to the new york post .
while clinton admitted to deleting personal emails from her homebrew server , this is the first time anyone in clinton s state department inner circle admitted to destroying public records while on the job.the burn bag is used to discard sensitive or classified documents .
a former state department employee told the new york post it was unprecedented for a diplomat to handle schedules this way .
i spend eight years at the state department and watched as four u.s. ambassadors and two secretaries of state shared their daily schedules with a variety of state department employees and u.s. officials , richard grenell , a former diploma and u.s. spokesman at the united nations told the post .
i ve never seen anyone put their schedule in the burn bag because every one of them had a state.gov email address and therefore their daily schedules became public records , as required by law , grenell added .
others who the newspaper talked to suggested the carefulness in how she discarded her schedule highlighted her carelessness when it came to using a private email server .
the president s schedule was not classified but it was deemed highly sensitive , noted brad blakeman , a scheduler for president george w. bush .
instructions were given at the white house and on the road that schedules would be disposed of through the use of burn bags and/or shredding , blakeman told the post .
read more : daily mail