( reuters ) - shares of valeant pharmaceuticals international inc ( vrx.n ) fell on thursday after the campaign of democratic presidential contender hillary clinton posted a blog from an iowa event detailing exorbitant price hikes for a migraine drug made by the company .
at an iowa town hall over the weekend , clinton read from a letter saying that the list price for 10 vials of migraine drug d.h.e .
45 had increased to more than $ 14,000 in december , compared with just over $ 3,000 in june of 2014 .
“ this is predatory pricing .
it is unjustified .
it is wrong , ” clinton said , according to the post .
officials at valeant did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
shares of valeant fell nearly 9 percent to close at $ 86.12 on the new york stock exchange .
more than 3 million shares of valeant traded in the last hour of trading ; total volume on the day was 7.9 mln shares .
valeant , based in canada , has been under pressure since last year as cracks appeared in its business model of acquiring older drugs , steeply increasing their u.s. price , and using aggressive methods to overcome insurer barriers to reimbursing its medicines .
d.h.e .
45 , or dihydroergotamine , is a generic , injectable analgesic .
clinton , fellow democratic candidate bernie sanders , and republican presidential front-runner donald trump have hammered away at drug costs in recent months , raising investor concerns that future price cuts could hurt pharmaceutical and biotech companies .
“ i ’ m going after them .
we are going to stop this , ” clinton said at the iowa town hall .
trump said earlier this week that medicare , the government-run healthcare plan for the elderly , could reap huge savings by negotiating with drugmakers on price .
medicare by law can not directly negotiate drug prices .
a u.s. congressional committee last week subpoenaed former turing pharmaceuticals chief executive officer martin shkreli to testify at a hearing about that company ’ s decision last year to raise by 5,000 percent the price of a decades-old treatment for a rare , but dangerous , parasitic infection .
( reporting by deena beasley ; editing by tom brown and grant mccool ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .