london ( reuters ) - the head of iran s justice ministry was quoted on friday as saying tehran would decide the fate of a detained british-iranian aid worker sentenced to five years in jail and that he could not confirm western media reports relating to her case .
nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe , a project manager with the thomson reuters foundation , was arrested in april 2016 at a tehran airport as she was heading back to britain with her two-year-old daughter after a family visit .
she was convicted of plotting to overthrow iran s clerical establishment , a charge denied by her family and the foundation , a charity organization that is independent of thomson reuters and operates independently of reuters news .
zaghari-ratcliffe s husband richard ratcliffe told the guardian newspaper and other british media on thursday that her lawyer had said that her case had been marked as being eligible for early release .
iran s judiciary can not confirm any of the claims in western media about this case , iran s semi-official tasnim news agency on friday quoted gholamhossein esmaili , the head of the justice department in tehran province , as saying .
when a decision is made , it will be announced by the islamic republic s judiciary or through diplomatic channels .
british foreign minister boris johnson traveled to iran this month to lobby for her release .
esmaili was also quoted by tasnim as saying that a second case had been brought against zaghari-ratcliffe - the first such acknowledgement from a justice ministry official .
her family said in october that the second case carried charges that could bring mean another 16 years in prison , including joining and receiving money from organizations working to overthrow the islamic republic and attending a demonstration outside the iranian embassy in london .
besides serving her current sentence , she has also another ongoing case against her in court ... we do not know if she would be found guilty or not , esmaili was quoted as saying .
tasnim said esmaili also dismissed reports of a swap deal , but did not make clear which reports he was referring to .
the release of dual national prisoners in iran in recent years has been mainly done through prisoner swaps .
iran refuses to recognize dual nationals and denies them access to consular assistance .
it has arrested at least 30 dual nationals during the past two years , mostly on spying charges .