the drip drip drip of the left ensuring christmas is reduced to a quiet nonpublic celebration this isn t a very good of taxpayer money , going after home owners for a few christmas lights , is it ?
watters pressed .
i don t think santa s going to be happy with you .
while definitive information about the lawsuit wasn t offered up , bendekovic did make it clear that she thinks that watters is in no position to speak for santa claus .
i don t think you should be voicing your opinion what santa wants and what santa doesn t want , she shot back.according to the sun sentinel , the hyatts have been battling with officials for years over the size and scale of the display , with the city which considers it a nuisance filing a lawsuit earlier this year to stop it.after years of arguing with the hyatts to scale back the display , the city sued this year to quash the spectacle , which officials consider a neighborhood nuisance .
a scheduled hearing did not take place over the summer as planned and has not yet been rescheduled.in addition to the lawsuit , the family claims on its official website that it faces $ 250 per day in fines for continuing the show , citing government interference as being at the root of the dispute .
here s a portion of a petition that is posted on the hyatt extreme christmas website : by signing this petition , you show your support for hyatt extreme christmas , a 20 year-old tradition , which has been entertaining , inspiring and motivating families from around plantation and south florida.the hyatt s take great joy in creating memories for children both young and old during this special time of year .
our community can see our display of more than 200,000 lights for free .
we give back to our community by raising awareness and funds for charitable partners such as humane society , broward food bank and support for the military working with the red cross holiday cards for heroes .despite facing legal woes , the hyatts are back at it this year , bringing their display to the masses .
the husband and wife duo took watters through the display , and he interviewed some locals who fully support it .
they re just not making money on this and they wanted money from us , he said , claiming that city officials wanted the family to charge admission for the free display .
when we wouldn t give it to them , all the sudden we re in court .
via : the blaze