beijing ( reuters ) - china s growing economic , political and diplomatic power means it is achieving an overwhelming advantage in bringing self-ruled taiwan to heel , and time is on china s side , a senior official said in a comments published on monday .
taiwan is one of china s most sensitive issues .
beijing has never renounced the use of force to bring what it considers a wayward province and sacred chinese territory under its rule .
writing in the influential state-run newspaper the study times , liu junchuan , who heads the liaison office of china s policy-making taiwan affairs office , said it was inevitable taiwan would come under china s control .
china s economic growth means its economy now far surpasses taiwan s , and the trend would only continue , liu wrote in the paper , which is published by the central party school that trains rising communist party officials .
the swift development and massive changes in the mainland of the motherland are creating an increasingly strong attraction for the people of taiwan , he said .
the contrast in power across the taiwan strait will become wider and wider , and we will have a full , overwhelming strategic advantage over taiwan , liu added .
the economic , political , social , cultural and military conditions for achieving the complete reunification of the motherland will become even more ample .
the concepts of peaceful reunification and one country , two systems would become even more attractive to taiwan s people and foreign forces will not be able to stop it , liu said .
the basic situation of the taiwan strait continuing to develop in a direction beneficial to us will not change , and time and momentum are on our side .
china has long mooted taking hong kong s one country , two systems form of government , which is supposed to give hong kong a high degree of autonomy , and applying it to taiwan , though the people of the proudly democratic island have shown no interest in being ruled by the autocratic mainland .
taiwan says beijing does not understand what democracy is and that only taiwan s people can decide the island s future .
relations between beijing and taipei have soured since tsai ing-wen of taiwan s pro-independence democratic progressive party won presidential elections last year , with china suspecting she wants to push for the island s formal independence .
tsai says she wants peace with china but will defend taiwan s security and democracy .
china has stepped up military drills around taiwan and squeezed taiwan s international space , siphoning off its few remaining diplomatic allies .
defeated nationalist forces fled to taiwan in 1949 after losing the chinese civil war to the communists .