london ( reuters ) - ratings agency moody s downgraded britain s credit rating on friday , saying the government s plans to bring down its heavy debt load had been knocked off course and brexit would weigh on the economy .
a few hours after prime minister theresa may set out plans for new ties with the european union , moody s cut the rating by a further notch to aa2 , underscoring the economic risks that leaving the bloc poses for the world s fifth-biggest economy .
britain has worked down its budget deficit from about 10 percent of economic output in 2010 , shortly after the global financial crisis hammered the country , to 2.3 percent .
but moody s - which stripped britain of its top-notch aaa rating in 2013 - said the outlook for public finances had weakened significantly as may s government softened the austerity drive of former prime minister david cameron and his finance minister george osborne .
the government hit back , saying moody s assessment of the brexit hit to the economy was outdated and that may had set out an ambitious vision for the uk s future relationship with the eu in her speech on friday .
but a moody s official said the speech made no difference to the agency s gloomy long-term view for britain s economy .
having looked at theresa may s speech , i don t think there is anything in there which would in any way make us change our assessment , alastair wilson , managing director of global sovereign risk at moody s , told bbc radio on saturday .
over the next few years , we have a lot less confidence that the uk s government is going to be able to fulfil its plans to bring the debt load back down , and this is an extremely high debt load that the uk has , or to be able to achieve some form of agreement with the eu which retains a substantial share of the rights that membership of the eu grants , he said .
moody s verdict will be grim reading for may and her finance minister philip hammond , who is under pressure to spend more in his budget plan , due in november .
after seven years of austerity , a recent relaxation of a tight public sector pay cap for police and prison workers was likely to be broadened , moody s said .
furthermore , a deal struck by may with a small political party in northern ireland after she lost her parliamentary majority in june s election and the dropping of plans to review costly pension increases would also weigh on the public purse .
overall , moody s expects spending to be significantly higher than under the government s current budgetary plans , moody s said .
on the tax side , it noted how the government abandoned a controversial plan to raise national insurance contributions for self-employed workers and was reliant on highly uncertain revenue gains from tackling tax avoidance to fund tax cuts .
as a result , the budget deficit was likely to remain at around 3-3.5 percent of gdp in the coming years , higher than the government s plans to cut it below 1 percent of gdp by 2021/22 .
that meant britain was one of the few big european economies where the public debt ratio was likely to rise , probably peaking at about 93 percent of gdp in 2019 , two years later than under the latest government plans .
at the same time , budget pressures would rise as britain s economy slowed due to brexit , with growth of just 1 percent likely next year , down from 1.8 percent in 2017 and not recovering to its historic trend rate over the coming years .
moody s said it was no longer confident that britain would secure a replacement free trade agreement with the eu which substantially mitigated the brexit hit .
the sheer workload of brexit in the coming years meant the government would struggle to fix britain s weak productivity growth , the achilles heel of the economy , it said .
britain s government said moody s move brought it into line with the other major credit ratings agencies , fitch and standard & poor s. moody s revised up its outlook on the country to stable from negative , meaning a further downgrade is not imminent .