santo domingo/caracas ( reuters ) - various latin american nations will join an attempt to mediate venezuela s political crisis in new talks later this month , the president of the dominican republic said on thursday .
danilo medina hosted high-level delegations from venezuela s feuding government and opposition for two days in the latest foreign-led effort to ease a standoff alarming the world .
we advanced definition of an agenda on venezuela s big problems .
a commission of friendly countries was agreed , the dominican leader told reporters , saying mexico , chile , bolivia , nicaragua would join the process with others to be announced .
the next talks would be held on sept. 27 , again in the dominican capital santo domingo , he added .
mexico and chile have been bitterly critical of president nicolas maduro s socialist government over rights and democracy issues , while fellow leftist-led bolivia and nicaragua are staunch allies .
venezuelan s government is eager to ease foreign censure of and its delegates came out of thursday s talks smiling .
a dialogue of peace is being installed so that venezuela can resolve its affairs among venezuelans , senior socialist party official jorge rodriguez told reporters .
earlier , opposition leaders , who faced a backlash from supporters after failed talks with maduro last year , insisted they had only traveled to push long-standing demands , including a presidential election and the release of jailed activists .
decrying maduro as a dictator who has wrecked the opec member s once-prosperous economy , venezuelan opposition leaders led street protests earlier this year seeking his removal that led to the deaths of at least 125 people .
maduro says they were seeking a coup with u.s. connivance .
though both sides met the dominican president this week , it was unclear if they had also sat down and talked together .
in a statement after thursday s meetings , the opposition democratic unity coalition said it had accepted an invitation by medina and the united nations to an exploratory meeting in the hope of advancing maduro s exit by constitutional means .
only through democratic and non-violent change will it be possible to overcome the current social and economic tragedy afflicting all venezuelans , it said .
the coalition said six countries would be acting as guarantors , and any final accord must include a date for a presidential vote , reform of the national electoral board , release of political prisoners , and emergency humanitarian aid .
any agreement should go to a referendum , it added .
the government delegation included delcy rodriguez , leader of venezuela s all-powerful and pro-maduro constituent assembly whose creation brought widespread foreign condemnation as it overrides the existing opposition-led congress .
the opposition delegation was led by julio borges , head of that congress , fresh from a trip to europe where he was received by the leaders of germany , france and spain .
maduro routinely calls for dialogue , but his adversaries suspect he may use talks as a stalling tactic to help his image without producing concrete results .
a dialogue brokered by former spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero and the vatican in 2016 did nothing to advance opposition demands .