wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand s new government plans to review and reform the central bank act to possibly include employment , alongside inflation , as a dual target , labour prime minister-elect jacinda ardern said on tuesday .
the populist new zealand first , the junior partner in the new labour-led coalition government , also wants to broaden the central bank s focus to include greater management of the local dollar s value against other currencies .
we have been looking at changing the objectives set out in the reserve bank act , ardern told reporters in wellington .
the objectives of the act to possibly include employment is certainly part of our plans .
labour flagged the monetary policy changes during its election campaign .
new zealand first has previously mentioned it would like the central bank to better manage the currency , without elaborating .
the new zealand dollar suffered fresh falls on tuesday as ardern and new zealand first leader winston peters confirmed their policy priorities .
the kiwi dollar shed all its early gains to push below $ 0.6940 , having briefly been as high as $ 0.7003 at one point .
rather than just focussing on inflation , labour wants the reserve bank to have a full employment goal when devising policy settings , bringing it into line with the united states and australia .
while unemployment in new zealand is at near decade lows of below 5 percent , job growth was a hot political issue during the recent election .
the unlikely alliance between the centre-left labour and populist new zealand first was brokered after a sept. 23 election failed to deliver a majority to the governing national or opposition labour .
peters has been offered the role of deputy prime minister , which he is likely to accept , and ardern indicated on tuesday that peters would also become foreign minister , putting a protectionist at the forefront of new zealand s international relations .
peters was foreign minister in a labour-led government in 2005 , during which time he became among a handful of western politicians to visit north korea .
the general consensus is that he did a good job , said richard shaw , politics professor at massey university .
he wasn t particularly interested in restructuring departments .
he s very good at working the room and is an affable character .
labour and new zealand first share similar policies designed to cut immigration , ban foreigners from buying existing property and raise the minimum wage .
many of the policies draw on voter concerns that immigration and foreign buyers of local homes are putting too much pressure on infrastructure and house prices , representing a shift in new zealand s formerly open door policy .
ardern said labour s immigration policy remained in place , whereby net migration would reduce from by between 20,000 to 30,000 .
this represents a less dramatic cut than new zealand first had proposed prior to the election .
net migration is running at just over 70,000 a year .
while a confidence and supply agreement with the greens is delivering policies across the political spectrum , such as a push to legalise cannabis for personal use .