we ve been screaming from the rooftop that obama s new open border policy will destroy job opportunities for americans who really want to work .
can you hear us now ? if they keep this up disney won t be referred to as the happiest place on earth for very much longer republican senator and presidential candidate marco rubio is backing a bill that would triple the number of guest workers businesses could hire every year , after hundreds of workers in his state were fired and literally replaced by foreign guest workers.disney , southern california edison and most recently fossil group have together fired hundreds of american tech workers and forced them to train their foreign replacements , many of whom were flown in specifically to take their job .
you had me here one day , and the next day you had an indian worker at a lower skill level sitting at my desk , one of the hundreds of tech workers who disney recently fired told the daily caller news foundation.he and hundreds of his fellow cast members were informed last october they were being replaced by a foreign work force , and they could either stick around for 90 days and train their replacements with a good attitude or leave immediately and forego their severance packages.about a month before disney broke the news , this worker got the very highest rating you can get from management in a performance review , received a raise and was told to expect a promotion .
and just a week or two before the announcement , disney announced record-breaking profits for the company.so when he was called in to that october meeting he was expecting some sort of promotion or pat on the back .
instead , he and the few dozen other highly regarded , knowledgable and experienced employees called into the meeting were told they had 90 days to find employment elsewhere .
twenty years of hard work , technical skill building , fostering relationships , a bachelor s degree in it , guided me to a coveted position as an it engineer at disney , he told thedcnf , speaking on condition of anonymity , because he s waiting on legal advice .
and that was just wiped out .
they were encouraged to apply for other jobs at disney , and ordered to stay and fully train their replacements , if they wanted to keep their severance package .
a 10 percent bonus was dangled as a reward for those who cooperated fully and maintained a great attitude.the office was soon flooded with the foreign workers , most of whom were fresh out of college .
in the first phase , the foreign worker sat next to the american worker in knowledge transfer sessions , and videotaped everything they said and did , and then reviewed the tapes with the american worker to ensure accuracy.via : the daily caller