goma , democratic republic of congo ( reuters ) - militants attacked two military bases in northeastern democratic republic of congo on monday , killing two u.n. peacekeepers and injuring several others , the u.n. mission and the army said .
the mission , known as monusco , said it had deployed attack helicopters in response to the raid , and the army said it was battling militants along the main road leading from north kivu province s beni territory to the uganda border .
the fighting , which began this weekend , is a fresh outbreak of violence for a region plagued by ethnic tensions and massacres that killed more than 800 people between 2014-2016 .
gunmen believed to belong to the allied democratic forces ( adf ) , a ugandan islamist group active near the border , attacked a u.n. peacekeeping base in the village of mamundioma , over 30 km ( 20 miles ) northeast of beni , monusco said in a statement .
this region has seen more than enough violence already , mission chief maman sidikou said .
i reiterate to all these armed groups who continue to threaten and kill civilians , monusco will respond , and it will respond strongly .
army spokesman mak hazukay said the attacks were carried out simultaneously and hit a u.n. base housing tanzanian peacekeepers who formed part of an intervention brigade which has a mandate to conduct offensive operations against militants .
hazukay said later that u.n. helicopters were shelling rebel positions inside virunga national park as congolese troops fought to recover a stretch of road from the rebels .
adf is believed by authorities to have ambushed and killed many civilians nearby this weekend after a lull in attacks against civilians near beni this year .
omar kavota , who leads an organization that monitors violence in north kivu , said adf fighters killed at least three civilians on saturday by slitting their throats and took another 19 hostages .
monusco said that according to initial reports , up to 20 civilians were killed .
congolese authorities have blamed the adf for nearly all the massacres between 2014-2016 .
however , independent and u.n. experts say several armed groups as well as national army commanders have been involved .