washington ( reuters ) - donald trump made his name with opulent hotels and a dramatic reality tv show , but his inauguration on friday as the 45th u.s. president is shaping up as a more understated affair , with big names in entertainment staying away .
like those who came before him , trump will take his oath on the steps of the u.s. capitol building and lead a parade down pennsylvania avenue , but there will be fewer official balls and less glitz and celebrity talent to welcome in the new president .
inaugurations have been star-studded affairs since 1941 , when president franklin roosevelt held a gala with actors charlie chaplin , mickey rooney and other stars of the era , said jim bendat , a historian who has written a book on u.s. inaugurations .
but this year , several singers – including elton john and charlotte church – declined invitations to perform at inaugural events .
trump , a new york businessman and former star of “ the apprentice ” tv show , won with a populist platform that included promises to build a wall along the mexican border , restrict immigration from muslim countries and dismantle obamacare .
broadway star jennifer holliday said yes to performing , but backed down after a backlash from fans .
“ you can ’ t really find precedent for that , ” bendat said in an interview .
the mormon tabernacle choir , singer jackie evancho and the rockettes dancing troupe are among those slated to perform , although individual rockettes will be allowed to opt out of performing if they so choose .
trump ’ s inaugural committee has said it is intentionally avoiding top entertainers .
“ we ’ re fortunate in that we have the greatest celebrity in the world , which is the president-elect , ” tom barrack , inaugural committee chairman , told reporters at trump tower in new york last week .
“ so what we ’ ve done , instead of trying to surround him with what people consider a-listers , is we are going to surround him with the soft sensuality of the place , ” barrack said .
trump is slated to attend three official galas .
other modern inaugurations have had around 10 official balls , which the president and first lady would attend in rapid succession , typically dancing during each appearance .
then-president bill clinton held a record 14 balls during his 1997 inauguration , bendat said .
on thursday , a series of choirs and marching bands will perform at the lincoln memorial , followed by a concert featuring country music star toby keith .
trump , who is entering office with unusually low approval ratings , has repeatedly pushed back against reports that his inauguration may be lacking in star power or have low attendance .
“ people are pouring into washington in record numbers , ” trump said on twitter on tuesday .
“ bikers for trump are on their way .
it will be a great thursday , friday and saturday ! ” officials expect about 800,000 spectators for the events – down from the estimated 1.8 million who flocked to washington for obama ’ s 2009 inauguration .
just 40 percent of americans said they had a favorable view of trump versus 55 percent who had an unfavorable view , according to a gallup poll taken from jan. 4 to jan. 8 .
at a similar point before he took office in 2009 , obama was viewed favorably by 78 percent of americans .
before taking office in 2001 , president george w. bush had a 62 percent favorable rating , according to the gallup data .
“ what is most likely to distinguish trump ’ s inauguration is the number of protesters , ” said brian balogh , co-host of american history radio show backstory .
the national parks service has granted permits to protest for 27 groups .
on saturday , the national mall will draw what organizers estimate will be about 200,000 people to a women ’ s march to protest trump .
the women ’ s march , which is expected to be the largest protest , is aimed at bringing attention to human and civil rights issues .
honorary co-chairs of the protest include activist gloria steinem and actor harry belafonte .