rancho mirage , calif. ( reuters ) - president barack obama gathered with leaders from southeast asia on monday to strengthen trade ties and form a common stance over the south china sea in a summit that the white house hopes will solidify u.s. influence in the region .
obama , who leaves office next year , has championed a foreign policy pivot to asia during his presidency and is determined to present the united states as a pacific power .
his meeting with leaders from the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) was aimed at cementing that legacy .
“ this reflects my personal commitment , and the national commitment of the united states , to a strong and enduring partnership with your 10 nations , ” he said at the start of the two-day summit at sunnylands , a california resort .
the meeting , at the same location where obama once hosted chinese president xi jinping , was designed to demonstrate washington ’ s role as a counterweight to beijing and as an eager trading partner with asean members .
white house national security adviser susan rice told reporters u.s. companies had more than doubled investment in the region since 2008 .
on monday the leaders were slated to focus on economic issues , including discussion of the trans-pacific partnership deal , which includes four asean members : vietnam , singapore , brunei and malaysia .
others are interested in joining , and the white house wants to make sure the pact takes effect .
on tuesday , the leaders will discuss maritime issues , particularly the south china sea , where china and several southeast asian states have conflicting and overlapping claims .
white house officials have said obama would deliver a tough message to china that disputes over the south china sea must be resolved peacefully and not by bullying .
“ here at this summit , we can advance our shared vision of a regional order where international rules and norms , including freedom of navigation , are upheld and where disputes are resolved through peaceful , legal means , ” obama said .
the challenge may be to get all asean countries to agree on a strong statement on the issue .
officials say china has put pressure on countries such as cambodia and laos not to sign .
“ i ’ m ... confident that our shared commitment to upholding these norms will be reinforced , ” rice said .
china ’ s role in the region hung over the meeting .
rice said she expected china would support new international sanctions on north korea for its recent rocket launches .
an editorial in the influential chinese tabloid the global times on tuesday said the summit was the wrong place to discuss south china sea issues and that it would not yield “ striking geopolitical decisions ” .
“ asean countries have no such desire , and the u.s. knows it is not able to do so , ” the global times said , repeating beijing ’ s stance that disputes in the sea should be handled bilaterally .
advocacy group human rights watch urged the obama administration to object to human rights violations in countries such as cambodia and thailand during the summit .
the president touched on the issue without specifics during his remarks .
“ here at the summit , we can reaffirm that strong , prosperous and inclusive societies require good governance , rule of law , accountable institutions , vibrant civil societies and upholding human rights , ” he said .
combating climate change and cooperating on counter-terrorism and the fight against islamic state militants were also on the agenda .
obama returns to washington on tuesday .