washington ( reuters ) - the united states is asking israel to temper its response to the u.s. recognition of jerusalem as its capital because washington expects a backlash and is weighing the potential threat to u.s. facilities and people , according to a state department document seen by reuters on wednesday .
while i recognize that you will publicly welcome this news , i ask that you restrain your official response , the document dated dec. 6 said in talking points for diplomats at the u.s. embassy in tel aviv to convey to israeli officials .
we expect there to be resistance to this news in the middle east and around the world .
we are still judging the impact this decision will have on u.s. facilities and personnel overseas , the document said .
a second state department document seen by reuters , which was also dated dec. 6 , said the agency had formed an internal task force to track worldwide developments following the u.s. decision on jerusalem .
a u.s. official who spoke on condition of anonymity said it was standard to set up a task force any time there is a concern about the safety and security of u.s. government personnel or u.s. citizens .
the state department had no immediate comment on either document .
trump reversed decades of u.s. policy by recognizing jerusalem as the capital of israel , imperiling middle east peace efforts and upsetting u.s. friends and adversaries alike .
the first document also laid out talking points for officials at the u.s. consulate general in jerusalem , the u.s. embassies in london , paris , berlin and rome and the u.s. mission to the european union in brussels .
in its message for the european capitals , the document asked european officials to argue that trump s decision did not prejudge so-called final status issues that israel and the palestinians need to hammer out in any peace agreement .
you are in a key position to influence international reaction to this announcement and we are asking you to amplify the reality that jerusalem is still a final status issue between israelis and palestinians and that the parties must resolve the dimensions of israel s sovereignty in jerusalem during their negotiations , it said .
you know that this is a unique administration .
it makes bold moves .
but it is bold moves that are going to be needed if peace efforts are finally going to be successful , it said .
the status of jerusalem , home to sites holy to the muslim , jewish and christian religions , is one of the biggest obstacles to reaching an israeli-palestinian peace deal .
israel considers jerusalem its eternal and indivisible capital and wants all embassies based there .
palestinians want the capital of an independent state of their own to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in the 1967 middle east war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .