washington ( reuters ) - republican front-runner donald trump on tuesday abandoned a pledge to support a party presidential nominee other than himself , a sign of increasing friction with chief rival ted cruz .
“ no , i don ’ t anymore , ” trump replied , when asked at a cnn town hall event whether he still supported a pledge he made last year to support whoever is the republican nominee for the nov. 8 election .
trump ’ s signing of a loyalty pledge last september was important in helping him gain credibility within the republican national committee .
the pledge was also signed by all his rivals for the presidential nomination .
his aboutface came as he tries to fend off a challenge from cruz , a u.s. senator from texas who is running second to the new york billionaire in the race for the 1,237 delegates needed to win the nomination .
trump and cruz were enmeshed in a fight last week involving their wives , with a cruz superpac publishing a provocative photo of trump ’ s former model wife , melania , and trump retaliating by tweeting an unflattering photo of cruz ’ s wife , heidi .
cruz , asked earlier at the cnn town hall whether he also would honor the pledge to support the nominee if it was not himself , declined to give a straight answer .
“ let me tell you my solution to that , ” cruz said .
“ donald is not going to be the gop nominee .
we ’ re going to beat him. ” gop is the acronym for grand old party , a nickname for the republican party .
trump said he could do without cruz ’ s support .
“ i watched him tonight and i watched how tormented he was when you asked him that question , ” trump told cnn moderator anderson cooper .
“ i don ’ t want to have him be tormented .
let me just tell you i don ’ t want his support , i don ’ t need his support .
i don ’ t want him to be uncomfortable. ” trump also said he recognized that several of those who have dropped out of the race might harbor ill feelings towards him , mentioning former florida governor jeb bush , wisconsin governor scott walker and u.s .
senator rand paul of kentucky .
walker endorsed cruz earlier on tuesday , with wisconsin ’ s primary vote coming up on april 5 .
“ i drove him out of the race , ” trump said of walker , who abandoned his presidential bid last autumn .
“ i drove jeb bush out of the race , i drove rand paul out of the race .
i understand why they don ’ t like me. ” a third republican presidential candidate , ohio governor john kasich , was also tentative about honoring the pledge .
he told the town hall he had been “ disturbed by some of the things i ’ ve seen ” during the campaign , adding , “ i want to see how this finishes out . ”