( reuters ) - myanmar police said on tuesday they would drop pending charges against two journalists working for turkey s state broadcaster , their interpreter and driver , who were jailed in november for violating an aircraft law by filming with a drone .
cameraman lau hon meng from singapore , reporter mok choy lin from malaysia , aung naing soe - a local journalist who was interpreting for the pair - and driver hla tin were detained by police on oct. 27 near myanmar s parliament building in the capital naypyitaw .
they are currently each serving a two-month prison sentence under a colonial-era aircraft law , but all four still face further charges for importing the drone .
the two foreign nationals have also been charged with an immigration offence .
police lieutenant tun tun win and an immigration officer - the complainants - appeared in a naypyitaw courtroom on tuesday and asked that the court drop the charges .
tun tun win told reuters higher police officials had ordered the case dropped because the four did not mean to endanger national security by flying the drone .
additionally , he said , the decision was intended to forward the relationship between countries , referring to the two journalists home countries , singapore and malaysia .
a law officer - the government s prosecutor in the case - was expected to tell the court the charges were formally dropped in another hearing set for thursday , defense lawyer khin maung zaw told reuters .
the higher authorities already instructed to terminate with good intention , but the procedure can only be accomplished on that day ( thursday ) , the lawyer said .
the four are set to complete their sentences under the aircraft act on jan. 9 , but may be released earlier for good behavior , he added .
the case had raised concerns over freedom of the press in myanmar , where a civilian government led by nobel laureate aung san suu kyi took power last year but the military retains control of security matters , including the police .
two reuters journalists were arrested on dec. 12 after they went to meet police officers for dinner on the outskirts of myanmar s largest city yangon .
wa lone , 31 , and kyaw soe oo , 27 , have now been in detention for two weeks with no access to visitors or to a lawyer .
they had covered the crisis in western rakhine state that has driven 655,000 stateless rohingya muslims across the border to bangladesh since august .
the reporters are being investigated under the colonial-era official secrets act .