dhaka ( reuters ) - bangladesh and myanmar have agreed to take help from the u.n. refugee agency to safely repatriate hundreds of thousands of rohingya muslims who had fled violence in myanmar , bangladesh said on saturday .
more than 600,000 rohingya sought sanctuary in bangladesh after the military in mostly buddhist myanmar launched a brutal counter-insurgency operation in their villages across the northern parts of rakhine state following attacks by rohingya militants on an army base and police posts on aug. 25 .
faced with a burgeoning humanitarian crisis , the two governments signed a pact on thursday agreeing that the return of the rohingya to myanmar should start within two months .
uncertainty over whether the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) would have a role had prompted rights groups to insist that outside monitors were needed to safeguard the rohingya s return .
addressing a news conference in dhaka , bangladesh foreign minister abul hassan mahmood ali gave assurances that the unhcr would play some part .
both countries agreed to take help from the unhcr in the rohingya repatriation process , ali said .
myanmar will take its assistance as per their requirement .
the diplomatic breakthrough came just ahead of a visit by pope francis to myanmar and bangladesh from nov. 26 to dec. 2 that is aimed at promoting reconciliation , forgiveness and peace .
while the violence in rakhine has mostly ceased , rohingya have continued to stream out of myanmar , saying they have largely lost access to sources of livelihood such as their farms , fisheries and markets .
thousands of rohingya , most of them old people , women and children , remain stranded on beaches near the border , waiting for a boat to take them to bangladesh .
ali said a joint working group , to be formed within three weeks , will fix the final terms to start the repatriation process .
after leaving the refugee camps in bangladesh , rohingya who opt to be voluntarily repatriated will be moved to camps in myanmar , the minister said .
most houses were burnt down .
where they will live after going back ?
so , it is not possible to physically return to their homes , ali said .
myanmar officials have said returnees will be moved to camps only temporarily while so-called model villages are constructed near their former homes .
win myat aye , the minister for social welfare , relief and resettlement who heads a myanmar government panel on rehabilitation in rakhine , said india and china had offered to provide modular houses for returnees .
the u.n. and the united states have described the myanmar military s actions as ethnic cleansing , and rights groups have accused the security forces of committing atrocities , including mass rape , arson and killings .
the united states also warned it could impose sanctions on individuals responsible for alleged abuses .
led by nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi , myanmar is in the early stages of a transition to democracy after decades of military rule .
but civilian government is less than two years old , and still shares power with the generals , who retain autonomy over matters of defense , security and borders .
the commander of myanmar s armed forces , senior general min aung hlaing , has denied that soldiers committed any atrocities .
on friday he met china s president xi jinping in beijing having been told earlier in the week by a top chinese general that china wanted stronger ties with myanmar s military .
under the deal struck with bangladesh , myanmar agreed to take measures to see that the returnees will not be settled in temporary places for a long time .
myanmar plans to issue them an identity card on their return , although most rohingya have so far rejected a scheme to give them national verification cards .
while the agreement says bangladesh would seek the u.n. refugee agency s assistance on the process , myanmar - which has largely blocked aid agencies from working in northern rakhine since august - only agreed that the services of the unhcr could be drawn upon as needed and at the appropriate time .
win myat aye told reuters on saturday that myanmar would discuss technical assistance with the unhcr , but had not reached a formal agreement with the agency .
there were already hundreds of thousands of rohingya refugees in bangladesh before the latest exodus , and the bangladesh minister said they could also be considered for the repatriation , under the terms of the agreement .
the agreement , however , says they will be considered separately on the conclusion of the present agreement .
some independent estimates suggest there are still a few hundred thousand rohingya remaining in rakhine .