beijing ( reuters ) - winter is bringing a frigid existence and an uncertain future for migrant workers in beijing deprived of electricity and heating as they resist a month-long campaign to evict them from the city s urban villages .
a deadly fire in a hamlet of ramshackle dwellings on the capital s southern fringes last month prompted a fire safety blitz by the authorities , forcing thousands of the workers out of homes and businesses .
but not everyone has left , and a handful of holdouts are preparing for tough times as temperatures plunge below freezing .
there s no electricity when we re coming home .
we can t see where we re going , said feng , a migrant worker hailing from the southwestern province of sichuan , pointing to a pile of blankets .
feng , who was willing to reveal only his surname , had been renting a room in a shared apartment block built and run by migrants in picun , a village in northeast beijing , until the authorities cut off their power and ordered everyone to leave .
i sold my house in the northeast , there is nothing to go back to , said another worker , wang liping , who said she paid 200,000 yuan ( $ 30,000 ) to buy part of the apartment block where migrants like feng rent rooms for a few hundred yuan each month .
i d rather freeze to death than leave here , added wang , who is refusing to leave despite efforts to remove her .
the evictions have sparked unusually direct criticism from china s intellectuals , students and journalists , who say the government is unfairly targeting the vulnerable underclass .
originally it was just a fire , but they used the fire as an excuse to force people young and old onto the streets in the middle of the coldest days of winter , independent political commentator zhang lifan told reuters .
but the city could not do without migrants , cai qi , the city s communist party chief and a close ally of president xi jinping , said during a visit to the migrants this week , in a bid to allay the fears .
the capital s need for cheap labor has attracted thousands of workers , even though they are denied official residency permits because of government curbs on internal migration .
migrant enclaves have grown into full-fledged communities today , from clusters of shanty towns .
picun , one of the most developed , has its own literature society and houses numerous aspiring artists and musicians .
one young couple living by torchlight in their block said they were considering going to tangshan , a steel-producing hub in their home province of hebei , but after 10 years of living in beijing , they would miss the lifestyle .
to be honest , if it wasn t for all the migrants , beijing wouldn t be any better than any other city , the woman , who is surnamed xiang , told reuters .