london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may s conservative party has suspended a lawmaker over what it said were serious allegations , a step that could undermine the authority of her minority government as britain seeks to iron out a brexit deal with the european union .
may s conservative party refused to give any detail about the nature of the allegations against charlie elphicke , a conservative lawmaker for dover in southern england , but said it had referred the matter to the police .
elphicke , formerly a tax lawyer who was first elected in 2010 , denied any wrongdoing .
the party tipped off the press before telling me of my suspension , he said on twitter .
i am not aware of what the alleged claims are and deny any wrongdoing .
may s office did not respond to calls from reuters about the allegations , whose nature was unclear .
email enquiries went unanswered .
the conservatives declined to comment .
may s conservatives and the opposition labour party are grappling with a slew of sexual harassment and abuse claims - many of them unsubstantiated - against british politicians .
the allegations have surfaced since the sexual abuse claims against hollywood producer harvey weinstein prompted women and men in british politics to share stories about alleged improper behavior .
one of may s most loyal ministers , michael fallon , resigned as defense secretary on wednesday .
fallon , who had admitted touching a radio presenter s knee in 2002 , said his past conduct had fallen below the required standard .
he gave no details .
separately on saturday , a lawmaker from the scottish national party resigned from his cabinet post in the devolved edinburgh administration after apologizing for what he described as inappropriate actions .
where i have believed myself to have been merely humorous or attempting to be friendly , my behavior might have made others uncomfortable or led them to question my intentions , mark mcdonald , who represents aberdeen donside , said in a statement .
may set out the code of conduct for her party on friday detailing standards and procedures expected of elected and appointed party members .
she lost her party s majority in parliament with a botched bet on a snap election in june , so now has to rely on a small northern irish party to ensure she can pass legislation .
with the support of northern ireland s democratic unionist party ( dup ) , may has a slender working majority of about 13 in the 650-seat house of commons .
parliament remains bitterly divided over terms for britain s planned departure from the european union .
the pace of the brexit talks remains slow , heightening the risk of brexit in march 2019 without a deal on future relations with the eu , much to the alarm of business leaders .