it s too late for these countries who ve been invaded by mostly young muslim male refugees to turn back the clock .
bavaria is now being forced to do whatever they can to fight back against terrorism in their own backyards .
you can t allow millions of unchecked muslim men to invade your sovereignty without paying an enormous price .
asking refugees to police refugees is like asking prisoners in a jail to police themselves .
when mostly muslim men have invaded a majority catholic state , and are now being asked to police its citizens , what could possible go wrong ? migrants will be increasingly recruited as police officers those with and without german passports .
interior minister herrmann hopes this will produce a greater clear-up rate and a de-escalation of violence .
the failures in the investigations of the nsu terror group have increased these efforts.bavaria will increasingly employ police officers with foreign roots .
experience has shown that they have a more direct line to people of immigrant origin , as they speak their language and know their mentality better , said interior minister joachim herrmann ( csu ) on monday in nuremberg .
i hope this will help police achieve better clear-up rates and conflict resolution .
via : merkur.dethis is insane .
i can see many europeans rightly refusing to acknowledge the authority of police officers who are foreigners and don t even have citizenship.rt in october , 2015 , bavarian interior minister threatened to file a constitutional complaint against the federal government unless it would implement efficient measures to curb the influx of refugees.the bavarian government stepped up pressure on angela merkel s cabinet , demanding that the german government drop its policy of welcoming an unlimited number of refugees.if effective measures are not taken to deal with the crisis , bavaria will take the matter to the constitutional court and charge the german government with endangering the legal capacity of the german states to act independently , bavarian interior minister joachim herrmann announced after an emergency meeting of the bavarian government on friday .
one [ the german government ] does not comply with the law and the other [ bavaria ] wants the law to be complied with , bavarian prime minister horst seehofer said , commenting on the decision at the press conference following the meeting.listen here :