habeas corpus for animals ? ?
? the animal personhood movement believes dolphins , great apes , and elephants deserve to be able to sue and now it has a plaintiff.a new york judge has ordered the state to justify why two chimpanzees allegedly kept at a long island public university and used as research subjects shouldn t be transferred to an animal sanctuary in south florida.the animal rights advocates representing the animals hailed the judge s decision late monday to grant a hearing early next month as a watershed moment for their long and controversial effort to persuade courts to confer human rights on primates.it wasn t as big a victory for animal rights fanatics as initially thought : the judge , according to [ a spokesman for the state court system ] , mistakenly labeled her order a writ of habeas corpus , saying she had only granted the hearing to discuss the legal issues raised by the nonhuman rights project .
judge [ barbara ] jaffe on tuesday amended her initial order , striking out the words habeas corpus from the document.that s how progressivism works .
they push the envelope as far as they can .
if people scream with laughter or in horror , they pull it back a little .
then , after the barrage of liberal propaganda we are relentlessly assailed with from every direction has had a little more time to work on us , they push the envelope forward again.for their part the animal rights kooks are not backing down : the organization isn t challenging the conditions of their confinement , but the confinement itself .
in a petition last month , the group described the animals as autonomous and self-determining beings who should be protected by the common law of habeas corpus , a right granted only to legal persons .
give obama a few more years to stack the courts with left-wing zealots .
not only will monkeys , dogs , and goldfish have habeas corpus rights , they will be entitled to vote and collect welfare or rather , their human companions will be entitled to on their behalf.why not ?
according to liberal ideology , souls do not exist , and there is no moral difference between a human and an animal .