you know lies have gotten out of control when a man who helped orchestrate the iraq wars , a man who coined the term axis of evil and who helped push the lie of weapons of mass destruction , calls trump propaganda what it is .
former george w. bush speech writer david frum has been one of the ironic voices of reason when it comes to the president elect and the media that s fawning all over him.frum took to twitter on sunday with a series of tweets that s guaranteed to piss trump off .
frum warned that trump s lying about the popular vote has dangerous real-world consequences .
he called trump a narcissist who will surround himself with sycophants ( my word ) and convince true believers to act en masse as if the lies were truth .
according to frum , another consequence of trump s lies will be to encourage congress to be reckless.even more surprisingly , frum , an old school republican , admitted that republicans have lost the popular vote in every single election but one over the last 28 years .
that , to frum , means that republicans should rule with caution , since they don t have a mandate.trump s lying about the popular vote has dangerous real-world consequences david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 20161 ) trump , a textbook case of narcissistic personality disorder , will believe the lies he tells , after he tells them https : //t.co/zcxpugnxtc david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 20162 ) meaning that trump will live among ego-salving fantasies a dangerous location for a president of the united states david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 20163 ) worse , trump will surround himself by people who repeat his lies back to him : either a ) abject creatives or b ) sinister manipulators david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 20164 ) worse still : because the conservative media amplify trump s lies , the whole conservative world will lose touch with reality david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 20165 ) encouraging true believers and compelling even pragmatists to act en masse as if the lies were truth .
david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 20166 ) among other negative consequences , this will encourage reckless political risk-taking by republicans in congress david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 20167 ) it remains true that republican candidates for president have won the national popular vote only once since 1988 : 1 in 7 elections !
david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 20168 ) the party s agenda is not popular in real-life .
that would seem to suggest caution .
david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 20169 ) instead , it seems congressional republicans are about to plunge ahead as if the country were clamoring for their program .
david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 201610 ) some congressional republicans surely know this not to be true .
they dare not act on that knowledge david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 201611 ) in 1965 , 1981 , 2009 , new presidents changed national direction with clear democratic consent .
david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 201612 ) 2017 bids to be as activist as those prior years but without the clear consent .
how will that end ?
not well , i fear.-30- david frum ( @ davidfrum ) december 18 , 2016frum is right and he knows a thing or two about propaganda .
trump has taken his fake news cues directly from the kremlin and his supporters are believing the lies .
polls show that the majority of americans don t believe the news media .
more than half of republicans think trump won the popular vote .
he didn t. he lost by almost 3 million votes.we are entering a very dangerous time .
while people lose confidence in all our institutions , a demagogue who s plagued with strong foreign influences and too many conflicts of interest to count has taken over the presidency , all without the permission of vast majority of the american people .
that s all we really need to know about the incoming trump administration.featured image of david frum via frazer harrison/getty images | featured image of donald trump via tom pennington/getty images .