( this version of the story corrects spelling of caitlan coleman s name ) by drazen jorgic and asif shahzad islamabad ( reuters ) - the freeing of a hostage u.s.-canadian family by pakistan s army has been hailed by officials as a positive step in mending ties between washington and islamabad , but those hoping for a fresh start in their fraught relationship seem likely to be disappointed .
pakistan and the united states have for years been - at best - uneasy allies in the war against the taliban and other islamist extremists .
u.s. president donald trump said the raid that rescued american caitlan coleman , her canadian husband joshua boyle and their three young children showed that pakistan had started to respect the united states again in response to his administration s tough-talking tactics .
but the two countries still have conflicting interests - and the trump administration s vow to apply more diplomatic pressure on pakistan is unlikely to work , given islamabad s growing alliance with regional heavyweight china , say analysts .
this is a small occurrence between pakistan and the u.s. , and it should not be confused with the big issues that separate pakistan and the u.s. , said pakistani security analyst imtiaz gul .
on friday , five years after they were kidnapped in afghanistan , coleman and boyle flew home with the three children born while they were captives of the haqqani network , a feared taliban sub-group that washington particularly accuses pakistan of failing to do enough to fight .
some saw the timing as a goodwill gesture ahead of upcoming visits by u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson and defense secretary jim mattis .
i don t think it s a coincidence that this hostage release was announced when you have a parade of top trump administration officials in islamabad to deliver strongly worded warnings to pakistan , said michael kugelman , a south asia specialist at the woodrow wilson center .
he added that no one should take the good news as a definite sign that pakistan would drastically change its behavior towards militants such at the haqqanis .
going after hostages is not the same thing as going after the terrorists holding them , he said .
the united states has repeatedly accused pakistan of not doing enough to eliminate militant havens on its territory .
for now , officials on both sides are talking up the cooperation on display in wednesday s rescue operation , when pakistani troops acting on a u.s. intelligence tip-off swooped on a vehicle carrying the hostages .
but tensions remain .
pakistan is still angry at the unilateral u.s. operations on its soil to kill al qaeda leader osama bin laden in 2011 and last year s drone strike that killed taliban supreme leader akhtar mansour .
united states officials , for their part , suspect both bin laden and mansour were able to live in pakistan with the tacit support of at least some elements of the powerful military .
washington also argues that the taliban - which has been fighting to re-establish its hardline islamist regime in kabul since a 2001 u.s.-backed military intervention - would not have been able to gain so much ground against afghan government forces in recent years without safe havens in pakistan .
trump s administration in august warned aid to pakistan might be cut and washington might downgrade its status as a major non-nato ally , in order to pressure it to do more to help bring about an end to america s longest-running war .
pakistani officials bristle at u.s. claims islamabad is not doing enough to tackle islamist militants , particularly the haqqanis , saying they have cooperated for years and launched military operations to push out militants from its soil .
pakistan also says few appreciate that 17,000 pakistanis have died fighting militants or in bombings and other attacks since 2001 .
pakistan is less vulnerable to threats of u.s. aid cuts because islamabad has been deepening its relationship in recent years with china , which is financing some $ 57 billion in infrastructure projects , said gul .
critics say the pakistani military nurtures the taliban and other islamist factions because they are seen as potentially useful to pakistan s core confrontation with old rival india .
the trump administration s recent talk of a regional strategy for afghanistan that would include a bigger role for india has deeply upset pakistan s establishment , said mosharraf zaidi , an islamabad-based commentator and former pakistan foreign ministry adviser .
it seems like for the u.s. , and president trump has said so , that india is going to be a big part of the future of afghanistan , and for pakistan that s not on the table , zaidi said .
as a nuclear power , pakistan could also be offended further at trump s implication that it has bowed to his administration s pressure .
given that people understand that respect for america is a big deal for trump and a big deal for the american people , it shouldn t be so hard to understand why pakistan ... also wants to be respected , said zaidi .