vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis , in a major speech on europe , on saturday urged the european union to recover the sense of being a single community if it wants a future of prosperity and fairness for all .
francis spoke at the end of a two-day conference at the vatican called re-thinking europe .
dozens of participants attended , including european parliament president antonio tajani , the vice president of the european commission , frans timmermans , and religious leaders .
while the pope did not specifically mention the situation in catalonia , where the region s leaders want to break away from spain , or britain s decision to leave the eu , he spoke often of solidarity , teamwork and mutual sacrifice .
a european union that , in facing its crises , fails to recover a sense of being a single community that sustains and assists its members and not just a collection of small interest groups would miss out not only on one of the greatest challenges of its history , but also on one of the greatest opportunities for its own future , he said .
particular and nationalist agendas risk thwarting the courageous dreams of the founders of europe , he said .
in his long speech , francis appeared to warn against the dangers to europe posed by populist anti-immigrant parties .
in elections in germany in september , alternative for germany ( afd ) secured almost 13 percent of the vote , making it the third largest party and the first far-right party to win seats in more than half a century .
extremist and populist groups are finding fertile ground in many countries ; they make protest the heart of their political message , without offering the alternative of a constructive political project , francis said , without naming any group .
history s first latin american pope said politics had often gone astray , saying sadly , all too often we see how politics is becoming instead a forum for clashes between opposing forces .
in his address to the pope at the closing ceremony , tajani , the european parliament president , spoke of risk of a return to intolerance and xenophobia .
the pope called for immigrants to be welcomed to europe as an enriching resource , rather than be seen as a threat .
but , in an apparent assertion that immigration had to be controlled , he said that while authorities should have an open heart they should be able to provide for the full integration , on the social , economic and political level of newcomers .