president trump on sunday tweeted a video of him body-slamming world wrestling entertainment chairman vince mcmahon whose face was replaced by the cnn logo.the tweet , which said , # fraudnewscnn # fnn , linked to a video of the president decking , pummeling and then shaving off mcmahon s hair during a battle of the billionaires stunt at wrestlemania xxiii in 2007. # fraudnewscnn # fnn pic.twitter.com/wyunhjjujg donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 2 , 2017mcmahon is the husband of linda mcmahon , who heads trump s small business administration.president barack obama hosted felon and radical organizer bob creamer ( the guy who was caught on video talking about how he was organizing paid protesters to incite violence at trump rallies ) at the white house over 100 times while he was in office .
after the undercover video was released that exposed the democrats plan to incite violence against innocent trump supporters , the media was silent .
the media was also silent when it was discovered that obama s attorney general eric holder , used taxpayer funds to pay people to protest against george zimmerman in the heated trayvon martin case , which was the birthplace of the violent black lives matter movement .
those protests marked the first step in obama s plan to divide america.in a statement on twitter , cnn recalled comments from white house spokeswoman sarah huckabee sanders last week that the president doesn t condone violence against the media .
the president in no way form or fashion has ever promoted or encouraged violence .
if anything , quite the contrary .
@ shsanders45 6/29/17 , the cnn tweet said.bipartisan condemnation against the take-down video continued to build sunday morning.gop rep. eric swalwell urged all republicans to rebuke the tweet or be complicit in its message .
i am calling on every @ housegop member of congress to condemn this .
you were elected to be a check on power .
check it , or you condone it , the california representative tweeted on sunday.minority house leader nancy pelosi also blasted the tweet .
violence & violent imagery to bully the press must be rejected .
this # july4th , celebrate freedom of the press , guardians to our democracy , she wrote on twitter.paul joseph watson sums up the media hypocrisy beautifully with this one tweet : trump is `` inciting violence '' with a wrestling meme , says same media that literally painted a crosshair target on trump 's head .
pic.twitter.com/m8v8xjyhu0 paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) july 2 , 2017a trump administration official said he doesn t view trump s tweet as inciting violence against the media .
certainly not , though i think that no one would perceive that as a threat .
i hope they don t. i do think that [ trump is ] beaten up in a way on cable platforms that he has a right to respond to , homeland security adviser tom bossert said on abc s this week .
he said cable news shows are not always very fair to the president , who developed a social media platform to speak directly to the american people .
trump is the most genuine president and the most non-politician president we ve seen in my lifetime , he said.watch # fakenewscnn experts call trump dangerous and a fascist : the president was also the subject of bipartisan scorn last thursday when he posted the bleeding badly tweet about brzezinski , with many lawmakers saying it was beneath the dignity of the office.trump defended his use of social media in a tweet on saturday .
my use of social media is not presidential it s modern day presidential .
make america great again ! , he wrote .
nypnote to cnn : re-tweeting a video that s been around for years showing a fake body-slam by then businessman trump is a far cry from promoting violence .
if you were so concerned about violence , why didn t you do any stories on felon , husband of a united states congresswoman and democrat operative who was caught on tape planning to incite violence at trump rallies before he even became our president ?