we need to have an honest conversation .
well , that certainly would be refreshing western powers must ramp up air strikes by 10 to 20 times to have any hope of disrupting the islamic state group , which risks turning europe into an urban guerrilla warzone , warned one of the world s leading counter-terrorism experts.david kilcullen , an australian army veteran , became the senior counter-insurgency advisor to us general david petraeus during the iraq war and is considered a key architect of the awakening strategy that helped turn the conflict around.in an exclusive interview , he told afp the paris attacks showed the islamic state group ( is ) was morphing from a terrorist threat into a structured organisation like the ira in ireland or eta in spain during the 20th century .
it s early days but i think we are starting to see the emergence of a fairly widespread paramilitary underground movement in western europe , he told afp from washington , where he now leads research firm caerus global solutions .
this is not like the expeditionary terrorist attacks of al-qaeda where they build a team in one country , smuggle them into another country and they all die , he said .
the way the paris attacks went down with safe houses , stolen cars , weapon caches , guys successfully going underground after attacks this is a lot closer to the classical definition of urban guerrilla warfare .
kilcullen , who famously warned the us against the iraq invasion in 2003 , said the western strategy against is in syria and iraq has so far been characterised by dishonesty and half-measures .
we need to have an honest conversation we re pretending we re not in combat , that we don t have boots on the ground , he said .
but we have several thousand on the ground in iraq and the 50 that are acknowledged in syria are not the only western special forces there .
we re trying to present this fiction that the war in iraq is over .
kilcullen rejected suggestions from some analysts and politicians that the west should deploy tens of thousands of troops .
that s a fantasy .
if you really wanted to take it as our task , you would need way more than that .
you would be looking at 200,000 , 300,000 even 400,000 troops to do it , he said .
and frankly , it wouldn t work .
the iraqis and iranians would push back hard .
via : newsmax