washington ( reuters ) - despite president donald trump s full-throated support for saudi arabia , the united states appears to be signaling a desire for riyadh to take a more cautious approach in its regional power struggle with iran , experts say .
the trump administration , which shares saudi arabia s view of iran as a regional menace , has strongly backed the kingdom in the wake of a failed missile attack from iran-aligned forces in yemeni territory that demonstrated an ability to strike the saudi capital .
trump has cultivated much warmer ties with the saudis after a fraught relationship with the obama administration - the president made riyadh his first stop on his maiden international trip - and has vowed to take strong action to confront iran .
nevertheless , washington , which has u.s. forces in syria and iraq , is telegraphing a more tempered stance toward the confrontation in a region beset with turmoil .
on thursday , the state department called for unimpeded access for humanitarian aid to yemen , after saudi arabia imposed a blockade on the country to stem the flow of arms to iran-aligned houthi fighters .
a day later , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson made clear he still recognized as lebanon s prime minister saad al-hariri , who unexpectedly announced his resignation on nov. 4 from riyadh .
in announcing his decision on television , hariri said he feared assassination and accused iran and its lebanese ally hezbollah of sowing strife in the arab world , thrusting lebanon into the front line of the competition between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran .
two u.s. officials said the saudis , led by crown prince mohammed , had encouraged hariri to leave office and lebanese officials say he is being held in saudi arabia , a charge riyadh denies .
hariri has not commented publicly on whether he is free to come and go as he pleases .
in a statement on saturday , the white house said it rejects any efforts by militias within lebanon or by any foreign forces to threaten lebanon s stability ... or use lebanon as a base from which to threaten others in the region .
when asked to comment on whether the united states was pushing for a more cautious saudi response , both the white house and state department referred to saturday s statement on lebanon .
tillerson was not going along with the saudi position in describing the lebanese state as under capture by hezbollah , said paul salem , the senior vice president of the middle east institute , a washington think tank .
that s significant .
tillerson was also signaling to the israelis ... that now is not the time to go after lebanon , said salem , referring to long-standing israeli concerns about hezbollah s growing military prowess .
ray takeyh , a senior fellow at the council on foreign relations , said he believed the trump administration was still seeking to help the saudis advance their interests against iran without destabilizing the region .
this is a delicate balancing act .
it involves supporting allies in a policy that the administration agrees with , while trying to mitigate aspects of it that it ( sees as ) overstated , takeyh said .
tillerson s statement also urged all parties both within lebanon and outside to respect lebanon s independence and said there was no role for any foreign forces .
the united states regularly criticizes iran and hezbollah for their role in lebanon .
tillerson s backing of hariri and the lebanese government contrasted sharply with the approach taken by saudi arabia , which has lumped lebanon with hezbollah as parties hostile to it .
i see rex tillerson as being an old fashioned american diplomat and old fashioned american diplomacy in the middle east is all about stability , said f. gregory gause , chairman of the international affairs department at texas a & m university .
i m not entirely sure that that is the position of the chief executive of the united states , gause added .
the saudi actions coincide with an anti-corruption purge by the country s future king that tightened his grip on power .
trump tweeted on monday that he had great confidence in king salman and the crown prince of saudi arabia following the mass arrests - the biggest such purge of the kingdom s affluent elite in its modern history .
trump also tweeted that they know exactly what they are doing .
former and current u.s. officials with deep knowledge of saudi arabia say trump s enthusiastic support for prince mohammed has emboldened the youthful saudi leader .
tillerson told reporters the purge appeared well intended but the mass arrests , which have swept up officials long known in washington , also fueled u.s. concerns .
it raises a few concerns until we see more clearly how these particular individuals are dealt with , tillerson added .
trump s son-in-law , jared kushner , the president s senior adviser , who has cultivated a close relationship with prince mohammed , recently returned from saudi arabia , fueling speculation on whether he may have had wind of the crown prince s plans .
a senior administration official said they had no advance knowledge .