cairo ( reuters ) - islamic state leader abu bakr al-baghdadi has exhorted followers across the world to wage attacks against the west and to keep fighting in iraq , syria and elsewhere .
the message released on thursday was his first purported audio communication in almost a year during which his jihadist group lost much of its self-proclaimed caliphate .
the audio , partly dedicated to religious scriptures , came after several reports baghdadi had been killed .
his last recording was in november 2016 , two weeks after the start of the battle to recapture the city of mosul from islamic state ( is ) .
oh soldiers of the caliphate , fan the flames of war on your enemies , take it to them and besiege them in every corner , and stand fast and courageous .
beware of retreat , or the feeling of defeat , beware of negotiations or surrender .
do not lay down your arms , baghdadi said , referring to followers in iraq , syria , saudi arabia , north africa and elsewhere in africa .
the date of the 46-minute recording , released via the al-furqan news organization , was not clear .
but in it , baghdadi makes an apparent reference to recent events including north korean threats against japan and united states and the recapture two months ago of mosul by u.s.-backed iraqi forces .
since baghdadi proclaimed the caliphate stretching across iraq and syria in 2014 , iraqi forces have retaken a string of cities in western and northern iraq including mosul , where baghdadi made his announcement from the city s el nuri mosque .
western-backed syrian forces are also thrusting into the eastern syrian city of raqqa , islamic state s operational headquarters from where it plotted many of the attacks that have killed hundreds of people around the world .
baghdadi also called for attacks on western media , saying : oh soldiers of islam in every location , increase blow after blow , and make the media centers of the infidels , from where they wage their intellectual wars , among the targets .
continue your jihad and your blessed operations and do not let the crusaders rest in their homes and enjoy life and stability while your brethren are being shelled and killed .
the fall of mosul in july effectively marked the end of the iraqi half of baghdadi s caliphate even though islamic state continues to fight in some territory outside of mosul , the largest city they came to control in both iraq and syria .
an is branch in libya was also defeated last year in the city of sirte , where they had set up a north african beachhead in 2014 .
in egypt s northern sinai , another affiliated militant group is still fighting egyptian military forces .
with god s will and his strength , we are staying determined , patient ... the abundance of killing will not stop us , baghdadi said in the audio recording .
officials have said they believed it could take years to capture or kill baghdadi as he is thought to be hiding in a vast swathe of sparsely-populated desert between mosul and raqqa , where attacking drones are easy to spot .
the united states has offered a $ 25 million bounty for information that would locate baghdadi .
russia s defense ministry said earlier this year it might have killed baghdadi in an air strike on a gathering of is commanders on the outskirts of raqqa .
but u.s. officials said they could not corroborate the death and other western as well as iraqi officials were skeptical .