so is radical islam a made up idea ?
are all horrors committed in the name of radical islam just a figment of our imagination ?
our own military would disagree with the liberal premiss and would go further in warning our military vets against acting pompous for fear of an attack from a very real threat and not a made up idea .
you can t have it both ways and ignore the enemy but then raise an alarm against the possibility of an attack by them .
so which is it ?
i stand with reality and truth .
i stand with our military against the very real enemy that is islam .
the hardest thing to explain is the glaringly evident which everybody has decided not to see .
ayn randmilitary vets told not to act pompous over the weekend , military bases across the united states were placed on higher alert for domestic terror attacks , in response to a surge in threatening chatter from isis and its sympathizers .
it is the highest level of security since the tenth anniversary of september 11 , notes fox 13 news in tampa bay , home of macdill air force base .
no specific threat has been announced , but the alert comes after an fbi warning that there are hundreds of known , active isis supporters in the united states .
homeland security secretary jeh johnson warned that lone wolf terrorists , such as the jihadis who attacked the mohammed art exhibit in garland , texas , could strike at any moment .
he described this as a new and challenging security environment , but added , we are not discouraging americans from doing the things they do on a daily basis .
that disclaimer might not be entirely accurate , judging by what fox 13 has been hearing from the military community in tampa .
military personnel , veterans and their families at military bases like macdill are being advised to be careful what they post online and talk about in public , says the report.retired col. e.j .
otero is quoted as saying the 440,000 veterans in the tampa bay area have heard through one way or another from the commanders at macdill to pay attention , keep a low profile , don t be so pompous about being in the military , because those guy are looking for possible targets .
read more : breitbart news