istanbul/baghdad ( reuters ) - turkey s parliament voted on saturday to extend by a year a mandate authorizing the deployment of turkish troops in iraq and syria , stepping up pressure against an independence referendum in northern iraq s kurdish region in two days time .
prime minister binali yildirim said turkey would take security , economic and political steps in response to the referendum , which president tayyip erdogan s spokesman described as a terrible mistake that would trigger new regional crises .
the united states and other western powers have , like turkey , urged authorities in the semi-autonomous iraqi region to cancel monday s vote .
they say the move by the oil-producing area distracts from the fight against islamic state .
in iraq , a kurdistan regional government delegation arrived in baghdad for talks with the iraqi government in an effort to defuse tensions , but a senior kurdish official said the vote was going ahead .
the delegation will discuss the referendum but the referendum is still happening , hoshiyar zebari , a top adviser to kurdish leader massoud barzani , told reuters .
turkey , which has nato s second-largest army , said on friday that the iraqi vote would threaten its security and force it to slap sanctions on a neighbor and trading partner , although it did not specify what measures it might take .
asked on saturday if a cross-border operation was among the options , yildirim told reporters : naturally , it is a question of timing as to when security , economic and security options are implemented .
developing conditions will determine that .
the mandate approved by turkey s parliament on saturday was first passed in 2014 with the aim of tackling threats from within its southern neighbors iraq and syria .
it had been due to expire in october .
turkey is home to the largest kurdish population in the region and is itself fighting a kurdish insurgency on its soil .
but it is also the main conduit for oil exports from iraq s kurdish region and it has said that any break-up of neighboring iraq or syria could lead to a global conflict .
in a speech to parliament , turkish defence minister nurettin canikli voiced concern about the referendum s impact on the region s ethnic and sectarian relationships , saying it could trigger an uncontrollable fire .
pulling out just a brick from a structure based on very sensitive and fragile balances will sow the seeds for new hatred , enmity and clashes , he said .
a particular area of concern is the multi-ethnic oil city of kirkuk , which lies outside the recognized boundaries of the autonomous kurdish region and is claimed by baghdad .
it is dominated by kurds but is also home to arabs , assyrian christians and turkmen of whom turkey has long seen itself as the protector .
if the referendum is not canceled , there will be serious consequences .
erbil must immediately refrain from this terrible mistake , which will trigger new crises in the region , erdogan s spokesman ibrahim kalin tweeted on saturday .
militants from the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) launched a rocket and mortar attack from the iraqi side of the border on turkey s semdinli district on saturday , killing one turkish soldier and a worker in the area of a military base , the hakkari governor s office said in a statement .
the pkk launched its separatist insurgency in 1984 .
more than 40,000 people have been killed in the conflict .
it is designated a terrorist group by turkey , the united states and the european union .
the iraqi army s chief of staff , lieutenant general othman al-ghanmi , met his turkish counterpart , general hulusi akar , in turkey and they discussed the illegitimate referendum , turkey s military said .
the importance of maintaining iraq s territorial integrity and political unity was stressed once again , it said .
the turkish army launched military exercises on monday near the habur border crossing to iraq .
military sources said they were due to last until sept. 26 , the day after the planned vote .
on saturday the military said additional units had joined the exercises as they entered their second stage .
turkey has for years been northern iraq s main link to the outside world .
it has built strong trade ties with the semi-autonomous region , which exports hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil per day through turkey to international markets .