madrid ( reuters ) - the spanish government has secured opposition support for dissolving catalonia s parliament and holding new elections there in january in its bid to check the regional government s push for independence .
the socialists , the main opposition , said on friday they would back special measures to impose central rule on the region to thwart the secessionist-minded catalan government and end a crisis that has unsettled the euro and hurt confidence in the euro zone s fourth-largest economy .
prime minister mariano rajoy , who wants opposition support to be able to present a united front in the crisis , has called an emergency cabinet meeting on saturday to pave the way for madrid establishing central control in the region .
the government would not confirm whether january elections formed a part of the package , with rajoy saying only that the measures would be announced on saturday .
however a government spokesman saw regional elections as likely .
the logical end to this process would be new elections established within the law , said government spokesman inigo mendez de vigo at a weekly government press conference .
it will be the first time in spain s four decades of democracy that madrid has invoked the constitution to effectively sack a regional government and call new elections .
head of state king felipe used a prizegiving ceremony in the northwestern region of asturias to indicate support for the government and affirm the unity of spain , of which he said catalonia is and will remain an essential part .
spain needs to face up to an unacceptable secession attempt on its national territory , which it will resolve through its legitimate democratic institutions , said the monarch , a ceremonial figure who sharply criticized catalan leaders earlier this month .
rajoy wants as broad a consensus as possible before taking the step , which has raised the prospect of more large-scale protests in catalonia , where pro-independence groups have been able to bring more than one million people out onto the streets .
catalan leader carles puigdemont , a former journalist who is spearheading the secession campaign , has refused to renounce independence , citing an overwhelming vote in favor of secession at a referendum on oct.1 .
regional authorities said around 90 percent voted for independence though only 43 percent of voters participated .
opponents of secession mostly stayed home .
spanish courts have ruled the referendum unconstitutional , but puigdemont says the result is binding and must be obeyed .
the prolonged standoff has caused hundreds of companies to move their headquarters outside catalonia and prompted the spanish government to cut its economic growth forecast .
the region accounts for a fifth of spain s economy .
in a test of investor appetite for spanish stocks , housebuilder aedas ( aedas.mc ) dropped over 6 percent in its debut on the madrid stock exchange on friday , although it later regained losses to trade close to its listing price .
the uncertainty surrounding the future of the region has rattled the euro .
on thursday , european union leaders including germany s angela merkel and france s emmanuel macron offered their support for rajoy at an eu leaders summit in brussels .
after rajoy announces the direct control measures on saturday , spain s upper house will have to approve them in a session which could take place on oct. 27 , a senate spokeswoman said .
actions could range from dismissing the catalan parliament and government , to a softer approach of removing specific heads of department .
direct rule from madrid would be temporary while regional elections are held to form a new government .