hong kong ( reuters ) - four hong kong pro-democracy lawmakers who were ousted from the legislature this year condemned on monday as political persecution a demand that they pay back hundreds of thousands of dollars in expenses .
a special legislative commission demanded that the lawmakers each pay up to hk $ 3.1 million ( $ 397,400 ) in operating expenses and staff wages , the legislative council s president , andrew leung , said .
critics say the demand for money is an attempt to bankrupt the four and pile pressure on the city s pro-democracy camp that has tried to challenge what it sees as increasing interference by beijing despite a promise of autonomy in the financial hub .
leung said the legislature had a duty to recover the funds , backdated to when the lawmakers first took office in october last year , as public money was involved .
the former lawmakers - nathan law , veteran activist leung kwok-hung otherwise known as long hair , lecturer lau siu-lai , and surveyor edward yiu - would be given four weeks to respond , after which the legislature would decide what to do .
this is raw political persecution , said law , 24 , who was jailed in august on an unlawful assembly charge linked to hong kong s pro-democracy occupy protests in 2014 , but who is out on bail pending an appeal .
it s preposterous , law added at a news conference held with the other three .
another of the expelled lawmakers , yiu , said the four had worked hard as lawmakers over nine months , and they should be compensated for that , and not punished unjustly .
hong kong s high court expelled the four from the 70-member legislature in july after judging their oaths of office void for various reasons including speaking too slowly , adding extra words , or using a tone of voice suggesting disrespect towards china .
the disqualifications came after china s parliament last november judged that lawmakers must swear allegiance to hong kong as part of china , and that candidates would be disqualified if they changed the wording of their oath or if they failed to take it in a sincere and solemn manner .
the ruling was considered beijing s most direct intervention in hong kong s legal system since the 1997 handover of the city from britain to china .
the disqualifications eroded the influence of the opposition pro-democracy camp that had held a slender one-third veto bloc in the legislative council .
nearly 100 democracy activists are facing court cases in connection with their campaigning and several including student protest leader joshua wong have recently been jailed .
a former british colony , hong kong reverted to china 20 years ago under a one country , two systems formula that guarantees a range of freedoms not enjoyed in china , including a direct vote for half of the legislative assembly .
( $ 1 = 7.8005 hong kong dollars )