vienna ( reuters ) - austria s far-right freedom party ( fpo ) on wednesday named control of the interior ministry as its price for joining a future coalition government following its strong showing in a parliamentary election .
the anti-immigrant , anti-islam fpo won around 26 percent of votes cast in sunday s election .
the conservative people s party ( ovp ) won most votes by also taking a hard line on immigration , while the centre-left social democrats took second place .
asked if the fpo would stick by its pre-election insistence that it would only join a future coalition if its candidate became interior minister , party leader heinz-christian strache told reporters : yes .
we won t go down on our knees for anyone .
at 26 percent we naturally aim to implement our ( fpo ) policies in government , strache added .
the interior ministry in austria oversees asylum claims and the fight against terrorism , among other responsibilities .
austria s president will on friday formally ask sebastian kurz , leader of the ovp , the largest party at around 32 percent , to start negotiations on forming a new coalition government .
the ovp and the fpo overlap in their plans to curb immigration , cut social benefits for refugees , reduce the tax burden on companies and work towards repatriating powers to national governments from brussels while strengthening external border security .
( click tmsnrt.rs/2yvudsq for election graphic ) all parties have kept their coalition options open , but the social democrats ( spo ) are technically still bound by a party conference decision from 2014 that bans it from entering into a coalition government with the freedom party .
under austria s outgoing social democrat chancellor , christian kern , the spo has opened up significantly to the freedom party by introducing a so-called value compass for potential partners which does not specifically rule out working with the freedom party .
but strache said on wednesday that as long as there was no fresh vote among the social democrats base to formally annul the 2014 decision , talk of his party teaming up with the spo was theoretical .
influential fpo official manfred haimbuchner told newspaper der standard that he definitely preferred his party to form a government with the conservatives .
the fpo was founded by ex-nazis in the 1950s and first became a major political force in the 1990s under the charismatic joerg haider , who praised hitler s employment policies .
today the party says it has put its nazi past behind it and purged its ranks of anti-semitism but still frequently has to expel members for anti-semitic comments .
it has , however , stopped calling for austria to leave the european union .
for more stories on austria s election , please see