los angeles ( reuters ) - thursday ’ s republican debate on fox news channel could be round 2 of megyn kelly versus donald trump .
but the journalist and fellow moderators say they are not preparing to stoke the fire with questions about his headline-grabbing battles with the network .
trump accused kelly of lobbing him tougher questions than those directed at his rivals in an august debate that was the republican candidates ’ first televised encounter .
kelly asked about trump ’ s remarks about women , prompting a stream of attacks from the candidate , who skipped a fox debate in january .
“ frankly , i have been ready for seven months to move beyond what happened after that august debate , ” kelly said in a recent interview .
“ i feel like it ’ s getting boring .
trump has bigger things to worry about , and so do i. ” the brash billionaire ’ s unfiltered style has helped generate unprecedented ratings for news networks including fox , owned by rupert murdoch ’ s 21st century fox inc ( foxa.o ) .
the cable channel ’ s august debate attracted 24 million viewers , a record for a presidential primary debate on any network , according to nielsen .
the january forum without trump drew 12.5 million , still the second-largest audience in the network ’ s history .
trump is set to appear at thursday ’ s rematch with fox news anchors kelly , bret baier and chris wallace .
“ mr .
trump will be at the debate tomorrow and looks forward to participating , ” spokeswoman hope hicks said on wednesday .
the moderators said they do not plan to mention trump ’ s comments about kelly , his complaints about unfair treatment by the cable news network or his absence from fox ’ s january debate .
kelly said she has not prepared a comeback if trump gets personal .
“ i have my questions , ” she said .
“ that ’ s all i need. ” last week ’ s debate on time warner inc ’ s ( twx.n ) cnn turned into a raucous match where rivals ted cruz and marco rubio ganged up on trump , who fired back .
wallace called it an “ embarrassment ” to republicans .
the three “ seemed hell-bent on taking out each other on a lot of fairly minor points , ” he said , “ rather than discussing issues that affect people ’ s lives. ” on tuesday , trump and democratic front-runner hillary clinton took big steps toward securing their parties ’ nominations with a series of state-by-state victories .
after 10 republican debates , there remains plenty to explore because the remaining candidates - trump , cruz , rubio and john kasich - have now staked out positions , kelly said .
“ they will have to own those positions or try to wiggle out , ” she said .
“ but there is not that much wiggle room left on some of these things. ” a fifth candidate , ben carson , appeared set to end his campaign and said he would skip thursday ’ s debate .
cruz has clashed with wallace on air and accused him of being too soft on trump .
the contenders “ try to work the refs and complain and hope they will get it a little easier next time , ” wallace said .
all three moderators said they ask tough questions of each candidate .
“ i think fox has been fair across the board , ” baier said .
he said he hopes for a discussion that is “ fiery ” but “ the most substantive debate so far ” as rivals try to score points .
“ we will let the contrasts and the conversations between candidates go , ” baier said .
“ but there will be some balance .
that ’ s what it ’ s always about , not letting it get off the rails. ” ( reporting by lisa richwine ; editing by peter henderson and jonathan oatis ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .