beirut ( reuters ) - lebanese politicians and bankers believe saudi arabia intends to do to their country what it did to qatar - corral arab allies into enforcing an economic blockade unless its demands are met .
unlike qatar , the world s biggest supplier of liquefied natural gas with a population of just 300,000 , lebanon has neither the natural nor financial resources to ride it out , and people there are worried .
up to 400,000 lebanese work in the gulf region , and remittances flowing back into the country , estimated at between $ 7-8 billion a year , are a vital source of cash to keep the economy afloat and the heavily-indebted government functioning .
these are serious threats to the lebanese economy which is already dire .
if they cut the transfer of remittances , that will be a disaster , a senior lebanese official told reuters .
those threats came from lebanon s former prime minister , saad al-hariri , who resigned on nov. 4 in a shock broadcast from riyadh that lebanese political leaders have ascribed to pressure from the saudis .
hariri , an ally of saudi arabia , on sunday warned of possible arab sanctions and a danger to the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of lebanese living in the gulf .
and he spelled out saudi conditions for lebanon to avoid sanctions : hezbollah , the iran-backed group that is lebanon s main political power and part of the ruling coalition , must stop meddling in regional conflicts , particularly yemen .
according to a lebanese source familiar with saudi thinking , hariri s interview gave an indication of what might be waiting for us if a real compromise is not reached .
the playbook is there in qatar .
hariri s resignation has thrust lebanon to the center of an escalating rivalry between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran .
the non-confrontational saudi policy of the past towards lebanon has gone , analysts say , under the new leadership of crown prince mohammed bin salman , 32-year-old son of king salman .
he is now the de facto ruler of the kingdom , running its military , political and economic affairs .
whether iran and hezbollah are willing to make significant concessions to riyadh is doubtful , sources said .
they ( hezbollah ) might make some cosmetic concessions , but they won t submit to the saudi conditions , a source familiar with hezbollah thinking said .
lebanese analyst sarkis naoum said riyadh wanted hariri to return to lebanon and press president michel aoun to open dialogue and address their conditions on hezbollah s regional interventions .
they need to come up with a position that will be satisfactory to the saudis ...
if the saudis decide on sanctions they will do it , naoum said .
a source close to hariri said he had put the ball in the court of aoun , hezbollah and its allies , by saying business can not continue as usual .
there was no sugar-coating .
the sanctions were spelled out clearly .
they want lebanon to be disassociated from hezbollah .
aoun has welcomed comments that the former premier planned to return home soon , palace sources said on monday .
saudi frustration with lebanon seems to have boiled over after a string of setbacks to its foreign policy .
riyadh has been bogged down in the war it launched against iran-allied houthi rebels in yemen in 2015 .
saudi arabia has accused iran and hezbollah of backing the houthis , and also said hezbollah had a role in firing a ballistic missile from yemen towards riyadh earlier this month .
hezbollah and iran s involvement in syria has also transformed the war in favor of president bashar al-assad , while saudi support for sunni rebels in syria s civil war have amounted to little .
hezbollah , a movement with a heavily armed fighting force in addition to seats in parliament and government , is iran s spearhead in the region .
tehran s revolutionary guard looks to be trying to replicate it by building coalitions of militia groups in iraq and syria , according to some analysts .
the list of potential sanctions against lebanon , political sources there say , could include a ban on flights , visas , exports and transfer of remittances .
some of those have been imposed on qatar , but that blockade , initiated in june , has had limited effect on the emirate so far , beyond driving it closer to iran .
allegiance to foreign backers is not new to lebanon .
sunnis have always looked to saudi arabia for support and funding while shi ite lebanese tended to turn to tehran and hezbollah .
the lebanese have always been agents of foreign powers .
they take their money , make promises , commitments and alliances , naoum said .
but while hezbollah fulfilled its promises to iran , sunni factions let riyadh down , he said .
thanks in part to iranian investment in the group , hezbollah now calls the shots in the lebanese capital as well as playing a pivotal role in syria and elsewhere in the middle east .
riyadh has historically channeled billions of dollars to lebanon to help its reconstruction after the 1975-90 civil war and following massive israeli incursions of south lebanon .
now it appears ready to do serious economic damage to lebanon that could weaken hezbollah s standing at home and in the region , should its demands not be met .
the saudi conditions are causing alarm among some lebanese , who have long viewed hezbollah as a state-within-a-state .
many believe the solution is outside the control of local players .
lebanon will pay the price , a top lebanese banker told reuters .
the only pressure the saudis have is economic ... they can put pressure by imposing sanctions that can hurt .