but what about hillary being a formidable opponent when it comes to women voters ?
hillary clinton had trouble attracting high-powered women to a new york talk hosted by silda wall spitzer two weeks before her campaign officially kicks off .
sources said that after ticket sales fizzled for an intimate , $ 2,700-per-person , just for women meeting on monday , the event was thrown open to men at the 11th hour , and the deadline extended to buy tickets.the conversation with hillary clinton event at midtown law firm akin gump was originally aiming to attract 125 women .
an email invitation seen by page six said the event is just for women .
but by friday , they d only sold 50 tickets , so they threw it open to men , a source said .
ticket sales were supposed to close at 10 a.m. sunday , but the hostesses were working the phones and pushed the deadline till monday .
we hear about 90 attendees included former bill clinton aide rep. sean patrick maloney and his husband , randy florke , maurice tempelsman , jill braufman ( wife of hedge funder daniel nir ) , jean shafiroff and susan cole .
the event began at noon , but clinton arrived at 1 p.m. in a royal blue jacket and black pants .
she then took pictures with donors and delivered a half-hour speech before leaving at about 2 p.m.silda introduced clinton as a tough , authentic leader , which is probably more than she can say about her hard-charging ex eliot .
in a possible nod to her host , clinton quoted eleanor roosevelt , quipping , every woman in public life needs to develop skin as tough as rhinoceros hide .
topics included clean energy , mental health care for college kids , keeping but revising obamacare , vladimir putin , and america s heroin and meth epidemic .
meanwhile , on monday , journalists covering clinton met in washington , dc , to grouse about inadequate access to the candidate .
when we reached out to a local clinton campaign rep who helped organize the event , she referred us to clinton s deputy national press secretary , who referred us to her rapid response spokesperson , who , not surprisingly , had no comment.via : ny post