san francisco ( reuters ) - shares of amazon.com inc ( amzn.o ) , macy s inc ( m.n ) , kohl s corp ( kss.n ) and other u.s. retailers rose on friday on early signs that consumers are on track to spend more this holiday shopping season than in previous years .
although there were few signs of the frenzy that had been a hallmark of the start to the crucial u.s. shopping season in years past , known as black friday , industry watchers were upbeat .
the turnout this morning has been relatively slow but it is still the best we have seen in three years , said burt flickinger , managing director of strategic resources group , citing improving consumer confidence , a strong job market and healthy housing prices .
we expect it to pick up as the day progresses .
adobe analytics forecast online black friday sales of $ 5 billion , which would be a record high .
online retailers will rake in an additional $ 6.6 billion on cyber monday , according to adobe .
amazon , the world s largest online retailer , rallied 2.6 percent to a record high , bringing its gain in 2017 to nearly 60 percent .
it offered its own black friday deals and revealed a preview of its cyber monday discounts .
brick-and-mortar stores and their investors are hoping that a strong labor market and rising home prices will increase the turnout between thursday s u.s. thanksgiving holiday and christmas , a period that can account for as much as 40 percent of total annual sales and make or break a retailer .
[ nl1n1nu0gh ] wal-mart stores inc ( wmt.n ) , macy s and others have beefed up their online sales platforms and boosted discounts for online orders in a bid to stem market share losses to amazon .
it s the big box retailers last stand against the digital revolution , said jake dollarhide , chief executive of longbow asset management in tulsa , oklahoma .
it s their last chance to say , this is still our season .
shares of macy s , which has suffered from falling sales for several quarters , jumped 2.1 percent , while gap inc ( gps.n ) added 1.6 percent and kohl s rose 1 percent .
instead of curtailing spending , consumers are coming out of their bunker , said chad morganlander , a portfolio manager at washington crossing advisors in florham park , new jersey .
nonetheless , the trend of retail preferences of the consumer is not going away .
retailers appeared to be discounting their products less than in previous years , said thomson reuters retail analyst jharonne martis after visiting a mall in new york .
they are going into the holiday season more confident , knowing that consumers want their merchandise , martis said .
not all retailers shared in friday s holiday cheer : target corp ( tgt.n ) fell 2.8 percent , with analysts noting that it closed its stores for several hours overnight even while many rivals stayed open .
bed bath & beyond inc ( bbby.o ) slipped 1.9 percent .