donetsk , ukraine ( reuters ) - ruined houses , shell craters and deserted streets - this is a typical scene in the oktyabrsky district of donetsk , the largest city of ukraine s pro-russian rebel region that bears the same name .
the self-styled donetsk and next-door luhansk people s republics broke away from central rule in 2014 after months of violent street protests in kiev toppled ukraine s moscow-leaning president and propelled pro-western nationalists to power .
in this calm suburb of donetsk , many people stood aloof of politics .
but then fierce clashes broke out between ukrainian government troops and pro-russian separatists for control over the nearby donetsk airport .
a glistening air hub of steel and glass , specially built for the uefa euro 2012 of which donetsk was a venue , the local airport was leveled to the ground , and many of the buildings in oktyabrsky shared its fate .
a reuters photo essay ( reut.rs/2jonmoo ) captures images of hardship and despair of the dwellers of this district on the frontline of many battles .
restored water and electricity supplies to local homes , with some households enjoying even gas supplies and heating , give a slight relief to some of the lucky locals as winter cold starts to bite .
i try to keep away from politics , i only care about my family , said marina , aged 30 .
the woman , her husband and three children , one of whom is seriously ill , lost their house in 2014 when an artillery shell hit it .
with no money , we were left in the street , with absolutely nothing .
everything burned , nothing was left ... even spoons and forks were gone , she said .
her family changed several apartments , moving from one friend to another , before deciding that they would restore their house , using the bricks that had remained intact to build new walls .
but they fast ran out of cash to buy construction materials .
the fragile ceasefire agreed in 2015 is often shattered by outbursts of gunfire and explosions of shells .
more than 8,000 private homes and more than 2,000 apartment houses were badly damaged in donetsk , according to data provided by its administration .
most of these homes are uninhabitable and can not be rebuilt .
a total of 64 temporary shelters for those who lost their homes in the war have been organized in various parts of donetsk , a city of around one million residents .
sometimes , student hostels accommodate the homeless .
they include alexandra nikolayevna , 68 , who survives with her several grandchildren at university hostel no.4 mainly due to handouts of humanitarian aid .
the fourth year of this ordeal has failed to shatter her political views .
we must be only with russia , we only hope for ( russian president vladimir ) putin to take us under his wing , she repeats .
anyway , everyone says it s russian land .
the feeling of relative normalcy which prevails in most parts of donetsk , dissipates when you realise the city center is just slightly more than 10 km ( 6.3 miles ) from the frontline .
the war is felt in the volatile rates of several currencies circulating in the city , in low wages and poor quality of local food .
and it is felt in the families which lost loved ones in the war that has claimed a total of more than 10,000 lives so far .