cairo ( reuters ) - egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi appointed a new armed forces chief of staff on saturday , and the interior ministry dismissed several high-ranking officials in an apparent reorganization of the country s security command .
no reason was given for the reshuffle , but the interior ministry decision came a week after a deadly attack on a police operation in a western desert area of giza province , in which the ministry said 16 police were killed after coming under heavy fire .
egyptian forces have been fighting several armed islamist groups , mostly in the northern part of the sinai peninsula , since sisi helped lead the military overthrow of president mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood in 2013 .
hundreds of members of the security forces have been killed in attacks by militants in recent years .
a local islamic state affiliate has been the main foe of the security forces in the north sinai .
a statement from the presidency said gen. mohamed farid hegazy would replace gen. mahmoud hegazy , who has been made the president s adviser for strategic planning and crisis management .
in a separate statement , the interior ministry announced that it had replaced several high-ranking officials , including the head of homeland security , assistant to the minister for security in giza province , the director of giza s security and director of operations for central security .
it gave no further details on the shakeup .
no militant group has yet claimed responsibility for last week s attack on the police in a remote desert area of giza , about 130 km ( 80 miles ) southwest of the capital cairo .
thirteen militants were killed in a raid on a farm hideout in the region on friday .
state news agency mena quoted a security official as saying it was revenge for the blood of the men who were martyred last week in the oasis .
the vast western desert region has always been a security headache with arms flowing across the frontier with libya , where militant groups have found shelter since the country fell into chaos after the 2011 end of muammar gaddafi s rule .
sisi is a former military commander elected by a landslide in 2014 and presents himself as a bulwark against islamist militancy .
he is widely expected to run for re-election next year .