tokyo ( reuters ) - japanese deputy prime minister taro aso on wednesday retracted a remark to lawmakers of his faction in the ruling liberal democratic party that could be interpreted as a defense of adolf hitler s motive for genocide during world war two .
tuesday s comment by aso , who also serves as finance minister , drew criticism from a u.s.-based jewish group .
the incident followed a rare june apology by japan s central bank over a board member s praise for hitler s economic policies .
it is clear from my overall remarks that i regard hitler in extremely negative terms , and it s clear that his motives were also wrong , aso said in a statement .
aso said he wanted to stress the importance of delivering results , but not defend hitler .
it was inappropriate that i cited hitler as an example and i would like to retract that .
aso is no stranger to gaffes , having retracted a comment in 2013 about hitler s rise to power that was interpreted as praising the nazi regime .
referring at the time to japan s efforts to revise its constitution , he said the constitution of weimar germany had been changed before anyone realized , and asked , why don t we learn from that technique ?
on tuesday , kyodo news agency quoted aso as saying , i don t question your motives ( to be a politician ) .
but the results are important .
hitler , who killed millions of people , was no good , even if his motives were right .
the nazi-hunting simon wiesenthal center expressed distress and disappointment at aso s comment .
this is just the latest of a troubling list of misstatements and are downright dangerous , the center s head , rabbi abraham cooper , said in a statement on tuesday .
these words damage japan s reputation at the very time when all americans want to show their solidarity with japan , our sister democracy and ally , following the missile launch from kim jong un s north korea , he added .
aso s gaffe came after u.s. president donald trump drew sharp criticism for comments that blamed many sides for this month s violence in charlottesville , virginia .
in june , bank of japan board member yutaka harada told a seminar hitler s economic policies had been appropriate and wonderful but had enabled the nazi dictator to do horrible things .