senator lindsey graham made a bold announcement the other day when he told his constituents in south carolina that if they were against amnesty for illegals and outsourcing , to vote him out .
most republicans outside of the state of south carolina have been scratching their heads for years over the popularity of the pro-climate change , war-hawk and pro-amnesty senator graham in his home state .
it seems like this might be the perfect time for voters in south carolina to replace the liberal senator who is clearly a traitor to the president and to the republican party.watch senator lindsey graham tell his allies at cnn that president trump is weak for publicly addressing his concerns about his ag jeff sessions : sen. lindsey graham says president trump is demonstrating `` weakness '' through his attacks on ag jeff sessions https : //t.co/a92rbgywc1 cnn politics ( @ cnnpolitics ) july 26 , 2017watch senator graham , as he threatens president trump during an interview with nbc over the possibility that he may fire or go after the doj s special counsel robert mueller , who was hired by the deputy attorney general , rod j. rosenstein to investigate possible ties to russia and the trump campaign.watch : `` any effort to go after mueller could be the beginning of the end of the trump presidency , '' says sen. lindsey graham .
pic.twitter.com/x2sczckuio nbc news ( @ nbcnews ) july 27 , 2017senator graham has been jealous of donald trump since the primaries where graham got shellacked by donald trump .
watch his embarrassing appearance on the daily show with trevor graham during the primary elections , as he accuses donald trump , as well as his own party of being racists and xenophobes .go to the 3:47 mark to watch lindsey graham ask noah trevor of the daily show if he s a citizen or if he has a green card to which trevor replies , no .
graham then proceeds to tell noah trevor that if i were you , i d be in a hurry .
if trump wins , your days are numbered pal .
young , black , liberal guys from africa is not gon na work with him .
watch graham tell his constituents he ll be supporting amnesty whether they agree with him or not .
he actually urges south carolina citizens to vote against him if they disagree with him .
he talks about illegal aliens kids like their all sweet young children looking for a better life .
someone should tell him about ms-13 the most dangerous international gang in the world that is growing in numbers as obama opened the flood gates for them to come in while he was president : watch pro-man made climate change lindsey graham attempt to shame president trump prior to his decision to pull out of the paris climate deal : last but not least , and or anyone who may have forgotten , rino lindsey graham also warned republicans to back off their attacks on hillary clinton and barack obama , as graham warned republicans risk getting burned on benghazi issue .