paris ( reuters ) - france and the united states are determined to vigorously raise pressure on iran over its ballistic missile program , including possibly through sanctions , foreign minister jean-yves le drian said during a visit to washington .
le drian was in the american capital on monday to meet u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson , white house national security adviser h.r .
mcmaster and u.s. president donald trump s special adviser jared kushner .
tensions between iran and france have risen in recent months with both sides repeatedly trading barbs in public , including le drian accusing iran of hegemonic temptations in the region .
iran on sunday criticized president emmanuel macron over his tough stance toward tehran and said paris would soon lose its international credibility if it blindly follows u.s. president donald trump .
they didn t like the word , but i stand by it , le drian told reporters .
iran s hegemonic temptations in the region is a matter of urgency because it s within the framework of getting peace in iraq and syria that we will stop this process .
iranian officials have been particularly aggrieved by france s criticism of its ballistic missile tests and suggestions of possible new sanctions over the program , which tehran calls solely defensive in nature .
le drian , who is due in iran at the beginning of january , said he would tell them clearly of paris concerns .
we are fully determined to press very vigorously on iran to stop the development of an increasingly significant ballistic capability , le drian said , reiterating that sanctions were possible .
macron , unlike trump , has reaffirmed his country s commitment to the deal iran signed in 2015 with world powers under which it curbed its disputed nuclear program in exchange for the lifting of most international sanctions .
after talks with the u.s. officials , le drian said he believed that washington was beginning to understand european messages on the need to maintain the accord .