this is mob rule again !
the best part of this video is when mayor mike signer says that s not the rules he must not have been watching the news lately .
the rules don t apply to these kooks.this is like a bunch of toddlers who are warned over and over to stop misbehaving .
is this what america wants ?
we hope people on all sides see how horrible this is ! it s hard to feel sorry for the mayor and city council when they supported this mayhem .
the real culprit in all this is their governor .
perhaps they should go visit him to ask questions about what he did to turn the rally/ protest into a violent riot.our latest on the virginia governor : why did the democrat va governor throw gasoline on the fire after violent protests broke out in charlottesville ?
why did the radical democrat governor of virginia lie about weapons being stashed around the city of charlottesville prior to the march ?
was he just doing his part as a prominent member of the democrat party to help create more racial division in america ?
why did he lie about virginia police officers being underprepared for the violence and chaos that took place , when police officers claim they were completely prepared ?
was he trying to shine a negative light on the police force assigned to charlottesville , as part of the democrat party s ongoing plan to undermine the credibility of our law enforcement ? last week , virginia police officers were speaking out , and setting the record straight .
they were not about to remain silent while their governor made up stories to boost his party s race dividing , cop-hating narrative.republican rep. louie gohmert of texas is not just sitting around and wondering how the clinton bestie was able to get away with lying about what happened in charlottesville , while the media ignored governor mcauliffe s part in inciting violence.sunday on fox news channel s fox & friends weekend , gohmert called for a department of justice investigation of gov .
terry mcauliffe ( d-va ) and charlottesville , va mayor michael signer for possibly facilitating the violence that took place in charlottesville earlier this month.gohmert said , the way forward s not gon na be easy .
and i think the justice department needs a full investigation of the governor , of the mayor .
they said in court there would be violence at charlottesville , and then the witnesses and the photographs show they herded these groups to create violence so they could brag .
we need a justice department investigation into kessler .
you don t just go all of a sudden from having multiracial roommates and a jewish girlfriend to all of a sudden being a white supremacist that wants to join the republican party .
there s something very , very wrong in all of this .
he added , like they were the violence at trump events , they may have been behind this violence getting started .
they facilitated it , anyway .
-breitbart