lome ( reuters ) - security forces in togo used batons , tear gas and live bullets against protesters seeking an end to president faure gnassingbe s rule on wednesday and a child was killed in the ensuing clashes , according to amnesty international .
tensions are mounting over the president s tenure and thousands marched nationwide against government reforms announced on tuesday which they say will allow the gnassingbe family dynasty to run the west african country until 2030 .
there was a 9-year-old boy killed in mango by military forces .
he was shot in the head , said francois patuel , of amnesty international , citing local sources including family members .
security minister damehame yark confirmed that a child had been shot dead in mango , hundreds of kilometres north of the capital lome , but blamed the pnp opposition party .
riots also broke out in the northern city of bafilo between protesters against gnassingbe and his supporters , injuring several , opposition leader jean-pierre fabre said at the end of a peaceful march in lome .
the former french colony of 8 million people that is home to several large firms , including ecobank and regional airline asky , has a history of violent political repression .
hundreds were killed in the aftermath of gnassingbe s contested election win in 2005 .
shortly afterward , he pledged to re-introduce the term limits his father scrapped and align togo with most of its west african neighbors , which are bucking a trend toward life-long presidencies elsewhere on the continent .
gnassingbe , now in his third term , dropped the reforms until parliament this week attempted to cap future presidencies to two terms of five years , but the bill did not get enough backing due to an opposition boycott and will be decided by referendum instead .
in lome , people wearing the red and orange t-shirts of the opposition banged on tam-tams and sang a traditional battle song strength to the great in the local ewe language .
others carried a giant banner saying : people of togo say no !
50 years is enough !
the referendum is not what we want .
we are asking for the president to leave , said 42-year-old paulin kossi .
nearby , a large crowd gathered on a beachside boulevard to show their support for the unir ruling party while a motorcycle parade bearing flags with gnassingbe s snaked through the streets , flanked by a police escort .
residents also complained of internet cuts - a method increasingly used by governments to stifle criticism at sensitive times .
protests both against and in support of the president are set to resume on thursday .