new york ( reuters ) - the democratic party released a video on sunday slamming republican presidential hopefuls for their opposition to action on climate change , suggesting the views clash with the reality of rising sea levels and shifting weather patterns .
the video features republican front-runner donald trump and his two closest rivals , marco rubio and ted cruz , denying man-made global warming , juxtaposed with images of u.s. flooding , wildfires , droughts and heat waves .
“ i ’ m not a believer in climate change , ” trump says during a television news interview featured in the clip .
the video can be seen at bit.ly/1qm5ib8 .
“ satellite data show there ’ s been no warming whatsoever , ” cruz , a u.s. senator of texas , says in another news clip .
rubio , a u.s. senator of florida , says , “ i do not believe that human activity is causing these dramatic changes to our climate the way these scientists are portraying it. ” the video aims to put the environmental issue center stage in the november race for the white house .
democratic presidential hopefuls hillary clinton and bernie sanders have both laid out plans to combat climate change , while all five republican presidential contenders have argued that the problem doesn ’ t exist or have discounted the scope of the issue .
the video also draws a link between environmental issues and the vacancy on the u.s. supreme court following the surprise death this month of justice antonin scalia .
president barack obama has said he plans to nominate a replacement for scalia before the november election , but republicans in congress have vowed to block the effort .
“ with so many issues at stake now , with so much potentially heading before the court on clean energy and climate change , we simply can ’ t afford for our nation ’ s highest court to be crippled , ” a few democratic members of congress say in the video .
an official for the democratic party said the video would be circulated on social media .
( reporting by luciana lopez ; additional reporting by alana wise ; editing by leslie adler ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .