this is what having no freedom of speech looks like this guy is awesome !
i use whatever flag i want because i am free .
i am not a hypocrite , not like all the cubans marching yesterday [ the 2016 may day march ] all those cubans are hypocrites , he told his detractors .
he went on to praise the u.s. flag as the pride of the americans and assert , i don t fear the government .
daniel llorente is the brave pro-american cuban dissident who interrupted monday s may day parade in havana , running in front of the marching throngs waving an american flag .
a communist mob attacked him , beating him and dragging him away.the man , identified as daniel llorente , has previously waged similar protests against the communist regime of dictator ra l castro and has expressed vocally his support for the american government.video of the incident shows that llorente took off running in front of the throngs , waving an american flag before the likeness of mass murderer ernesto che guevara in the plaza of the revolution , waiting to march just moments before the may day parade was to begin , shouting anti-government slogans .
a group of men waiting on the sidelines , who have not been identified in reports , restrained , beat , and dragged llorente away .
every major cuban government leader , including dictator castro , was in attendance.the miami-based outlet mart noticias identified the man as llorente , a freelance cab driver and dissident , but does not belong to any dissident organizations .
instead , he has used his american flag to protest on previous occasions by waving it before public congregations .
a year ago , llorente protested before a crowd awaiting the first american cruise ship s arrival in havana , the adonia .
llorente greeted the ship waving an american flag and shouting yes we can !
, the famous slogan of president barack obama s first presidential campaign .
the government organized a rabble to berate llorente with racial epithets , and llorente responded by asserting his freedom.read more : breitbart