21st century wire says by cow-towing to students over-sensitivity to free speech and seemingly a prenatal requirement for safe spaces on campus academics and university administrators are unknowingly ( or knowingly ) constructing communitarian unintellectual institutions of tyranny on campuses across america .
the end result of this progress should be obvious to anyone who has studied 20th century history it is anarchy .
if students are allowed to get professors suspended or fired over spurious allegations of offense caused , or rather , causing students to feel uncomfortable then the entire concept of the university as we once knew it is finished .
by dismissing talent in favor of adherence to an ever new and constantly updated orthdoxy , the only professors left to teach in this burgeoning environment of weaponized political correctness will most certainly be under-qualified , mediocre , young , and possibly radical or overly militant instructors.that will be the end of higher education and as we can now see , it s heading in that direction ( image source : niskan center ) mark tapson truth revoltwriting for the washington post , eugene volokh of the volokh conspiracy addresses a disturbing development at the university of oregon , whose administration made clear to its faculty last week that if you say things about race , sexual orientation , sex , religion and so on that enough people find offensive , you could get suspended and possibly even fired .
this can happen even to tenured faculty members or to anyone else .
orthodoxy , volokh writes , enforced on threat of institutional punishment , is what the university of oregon is now about .
this all began with a halloween party hosted by tenured university of oregon law school professor nancy shurtz attended by about a dozen students and about a dozen nonstudents : shurtz had told the students that she would be going as a popular book title ; she didn t tell the students up front what it was , but the book was the recent ( and acclaimed ) black man in a white coat , a black doctor s reflections on race and medicine ( according to the subtitle ) .
shurtz s costume incorporated a white doctor s lab coat , a stethoscope , black makeup on her face and hands , and a black curly wig resembling an afro .
the university report states that shurtz was inspired by this book and by the author , that she greatly admires [ the author ] and wanted to honor him , and that she dressed as the book because she finds it reprehensible that there is a shortage of racial diversity , and particularly of black men , in higher education .
[ ] and this perceived offensiveness yielded a huge uproar at the law school .
according to the report , the uproar was partly students immediate reaction and partly a result of the administration s and other faculty members discussing the matter extensively at school , including in classes .
[ ] so we have speech , at a professor s home , but at a party to which she had invited her students , which in turn leads to speech by various people at the law school .
( there s no doubt that wearing an expressive costume is treated as equivalent to speech under first amendment symbolic expression purposes . )
some of both kinds of speech are interpreted as expressing offensive messages related to race .
what does the university do about this ? the university suspended shurtz.it then released a report concluding that shurtz s speech constituted harassment , which violates university policy .
the harassment policy , the university report notes , bans conduct that creates a hostile environment based on age , race , color , ancestry , national or ethnic origin , religion , service in the uniformed services ( as defined in state and federal law ) , veteran status , sex , sexual orientation , marital or family status , pregnancy , pregnancy-related conditions , physical or mental disability , gender , perceived gender , gender identity , genetic information or the use of leave protected by state or federal law .
under the logic of the oregon report , volokh notes , a faculty member could be disciplined for displaying the mohammed cartoons , if it caused enough of a furor .
or a faculty member could be disciplined for suggesting that homosexuality may be immoral or dangerous .
or for stating that biological males who view themselves as female should be viewed as men , not as women .
or for suggesting that there are , on average , biological differences in temperament or talents between men and women .
check out the whole article here.read more pc news at : 21st century wire pc files