rather than just wish america a happy easter and move on , donald trump spent sunday morning whining about the tax march protesters.tax season gave americans across the country the perfect opportunity to target trump and his refusal to release his tax returns.during the campaign , trump promised he would release his returns after the election but quickly rescinded that promise because it s clear his tax returns include many things he wants to hide , including his ties to russia.so protests broke out over the weekend demanding that trump finally release his taxes.his response was to complain about how he shouldn t have to release his taxes since he won the electoral college .
of course , you won t hear trump talk about the popular vote since he lost that by 3 million votes.i did what was an almost an impossible thing to do for a republican-easily won the electoral college !
now tax returns are brought up again ?
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) april 16 , 2017trump then accused the protesters of being paid to organize against him.someone should look into who paid for the small organized rallies yesterday .
the election is over !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) april 16 , 2017seriously , trump will apparently say or do anything to ignore the fact that people really do hate him and want him impeached.his constant response to people protesting him is to brag about the election even though he colluded with the russians to win.at this point , it s surprising that the american people haven t marched to the white house and dragged trump kicking and screaming out of office.but instead , they mocked him repeatedly on twitter .
@ realdonaldtrump show them if it s no big deal mike denison ( @ mikd33 ) april 16 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump did you win the popular vote lololol mike denison ( @ mikd33 ) april 16 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump if you ve got nothing to hide , release them .
what s the problem ?
emma kennedy ( @ emmakennedy ) april 16 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump winning the electoral college is not that difficult for a republican .
winning the popular vote , on the other hand , is hard .
as you well know simon hedlin ( @ simonhedlin ) april 16 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump i don t think the constitution says that presidents who win in a landslide have the right to be less transparent with the american people .
simon hedlin ( @ simonhedlin ) april 16 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you mocked romney for not releasing his returns until late 2012 .
what would candidate trump say to president trump ?
https : //t.co/ywoxqfyurk simon hedlin ( @ simonhedlin ) april 16 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump if your tax returns aren t a big deal , why are you avoiding protesters ?
release your returns .
pic.twitter.com/widvruprod jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) april 16 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump trump lost the popular vote by 3 million and barely won the electoral college .
ranking 46th out of 58 elections hardly counts as easily pic.twitter.com/eiu0aax89l robert maguire ( @ robertmaguire_ ) april 16 , 2017donald trump is a coward and a liar .
he refuses to release his taxes because he has something to hide that would surely get him impeached .
frankly , he should be impeached now just for refusing to release them.featured image : olivier douliery-pool/getty images