beirut ( reuters ) - saudi arabia accused lebanon on monday of declaring war against it because of aggression by the iran-backed lebanese shi ite group hezbollah , a dramatic escalation of a crisis threatening to destabilize the tiny arab country .
lebanon has been thrust to the center of regional rivalry between saudi arabia and iran since the saudi-allied lebanese politician saad al-hariri quit as prime minister on saturday , blaming iran and hezbollah in his resignation speech .
saudi gulf affairs minister thamer al-sabhan said the lebanese government would be dealt with as a government declaring war on saudi arabia because of what he described as aggression by hezbollah .
faulting the hariri-led administration for failing to take action against hezbollah during a year in office , sabhan said there are those who will stop ( hezbollah ) and make it return to the caves of south lebanon , the heartland of the shi ite community .
in an interview with al-arabiya tv , he added : lebanese must all know these risks and work to fix matters before they reach the point of no return .
he did not spell out what action saudi arabia might take against lebanon , a country with a weak and heavily indebted state that is still rebuilding from its 1975-90 civil war and where one-in-four people is a syrian refugee .
there was no immediate comment from the lebanese government .
hezbollah is both a military and a political organization that is represented in the lebanese parliament and in the hariri-led coalition government formed last year .
its powerful guerrilla army is widely seen as stronger than the lebanese army , and has played a major role in the war in neighboring syria , another theater of saudi-iranian rivalry where hezbollah has fought in support of the government .
lebanese authorities said on monday the country s financial institutions could cope with hariri s resignation and the stability of the lebanese pound was not at risk .
but the cash price of lebanon s u.s. dollar-denominated bonds fell , with longer-dated maturities suffering hefty losses as investors took a dim view of the medium- to longer-term outlook for lebanon .
hariri cited a plot to assassinate him during his unexpected resignation speech broadcast from saudi arabia which caught even his aides off guard .
he also slammed hezbollah and iran , accusing them of sowing strife in the arab world .
hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah has said he will not comment on hariri s speech , calling it a saudi statement and saying riyadh had forced hariri to resign .
the sudden nature of hariri s resignation generated speculation in lebanon that his family s saudi construction business had been caught up in an anti-corruption purge and he had been coerced into resigning .
saudi foreign minister adel jubeir said it was nonsense to suggest hariri had been coerced into quitting in a cnn interview on monday .
hariri had quit because hezbollah had been calling the shots in the government , he said .
hariri , a saudi citizen , was free to leave the country at any time , he said .
interior minister nohad machnouk , a senior member of hariri s political party , said he was under the impression hariri would return to beirut within days .
a meeting between saudi king salman and hariri in riyadh on monday proved rumors wrong , he said - an apparent reference to speculation that hariri was detained or forced to quit .
earlier on monday , president michel aoun , a political ally of hezbollah , appealed for national unity .
parliament speaker nabih berri , another political ally of hezbollah , said in a televised statement after meeting aoun it was too early to talk about forming a new government .
the crisis could re-aggravate tensions between sunni and shi ite muslims and afflict lebanese government with paralysis once again .
all of the sides have called for calm and there has been no sign of unrest since hariri s resignation .
the hariri-led government took office last year in a political deal that made aoun president .
the deal ended years of deadlock , and last month it produced lebanon s first budget since 2005 .
hariri flew to saudi arabia on friday after meeting in beirut the top adviser to iran s supreme leader , who described the coalition as a victory and great success afterwards .