washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. government , acknowledging its limited success in combating islamic extremist messaging , is recruiting tech companies , community organizations and educational groups to take the lead in disrupting online radicalization .
the change in strategy , which took a step forward on wednesday when the justice department convened a meeting with social media firms including facebook inc , twitter and alphabet inc ’ s google , comes despite what critics say is scant evidence on the effectiveness of such efforts .
the meeting was “ a recognition that the government is ill-positioned and ill-equipped to counter isis online , ” seamus hughes , deputy director of george washington university ’ s program on extremism , said after attending the event , using an acronym for the islamic state group .
the federal government is not best placed to counter extremist online recruitment efforts with messaging of its own , said george selim , director of the department of homeland security ( dhs ) office that coordinates the government ’ s “ countering violent extremism ” ( cve ) activities .
the goal now , he said , is to help “ communities and young people to amplify their own messages. ” those messages stem from so-called “ counter-narrative ” programs underway at schools and community groups that have varying degrees of government support , according to government officials and private sector experts .
past campaigns by the administration of u.s. president barack obama to thwart extremist propaganda globally were widely regarded as too reliant on fear-based rhetoric and graphic imagery to be effective .
but whether the new joint effort with the private sector will fare better remains unclear , say experts in countering extremism .
the obama administration has had an uneasy relationship with silicon valley in recent years .
twitter and other tech firms have been reticent to appear too cozy with authorities on how they manage their content , though most have cautiously drifted toward being more compliant over the past year .
facebook last year partnered with british research group demos to examine the impact of “ counter-messaging ” against hate speech in four european countries .
the study , released in october , concluded it was “ extremely difficult to calculate with any degree of precision ” whether such efforts have a real impact on long-term attitudes or offline behavior .
“ you don ’ t necessarily know if something is going to change the way someone thinks offline , but we can measure whether somebody shares that content or interacts with it , ” monica bickert , facebook ’ s head of global policy management , told reuters .
one of the new programs , funded partly by facebook and multiple government agencies , underwrites “ peer-to-peer ” ( p2p ) college courses that teach students to create their own anti-militant messaging .
facebook declined to say how much it was investing in the program , though selim described facebook ’ s overall investment in cve initiatives as “ very significant. ” fatemah yousef , a student at kuwait gulf university for science and technology student , flew to washington this month to join a facebook event showcasing counter-messaging projects created by students .
yousef , 23 , exhibited a blog that encourages kuwaiti students to denounce violent extremism on social media .
another p2p finalist , a group from the university of arkansas , produced a video showing graphic islamic state executions set to heavy metal band black sabbath ’ s “ war pigs. ” half way through , the video switched to bob dylan ’ s “ the times they are a-changin ’ ” as captions urged viewers to “ raise a flag ” against extremism .
after viewing the video , a judge in the contest told the students that “ probably about 90 to 95 percent ” of the images in the video had been used in violent extremist recruitment videos .
“ we ’ ve had this problem in other places where people try to instill fear in target audiences by showing all this mayhem , but it actually does the reverse with some , ” said the judge , quintan wiktorowicz , a former white house director for community partnerships .
another effort is underway at worde , a muslim educational organization in maryland , which last week launched a campaign that aims to refute islamic state messages through catchy videos and live broadcasts of discussions about mainstream islam .
worde plans to use software or survey questions to gauge the impact of its new counter-messaging campaign , said hedieh mirahmadi , the group ’ s president .
“ everybody creates stuff but doesn ’ t really care about whether it ’ s connected to the science of evaluations , ” mirahmadi told reuters .
democratic new jersey senator cory booker told reuters that he is working on two bills — one of which has already passed committee in the senate — that would give dhs the authority to fund more college classes and research on how to best counter islamic state ’ s slick propaganda campaigns .
“ government messages do not prove to have that type of virality , ” booker said .
the p2p program is the only private sector counter-messaging initiative that acknowledges receiving training from the federal bureau of investigation , but a senior fbi official said the agency provides information to other non-governmental groups whose cve-related work may include counter-messaging .
some efforts avoid federal funding altogether .
mohamed magid , a virginia imam who has counseled several youth targeted by islamic state recruiters , leads an islamic foundation soliciting donations to create a 24/7 online operation that would answer each islamic state video with peaceful messages .
“ if we say this is a government thing , it might not have legitimacy , ” magid said .
“ we ’ re challenging the muslim community to say , on this , yourself , respond to the challenge . ”