charleston , s.c. ( reuters ) - democratic white house candidate bernie sanders went on the offensive against front-runner hillary clinton on sunday in the most contentious of their four presidential debates , accusing her of cozying up to wall street and misrepresenting his stance on healthcare and guns .
reflecting sanders ’ rise in opinion polls , the two battled with new urgency over who was best suited to lead democrats in the november election .
sanders cast himself as the outsider who would lead a political revolution , while clinton touted her experience and embraced president barack obama ’ s legacy .
in their last televised debate before iowa ’ s caucuses launch the nominating race on feb. 1 , clinton raised questions about the self-styled democratic socialist ’ s positions on wall street reform , healthcare and gun control .
sanders pushed back at every turn .
he painted clinton as a defender of the status quo who accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars in speaking fees as a former secretary of state from wall street backers .
“ i don ’ t take money from big banks .
i don ’ t get personal speaking fees from goldman sachs , ” the u.s. senator from vermont said , adding , “ i have huge doubts when people receive money from wall street. ” he referred to his rising poll numbers in the early voting states of iowa and new hampshire , where he has pulled even or ahead of clinton , saying he believed he could expand his number of supporters to include more african-american voters .
he noted that when his presidential campaign began , clinton was 50 percentage points ahead of him in the polls .
“ guess what : in iowa , new hampshire , the race is ( now ) very , very close , ” sanders said .
the debate followed a week of rising tension between the two leading candidates .
sanders was noticeably more animated that in previous debates , sometimes grimacing and shaking his head during clinton ’ s answers .
former maryland governor martin o ’ malley , who lags badly in polls , was often a bystander although he joined sanders in criticizing clinton ’ s wall street ties .
clinton said she would build on obama ’ s agenda , accusing sanders of voting to deregulate the financial market in 2000 in a way that led to the central causes of the financial collapse of 2008 that pitched the u.s. economy into a deep recession .
clinton tried to undercut sanders ’ support among supporters of obama , who remains a popular figure in the democratic party .
“ he ’ s criticized president obama for taking donations from wall street .
and president obama has led our country out of the great recession , ” she said .
“ senator sanders called him weak , disappointing , he even in 2011 publicly sought someone to run in a primary against president obama. ” clinton pounced on sanders ’ “ medicare-for-all ” plan that was announced just hours before the debate after clinton had criticized sanders for refusing to explain how he would pay for the proposal .
the former secretary of state , former u.s. senator and wife of former president bill clinton said sanders ’ healthcare plan would undermine obama ’ s signature affordable care act at a time when republican legislators were still trying to repeal and replace it .
“ i have to say i ’ m not sure whether we ’ re talking about the plan you introduced tonight or the plan you introduced nine times over 20 years , ” she told sanders .
“ but the fact is we have the affordable care act .
... we have already seen 19 million americans get insurance. ” sanders said he wanted to build on the obama law by making health insurance more affordable .
“ nobody is tearing this up , ” he said , referring to the program popularly known as obamacare .
“ we ’ re moving forward. ” the debate was held across the street from the charleston church where a white gunman killed nine black worshippers in june , and clinton made reference to the incident while accusing sanders of being weak on gun control .
she welcomed his decision on saturday night to back a bill in congress rescinding portions of a law giving gunmakers immunity from lawsuits , but said his record showed a more lenient attitude toward the demands of the powerful national rifle association ( nra ) gun lobby .
sanders defended himself , saying he has a strong record on trying to prevent guns from getting into the wrong hands and standing up to the nra .
sanders supporters watching in manchester , new hampshire , said he seemed more engaged than in past debates .
“ i thought that bernie was much more prepared , ” chris haigh , 66 , said .
sanders has pulled into a statistical tie with clinton in recent polls in iowa , whose caucuses are the first contest in the race to pick a nominee for the november election .
he also leads clinton in the next state to vote , vermont neighbor new hampshire , on feb. 9 , according to polls .
after those two states , the race moves to nevada and south carolina , which have more diverse voting populations and where polls show clinton leading .
on march 1 , or “ super tuesday ” , voters in 11 states , many of them in the south where clinton has big poll leads , will cast primary ballots .
( additional reporting by alana wise and luciana lopez ; writing by steve holland and john whitesides ; editing by mary milliken and jonathan oatis ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .