sumter , s.c. ( reuters ) - donald trump , who has argued his experience negotiating tough real estate deals makes him best qualified to be u.s. president , said on wednesday it might be impossible to forge a lasting peace agreement between the israelis and the palestinians .
during a televised town hall session hosted by msnbc in south carolina , trump , the front-runner for the republican presidential nomination , said he believed getting a deal done would be “ very , very tough. ” the remarks were notable not only because trump rarely discusses israel or the mideast peace process on the campaign trail , but also because they seemed to show a shift in trump ’ s views on the feasibility of a deal .
trump said in december he would start working on a deal between the two sides within the first six months of taking office if elected .
in those earlier comments , he also said he thought a deal would be hard to make , but added he thought it depended whether the israelis really wanted to make one .
in his comments on wednesday , trump said he ’ d heard from an israeli that “ the other side has been trained from the time they ’ re children to hate jewish people , ” and that was why a deal might not work .
“ you have one side in particular growing up and learning that these are the worst people , ” he said .
“ i would say if you can do that deal you can do any deal , ” he added .
“ that ’ s probably the toughest deal in the world right now to make and it ’ s possible it ’ s not makeable. ” the town hall was part of trump ’ s final push to translate his substantial lead in the south carolina polls to a victory in the state ’ s republican primary election , which takes place on saturday .
he also appeared before south carolina audiences on wednesday in the towns of bluffton , walterboro and sumter .
trump said he ’ d still try to get a peace deal done , even if the odds for success were slim : “ i ’ m going to give it a shot. ” ( reporting by emily flitter in sumter , south carolina ; editing by michael perry ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .