united nations/washington ( reuters ) - seven u.s. women senators urged president barack obama on thursday to push for the election of the united nations ’ first female secretary-general later this year .
u.n. secretary-general ban ki-moon , a former south korean foreign minister , is due to step down at the end of 2016 after two five-year terms .
a man has held the top job at the world organization since its inception 70 years ago .
the 15-member security council , including veto powers china , russia , the united states , britain and france , will recommend a candidate for election by the 193-member general assembly to succeed ban .
“ we ask that the united states play a leading role in pressing for the strong consideration of qualified women , ” the seven democratic senators wrote to obama .
led by barbara boxer , a senior member of the senate foreign relations committee , the letter was also signed by senators patty murray , mazie hirono , tammy baldwin , kirsten gillibrand , jeanne shaheen and barbara mikulski .
in response to the senators ’ letter , a senior obama administration official said : “ while we would welcome the selection of a woman as the next secretary-general , we will ultimately support the best candidate of either gender. ” fifty-three 53 countries , led by colombia , are pushing for a female secretary-general .
several civil society groups are also lobbying for a woman to lead the organization .
seven candidates have been put forward , including three women : u.n. cultural organization ( unesco ) director-general irina bokova , former croatian foreign minister vesna pusic and moldova ’ s former foreign minister natalia gherman .
the other four candidates are former macedonian foreign minister srgjan kerim , montenegro foreign minister igor luksic , former slovenian president danilo turk and former u.n. high commissioner for refugees antonio guterres .
“ i would say guterres has got the better chance of all of those who have entered the race , but i still don ’ t think the winning candidate has entered yet , ” a senior security council diplomat said on condition of anonymity .
diplomats said other potential female candidates included helen clark , former new zealand prime minister and head of the u.n. development programme ; argentine foreign minister susana malcorra ; and european union commissioner for budget and human resources kristalina georgieva .
the u.n. top job traditionally rotates between regions , with eastern europe next on the list .
“ while the u.n. has upheld the consideration of regional rotation , it has not given full consideration to gender equality , ” the u.s. senators wrote .
a u.s. congressional aide said other female senators , including republicans , were approached to back the letter to obama , but none had yet signed on .
most republicans see many of the u.n. ’ s actions as attempts to improperly influence u.s. policy .