they preyed on the poor in latin america .
they promised them an education , but the real goal was about turning a profit .
no , we re not talking about the democrat party , we re talking about the sleazy clinton crime syndicate , headed up by a serial sexual abuser and his habitual liar wife .
you may have heard of her , she s the democrat party s frontrunner in the upcoming presidential race with her campaign sinking in the polls , hillary clinton has launched a desperate attack against trump university to deflect attention away from her deep involvement with a controversial for-profit college that made the clintons millions , even as the school faced serious legal scrutiny and criminal investigations .
in april 2015 , bill clinton was forced to abruptly resign from his lucrative perch as honorary chancellor of laureate education , a for-profit college company .
the reason for clinton s immediate departure : clinton cash revealed , and bloomberg confirmed , that laureate funneled bill clinton $ 16.46 million over five years while hillary clinton s state dept .
pumped at least $ 55 million to a group run by laureate s founder and chairman , douglas becker , a man with strong ties to the clinton global initiative .
laureate has donated between $ 1 million and $ 5 million ( donations are reported in ranges , not exact amounts ) to the clinton foundation .
progressive billionaire george soros is also a laureate financial backer.as the washington post reports , laureate has stirred controversy throughout latin america , where it derives two-thirds of its revenue .
during bill clinton s tenure as laureate s chancellor , the school spent over $ 200 million a year on aggressive telemarketing , flashy internet banner ads , and billboards designed to lure often unprepared students from impoverished countries to enroll in its for-profit classes .
the goal : get as many students , regardless of skill level , signed up and paying tuition .
i meet people all the time who transfer here when they flunk out elsewhere , agronomy student arturo bisono , 25 , told the post .
this has become the place you go when no one else will accept you .
others , like rio state legislator robson leite who led a probe into bill clinton s embattled for-profit education scheme , say the company is all about extracting cash , not educating students .
they have turned education into a commodity that focuses more on profit than knowledge , said leite.progressives have long excoriated for-profit education companies for placing profits over quality pedagogy .
still , for five years , bill clinton allowed his face and name to be plastered all over laureate s marketing materials .
as clinton cash reported , pictures of bill clinton even lined the walkways at campuses like laureate s bilgi university in istanbul , turkey .
that laureate has campuses in turkey is odd , given that for-profit colleges are illegal there , as well as in mexico and chile where laureate also operates.shortly after bill clinton s lucrative 2010 laureate appointment , hillary clinton s state dept .
began pumping millions of its usaid dollars to a sister nonprofit , international youth foundation ( iyf ) , which is run by laureate s founder and chairman , douglas becker .
indeed , state dept .
funding skyrocketed once bill clinton got on the laureate payroll , according to bloomberg : a bloomberg examination of iyf s public filings show that in 2009 , the year before bill clinton joined laureate , the nonprofit received 11 grants worth $ 9 million from the state department or the affiliated usaid .
in 2010 , the group received 14 grants worth $ 15.1 million .
in 2011 , 13 grants added up to $ 14.6 million .
the following year , those numbers jumped : iyf received 21 grants worth $ 25.5 million , including a direct grant from the state department.for entire story : breitbart news