warsaw ( reuters ) - poland should defend its national identity and interests at a time when the european union is debating its own future , the country s new prime minister mateusz morawiecki told parliament on tuesday .
warsaw has grown increasingly isolated in the european union since the law and justice party ( pis ) won power two years ago .
critics say its efforts to assert control over the courts and public media have subverted democratic standards .
morawiecki , 49 , was named prime minister last week in a government reshuffle , replacing beata szydlo as the pis party gears up for elections over the next three years .
morawiecki said warsaw s economic policy - based on generous public spending and a growing focus on domestic capital instead of foreign investment - should not change .
echoing the eurosceptic pis s calls for more say in brussels policy-making for national governments , morawiecki said polish sovereignty and tradition should be used in defending national interests .
the future of the european project is being decided now , morawiecki told deputies .
poland fits perfectly into the european puzzle , but it can not be forced in incorrectly .
by doing so , you will destroy both the puzzle and the piece , the former bank executive said .
britain s decision to leave the bloc has also meant that poland lost an important ally in its calls to curb further eu integration , while the election of french president emmanuel macron has fanned new fears in warsaw of losing influence .
morawiecki said poland would oppose the idea of a multi-speed europe , which macron supports but which countries in the eu s east fear would mean deeper cooperation in the west at the expense of the bloc s single market .
we don t want further divisions ... we oppose splitting of europe between those are who better and those who are inferior .
morawiecki said he wholeheartedly supported pis s overhaul of the judiciary , approved by the lower house of parliament on friday despite the european union s reservations .
eu officials say the legislation , which gives lawmakers de facto control over the selection of judges , will threaten the impartiality of the courts .
addressing economic policy , morawiecki said poland should strive to find a golden middle between a lean state which abandons its citizens and a bureaucracy .
we don t want either .
our national sovereignty and tradition are an advantage in efforts to modernise poland , not a burden , as some are trying to tell us , he said .
pis has gained in popularity since becoming the first in post-communist poland to govern without a coalition .
it has benefited from fast economic growth , record low unemployment , generous welfare and an increased emphasis on traditional catholic values in public life .
however , private investment remains weak , with economists saying companies are reluctant to spend amid uncertainty over taxation and the government s influence over the economy .
morawiecki , who as finance minister was also responsible for economic development policy before his appointment as prime minister , has long called for a greater role for domestic capital in the economy .
parliament is due to hold a vote of confidence on morawiecki and his cabinet overnight .