washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate ted cruz vowed to deport immigrants living illegally in the united states and build a wall to keep others out , sharpening his stance on the issue a week before presidential contests in several southern states .
cruz ’ s comments on the eve of tuesday ’ s nevada caucuses came hours after the public firing of his main spokesman over misleading social media postings involving rival marco rubio .
rubio won endorsements on monday from prominent republicans as he sought to become the party ’ s mainstream alternative to front-runner donald trump after jeb bush dropped out of the race for the 2016 republican presidential nomination .
cruz was asked on fox news ’ “ o ’ reilly factor ” if he would round up the 12 million illegal aliens in the country , and how .
“ listen , we should enforce the law .
how do we enforce the law ?
yes , we should deport them .
we should build a wall .
we should triple the border patrol , ” cruz said .
“ and federal law requires that anyone here illegally that ’ s apprehended should be deported. ” asked if he , like real estate tycoon trump , would go out and look for them , cruz replied , “ of course you would .
that ’ s what ice ( immigration and customs enforcement ) exists for .
we have law enforcement that looks for people who are violating the laws. ” the comments marked a shift from last month , when cruz rejected sending authorities to find immigrants as “ police state ” tactics .
“ i don ’ t intend to send jackboots to knock on your door and every door in america .
that ’ s not how we enforce the law for any crime , ” mr. cruz told cnn in an interview on jan. 10 .
cruz has repeatedly criticized rubio for having embraced a sweeping immigration reform bill he characterizes as amnesty .
cruz and other republican candidates vying to represent their party in the nov. 8 presidential election have been under pressure to toughen their stance on immigration by trump ’ s ferocious rhetoric on the issue .
trump responded to cruz ’ s comments with a trademark twitter taunt on tuesday , referring the u.s. senator from texas ’ third-place finish in south carolina ’ s primary on saturday .
“ ted cruz only talks tough on immigration now because he did so badly in s.c .
he is in favor of amnesty and weak on illegal immigration , ” trump said .
the new york billionaire has said he would deport all undocumented immigrants , build a wall and rescind u.s. president barack obama ’ s executive orders on immigration .