kampala ( reuters ) - south sudan s president has given top jobs to three generals facing u.n. sanctions over alleged violations during a four-year-old civil war .
campaign group human rights watch called the promotions a slap in the face of justice - but the presidency said the three men were good officers who had been falsely accused .
in a decree read out on state radio late on thursday , president salva kiir appointed marial chanuong as his new head of army operations , training and intelligence , and santino deng wol as the head of ground forces .
gabriel jok riak was named deputy chief of defense .
the u.n. security council imposed travel bans and asset freezes on the three and others in 2015 .
it accused chanuong of commanding troops who led the slaughter of nuer civilians in and around ( the capital ) juba in december 2013 , including hundreds it said were reportedly buried in mass graves .
i am in my country .
i can do anything in my own country , chanuong told reuters friday .
the united nations said wol commanded troops who killed children , women and old men during a 2015 offensive , while riak violated a ceasefire in early 2014 .
kiir s spokesman , ateny wek ateny , said the three generals were very genuine , obedient commanders who had been falsely accused .
but human rights watch said the announcement , made on the eve of the fourth anniversary of the war s outbreak , showed the impunity enjoyed by commanders accused of abuses .
having these people nominated to new positions is a slap in the face of justice and a slap in the face of the international community , the organization s jonathan pednault told reuters .
south sudan plunged into civil war in december 2013 when a political crisis escalated into fighting between forces loyal to kiir , an ethnic dinka , and rebels allied with his former deputy riek machar , a nuer .
the conflict has reopened ethnic fault lines and spread across the country , where more than a dozen armed groups are battling for land , resources , revenge , and power amid widespread reports of rape , murder and torture .
several ceasefires have been agreed but broken .
tens of thousands have been killed since the war broke out .