washington - the chairman of a u.s. house committee that oversees child abuse issues opened an inquiry friday into whether the federal government is failing to enforce a law meant to protect thousands of babies born dependent on drugs each year .
the inquiry , launched by representative john kline of minnesota , comes in response to a reuters investigation last month that identified 110 examples of children who were exposed to opioids while in the womb and later died preventable deaths after leaving the hospital .
no more than nine states comply with a 2003 law that calls on hospitals to alert social workers whenever a baby is born dependent on drugs , the news agency found .
since the law was enacted , the number of newborns diagnosed with neonatal abstinence syndrome has skyrocketed – from 4,991 cases in 2003 to 27,315 in 2013 , federal data show .
a reuters analysis found that thousands of drug-dependant newborns are sent home each year without a referral to social service agencies , contrary to the intent of the federal law .
those referrals are intended to help social workers develop a “ plan of safe care ” for the newborns and mothers .
although most states fail to comply with the provisions , reuters found none has lost federal funding .
in a letter friday , kline told health and human services secretary sylvia burwell that he was “ deeply concerned ” that the agency may not be enforcing the law .
“ a reuters investigation released in december cast serious doubts over whether these basic requirements in federal law are being followed , ” wrote kline , a republican who chairs the house education and the workforce committee .
the letter was co-signed by todd rokita , an indiana republican , who chairs a subcommittee on early childhood education .
“ the reuters investigation reveals the shocking and deadly consequences when these vital federal and state child welfare policies are not properly implemented and enforced , ” the lawmakers wrote .
“ even more troubling , according to the reuters report , there are some states that have failed to put these policies in place altogether , yet not a single state is being denied … funds. ” kline and rokita asked health and human services officials to explain the review process for determining whether each state has created a safe-care plan for babies born drug-dependent , and to make clear the consequences for states that do not comply .
agency officials did not immediately respond to the lawmakers ’ letter .
the primary backer of a key provision in the 2003 law , former representative james greenwood , said he was “ delighted ” that kline and rokita took “ this step to light a fire under ” the department of health and human services .
“ precious little lives are at stake , ” greenwood said .
last month , top u.s. senators also called for action .
sen. charles schumer , a democrat from new york , asked for an “ emergency surge ” of funds to help protect the newborns , and sen. robert casey , a democrat from pennsylvania , sought oversight hearings .
the senior republican in the senate , majority leader mitch mcconnell , said the series “ brings to the forefront a problem ” that he has urged the obama administration to address faster .
the reuters investigation , “ helpless & hooked , ” can be found here .
( reut.rs/1nsc7uc ) kline and rokita ’ s letter to the health and human services secretary can be found here .
( 1.usa.gov/235146g )