washington/havana ( reuters ) - president barack obama will meet dissidents and president raul castro in cuba next month , the white house said on thursday , announcing a historic trip that will be another major step toward ending decades of animosity between former cold war foes .
in the first visit by a u.s. president to the caribbean nation since 1928 , obama will meet entrepreneurs and people from different walks of life during the trip on march 21 and 22 , but he is unlikely to see fidel castro , the former president and revolutionary leader , u.s. officials said .
the white house hopes obama ’ s trip will help accelerate change on the communist-run island and cement progress made under his watch , but republicans at home complained that it would give legitimacy to cuba ’ s oppressive government .
“ next month , i ’ ll travel to cuba to advance our progress and efforts that can improve the lives of the cuban people , ” obama wrote on twitter .
after decades of hostility following cuba ’ s 1959 revolution , the two countries agreed in 2014 to move to reopen ties , but the u.s. embargo on cuba remains and washington frequently criticizes havana ’ s human rights record .
the opening to cuba was a diplomatic feat that is likely to form part of obama ’ s foreign policy legacy along with the nuclear deal he struck with another long-time u.s. foe , iran .
officials decided that traveling to cuba now rather than at the end of obama ’ s term would give them more leverage to make progress on expanding internet access and opening up business opportunities for cubans and americans .
obama regularly meets with civil society groups when he travels abroad , and officials said this trip would be no different .
“ he ’ ll be meeting with dissidents , with members of civil society , including those who certainly oppose the cuban government ’ s policies , ” obama ’ s deputy national security adviser , ben rhodes , told reporters .
josefina vidal , the director of u.s. affairs for the cuban foreign ministry , said the cuban government is willing to talk with the united states about its concerns .
“ cuba is open to speak to the u.s. government about any topic , including human rights , ” vidal told reporters .
she said the cuban government wants guantanamo bay returned to cuba and the embargo lifted before relations can be normalized .
cuban dissidents gave a cautious welcome to the trip .
“ he should take advantage of this opportunity to send a loud , clear message , ” prominent opposition blogger yoani sanchez wrote on her website .
“ the material and moral poverty that surrounds us is not the responsibility of the united states. ” the united states has upheld a strict economic embargo on cuba for more than 50 years , providing the cuban government with a strong propaganda tool against washington .
obama ’ s visit is likely to spark debate in the campaign for the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election , particularly in the swing voting state of florida , where many anti-castro cuban-americans live .
two republican candidates , ted cruz and marco rubio , are conservative sons of cuban immigrants and foreign policy hawks .
rubio urged obama to reconsider his trip , citing political arrests in the past year .
“ you will send the message to the oppressed cuban people that you stand with their oppressors , ” he said in a letter on thursday .
first lady michelle obama will accompany her husband on the trip to cuba and also to argentina .
obama ’ s havana visit carries huge symbolic value as his administration takes steps to expand commerce with cuba , only 90 miles ( 145 km ) from florida .
the last sitting u.s. president to visit cuba was calvin coolidge .
tourism has surged recently .
airbnb , an online home-rental site , says u.s. rentals of homes in cuba are booming .
the countries have agreed to restore airline flights , and companies ranging from tractor manufacturers to telecommunications firms are assessing the market .
cuba and major league baseball are discussing holding an exhibition game between the cuban national team and tampa bay rays in havana on march 22 , raising the possibility that obama could throw the ceremonial first pitch .
obama still seeks to pressure u.s. lawmakers to remove the decades-old embargo on cuba but republicans control congress and are unlikely to act soon .
a persistent congressional critic of the thaw in relations with cuba , rep. ileana ros-lehtinen , said the trip would be a reward that the cuban government did not deserve .
“ pitiful that obama rewards castros with visit to cuba while conditions for the cuban people are getting worse , ” said ros-lehtinen , a cuban-american republican from south florida .
rhodes said he expected cuban officials would bring up the status of the u.s. military base at guantanamo bay during the trip , but the administration opposes returning the area to the communist government .
the white house did not provide details about which groups obama would seek to meet , and said the united states would like to see more freedom of assembly and speech in cuba .
cuba says it has no political prisoners but the cuban commission of human rights and national reconciliation , a dissident group , counts about 80 political prisoners in detention .
fifty-three were released around the time of the 2014 agreement to normalize relations with the united states , but others were arrested last year , the group said .