bangkok ( reuters ) - the chief u.s. negotiator for north korea said on friday the united states should engage in direct diplomacy with pyongyang alongside sanctions imposed over its nuclear and ballistic missile programmes .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson offered on tuesday to begin direct talks with north korea without pre-conditions , but the white house later said no negotiations could be held until north korea improved its behaviour .
we should exercise direct diplomacy as well as sanctions .
that is our policy , which is based on pressure and engagement , and we do want to engage in pressure and diplomacy , joseph yun , u.s. special representative for north korea policy , told reporters in bangkok .
yun travelled to japan and thailand this week to meet officials to discuss ways to build pressure on north korea after its latest ballistic missile test .
on thursday , yun met the head of thailand s national security council , general wallop rohsanoh , and deputy foreign minister weerasak futrakul .
we had very constructive , open-ended discussion , said yun .
the united states had no specific requests for thailand , he said .
thailand s prime minister prayuth chan-ocha said on tuesday no trade takes place between thailand and north korea and that thailand has abided by united nations resolutions regarding north korea .
we had no specific requests ...
it seems like , as the deputy foreign minister said , they are fully complying with united nations resolutions , yun told reporters .
thailand s ties with north korea have been in the spotlight this year .
tillerson pressed thailand , the united states oldest ally in asia , for more action on north korea during a visit to bangkok in august .
north korea has an embassy in the thai capital , bangkok .
despite tillerson s call for talks with pyongyang without pre-conditions , the white house said now was not the right time and that any negotiations would have to be about giving up its nuclear arsenal .
i think what secretary tillerson spoke two or three days ago ... is that we do want to have a dialogue with them .
we are open to dialogue and we hope that they will agree to have a dialogue ... he made it clear that we were open , said yun .
the u.s. delegation said in august it believed north korean companies operated in thailand and urged the thais to shut them .
in response , thailand s foreign ministry told reporters that trade with north korea had dropped by as much as 94 percent over the previous year .
it did not give specific details .