brussels ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may s offer of settled status for eu residents is flawed and will leave them with fewer rights after brexit , the european parliament s brexit coordinator said on tuesday .
a family of five could face a bill of 360 pounds to acquire the new status , guy verhofstadt told may s brexit secretary david davis in a letter seen by reuters a very significant amount for a family on low income .
listing three other concerns for the eu legislature , which must approve any treaty on the march 2019 exit , verhofstadt told davis : under your proposals , eu citizens will definitely notice a deterioration of their status as a result of brexit .
and the parliament s aim all along has been that eu citizens , and uk citizens in the eu-27 , should notice no difference .
verhofstadt , a former belgian prime minister , wrote in response to davis , who had written to him after parliament complained last week that there remained major issues to be settled on the rights of the 3 million eu citizens in britain .
on tuesday , he told reporters that parliament was determined that expatriates should not become victims of brexit .
may had unveiled more details last week of a system aimed at giving people already in britain a quick and cheap way of asserting their rights to stay there indefinitely .
the issue , along with how much britain owes and the new eu-uk border across ireland , is one on which the eu wants an outline agreement before opening talks on the future of trade .
verhofstadt said lawmakers were not dismissing british efforts to streamline applications but saw flaws in the nature of settled status itself .
as well as the cost , which is similar to that of acquiring a british passport , he cited three others : - europeans should simply declare a whole household resident , without needing an application process ; the burden of proof should be on the british authorities to deny them rights .
- more stringent conditions on criminal records could mean some eu residents , including some now with permanent resident status , being deported for failing to gain settled status .
- eu residents would lose some rights to bring relatives to britain as the new status would give them the same rights as british people , who now have fewer rights than eu citizens .