new york/washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential hopeful donald trump ’ s campaign raised $ 3.1 million from donors in may , more than doubling previous monthly hauls as he began soliciting donations to battle democratic rival hillary clinton .
but with spending that outpaced inflows , the new york real estate magnate ’ s campaign began june with just $ 1.29 million in cash , putting it well-behind clinton ’ s $ 42 million war chest , according to federal disclosures filed late on monday .
clinton ’ s campaign raised $ 26 million in may .
the figures underscore the huge money advantage clinton is hoping to enjoy leading into the nov. 8 election , one that could allow her a large staff and millions of dollars of television and digital ads in battleground states .
trump , who has self-funded most of his campaign and only held his first general election fundraiser on may 25 , is betting he can run a race that builds on his low-spending , insurgent primary operation .
trump ’ s surrogates , however , have said the cash is now “ pouring in ” for the general election .
for months the biggest cash injections into trump ’ s campaign coffers were from his personal bank accounts .
he has loaned his campaign $ 46 million since launching last year .
trump may still have several hurdles to cross before convincing deep-pocketed donors to write the kind of checks that would make him competitive with clinton ’ s campaign bank account .
trump donors , allies and other republican operatives continue to express concerns about his campaign operation , which has been dogged by internal battles , a threadbare campaign infrastructure of about 30 paid staffers , and a barely existent fundraising apparatus .
on monday , trump fired his campaign manager , corey lewandowski , who had been tasked with overseeing the campaign ’ s fundraising arm .
the primary super pac supporting trump , great america pac , reported raising $ 1.4 million in may - accounting for most of the $ 2.5 million the group has raised this year .
the pac had $ 500,971 cash remaining at the beginning of june .
clinton ’ s cash advantage has been fueled in part by the super pac supporting her .
priorities usa raised $ 12 million in the last month , ending may with a $ 52 million in cash .
three unions , aft solidarity , liuna building america and international union of operating engineers , each gave $ 1 million .
the group has largely been tasked with attacking trump .
and so far , they have spent more than $ 5.7 million this year on television ads alone attacking the republican .
( in fifth paragraph , this story corrects the date of first trump general election fundraiser to may 25 )