london ( reuters ) - british foreign secretary boris johnson said on tuesday that his remarks about a jailed aid worker in iran could have been clearer , after opponents said his comments might provoke the islamic republic to hand the dual national a longer jail term .
as prime minister theresa may heads toward a 2019 eu divorce that will shape britain s prosperity and global influence for generations , her minority government has stumbled into several controversies that risk undermining her remaining authority .
in the latest misstep , johnson came under pressure to retract remarks made on nov. 1 that iranian-british aid worker nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe had been teaching people journalism before her arrest in april 2016 .
zaghari-ratcliffe s employer , the thomson reuters foundation , said johnson s comment was incorrect , while opposition british lawmakers said the remarks could land the aid worker a longer term in jail .
johnson called iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif on tuesday to discuss the case , and made clear that he had been seeking to make the point that he condemned the iranian view that training journalists was a crime , a spokesman said .
the uk government has no doubt that she was on holiday in iran when she was arrested last year and that was the sole purpose of her visit , johnson told parliament .
my point was that i disagreed with the iranian view that training journalists was a crime , not that i wanted to lend any credence to iranian allegations that mrs zaghari-ratcliffe had been engaged in such activity , he said .
i accept that my remarks could have been clearer in that respect and i am glad to provide this clarification .
johnson said he would travel to iran in the coming weeks and discuss all consular issues there , and would try to meet zaghari-ratcliffe while there .
may s spokesman expressed confidence in johnson , adding that the he was doing a good job .
monique villa , thomson reuters foundation ceo , said zaghari-ratcliffe was a project manager in the media development team .
villa said zaghari-ratcliffe was not a journalist and had never trained journalists in iran .
we welcome uk foreign secretary boris johnson s clarification of his comments , villa said .
it s time now for the foreign secretary to meet nazanin in jail .
johnson is not the only one distracted .
at the weekend , may s deputy , damian green , denied an allegation made in the sunday times newspaper that police found pornography on one of his computers in the houses of parliament in 2008 .
on monday , international development minister priti patel apologized for failing to disclose meetings with senior israeli officials during a private holiday .
besides her government s sometimes contradictory signals on brexit , may has faced criticism from opponents for her handling of other issues : from a deadly apartment block fire in june to a sexual harassment scandal in parliament that prompted michael fallon , her loyal defense secretary , to resign .
in my lifetime , i have never experienced a british government which seems to be so shambolic , said simon hix , a professor of political science at the london school of economics .
they are in the midst of one of the greatest challenges of the last 50 years brexit and they have sexual harassment scandals in parliament , the paradise papers and then now on top of that the behavior of may s ministers .
on tuesday , johnson came under pressure from opponents to retract his comments about zaghari-ratcliffe , who is serving a five-year jail sentence after being convicted of plotting to overthrow iran s clerical establishment .
she was brought again into court on saturday , three days after johnson s remarks , and accused by a judge of spreading propaganda against the regime .
the british foreign office quoted zarif as saying that johnson s comments had nothing to do with the weekend court appearance .
the charges against zaghari-ratcliffe were denied by her family and the foundation , a charity organization that operates independently of reuters news .
by suggesting nazanin was in iran teaching people journalism , boris johnson has endangered the cause to secure her release , tulip siddiq , a lawmaker for the opposition labour party , said .