beijing ( reuters ) - a powerful explosion in a chinese city south of shanghai brought down buildings in a neighborhood marked for demolition , killing at least two people , state television reported on sunday .
the explosion struck at around 8:50 a.m. ( 0050 gmt ) in jiangbei district in the port city of ningbo in zhejiang province , china central television ( cctv ) reported .
police said the cause of the blast was still uncertain .
a huge tremor was felt in the vicinity when it hit , cgtn , a network operated by cctv , wrote on twitter .
the force of the explosion destroyed the roofs of two buildings at the site of the blast , which cctv said were already structurally unsound .
it also shattered windows and punched holes in the walls of some residential and commercial properties as far as a kilometer away .
images from cctv also showed a few flattened cars and a low-rise building with a collapsed wall .
the state broadcaster said two people were killed , while 16 were slightly wounded and two were in serious condition .
cctv said the blast was not a gas explosion , as the gas pipelines beneath the ground were no longer active , citing the operator of the pipelines .
according to local zhejiang daily , the buildings that collapsed had already been cleared of people .
police told reuters the area had been marked for demolition .
the official people s daily posted aerial photographs of firefighters working at the site of the blast - an open area of debris and broken concrete .
the newspaper said there were no residents at the site of the explosion , though there might have been rubbish collectors at work when the blast occurred .
another photograph posted by people s daily showed grey smoke rising over the skyline of the city of ningbo , about 100 kilometers ( 62 miles ) south of shanghai .
earlier in the day , the official agency xinhua news agency said the blast had happened at a factory .
rescue work and an investigation into the cause were under way , local police said on weibo .
blasts and other accidents are common in china due to patchy enforcement of safety rules , although the government has pledged to improve checks to try to stamp out such incidents .