sofia ( reuters ) - bulgaria s parliament passed anti-corruption legislation on wednesday under european union pressure over its failure to prosecute venal officials , but president rumen radev has said the bill is not fit for purpose and he will veto it .
the balkan , formerly communist country is the poorest as well as one of the most corrupt countries in the eu , which it joined in 2007 , and has made scant progress towards stamping out graft and organized crime .
the european commission , the eu s executive , has repeatedly rebuked bulgaria for failing to prosecute and sentence allegedly corrupt officials and for not overhauling a creaking judiciary .
this law corresponds to the wishes of bulgarian citizens and the european commission , said tsvetan tsvetanov , chairman of the ruling gerb party s parliamentary group .
analysts voiced concern , though , that the bill would not allow efficient investigations of corruption networks .
the management of a special anti-graft unit envisaged by the legislation would be appointed by parliament , something analysts said could limit its objectivity .
radev said the new five-person unit , meant to investigate persons occupying high state posts as well as assets and conflict of interest , may not be truly independent and could be used by those in power to persecute opponents .
the instruments envisaged in this law are ineffective , radev said last week .
it does not deal a blow on those who feed corruption , and it can be used as a weapon against inconvenient people .
he said he would veto the measure .
the president , prime minister and lawmakers could be targets of investigation , as well as municipal councillors , directors of hospitals and border customs bosses .
the new law also focuses on improving control and accountability of law-enforcement agencies , just before bulgaria assumes the six-month , rotating eu presidency in january .
corruption has deterred foreign investment since communism collapsed in bulgaria in 1989 , and the eu has kept sofia as well as neighboring romania - for the same rule-of-law failings - outside its schengen zone of passport-free travel .