monrovia ( reuters ) - after a dozen years of recovery under ellen johnson sirleaf , who won the nobel peace prize for helping bring peace after civil war turned her country into a wasteland , liberians are hopeful about their first democratic power transfer for 73 years .
twenty candidates are standing to replace johnson sirleaf in a first round on tuesday .
with nobody likely to win a majority outright , the top two are expected to face each other in a run-off in around a month .
while the election campaign has been rambunctious , it has been mainly peaceful so far , and most expectations are that it will come off without bloodshed .
johnson sirleaf , 78 , has many accomplishments to boast since she became africa s first modern female head of state .
the economy is four times the size it was when she took office in 2005 .
the gangs of drug addled youths who raped and mutilated their way across the nation during a civil war that ended in 2003 are a vivid but receding memory .
charles taylor , the warlord who ruled in liberia s darkest days , is now in a british jail , serving a life sentence for crimes against humanity , including terrorism , pillage , rape , murder and sexual slavery the first former head of state convicted by an international tribunal since nuremburg .
yet the country is still one of the world s poorest .
it survived another existential crisis three years ago with an outbreak of the ebola virus that overwhelmed its health services .
residents complain of corruption from officials and poor public services , and say that while they are thankful for the peace that johnson sirleaf brought , they are excited about the prospect of change .
for me , the only thing about this administration is peace .
i gave her a plus in that , said timothy sambulah , a taxi driver in the capital monrovia .
but , he said : she has not been able to fight corruption .
she failed to deal with people who took money to build their big houses .
front-runners include weah among the front-runners seen as likely to win a place in the run-off are vice president joseph nyuma boakai , representing the ruling unity party , and football star george weah , who lost to johnson sirleaf in 2005 .
weah has served in the senate since 2014 for the opposition congress for democratic change .
candidates have held enthusiastic rallies attended by thousands of supporters wearing t-shirts , drenched by downpours in a carnival atmosphere .
many have promised a break from the past .
one poster carried around by opponents read : another six years of this ... with a photograph of a distressed woman seated in a damp home with walls made of corrugated iron .
there will be no business as usual .
we are going to end the era of selective justice so people are given equal protection under the law , charles walker brumskine , a lawyer running as the candidate of the liberty party , third biggest in congress , told reuters .
but one diplomat said it would be difficult to accelerate development just as millions of dollars in aid money pledged during the ebola outbreak is drying up .
liberia , africa s oldest republic , was founded by freed u.s. slaves in the 19th century .
its recovery since the war has been remarkable .
gdp for the country of 4.6 million reached $ 2.1 billion last year up from just $ 550 million the year sirleaf johnson took office .
a former finance minister in the 1970s who fled after a coup and worked for the world bank and citibank during her exile , she restored a measure of professionalism to a government that had been seized by a military junta in 1980 and collapsed under the predation of the warlords .
outside her home country , johnson sirleaf has served as an ambassador for peace in an unstable region , donning colorful headscarves on diplomatic missions such as one last year to persuade gambia s ruler yahya jammeh to step down .
still , many liberians say she failed to stamp out graft and nepotism that have held the country back .
her son robert sirleaf was a senior advisor and ran state oil firm nocal , which collapsed after his tenure as crude prices slumped in 2015 .
her other son , charles , was among 45 government officials suspended in 2012 for failing to declare their assets to anti-corruption authorities .
she declared her own assets this year .
last year a grand jury indicted government officials , including the speaker of parliament on charges including bribery .
high level corruption has been a slap in the face for liberians , most of whom live in abject poverty , said liberian political analyst robtel neajai pailey who also criticized what she described as hero worship of johnson sirleaf .
( this version of the story corrects the gender of the pronoun in final paragraph to she from he , referring to expert )