havana ( reuters ) - boxy russian-built lada automobiles still rattle around cuba , growing more decrepit by the year , a reminder of vanished soviet patronage for the communist-led island .
but next month , more than 300 shiny new ladas are slated to roll onto havana s potholed streets , the first in more than a decade .
their manufacturer avtovaz , russia s biggest carmaker , says it hopes to ramp up exports , thanks to financing from russian government development bank veb .
flush with state funding , avtovaz and other russian companies are once again increasing sales to the caribbean isle .
it is part of a broader move by moscow to renew commercial , military and political ties just as the u.s. government is retreating from cuba under republican president donald trump .
russian exports to cuba jumped 81 percent on the year to $ 225 million in the january-september period , official russian data shows .
that is just a quarter of the exports of cuba s chief merchandise trading partner , china , but growing fast .
russian state oil major rosneft in may resumed fuel shipments to cuba for the first time this century .
the company s head met with cuban president raul castro in havana on saturday , the latest sign the two countries are readying a major energy agreement .
the nations in the past have discussed increased deliveries of russian oil to the island and development of cuba s offshore oil fields .
that would be a major assist for cuba amid slumping shipments of cheap fuel from its troubled socialist ally venezuela .
last month , private russian company sinara delivered the first of 75 locomotives worth $ 190 million ordered by cuba in 2016 .
russia s largest truck maker kamaz has also stepped up exports to cuba .
negotiations for rail lines and other infrastructure are in the works .
we can call this period a renaissance , aleksandr bogatyr , russia s trade representative in cuba , said in an interview .
he forecast bilateral trade could grow to $ 350 million to $ 400 million this year , one of its highest levels in nearly two decades , up from $ 248 million in 2016 .
russia s cuba offensive comes as trump has halted efforts by his democratic predecessor barack obama to normalize u.s.-cuba ties and ease the decades-old u.s. trade embargo .
in june , trump ordered tighter travel and commercial restrictions again , disappointing u.s. businesses that had hoped to capitalize on the detente .
in september , his administration slashed u.s. embassy staffing in cuba .
moscow is seizing on that rollback as a way to undermine u.s. influence in its own backyard , some foreign policy experts say .
russia sees it as a moment to further its own relationship with cuba , said jason marczak , director at the adrienne arsht latin america center .
the more the russian footprint increase in cuba , the more that will reinforce hardened anti-u.s. attitudes and shut out u.s. businesses from eventually doing greater business in cuba .
throughout the cold war , moscow propped up fidel castro s revolutionary government , providing it with billions of dollars worth of cheap grain , machinery and other goods .
those subsidies disappeared with the 1991 collapse of the soviet union .
trade plunged .
under russian president vladimir putin , who longs to return his nation to superpower status , moscow over the past decade has sought to revive relations with latin america , particularly with countries wary of u.s. influence .
the turnaround with cuba got a boost in 2014 when russia forgave 90 percent of cuba s $ 35 billion soviet-era debt .
it also started providing export financing to russian companies looking to sell to the cash-strapped island .
the help has been cheered in cuba , where raul castro is due to step down next year , marking the departure of the generation that led the 1959 cuban revolution .
russia may lie half a world away from cuba , but traces of its historic ties with the caribbean s largest island are everywhere .
older generations learned russian and studied in the soviet union .
at a recent trade fair in the capital , cubans spontaneously sung along to the folk music played at the opening of russia s pavilion .
moskvich and lada cars , ural motor-bikes and kamaz trucks chug along the streets .
most cuban farm equipment is from the former soviet union .
that legacy alone has sustained some russian trade .
we sell spare parts for ground transport , some planes , agriculture , construction , said russian businessman igor leonov .
he set up his import company , ces co. ltd , in cuba nearly thirty years ago and says there is plenty of demand .
the decades-old u.s. trade embargo has also forced cuba to remain loyal to some russian manufacturers .
the island upgraded its soviet-era fleet in the 2000s with russian-built tupolev , antonov and ilyushin planes .
nadezhda lesova , an executive at the russian export center in moscow , said her organization regarded cuba as a strategic region .
she said the center is providing support for exports to cuba , including insurance , loans and subsidies , worth around 430 million euros ( $ 508.60 million ) .
some major deals are under discussion .
state-owned monopoly russian railways ( rzd ) is negotiating to upgrade more than 1000 km of cuban railroads and install a high-speed link between havana and the beach resort of varadero , in what would be cuba s biggest infrastructure project in decades .
it is expected the deal will be worth 1.9 billion euros ( $ 2.26 billion ) and will be signed by the end of the year , oleg nikolaev , deputy chief executive officer at the rzd subsidiary rzd international , told reuters .
in october , oil firm rosneft said it was looking at modernizing the island s cienfuegos oil refinery .
but the optimistic talk could be overblown .
venezuela and china have announced investments in cuba that came to naught , largely due to the complications of doing business in cuba .
some russian companies are already smarting from cuba s cash crunch .
ces co. ltd , the parts importer , said cuba was behind on $ 9 million in payments .
and it is unclear how long russia will continue to finance exports , with its own economy struggling amid low oil prices and western sanctions .
russia s economic constraints are one reason analysts are dubious that moscow will make good on recent proposals to re-open a former base in cuba .
shuttered in 2001 , the so-called lourdes base was used for electronic surveillance of the united states .
still , u.s. military experts are concerned that russia could leverage increased economic influence in cuba to step up its military and espionage activities on the island .
sixteen high-ranking military officers wrote an open letter to the trump administration in april asking it to continue obama s opening with cuba for national security reasons .
if russia is willing to offset oil supplies from venezuela and some other things , maybe cuba doesn t have much of a choice but to let them re-establish political warfare operations there , retired u.s. army brig .
gen. david l. mcginnis , one of the signatories , said in an interview with reuters .
paul hare , a former british ambassador to cuba , sees russia s renewed interest in cuba as geostrategic .
it s hard to see a business interest , as cuba can t pay , said hare , who now lectures at boston university s pardee school of global studies .
the russians will do just as much as they want to prop up cuba so as to be a nuisance to the united states .