wow !
this 21 year old texan woman recently penned a letter to the waco tribune herald in waco , tx .
she s been worried about her future with the massive increase in social welfare and government programs , so she thought she d offer some great , common sense solutions .
her ideas were too good to keep to herself , so she decided to send her letter to the local paper .
here it is : put me in charge : put me in charge of food stamps .
i d get rid of lone star cards ; no cash for ding dongs or ho ho s , just money for 50-pound bags of rice and beans , blocks of cheese and all the powdered milk you can haul away .
if you want steak and frozen pizza , then get a job.put me in charge of medicaid .
the first thing i d do is to get women norplant birth control implants or tubal ligations .
then , we ll test recipients for drugs , alcohol , and nicotine .
if you want to reproduce or use drugs , alcohol , or smoke , then get a job.put me in charge of government housing .
ever live in a military barracks ?
you will maintain our property in a clean and good state of repair .
your home will be subject to inspections anytime and possessions will be inventoried .
if you want a plasma tv or xbox 360 , then get a job and your own place.in addition , you will either present a check stub from a job each week or you will report to a government job .
it may be cleaning the roadways of trash , painting and repairing public housing , whatever we find for you .
we will sell your 22-inch rims and low profile tires , your blasting stereo and your speakers .
don t worry , we ll contribute that money toward the common good .
before you complain that i ve violated someone s rights , realize that all of the above is voluntary .
if you want our money , accept our rules .
before you say that this would be demeaning and ruin their self-esteem , consider that it wasn t that long ago that taking someone else s money for doing absolutely nothing was demeaning and might actually lower the recipient s self-esteem.if we are expected to pay for other people s mistakes we should at least attempt to make them learn from their bad choices .
the current system rewards them for continuing to make bad choices .
this new and improved system will reward them for making a contribution to society