sydney ( reuters ) - australia s high court on tuesday began a hearing on the validity of a government plan for a postal vote to legalize same-sex marriage , a challenge that risks destabilizing the ruling center-right coalition .
if the court rules against the plan , prime minister malcolm turnbull could find himself presiding over a government fractured on the issue , endangering his razor-thin parliamentary majority of one .
with the non-compulsory vote a couple of weeks away , its opponents have launched a legal challenge , saying the vote needs the backing of parliament - which has twice rejected such a national ballot .
this case is about dignity and equality for lesbian , gay , bisexual , transgender and intersex australians , anna brown , director of legal advocacy at the human rights law centre , which leads the opposition to the vote , told reporters in melbourne .
we re here because we all believe and want marriage equality .
this postal plebiscite has big question marks around its legal validity .
conservative lawmakers have threatened to resign if the ballot policy is not adhered to , risking turnbull s parliamentary majority .
but he may not be able to stick to the postal vote policy , as a group of liberal politicians has threatened to rebel and side with the opposition , which would probably end his tenure as leader , analysts say .
turnbull supports same-sex marriage , as do two-thirds of australians , but his party s conservative wing has threatened a revolt if he deviates from the policy of a national ballot .
frustrated by the political impasse , a group of backbenchers this year said they were ready to vote with the opposition labor party to secure same-sex marriage , a plan only abandoned when turnbull offered a postal vote .
while a rejection of the legal challenge offers a political solution , an increasingly vitriolic campaign forced turnbull to urge both sides to show mutual respect .
turnbull s plea has gone largely unheeded , however .
opponents of same-sex marriage last week launched a contentious campaign advertisement that the government immediately rejected as inaccurate .
since the postal vote is not a formal election it is not subject to the same rules on political advertisements , and activists fear a surge in malicious campaigning in the run-up .
our concern is around a sustained , intense campaign .
it will make a question that should be a private matter between two people , a matter for public discussion , elaine pearson , director of new york-based human rights watch , who supports same-sex marriage but opposes the national vote , told reuters .