judicial watch has been the one organization that s been reporting on the crazy expensive trips the obamas have taken since day one .
barack obama has been savaged by a top spending campaigner for taking the first family on an eighth consecutive christmas vacation to hawaii , at huge expense to the american taxpayer.the president was accused of treating air force one , which costs $ 206,000/hour to run , like an uber ride ahead of his next jaunt to his home state .
fly-time alone will set taxpayers back somewhere in the region of $ 3.5 million as obama , the first lady , sasha and malia and their two dogs jet off for around two weeks.they have traditionally rented a luxury villa in the upscale kailua area on oahu , the main island , and head out for hikes , rounds of golf and restaurant meals with their friends .
tom fitton , the head of the judicial watch pressure group , said obama s holiday habit proves that he is out of touch and has to stop .
he told al.com : the obamas travel is out of control .
they are treating the air force one like an uber ride .
and president obama seems oblivious to the burden he is placing on americans with his continuous vacations , getaways , and political junkets at taxpayer expense .
during the trips , the obamas are accompanied by a substantial secret service detail , who costs thousands of dollars a day to accommodate in the idyllic vacation spot .
local police also work overtime and an ambulance trails the presidential party at all times in case of disaster all of which will push the total further into the millions .
although some expenses including the rent are paid for privately , the emergency personnel and daily expenses of obama s security detail are all publicly-funded .
exact figures for the trip outside of air force one are hard to obtain .
according to a watchdog.com report on the 2014 trip , there is also an air force cargo plane to bring obama s helicopter and limo , which costs more than $ 150,000 to get to hawaii and back .
a second plane brings a marine corps contingent at similar cost .
the honolulu police department also spends in the region of $ 275,000 a year in overtime for its officers , while the ambulance from the local emergency management services costs $ 15,890 to keep on call.secret service agents of whom there are said to be dozens each year are reportedly housed at a cost of around $ 200 per person per night , while material for other security measures would also be met from white house funds .
it is not yet clear precisely where the obamas will stay , though they have traditionally favored somewhere near kailua .
during their year-end trips to the hawaiian islands the obamas typically lounge around their rental home , venturing out only on occasion for shaved ice and dinner with their friends .
since 2013 , the obama family have gone on scenic christmas hikes , tried out snorkeling in hanauma bay and dined at the gourmet alan wong s restaurant .
president obama generally spends his time on the golf course or working out at a local marine corps base.he and the first lady usually make a special trip to the base to to wish the troops stationed there a merry christmas and to thank them for their service.the federal aviation administration confirmed there are temporary flight restrictions in the area from december 19 to january 4 .
an islander also told honolulu tv station khon2 he had seen secret service in the area and had been given a flyer about security in kailua bay .
the hawaii trips are not the only examples of extravagance which have been seized on by critics .
in march it emerged that the white house dropped at least $ 1million flying the president and the first lady to los angeles and back on two separate planes inside a single day so they could be on tv .
barack obama sat down with jimmy kimmel to appear on his nbc show , while michelle grabbed the change to be interviewed by ellen degeneres .
despite the two shows being filmed just miles apart , the white house insisted the journeys were not in sync so required separate planes .
as well as the christmas vacation , the obamas typically take a summer retreat to martha s vineyard off the massachusetts coast , allowing the president to tot up some more hours on the golf course.read more : uk daily mail