washington ( reuters ) - lawmakers of both parties are working on legislation that would make members of congress liable for settlements of sexual harassment claims against them , as new data shows public funds have been used to settle nearly a dozen cases of misconduct over the last decade .
from 2008 through 2012 , the employment office for congress paid more than $ 166,000 in public money to settle eight claims against lawmakers alleging sexual harassment or discrimination , according to data it provided on tuesday to representative gregg harper , the republican chairman of the house administration committee who is drafting a bill to overhaul how congress handles sexual harassment .
the office of compliance previously said it has resolved three other cases since 2013 .
provisions in settlement agreements and other legal limits block the office from disclosing details of the payouts it has made on behalf of lawmakers , including identities of those involved , an issue that has come to light as allegations of misconduct swirl around capitol hill .
a growing wave of women reporting abuse or misconduct has brought down powerful men recently , from movie producer harvey weinstein to popular television personality matt lauer , as well as one of the longest-serving democrats in congress , former representative john conyers .
harper said on tuesday he hopes to file a bipartisan bill by wednesday evening overhauling how congress handles sexual harassment that would include making lawmakers personally liable for settlements .
“ they should have to reimburse ” the government for payouts , he told reporters .
“ there ’ s no doubt that members have made it clear that taxpayer dollars should not be used for the purposes of settling a sexual harassment claim. ” harper expects swift action , with the house voting on the bill next month .
democratic representative jackie speier , who has proposed similar legislation and has been working with harper and other republicans , said she was “ thrilled ” about the bill .
bipartisan legislation on sexual harassment was introduced in the senate last week .
in a letter to harper the compliance office ’ s executive director said it had paid $ 354,465.85 to settle 16 total claims of employment discrimination , retaliation and harassment from fiscal 2008 through fiscal 2012 .
according to the letter , eight claims included sexual harassment or discrimination , and often involved other violations such as breaking federal wage rules .
two claims were simply categorized as “ retaliation ” while the rest were focused on racial , age or disability discrimination .
the largest amount paid over those years was $ 85,000 , labeled as “ sexual harassment and harassment because of retaliation. ” the office does not have investigatory authority and can not probe allegations , said executive director susan tsui grundmann in the letter .
settlements typically have nondisclosure provisions , she said , adding the office has not found an admission of liability in any of the settlement documents .