brussels/cairo ( reuters ) - prime minister benjamin netanyahu took his case to europe to ask allies to join the united states in recognizing jerusalem as israel s capital , but met a firm rebuff from eu foreign ministers who saw the move as a blow against the peace process .
palestinian president mahmoud abbas , meanwhile , took his own case to egypt on monday and was expected to fly to turkey for a meeting of muslim countries this week , cementing support from leaders who say the u.s. move was a dire error .
president donald trump announced last wednesday the united states would recognize jerusalem as israel s capital , breaking with decades of u.s. policy and international consensus that the city s status must be left to israeli-palestinian talks .
palestinian militants in gaza fired a rocket into israel and the israeli military said it responded with air strikes and tank fire targeting a position of hamas , the islamist group that controls the enclave .
on the ground in the palestinian territories , violent clashes with israeli security forces in which scores of palestinians have been injured and several killed since the u.s. announcement last week appeared to have mostly subsided .
netanyahu , on his first visit to eu headquarters in brussels , said trump s move helped peace , because recognizing reality is the substance of peace , the foundation of peace .
israel , which annexed east jerusalem after capturing it in a 1967 war , considers the entire city to be its capital .
palestinians want east jerusalem as the capital of a future independent state .
the trump administration says it remains committed to the peace process and its decision does not affect jerusalem s future borders or status .
it says any credible future peace deal will place the israeli capital in jerusalem , and ditching old policies is needed to revive a peace process frozen since 2014 .
but even israel s closest european allies have rejected that logic and say recognizing israel s capital unilaterally risks inflaming violence and further wrecking the chance for peace .
after a breakfast meeting between netanyahu and eu foreign ministers , sweden s top diplomat said no european at the closed-door meeting had voiced support for trump s decision , and no country was likely to follow the united states in announcing plans to move its embassy .
i have a hard time seeing that any other country would do that and i don t think any other eu country will do it , margot wallstrom told reporters .
israel s position does appear to have more support from some eu states than others .
last week , the czech foreign ministry said it would begin considering moving the czech embassy from tel aviv to jerusalem , while hungary blocked a planned eu statement condemning the u.s. move .
but prague later said it accepted israel s sovereignty only over west jerusalem , and budapest said its long-term position seeking a two-state solution in the middle east had not changed .
on monday , czech foreign minister lubomir zaoralek said of trump s decision : i m afraid it can t help us .
i m convinced that it is impossible to ease tension with a unilateral solution , zaoralek said .
we are talking about an israeli state but at the same time we have to speak about a palestinian state .
the palestinian president , abbas , met egypt s president abdel fatah al-sisi in cairo , as well as the head of the arab league .
egypt , a u.s. ally with a peace treaty with israel , has brokered israeli-palestinian deals in the past .
moving the u.s. embassy in israel to jerusalem would have dangerous effects on peace and security in the region , sisi said on monday at an earlier meeting with visiting russian president vladimir putin .
abbas was also due to fly to turkey .
trump s announcement has triggered a war of words between turkish president tayyip erdogan and netanyahu , straining ties between the two u.s. allies which were restored only last year after a six-year breach that followed the israeli storming of a turkish aid ship .
on sunday , erdogan called israel a terror state .
netanyahu responded by saying he would accept no moral lectures from erdogan who he accused of bombing kurdish villages , jailing opponents and supporting terrorists .
on monday erdogan took aim directly at washington over trump s move : the ones who made jerusalem a dungeon for muslims and members of other religions will never be able to clean the blood from their hands , he said in a speech in ankara .
with their decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital , the united states has become a partner in this bloodshed .
trump s announcement triggered days of protests across the muslim world and clashes between palestinians and israeli security forces in the west bank , gaza and east jerusalem .
in beirut , tens of thousands of demonstrators took to the streets to protest at a march backed by hezbollah , the heavily-armed iran-backed shi ite group whose leader called last week for a new palestinian uprising against israel .
an announcer led the crowd in chants of death to america !
death to israel !
hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah told the crowd by video link the group was turning its focus back toward the fight against israel : today the axis of resistance , including hezbollah , will return as its most important priority ... jerusalem and palestine and the palestinian people and the palestinian resistance in all its factions .
netanyahu , who has been angered by the eu s search for closer business ties with iran , said europeans should emulate trump s move and press the palestinians to do so , too .
it s time that the palestinians recognize the jewish state and also recognize the fact that it has a capital .
it s called jerusalem , he said .
in comments filmed later on his plane , he said he had told the europeans to stop pampering the palestinians , who need a reality check .
the decision to recognize jerusalem could also strain washington s ties with another of its major muslim allies , saudi arabia , which has sought closer relations with washington under trump than under his predecessor , barack obama .
saudi arabia shares u.s. and israeli concerns about the increasing regional influence of iran , and was seen as a potential broker for a comprehensive arab-israeli peace deal .
but saudis have suggested that unilateral decisions over jerusalem make any such rapprochement more difficult .
prince turki al-faisal , a former saudi ambassador to the united states and veteran ex-security chief , published a strongly-worded open letter to trump on monday .
bloodshed and mayhem will definitely follow your opportunistic attempt to make electoral gain , the prince wrote in the letter , published in the saudi newspaper al-jazeera .
your action has emboldened the most extreme elements in the israeli society ... because they take your action as a license to evict the palestinians from their lands and subject them to an apartheid state , he added .
your action has equally emboldened iran and its terrorist minions to claim that they are the legitimate defenders of palestinian rights .
iran s defense minister said trump s recognition of jerusalem would hasten israel s destruction , while a top revolutionary guards commander , qassem soleimani , phoned two palestinian armed groups and pledged support for them .