( reuters ) - banks and other financial companies expecting big benefits from republican-led deregulation spent record amounts on lobbying in the last election cycle , according to an advocacy group report released on wednesday .
the financial sector spent $ 2 billion on political activity from the beginning of 2015 to the end of 2016 , including $ 1.2 billion in campaign contributions – more than twice the amount given by any other business sector , according to the study from americans for financial reform .
that works out to $ 3.7 million per member of congress and is the most ever tracked by the group , which analyzed spending data going back to 1990 .
furthermore , the actual amount is probably higher , because it did not include so-called “ dark money ” : funds donated to political advocacy by nonprofit groups .
wells fargo & co ( wfc.n ) , citigroup inc ( c.n ) , prudential financial inc ( pru.n ) and goldman sachs group inc ( gs.n ) all spent more than $ 10 million each , the report said .
on tuesday , goldman sachs released an investment analysis saying that large money center banks stood to profit significantly from the kind of financial deregulation expected from republican president donald trump ’ s administration and a republican congress .
as much as $ 218 billion in excess capital could be returned to shareholders or reinvested in the banks themselves if all the deregulation the industry is seeking comes about .
among senators not running for president , democrat charles schumer , now the minority leader , received the largest amount , with $ 5.3 million coming from financial firms .
mike crapo , the republican chairman of the senate banking committee and who was also in the top 10 from the senate , received $ 2.1 million .
jeb hensarling , the republican chairman of the house financial services committee who favors financial deregulation , received $ 1.9 million .
the report did not detail donations to presidential campaigns .
though trump has called for significant bank deregulation from both the agencies and via a congressional rewrite of the 2010 dodd-frank financial deregulation law , there will be pushback from democrats and others .
goldman conceded in its review that it was unlikely that all dodd-frank era regulation would be undone .
( this story has been refiled to correct figure to $ 2 billion from $ 2.8 billion in second paragraph . )