cairo ( reuters ) - an egyptian lawyer who is helping investigate the case of murdered italian student giulio regeni was prevented from flying to a u.n. conference and detained by a special prosecutor , his supporters and a security source said .
ibrahim metwaly , who founded the association of the families of the disappeared after his son disappeared in suspicious circumstances four years ago , himself went missing while heading for his flight to geneva on sunday .
members of his group said he was taken from cairo airport by airport security and he was not heard from until wednesday when a state security prosecutor ordered him detained for 15 days on charges of joining a group founded illegally , judicial sources said .
there was no comment from the interior ministry .
a security source said metwaly was legally arrested and not subjected to any violations .
rights activists say egyptian security forces resort to kidnapping government opponents and keeping them in secret jails where they can spend weeks , months , or years without charge .
the authorities deny the accusation .
italian graduate student giulio regeni , who was conducting research on egyptian trade unions , disappeared in cairo on jan. 25 last year .
his body was discovered in a ditch on the outskirts of the egyptian capital on feb. 3 , showing signs of extensive torture .
metwaly has been assisting lawyers working on the regeni case as an expert on enforced disappearances , according to one of the lawyers .
i have no doubts ibrahim s arrest was in connection to the regeni case and his upcoming trip , a source at the egyptian commission for rights and freedoms ( ecrf ) , a cairo-based ngo , told reuters .
ecrf lawyers are providing legal representation for the regeni family in egypt .
metwaly s son abdelmoniem metwaly said his father was now in a cairo jail and that he was also charged with conducting espionage on behalf of a foreign entity , something he said referred to the u.n .
working group on enforced or involuntary disappearances which he was due to address in geneva .
there was no immediate comment from the u.n. body .
regeni s murder has strained ties between italy and egypt , traditional mediterranean allies with strong economic ties .
security and intelligence sources said regeni was arrested the day he vanished and taken into custody .
egyptian officials have denied any involvement in his death .
italy recalled its ambassador in april 2016 as it sought to obtain evidence from egypt to solve the murder .
magistrates in rome and cairo have met half a dozen times over the past year but no one has been charged .
a new italian ambassador arrived in cairo on wednesday .
pier antonio panzeri , an italian lawmaker who chairs the european parliament s subcommittee on human rights , said in a statement : i am disturbed by alleged reports that lawyer ibrahim metwaly was arrested ... while he was about to fly to geneva to address the u.n .
working group .