new delhi ( reuters ) - russia threw its weight behind china s massive belt and road plan to build trade and transport links across asia and beyond , suggesting to india on monday that it find a way to work with beijing on the signature project .
india is strongly opposed to an economic corridor that china is building in pakistan that runs through disputed kashmir as part of the belt and road initiative .
india was the only country that stayed away from a may summit hosted by chinese president xi jinping to promote the plan to build railways , ports and power grids in a modern-day recreation of the silk road .
russian foreign minister sergei lavrov said new delhi should not let political problems deter it from joining the project , involving billions of dollars of investment , and benefiting from it .
lavrov was speaking in the indian capital after a three-way meeting with chinese foreign minister wang yi and indian foreign minister sushma swaraj at which , he said , india s reservations over the chinese project were discussed .
i know india has problems , we discussed it today , with the concept of one belt and one road , but the specific problem in this regard should not make everything else conditional to resolving political issues , he said .
russia , all the countries in central asia , and european nations had signed up to the chinese project to boost economic cooperation , he said .
those are the facts , he said .
india , i am 100 percent convinced , has enough very smart diplomats and politicians to find a way which would allow you to benefit from this process .
the comments by russia , india s former cold war ally , reflected the differences within the trilateral grouping formed 15 years ago to challenge u.s.-led dominance of global affairs .
but substantial differences between india and china , mainly over long-standing border disputes , have snuffed out prospects of any real cooperation among the three .
india , in addition , has drawn closer to the united states in recent years , buying weapons worth billions of dollars to replace its largely soviet-origin military .
swaraj said the three countries had very productive talks on economic issues and the fight against terrorism .