new york ( reuters ) - democrat hillary clinton has a 5 percentage point lead over republican donald trump in the u.s. presidential race , according to the latest reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on friday , roughly the same advantage she has held all month .
the survey result showed little movement following monday night ’ s presidential debate , the first of three debates before the nov. 8 election .
the sept. 23-29 national tracking poll showed that likely voters support clinton over trump by 43 percent to 38 percent , while another 19 percent said they would not pick either candidate .
clinton has mostly led trump in the poll this year , and her level of support has been 4-5 percentage points higher than trump ’ s in each of the last four weeks .
in a separate poll that included alternative party candidates , clinton led the field by 4 percentage points .
among likely voters , 42 percent supported clinton , 38 percent supported trump , 7 percent supported libertarian candidate gary johnson and 3 percent supported jill stein of the green party .
monday ’ s debate was the most watched presidential debate in u.s. history , with an estimated 84 million people tuning in for the 90-minute exchange .
some 56 percent of americans adults who watched the debate said clinton won , according to a reuters/ipsos poll released on wednesday .
voters appeared to be warming up to both candidates in friday ’ s poll .
some 48 percent of likely voters said they had an overall favorable view of clinton , compared with 45 percent in the previous week , while 46 percent said they had a favorable view of trump , up from 44 percent the week before .
the reuters/ipsos poll is conducted online in english in all 50 states .
the poll included 2,501 people who were considered likely voters due to their registration status , voting history and stated intention to vote in the election .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 2 percentage points .
national opinion polls have differed this year in how they measure support for clinton and trump .
some polls , like reuters/ipsos , try to include only likely voters , while others include all registered voters .
the reuters/ipsos tracking poll also gathers responses every day and reports results twice a week , so it often detects trends in sentiment before most other polls .
an average of major opinion polls aggregated by realclearpolitics showed clinton ahead of trump by 2.9 percentage points on friday , or 47.3 points to 44.4 , slightly lower than the previous margin of 3 points on wednesday , but well up from 0.9 point on sept. 19 .