liberals still don t get it .
trump is the political anti-hero for the post pc era .
original painting artwork courtesy of jason liosatos.david ernst the federalistif politics flows downwards from culture , then it was only a matter of time before a politician mastered the role .
love him or hate him , donald trump cracked that code.tony soprano , walter white , and frank underwood are just a few recent examples of the enormously popular characters who have , each in their own way , stood in for the role of the complicated bad guy who fascinates millions of americans.antiheroes have long found homes in westerns , gangster movies , and crime dramas , such as al pacino s portrayal of miami drug kingpin tony montana in scarface .
tony begins an epic decline and fall in the film with a nasty fight with his wife at an exclusive miami country club .
she publically humiliates him in front of a bunch of dumbstruck , waspy , black-tie wearing , golf-playing white hairs by loudly accusing him of being a murderer , a drug dealer , and incapable of being a decent father.if tony were a classic hero , this would have been the beginning of his moral reckoning and his search for repentance .
but this is scarface , and tony is no hero , so he responds to his public exposure as a criminal in polite society by turning the mirror back on his audience and dressing them down : what you lookin at ?
you all a bunch of f in a holes .
you know why ?
you don t have the guts to be what you wan na be .
you need people like me .
you need people like me so you can point your f in fingers and say , that s the bad guy .
so what that make you ?
good ?
you re not good .
you just know how to hide , how to lie .
me , i don t have that problem .
me , i always tell the truth .
even when i lie .
so say good night to the bad guy !
come on .
the last time you gon na see a bad guy like this again , let me tell you .
al pacino plays tony montana in scarface.a criminal s longing to be accepted by rich people who aren t criminals themselves isn t a new theme .
nevertheless , considering that oliver stone wrote the screenplay , tony s rant is likely commentary about the hypocrisy of supposedly respectable people in cutthroat , capitalistic , reagan-era america who are substantively no different than tony is .
all these well-to-do miami types wouldn t be caught dead associating with someone like tony , even though they know full well that the cocaine business is making them all rich , and many of them probably abuse his product.thus , from tony s perspective , what s the point of being decent when the people who supposedly model decency have none of it themselves ?
wouldn t a sign of moral contrition to these people be a perverted mockery of moral contrition ?
wouldn t it be degrading even for tony ? tony isn t a hero or a villain : he s an antihero .
you probably won t admit to rooting for him , but if you enjoyed watching him stick it to those ( presumably ) stuck-up hypocrites , then it s likely that you did .
he s everything his wife said he was , sure , but at least he has the balls to be honest about it.donald trump , the political antiherotrump replicated this scene in his inaugural address friday , a declaration of war against the establishment whose victories have not been your victories .
their triumphs have not been your triumphs .
and while they celebrated in our nation s capital , there was little to celebrate for struggling families all across our land .
he acted similarly in a jaw-dropping performance at the al smith dinner just days before his election .
with every hiss-inducing joke at hillary clinton s expense was an unsubtle middle finger to everyone else in attendance .
consider his opening remarks : and a special hello to all of you in this room who have known and loved me for many , many years .
it s true .
the politicians .
they ve had me to their homes .
they ve introduced me to their children .
i ve become their best friends in many instances .
they ve asked for my endorsement and they ve always wanted my money .
and even called me really a dear , dear friend .
but then suddenly , decided when i ran for president as a republican , that i ve always been a no-good , rotten , disgusting scoundrel .
and they totally forgot about me .
in other words : even if i have been a no-good , rotten , disgusting scoundrel , what does that make you ?
at least i don t pretend to be decent ; you people , on the other hand , have the gall to pretend that you re any better than i am .
let s dispense with the fiction that you would have treated me with any less contempt if i had bothered to live up to any of your standards of decency in the first place , and acknowledge that they have nothing to do with decency per se , and everything to do with power .
your presumption of any moral superiority is a willful , bald-faced lie , and i m going to keep calling you on that crap until it puts me in the white house.many have argued that trump is the product of political correctness ( pc ) .
this is true only in part .
rather , both pc and trump s response to it are fruits of the postmodernism that has long ascended to the heights of our culture : the nihilism in the common presumption that all truth is relative , morality is subjective , and therefore all of our individually preferred narratives that give our lives meaning are equally true and worthy of validation .
tony tellingly lectures his audience , i always tell the truth , even when i lie .
his character was a man ahead of his time.postmodernism : trying to do good is a waste of timepostmodernism is the source of the emphasis that our culture puts on authenticity , and the scorn it directs towards phoniness .
after all , if the only one true thing in the world is that all truth and morality are relative , then anyone who pretends otherwise is either an idiot or a fraud .
hence the contemporary appeal of the antihero , and the disappearance of the traditional hero.heroes who stand for traditionally good things in a world where everything supposedly good has long been discredited are corny dudley do-rights who are at best too stupid to know better .
antiheroes , by contrast , ingratiate themselves with their audiences for their gritty realism and their candor , no matter how bad they are.frank underwood breaks the fourth wall with his viewers and brings them along for his evil schemes ; walter white s moment of redemption is his final admission to his wife that he sells meth because he likes to , and not to do right by his family ; and tony soprano establishes a close bond with his daughter early on when he admits to her that he s not actually a waste management consultant .
in the postmodern world , there is no greater virtue then authenticity , and there is no greater vice then phoniness.postmodernism is also the source of the assumptions underlying the glib jokes of late-night comedians who exhibit disdainful prejudice towards patriotism or religion , but show bitter judgment towards any form of perceived prejudice .
it is the baseline for just about every plotline in funny shows about aimless , self-centered people like seinfeld , it s always sunny in philadelphia , and archer .
it is hyper-prejudice against prejudice , or in the words of evan sayet , a cult of non-discrimination .
in contrast to the many religions , systems of moral thought , and other ancient traditions that have distinguished every effort to better the human condition , postmodernism presumes that all of these endeavors are the cause of human failure .
it therefore operates according to just one moral imperative : discredit anything that other people presume to stand for goodness , because the belief that anything is superior to anything else inevitably results in prejudice , interpersonal strife , and inequality.thus , the venus de milo has no more aesthetic value than a crucifix in a jar full of urine ; beethoven s symphonies are no more profound than the latest round of top 40 hits ; all religions are fundamentally the same , and their moderate postmodern adherents are all comfortably represented on the coexist bumper sticker .
in a sense , it isn t culture at all , but rather an anti-culture that measures success insofar as it deconstructs anything that other people value.postmodernism merely hides its hypocritical idealismprovided that the postmodern man believes in nothing and values nothing , one wouldn t be unreasonable in concluding that he cares about nothing .
but anyone who knows postmodern man also knows that nothing could be farther from the truth .
rather , the cult of non-discrimination is filled with bright-eyed idealism about making the world a better place , and in the cases where it challenges baseless prejudice , it does make the world a better place .
like other utopian visions that seek to remake human beings into something alien to their nature , however , it is incapable of compromise , and thus lends itself to hypocrisy and fanaticism continue this article at the federalistread more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv