taipei ( reuters ) - president tsai ing-wen vowed on tuesday to defend taiwan s freedom and democracy amid growing pressure from giant neighbor china , using a national day speech to warn that the self-ruled island would not bow to pressure .
china considers proudly democratic taiwan to be a wayward province and has never renounced the use of force to bring the island under its control .
relations with beijing have deteriorated sharply since tsai , who leads the pro-independence democratic progressive party , took office last year , with china suspecting she wants to push for the island s formal independence , a red line for beijing .
china has cut off a regular dialogue mechanism with taiwan , ramped up military drills around the island and stepped up international pressure to limit taiwan s diplomatic footprint .
tsai , who has pledged to maintain peace with china , said her government was still seeking breakthroughs in ties with beijing and promised consistent and stable policies .
we need to remember democracy and freedom were rights obtained through all of taiwan people s countless efforts , tsai said .
therefore , we need to use all our power to defend taiwan s democratic and freedom values and lifestyle , she said .
tsai s speech came a week before china holds its twice-a-decade communist party congress , where president xi jinping , who has taken a robust approach to territorial disputes in the east and south china seas , will cement his grip on power .
her government has continued to rattle beijing , with her newly appointed premier , william lai , telling parliament last month he was a political worker who advocates taiwan independence .
however , tsai has also sought to give beijing a roadmap where its goodwill can be extended , which in turn could give her a chance to reciprocate and rein in the more independence-leaning hardliners on the island .
we have offered our greatest goodwill , she said in her 20-minute address .
i have repeatedly said , our goodwill doesn t change , our promises don t change ; we won t walk on the old path of confrontation , but we won t bow to pressure , tsai said .
responding to tsai s speech , china s taiwan affairs office said taiwan had to clearly state that taiwan and mainland china belonged to one china .
only if the one china principle is upheld and taiwan independence opposed can there be peaceful and stable development of relations across the taiwan strait , it said in a statement carried by the official xinhua news agency .
tsai reiterated the importance of implementing the island s new southbound policy of forging closer ties with countries in the region , saying taiwan was seeking to find a new position in the international community .
in the face of rapid change in the asia-pacific region , taiwan is already prepared to play an even more important role in the region s prosperity and stability , she said .