houston ( reuters ) - u.s. republican rivals marco rubio and ted cruz ganged up on front-runner donald trump at a raucous debate on thursday in a last-ditch bid to keep the billionaire from winning victories next week that could set him up to clinch the presidential nomination .
the cnn-hosted debate at the university of houston was the two first-term senators ’ last , best chance to try to shake up the race for the republican nomination .
the contest is dramatically shifting toward trump , who is leading in opinion polls in nearly all 11 states set to make their choices on next tuesday .
rubio and cruz landed blows on trump , took some withering fire in return and may wonder why they did not pursue such a strategy in the debates of past weeks and months when former florida governor jeb bush , now out of the race , was the lead trump attacker .
a confident-sounding trump was unbowed and dismissed the attacks from his center-stage position .
he declared rubio a “ choke artist ” for a faltering debate in new hampshire , again labeled cruz “ a liar ” and urged his rivals to take their best shot .
“ swing for the fences , ” he said , wielding a baseball metaphor .
rubio , who got some momentum with a second-place finish to trump in south carolina last saturday and has picked up some bush supporters , gave his most aggressive performance to date .
the senator from florida wants to be the last trump opponent standing and perhaps stretch the contest to the republican nominating convention in july .
he brought up trump ’ s four past bankruptcies and his use of imported polish workers to work at a florida resort , and pointedly suggested the new yorker would not be where he is today in the real estate business without a family inheritance .
without the family money , rubio said , “ you know where donald trump would be right now ?
selling watches in manhattan. ” significantly , rubio sought to raise doubts about the depth of trump ’ s policy knowledge , a point of attack that trump ’ s critics in the republican establishment have been urging candidates to pursue for months .
rubio pointed out that trump ’ s sole plan to replace and repeal democratic president barack obama ’ s signature healthcare law is to allow insurance companies to operate across state lines .
when trump repeated the same point twice , rubio interrupted .
“ now he ’ s repeating himself , ” said the senator , who was skewered at a debate in new hampshire last month for robotically repeating his talking points .
trump fired back : “ i watched him repeat himself five times four weeks ago , and i got ta tell you it was a meltdown .
i watched him melt down on the stage like i ’ ve never seen anybody. ” cruz , who needs to win his home state of texas when it votes on tuesday , also piled on trump , saying his rival would be a weak republican opponent to democratic candidate hillary clinton in the nov. 8 general election because he had donated to the clinton foundation founded by her husband , former president bill clinton .
cruz said hillary clinton would say to him , “ ‘ gosh , donald you gave $ 100,000 to the clinton foundation .
i even went to your wedding. ’ ...
he can ’ t prosecute the case against hillary. ” trump ridiculed cruz for his inability to win more than the early voting state of iowa and taunted him for being behind trump in opinion polls in texas .
since a second-place finish in iowa , trump has won new hampshire , south carolina and nevada .
“ if i can ’ t beat her ( clinton ) , you ’ re really going to get killed aren ’ t you ?
...
i know you ’ re embarrassed , but keep fighting , ” trump said .
the crossfire was so intense that cnn moderator wolf blitzer lost control of the proceedings at times .
among the other two candidates on the stage , ohio governor john kasich turned in a positive performance with an optimistic message , hoping rubio and cruz will falter and he will end up as the central trump alternative .
retired neurosurgeon ben carson , flagging in the polls , provided some comic relief .
he said that , as president , when considering potential supreme court nominees he would look at “ the fruit salad of their life ” and asked plaintively for more time to talk : “ can someone attack me please ? ” even with his bombast , trump turned in a more measured performance than usual , defending his moderate positions on planned parenthood and retaining popular parts of the obamacare law , perhaps mindful that he is closing in on a victory in the republican race .
he said he would not support a ceasefire deal about to go into effect in syria and declared that libya would be better off had colonel muammar gaddafi not been toppled from power by a u.s.-backed uprising in 2011 .
pressed on whether he would release his tax records as 2012 republican nominee mitt romney said he should do , trump said he would eventually do so after a “ routine audit ” is completed .
this did not satisfy romney , who tweeted that there was no legitimate reason for withholding them even if they were under audit .
rubio went after trump hard on illegal immigration .
he said trump may talk tough on illegal immigration now , but previously said romney lost his race against obama by promoting the idea that illegal immigrants should self-deport .
“ a lot of these positions that he ’ s taken now are new to him , ” rubio said .
trump said romney lost in 2012 because he was a terrible candidate .
“ excuse me , he ran one terrible campaign , ” trump said .
while trump has scored early victories and is well ahead in national opinion polls , he has some ways to go to clinch his party ’ s nomination , which is decided by the number of delegates sent to the july party convention following the state-by-state nominating contests .
so far trump leads the race with 81 delegates , with cruz and rubio well behind at 17 apiece .
to secure the nomination , a candidate needs 1,237 delegates .
super tuesday will be critical because there are nearly 600 delegates at stake in republican races that day .
( additional reporting by ginger gibson and valerie volcovici in washinton ; writing by steve holland ; editing by peter cooney , leslie adler and jonathan oatis ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .