did anyone else think it was the ultimate irony that obama came out and declared trump to be unfit to be president ?
here s a great piece by jack cashill that is a letter from trump to obama regarding the comment : please read and share because this is the clinton dirty laundry list to send to your trump doubters ! jack cashill drafts letter from trump to obama about his candidate .dear president obama : it has come to my attention that you have deemed me , donald trump , unfit to be president of the united states.yet here you are , championing hillary clinton , the most conspicuously corrupt aspirant to the presidency since aaron burr .
and i m unfit ? your candidate , as you know , was called out by fbi director james comey before congress for misleading the public about sending classified documents through email , using a single device to send them , returning classified documents to the state department and deleting work-related emails .
and i m unfit ? this same candidate was called out by the washington post just this past sunday for lying four pinocchio s worth to fox news chris wallace about comey s comments .
and i m unfit ?
your candidate , as comey strongly implied , would not be eligible for minimum security clearance were she not president .
and i m unfit ? in the week before the fbi cleared your candidate , your attorney general comey s boss had a wildly inappropriate clandestine meeting with the candidate s husband .
and i m unfit ? less than two weeks ago , wikileaks revealed that your candidate colluded with the dnc to rig the primary process against bernie sanders .
and i m unfit ? your candidate lied to the families of those killed at benghazi does it get any lower than that ?
telling them that that an online anti-islam video provoked a mob to attack the u.s. mission in benghazi .
and i m unfit ? to sell the lie , your candidate had the videomaker an american citizen imprisoned for a year .
and i m unfit ? as peter schweizer reported in his 2015 book , clinton cash , during hillary s years of public service , the clintons have conducted or facilitated hundreds of large transactions with foreign governments and individuals .
some of these transactions have put millions in their own pockets $ 136.5 million to be precise .
and i m unfit ? according to the washington post , the clintons left the white house in 2001 with an unprecedented $ 190,027 worth of gifts received over the last eight years .
after the post revelation , the clintons had to cough up $ 86,000 for items that were actually government property and returned $ 48,000 worth of furniture .
and i m unfit ? leftist christopher hitchens said of the your candidate in his indispensable book , no one left to lie to , like him , she is not just a liar but a lie ; a phony construct of shreds and patches and hysterical , self-pitying demagogic improvisations .
and i m unfit ? in 1999 , to facilitate your candidate s run for the u.s. senate in new york , president clinton sprung 16 unrepentant puerto rican terrorists .
resolutions condemning the president s action were passed with a vote of 95-2 in the senate .
and i m unfit ? says linda tripp of your candidate , hillary was not only aware of monica lewinsky , she ensured that monica was removed from the white house and in the end went from being a lack luster first lady with unimpressive approval numbers to wronged wife .
of course , hillary claimed to have known nothing about the affair .
and i m unfit ? by the way , your candidate s husband was impeached for lying under oath and obstructing justice .
and i m unfit ? after the 1994 democratic implosion , it was your candidate who called in dick morris to get her husband re-elected .
to fund morris tv campaigns , she helped orchestrate what sen. fred thompson called the most corrupt political campaign in modern history .
and i m unfit ? according to the thompson committee , your candidate and her co-conspirators took advantage of minority groups , pulled down all the barriers that would normally be in place to keep out illegal contributions , pressured policy makers , and left themselves open to strong suspicion that they were selling not only access to high-ranking officials , but policy as well .
and i m unfit ? to hoover up cash from corporate insiders , your candidate and her husband sold seats on foreign trade missions .
in the process , they ruthlessly exploited the deeply compromised commerce secretary ron brown , the one african-american in the cabinet .
although sick of being a mother-f -ing tour guide for hillary clinton , he went reluctantly to croatia to cut a deal between the neo-fascists who ran the country and the enron corporation .
look it up .
he never came back .
and i m unfit ? one major reason for the democratic electoral collapse in 1994 was your candidate s mismanagement of a massive health care task force .
said the liberal new yorker of the illegal decision to keep task force meetings secret , it is hard to believe that this decision did not emanate from hillary clinton it was in keeping with her natural bent .
she trusted few , and secrecy was a means of maintaining control .
and i m unfit ? in a 1996 new york times op-ed titled blizzard of lies , the usually restrained william safire famously called your candidate a congenital liar for her involvement in the commodity trading scandal , the obstruction of justice in the investigation of vince foster s death , the whitewater affair and two grubby in-house scandals known as travelgate and filegate .
and i m unfit ?
we reached out to them , your candidate told 60 minutes in 1992 of the women rumored to have dallied with or been assaulted by her husband .
among the women reached out to was sally perdue , who was told by a clinton goon that if she talked to the media , he couldn t guarantee what would happen to my pretty little legs .
and i m unfit ?
hillary tried to silence me , juanita broaddrick wrote of your candidate .
she had reason to keep broaddrick quiet .
her husband had raped broaddrick in a little rock hotel room .
and i m unfit to be president , really ? i may be seriously imperfect , mr. president , but i have never compromised the nation s secrets , sent an innocent man to prison , or enabled a rapist.as to what gives you the right to question my fitness , that i will save for another day.via : conservative treehouse