erbil ( reuters ) - there are no winners among iraq s kurds , just weeks after kurdish president masoud barzani gambled away his people s autonomy in a defiant independence referendum .
the losing bet has come at a steep price for everyone involved .
barzani has had to give up the presidency , his kurdish political foes have angered their popular base , and the kurdish people , who overwhelmingly voted to break away from iraq , feel further than ever from their lifelong dream of independence .
the ultimate winner , analysts say , is iran , widely believed to have backed and orchestrated iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi in his oct. 16 offensive to recapture kurdish held-areas , including the oil-rich city of kirkuk .
the iranians outwitted the americans ; they were the driving force behind the deal to hand over kirkuk , said hassan shaaban , a political commentator and rights activist in baghdad .
the balance of power has been transformed in the north of iraq , exposing the limited hand the kurds have to play in future negotiations .
it has also exposed the dominant role iran played in transforming the fate of the kurdish region .
iran is poised to exploit the political aftermath , pushing to move the centre of power from the regional capital erbil , where the barzanis and the kurdistan democratic party ( kdp ) have dominated , to its kurdish allies in the city of sulaimaniya .
iran was always one step ahead on the referendum , said renad mansour , an iraq expert at the chatham house think-tank .
they knew barzani was never going to postpone the vote , he said , adding : the u.s. was left scrambling while the iranians were plotting .
a senior iranian official said tehran had advised barzani against the referendum but he would not listen .
we tried to stop this referendum because it was not in their interest .
but unfortunately mr barzani miscalculated his social base among kurds and went ahead with the vote , ali shamkhani , secretary of iran s national security council , was quoted as saying by mehr news agency on tuesday .
iranian major-general qassem soleimani has for years been allied to the patriotic union of kurdistan ( puk ) , the main rival of barzani s kdp .
but the referendum has drawn the powerful iranian commander even closer to kurdish politics , and shown how far iran s reach has extended beyond the central government in baghdad .
ahead of the vote , soleimani warned kurdish leaders in northern iraq to withdraw their forces from kirkuk or face a fiery onslaught by iraqi forces and iranian-backed fighters , according to kurdish and iraqi officials .
the warning prompted kurdish peshmerga fighters to withdraw from most areas , and deepened the split between barzani s power base in erbil , and the rival talabani clan in sulaimaniya , long allied with iran .
iraqi politicians have voiced concern about the growing influence of iran , despite praising abadi for reining in kurdish ambitions .
we feel worried seeing the octopus arms stretching deeper in the north , said ahmed asi al-obeidi , a sunni tribal sheikh and a member of kirkuk s tribal council .
we all have seen the problems iranian meddling has caused in other parts of iraq , including mainly sunni areas , and if the same amount of interference is repeated in kurdish areas , then the worst is coming and instability will prevail .
addressing his people , demoralized by humiliating territorial defeats , barzani said on sunday that he would step down , just one month after the vote he championed in the face of regional and international opposition .
he accused his enemies of committing high treason in surrendering kirkuk to iraqi forces without a fight , while his rivals have directed the same accusation against him for holding the referendum in the first place .
the vote and its ensuing political and military retribution from baghdad - backed by iran and turkey - demolished the position of relative strength the kurds had enjoyed for years .
the blame has been placed on barzani s shoulders , both by his political opponents , notably the rival talabani clan allied to iran , and his western allies , who were angered by his insistence on holding the vote against their advice .
on sunday , kurdish lawmakers agreed to divide barzani s presidential powers between parliament , the judiciary and the government , in the absence of imminent presidential elections and a named successor .
barzani remains head of the kdp , which dominates parliament and government , and will still sit on the high political council , an opaque non-governmental body which emerged after the referendum .
he will thus retain his ability to influence policy .
barzani could therefore mitigate the mounting political chaos .
but his position instead highlights the lack of clarity over who is in charge as crucial negotiations with baghdad get underway over the region s future .
dominant since he became president in 2005 , barzani has consolidated the power of his office , and boosted his family members political profiles .
before the referendum , barzani s son masrour was his likely successor , but he has been damaged by his backing for the vote .
instead , nechirvan barzani , masoud s nephew and the regional prime minister , has moved to the fore .
he has gained some of barzani s newly devolved presidential powers , and maintained ties with the kurdish opposition , making him a more palatable candidate to mend regional fences .
he also enjoys a close relationship with turkish president tayyip erdogan .
on monday , the united states commended barzani for stepping down and said it would actively engage with nechirvan , and his deputy , qubad talabani , a member of the rival political faction with whom he maintains a good relationship .
who emerges as the next leader of the kurdistan regional government is anything but straightforward .
in addition to an intra-kurdish compromise , the influence of baghdad and iran will have to be considered .
senior kurdish officials from both the kdp and puk say their best bet is to present a united front in negotiations with baghdad .
but that now seems all but impossible .
iraqi forces , including the iran-backed shi ite militias , now control border crossings in the north , vital trade routes for the kurds .
the military capitulation in kirkuk was a crushing blow to the kurds , both morally and financially , halving the region s oil export revenue overnight .
now the talabanis are facing their own succession crisis , following the death of former president jalal talabani .
iran saw the disintegration of their kurdish ally in talabani , said mansour , who added iran needed a clear successor to ensure its continued influence .
another set of sons and nephews are vying for leadership in the aftermath of the referendum .
but the puk base has expressed more widespread disappointment with how their leadership handled the kirkuk crisis .
we were betrayed by our leaders in kirkuk , who stopped us from fighting the ( iraqi shi ite ) militias , said a puk-allied peshmerga commander who asked not to be identified for fear of retribution .
they sold us to iran for their own benefit .
for a graphic on iaq 's kurdish zone , click tmsnrt.rs/2yxrwci