say it ain t so !
the new york town of bethlehem is being cleansed of all things christmas and hanukkah .
any and all signs of christmas including a town sign that says merry christmas are gone .
we can only say bah humbug !
that little town in upstate new york shut down any hopes of happy holidays by voting to not display any merry christmas signs in public and even taking down a banner for hanukkah , too.the holiday hoopla followed apparent anxieties that this town near albany which shares a name with the birthplace of jesus christ himself might appear to be favoring one religion over another.the town for years displayed a christmas tree and a menorah in its central four corners area , according to the albany times-union .
but it drew the line on signs that had any written messages such as , merry christmas or happy hanukkah .
one resident , elena marcelle , bought a merry christmas sign for the town several years ago .
this year , she said learned the town wasn t interested in hanging it up as usual .
she asked town board members why .
at first they said it was a traffic distraction , marcelle , 47 , told the daily news .
the second reason is that they were afraid of infringing on constitutional rights .
but the board had in fact voted to ditch worded displays altogether , meaning a happy hanukkah sign disappeared too.this despite a letter sent from the alliance defending freedom , an arizona-based conservative christian group , urging bethlehem to keep its holiday spirit alive .
the irony is not lost on us that your town s name is bethlehem , the letter said , according to the times-union.marcelle said she s amazed the town would mince words over holiday cheer .
it was just a holiday greeting , she said about her christmas sign .
i didn t ask to have a nativity scene .
it would just recognize that christmas is a holiday .
the town has no law on the books banning any kind of holiday display .
but town supervisor john clarkson told the news the town s attorney warned the board this year that municipalities might get a legal lump of coal over any sign celebrating one holiday in particular .
we re a municipality , not a religious entity , clarkson said .
advocating on behalf of any religion is one of those gray zones you don t want to get into .
he said he saw no irony in bethlehem stepping away from holiday greetings , noting that the town is at least sticking by its christmas tree and menorah presentations .
i would say this little town of bethlehem still has a really nice , homey holiday display , he said.via : nydn