geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations human rights office is seriously concerned about the shelling of residential areas in iraq s northern town of tuz khurmatu in which civilians were killed , a u.n. spokeswoman said on friday .
it was not clear who was doing the shelling , which took place on dec. 9 and 12 and came from the mountains overlooking the area , the spokeswoman , liz throssell , told a regular u.n. briefing in geneva .
iraqi forces are still working to discover the exact locations from which the shelling has come and the identity of those responsible , she said .
the shelling of the ethnically-mixed town happened after many of its kurdish population was displaced following clashes with turkmen paramilitary groups .
tuz khurmatu is made up of turkmen , kurds and arabs located 75 km ( 47 miles ) south of the oil-rich city of kirkuk .
it came under the full control of iraqi government forces and mostly iran-backed shi ite paramilitaries known as popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ) in october .
it had been under control of kurdish peshmerga fighters since 2014 .
iraq s semi-autonomous kurdistan regional government ( krg ) unilaterally held an independence referendum on sept. 25 and kurds voted overwhelmingly to secede , defying baghdad and alarming neighboring turkey and iran who have their own kurdish minorities .
the referendum was held in kurdish areas and disputed territories claimed by both baghdad and erbil .
the iraqi government responded by seizing kurdish-held kirkuk and other territory disputed between the kurds and the central government , including tuz khurmatu .
it also banned direct flights to kurdistan and demanded control over border crossings .
clashes broke out between the peshmerga and turkmen pmf units in recent weeks , throssell said , leaving an unconfirmed number of deaths from both groups .
u.n. human rights officers visited the town on dec. 7 and 14 to investigate reports of the burning of homes and looting of businesses and found some 150 premises burned .
thousands of residents , mainly kurds , left for the krg , and many have not returned .