the h-1b visa program is killing jobs for native americans !
it was just reported in the recent jobs numbers that native-born americans are losing jobs while immigrant employment is up .
corporations like disney are bringing in foreign workers with the h-1b visa and having the american employees train the foreign worker for their job .
talk about adding insult to injury !
this needs to stop but washington lobbyists and the chamber of commerce really can t help themselves they love that cheap labor .
the discrimination against americans is very real and it s about time the workers fought back ! some u.s .
it workers who have been replaced with h-1b contractors are alleging discrimination and are going to court .
they are doing so in increasing numbers.there are at least seven it workers at disney who are pursuing , or plan to pursue , federal and state discrimination administrative complaints over their layoffs .
another disney worker , still employed by the firm , has filed a state administrative discrimination complaint in california .
these complaints are a first step to litigation.separately , there are ongoing court cases alleging discrimination against two of the largest india-based it services firms , infosys and tata consultancy services .
the federal judges in each of cases have given a green light for the plaintiffs to proceed after rejecting dismissal efforts.there may be federal interest in examining this issue .
the u.s. department of justice s office of special counsel for immigration-related unfair employment practices was asked by 10 u.s. senators in april to examine the it layoffs at southern california edison ( sce ) and to determine whether sce or its contractors were engaged in prohibited citizenship status discrimination .
what s being challenged , in sum , is the job replacement system created by the h-1b program .
u.s .
it workers , as a condition for their severance , are being made to train h-1b visa-holding contractor replacements to take over their jobs.the contractors often work for it services firms that employ large numbers of h-1b workers .
most of these workers are from india and regional countries .
this practice of replacing u.s. workers with foreign workers constitutes national origin discrimination , say its critics.the court case against tata , whose plaintiffs include a former sce employee , alleges that some 95 % of its employees are south asian or mostly indian .
tata has called the allegations baseless.the disney it workers were terminated because they were american citizens and all their replacements were foreign-born indians , said sara blackwell , a florida attorney , who is representing seven of the disney workers at its parks and resort division .
she has set up an organizationto challenge the practice .
other discrimination claims , including age and disability , will be made as well .
those complaints are being filed with the u.s .
equal opportunity commission , which sees if a settlement is possible prior to any lawsuit.disney did not respond immediately for comment .
we need to protect american workers , said james otto , a california attorney who is representing a disney abc television group employee in that state .
this complaint is being filed in california under the state s fair employment and housing act , which otto said is similar to the federal process , but with more protections.otto s client still works at disney and had been targeted for an earlier layoff , but disney rescinded those layoffs .
nonetheless , the complaints being made include a hostile workforce and national origin discrimination.read more : computer world