it s hard for millennials to escape the leftist propaganda .
progressivism virtually front and center in almost every aspect of their lives .
from progressive academia to a radical leftist agenda in the entertainment industry , it s really hard for our children to find a safe place where they re not being fed a leftist agenda .
millennials love law and order suv because they hate cops : while svu is lurid and addictive and gif-ready and all the other things millennials purportedly love , i think there s another reason for our adoration .
the truth is , outside the law & order universe , young people tend to hate the shit out of cops .
the stereotype of long-haired , rebellious youths flipping off pigs of the sixties might sound time-worn , but there s clearly something to it : an annual gallup poll shows that 18-29 year-olds consistently trail behind older adults in reporting a great deal or quite a lot of confidence in the police .
for us , the police force exists solely as a symbol of violence and racism and corruption , and news stories about nypd rapists and stop-and-frisk and pepper-spraying occupy wall street protesters do little to indicate otherwise.from washington post interview : last night s episode of law & order : special victims unit on nbc aimed to weed through the messy and emotional aftermath of one of these shootings focusing on what happens after new york police officers , in desperate search for a rape suspect , shoot and kill an unarmed black college student who happens to match the description of the suspect .
( it s not the first time the series , which is in its 17th season , has pulled inspiration for a story line from the headlines .
) https : //youtu.be/ztqtfsppfyawhy write an episode based around a police shooting , and why on svu ? something seems to be going on in the nation right now , and it seems that we re looking at , at least anecdotally , an epidemic of cops shooting unarmed people , often unarmed black men , but not exclusively black men.we ve just seen a spate of incidents in which that has been the case , and we have a police show .
one of the things that is frustrating to me is that too few shows are tackling the tough issues .
there are way more shows about zombies than about what s going on in our judicial system .
very few shows are allowed to get away with this right now.our mantra is that we shed light on the darker corners of society .
police shootings of unarmed people is something that needs to be discussed .
via : washington postlaw and order svu promotes show on twitter : https : //twitter.com/nbcsvu/status/654310751759298560