rome ( reuters ) - the figures jumping from a small boat into the clear shallow waters and running ashore on an italian beach look like troops practicing a d-day-style landing , but this is no drill , and these are not soldiers .
the images , caught on camera , show what has become a increasingly common sight on the beaches of italy s southern islands - migrants from africa landing in broad daylight .
in the past these boats came at night , said claudio lombardo , the local head of the mareamico ( friend of the sea ) environmental group who filmed the scene on a beach near agrigento in sicily on wednesday morning .
when they came at night , all you saw was the abandoned boat on the beach the next day and the people were nowhere to be found , and that s why we called them ghost boats .
the change in tactic by people smugglers comes as the number of arrivals from libya - long the busiest route for migrants from africa trying to reach the european union - have plummeted since departures from the coastal city of sabratha were stopped by a shadowy armed group this summer .
as libyan departures slumped , wooden boats from neighboring tunisia have started landing on secluded sicilian beaches , often in broad daylight while tourists are out sunbathing , an official leading the investigation into the arrivals told reuters .
some 3,000 migrants , mostly men , have come from tunisia in the past two months , with between 1,500-1,800 landing on the south coast of sicily , and the rest on the smaller islands of lampedusa or linosa , said the local investigator , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
it is still fewer than the libyan arrivals , which totaled well over 10,000 over the past two months , but such numbers have not been seen since tunisia s arab spring revolution in 2010 and 2011 , said lombardo , whose priority is to protect beaches from damage caused by the abandoned boats and belongings .
those who reached the smaller islands have almost all been identified by police , while between 20 to 40 percent of those who made it to sicily vanished without trace , the official said .
almost all are tunisians , and some had already been expelled from italy in the past , the investigator said .
the agrigento court is looking to see if smugglers pick them up upon arrival in italy .
we re more concerned about the ones who try to flee because perhaps they could have problems with the law either in tunisia or italy , he said .
as for the 50-or-so filmed by lombardo , they climbed up into the dry hills beyond the beach and headed inland , discarding t-shirts and shoes .
they have a kit with them , which is a bag with a change of clothes , and bottles of water and milk , lombardo said .
within 30 minutes , they disappear .
they re gone .
police pick up many found walking along roads , the investigator said .
on thursday , one young tunisian man was killed by a car in a hit-and-run near agrigento .
while some of the boats are big enough to make the more than 200-km ( 125-mile ) crossing from tunisia , some are very small , raising questions about how they got there .
we have not excluded the existence of mother ships , the investigator said , referring to large fishing boats used in the past to ferry migrants close to the coast before putting them onto smaller boats for the last leg of the voyage .