vienna ( reuters ) - austrian president alexander van der bellen will insist that the coalition government formed after next month s parliamentary election should be pro-european , he said on tuesday , but he stopped short of saying that ruled out the far-right .
van der bellen , a former greens leader , ran on a pro-european union platform and beat an opponent from the far-right freedom party ( fpo ) in last year s presidential election .
as head of state , he is mainly a figurehead but he does have the power to appoint and dismiss governments .
the eurosceptic fpo initially cheered britain s vote last year to leave the european union but has since watered down its criticism of the bloc as polls have shown that a clear majority of austrians want their country to remain a member .
i will ensure after the election that the new government , whatever its composition , does not lose sight of one thing : austria should also in the future be a country at the heart of europe , at the heart of the european union , van der bellen said in a speech to the nation ahead of the oct. 15 vote .
van der bellen has said he would aim to prevent fpo leader heinz-christian strache from becoming chancellor if the anti-immigration party won the election .
that outcome appears increasingly unlikely as polls show the conservative people s party ( ovp ) led by foreign minister sebastian kurz has a significant lead , with chancellor christian kern s social democrats ( spo ) or the fpo in second place .
the spo and ovp have dominated post-war politics and are in coalition together , but tensions between them have grown , making it more likely the election winner will turn to the fpo to obtain a parliamentary majority and form a government .
in his address , van der bellen called on austrians to inform themselves on political parties and their policies and to shun short-term thinking .
he also said parties should avoid clashing so fiercely that they could not hold talks after the election .
when asked after his speech if he would prevent the fpo from entering government , he did not give a direct answer .
i have always said clearly , and i stand by it and i think i have also made clear today , that i place the greatest importance on austria having a pro-european government , he said .