this is so ironic !
crazed leftists with an anti-trump agenda had a hard time relating to reason from a syrian refugee who actually has skin in the game .
they claim to be speaking to protect this guy and other syrians , but they actually don t care about what he has to say .
they don t care about the facts ! a syrian refugee shut down by protestors , trying to make his point in a polite way .
is this really acceptable ?
# stopthewar # syria pic.twitter.com/yvegnfupzz tehmoor khalid ( @ tehmoorkhalid ) april 7 , 2017is anyone surprised ? watch the crazy lefty shake her finger in his face and yell at him .
of course , she knows more about what s going on in his country than he does .
he asks the woman if he could speak , when the head guy who s probably a soros employee , tells her to keep chanting what these people forget is that we are supposed to have the right to free speech in america !
why is it the left that continuously silences anyone and everyone they disagree with ? another example of the left trying to frame the narrative : a set up by cnn to try and push the anti-trump narrative experienced a major detour today when a survivor of a gas attack in 2013 didn t follow the line of propaganda that cnn was pushing .
cnn pundit brooke baldwin had interviewed this victim of the 2013 attack just 3 days ago .
this survivor spoke of the attacks on innocents setting up the liberal humanitarian perspective.fast forward to today when we have the aftermath of last night s airstrike , ms. baldwin brought kassem eid back to frame a narrative about president trump launching an airstrike in syria , but being unwilling to accept syrian refugees .
they wanted to make trump out to be a hypocrite.to set up the attack on trump , cnn producers showed hillary clinton saying , we can not speak of protecting syria s babies , and in the next breath close america s doors to them .what happened next shocked baldwin and she couldn t shut this guy down fast enough epic ! kassem eid , who survived a 2013 chemical gas attack in syria , expresses his gratitude to president trump for his missile strike of a syrian airbase .