mexico city ( reuters ) - relatives waiting on wednesday outside an office block that collapsed last week in mexico city s earthquake have resigned themselves to the likelihood that their loved ones did not survive , as a stench of death seeped from the rubble .
soldiers , firefighters and volunteers have worked day and night since the sept. 19 quake to find those trapped .
in the past few days the search has narrowed to a handful of buildings .
the focus is on the office block in the chic roma district , where over 30 people are still missing .
authorities say 337 people have been confirmed dead so far in the 7.1 magnitude quake , mexico s most deadly in a generation .
sadly , we have to be realistic , what we want are our relatives bodies at the very least , said martin estrada , 51 , whose son is believed to buried under the building .
like others waiting for news of their relatives , estrada was critical of a lack of information from authorities .
he said the rescue had been too slow to save his son .
one rescue worker at the site said a putrid smell pervading the air was evidence bodies were still in the building .
the earthquake , and one a few days earlier that killed around 100 people , have become political issues for the government of president enrique pena nieto , stretched to capacity by the disasters and coming under increasing criticism .
we blame the government for their deaths , estrada said .
the earthquakes caused $ 2 billion in damage to schools , housing and heritage sites including churches , ministers said on wednesday .
private estimates range from $ 2 billion to $ 8 billion .
pena nieto said funds set aside for disaster recovery were not infinite and warned financing would have to be reassigned in the 2018 budget , which is currently under discussion in congress .
at least 190,000 buildings have been seriously damaged across mexico by the quakes and storms in recent weeks , pena nieto said on tuesday .
a senior official said there was a collapse risk at 1,500 buildings in the capital .
earlier in the day , smoke , ash and red-hot rocks belched from the popocatepetl volcano near mexico city , heightening anxiety for many locals , although officials said there was no imminent threat .
popocatepetl , whose name means smoking mountain in the native nahuatl language , showered a village at its base with ash , shook with the force of a 1.8 magnitude earthquake and spewed flaming rocks to distances of up to 1 km ( 0.62 mile ) , the national disaster prevention center ( cenapred ) said .
the earthquake had its epicenter just a few miles from the volcano and probably pushed the volcanic activity , carlos valdez , director of cenapred , told reuters .
however , eruptions at the volcano have become relatively common since it reactivated 23 years ago .
on a clear day , popocatepetl looms on the horizon of mexico city 44 miles ( 71 km ) away , and volcanic ash occasionally blows into the city .
winds blew the ash on wednesday towards ecatzingo , a village under the volcano that suffered damage to its church and dozens of houses in last week s quake .