lima ( reuters ) - peru s opposition-controlled congress ousted center-right president pedro pablo kuczynski s cabinet in a vote of no-confidence early on friday , pitching the copper-producing andean country into its worst political crisis in years .
in a gamble that will likely force him to scrap his plans to travel abroad later in the day , kuczynski had dared congress on wednesday to revoke its confidence in his cabinet if it insisted on forcing out his second education minister .
under peru s constitution , if congress does not deliver a president a vote of confidence for his cabinets twice , the president can summon new legislative elections .
but the rightwing populist opposition party popular force , led by kuczynski s defeated electoral rival , keiko fujimori , answered prime minister fernando zavala s request on thursday to back his cabinet with a resounding no .
peru s single-chamber congress , where popular force has an absolute majority , voted 77-22 to dismiss zavala s cabinet .
kuczynski now has 72 hours to swear in a new cabinet .
while he can not name zavala as prime minister again , kuczynski can reappoint other ministers in his cabinet .
going forward , kuczynski might have a freer hand to govern in the remaining four years of his term if the opposition steers clear of a fresh confrontation out of fear of losing its majority .
but several opposition lawmakers said they would welcome taking the battle to the ballot box .
if they close congress , we re not afraid , said hector becerril , a hard-line popular force lawmaker .
we re willing to seek the people s support again .
and it won t be 13 seats we win , or 73 .
there ll be 100 of us !
the vote came on the eve of kuczynski s 8-day trip abroad , which includes plans for dinner with u.s. president donald trump on monday , a speech before the u.n. general assembly on tuesday and a meeting with pope francis in the vatican .
kuczynski , a 78-year-old former wall street banker who has vowed to modernize peru and revive economic growth , took office a year ago with one of the weakest mandates of any president , having beat fujimori by a razor-thin margin while his party only secured a small portion of seats in congress .
in a plenary debate that stretched on for more than seven hours , opposition lawmakers portrayed kuczynski as an out-of-touch lobbyist who lacks authority and poses a danger to peru .
congress has forced kuczynski s former education and finance ministers to resign amid allegations of ethical breaches , while a third minister quit to avoid being censured .
popular force announced this week that it planned to propose censuring education minister marilu martens over her handling of a teachers 2-month strike , which her supporters alleged was fueled by an alliance between popular force and extremists .
we can t deliver the head of a minister as a trophy , zavala told lawmakers after walking to congress with the rest of the cabinet in a show of union .
it s clear to us that the country can t make progress like this .