moscow ( reuters ) - russian nuclear-capable strategic bombers have flown a rare mission around the korean peninsula at the same time as the united states and south korea conduct joint military exercises that have infuriated pyongyang .
russia , which has said it is strongly against any unilateral u.s. military action on the peninsula , said tupolev-95ms bombers , code named bears by nato , had flown over the pacific ocean , the sea of japan , the yellow sea and the east china sea , prompting japan and seoul to scramble jets to escort them .
the flight , which also included planes with advanced intelligence gathering capabilities , was over international waters and was announced by the russian defence ministry on the same day as moscow complained about the u.s.-south korean war games .
the u.s. and south korea holding yet more large-scale military and naval exercises does not help reduce tensions on the korean peninsula , maria zakharova , a spokeswoman for the foreign ministry , told a news briefing in moscow .
we urge all sides to exercise maximum caution .
given the arms build-up in the region , any rash move or even an unintended incident could spark a military conflict .
in beijing , chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying did not comment specifically on the russian mission when asked , reiterating china hoped all sides could quickly return to talks and appropriately and peacefully resolve the situation .
the united states and south korea began the long-planned joint military exercises on monday , heightening tensions with pyongyang which called the drills a reckless step towards nuclear conflict .
some military experts regard the hulking russian turboprop bombers which made the flight near the korean peninsula as a relic of the cold war .
but russia has upgraded the aircraft since the soviet fall and , since 2007 , has used the planes to back its diplomacy with shows of force and to probe other countries airspaces .
moscow said the bombers had been accompanied by sukhoi-35s fighter jets and a-50 early warning and control aircraft .
the a-50s , the russian equivalent of the boeing e-3 sentry awacs aircraft , are designed to track aerial and ground targets at a long range , among other capabilities .
moscow did not say how many aircraft had taken part or when the mission had taken place .
our long-range aviation pilots , according to an established plan , regularly carry out flights over neutral waters over the atlantic , the arctic , the black sea and the pacific ocean from their bases and from tactical airfields , the defense ministry said in the same statement .
it said the tu-95ms bombers were refueled in mid-air during the mission , and that during parts of the route they had been escorted by south korean and japanese military jets .
russia , which shares a border with north korea , has repeatedly voiced concerns about rising tensions on the korean peninsula caused by pyongyang s nuclear missile program , and has also complained about possible plans by japan to deploy a u.s. anti-missile system on its soil .
foreign ministry spokeswoman zakharova said on thursday that if tokyo did go ahead and opt to deploy such a system it would be disproportional to the north korean missile threat and could upset wider strategic stability in the region .
japan has at least twice before this year been forced to scramble its jets to intercept russian aircraft .
the daily izvestia newspaper reported in october last year that russia was close to finishing setting up a new division of heavy bombers to patrol the japan-guam-hawaiian islands triangle .