paris ( reuters ) - france s government on tuesday ruled out major concessions towards autonomy sought by corsica s nationalists after they won a regional election , but said it was open to talks that took account of the island s distinctive character .
the nationalists on sunday won two thirds of the seats in the new regional council that takes office on jan. 1 .
their ambitions are relatively modest among the wave of secessionist movements that have sprung up in parts of europe as its traditional political forces have lost traction .
unlike catalonia s nationalists , they do not target outright independence , but they do seek official status for the corsican language and a greater say on fiscal issues .
government spokesman benjamin griveaux said there were corsican specifics to be taken into account in the discussions that paris holds with all new regional authorities .
( but ) let s be clear ... this was not a referendum or a vote on autonomy or independence , he told france 2 tv .
the corsican nationalists also want to be able to decide who can buy properties and they seek liberty for those they call political prisoners , who have been condemned for attacks or are awaiting judgment .
the sun-drenched island , the birthplace of napoleon and known as much over recent decades for its sometimes violent independence movements as for its stunning landscapes , has long been a thorn in the side of french governments .
clandestine group the national front for the liberation of corsica ( flnc ) laid down its weapons in 2014 after a near four-decade long rebellion , in a major shift that helped boost the popularity of the moderate nationalists who won sunday s election .
asked about prisoners , griveaux said : the law must be respected .
when there have been crimes and a court ruling , when people have been condemned , the sentence should be carried out .
asked about corsican becoming an official language on the island alongside french , griveaux said provision had already been made in various regions to allow the use of a local language , for instance in some schools .
but the language of the republic is french , he added .
political analyst andre fazi , a lecturer at the university of corsica , said it would be hard for the nationalists to get what they wanted .
but with sunday s election win , it would also be risky for the government to not do anything , he said .
shutting the door completely could boost calls for outright independence , as was the case in catalonia .
in a sign that the government might be taking this into account , prime minister edouard philippe on sunday called nationalist leader gilles simeoni to congratulate him on his win and told him he was willing to see him soon in paris .