prague ( reuters ) - czechs voted on friday in an election expected to hand power to businessman andrej babis who has won popular support by pledging to sweep aside traditional parties , boost investment and keep out refugees , but faces a criminal probe for suspected fraud .
the central european country has enjoyed rapid economic growth , a balanced budget and the lowest unemployment in the european union , but opinion polls nevertheless show strong voter support for babis 's ano movement and other protest parties .
( graphic : czech legislative election - tmsnrt.rs/2vo4hpw ) founded and tightly controlled by the 63-year-old billionaire , ano - which means yes in czech - has won support from both right and left with promises to cut taxes , turf out corrupt politicians and bring business-style efficiency to government .
we want to form a government and show people that government can work differently to what they are used to .
we would be ( more ) in touch with them , babis said after voting in the prague suburb where he lives .
babis s support has weathered investigation into tax strategies at his empire of food , chemicals , farming and media worth an estimated $ 4 billion that he owned until moving it to a trust fund this year .
he has also been charged by police with fraud on suspicion that he hid ownership of a farm and a conference center so it could receive a 2 million euro subsidy in 2008 .
he denies any wrongdoing .
ano has maintained its rhetoric of opposition to the ruling system despite serving as a junior partner in the outgoing government along with prime minister bohuslav sobotka s center-left social democrats and the centrist christian democrats .
final surveys before a polling blackout began on tuesday gave ano about 25-27 percent support , at least twice that of the social democrats .
previous governments kept saying what needs to be changed but did nothing , said jarmila , a 66-year old former teacher in prague who refused to give her last name .
he is rational and can explain things .
czech elections are spread over two days .
voting began on friday at 2 p.m. ( 1200 gmt ) and will end at 2 p.m. on saturday .
although immigration to the czech republic is virtually non-existent , fear of it has played a big part in the election campaign , with most parties pledging to fight any attempts by the european union to force the czechs to accept refugees distributed across the bloc .
the anti-immigrant mood mirrors similar trends in neighbouring countries .
parties opposed to immigration did well in germany s election in september and in austria s last week , and have fed scepticism toward the eu across the 28-nation bloc .
babis s swipes at brussels have raised concern that he might lead the country into a more confrontational relationship with the eu , emulating the right-wing governments in poland and hungary .
babis opposes more eu integration and euro adoption , but has also spoken of the benefits of eu membership and says the czech republic should play a bigger role in reforming the bloc .
analysts say the election may lead to a similar coalition to the outgoing government but led by ano , which would mean no big change in a foreign policy .
a deal with ano s current partners , or with center-right parties , may run up against their demands that babis personally stays out of the cabinet because of the police charges .
a number of voters in prague expressed distrust of babis , who has been fighting allegations he had cooperated with communist-era secret police .
for me this election is about our stance on the european union , refugees and is mainly ( a chance to vote ) against mr. babis , said gabriela kijova , 23 , after voting for the small pirate party in central prague .
president milos zeman said on friday he would ask the leader of the biggest party to lead talks on a new government .
he said he would allow a month for negotiations before he calls a session of the new parliament , which is the trigger for the departure of the outgoing administration .
there is an outside chance that babis may form a minority government supported by the communists and the far-right , anti-eu freedom and direct democracy party ( spd ) , which saw its support jump in the final opinion polls .
such a tie-up would be negative for investors and pose questions over policies toward the eu .