the hague ( reuters ) - the prosecutor of the international criminal court on friday said she would seek approval to open a formal investigation into allegations of war crimes in afghanistan , in a case that could examine the role of u.s. forces abroad .
fatou bensouda said in a statement that there is a reasonable basis to believe war crimes and crimes against humanity were committed and that all sides in the conflict would be examined .
the prosecutor will focus on crimes allegedly committed since may 2003 on the territory of afghanistan , and war crimes closely linked to the situation in afghanistan allegedly committed since july 2002 on the territory of other states .
the prosecutor on friday did not mention any specific parties to be investigated .
in a report last year , icc prosecutors identified potential cases among three groups of alleged perpetrators : the taliban and its affiliates , the afghan authorities and members of the u.s. armed forces and central intelligence agency .
there were preliminary grounds to believe u.s. forces committed war crimes in afghanistan and at cia detention facilities elsewhere in 2003 and 2004 , it said .
the alleged atrocities took place in all 34 of afghanistan s provinces , with a smaller number of crimes alleged in poland , lithuania and romania , where suspected members of the taliban or al qaeda were held for questioning .
if authorized by the court s judges , prosecutors will investigate in an independent , impartial and objective way , crimes within the court s jurisdiction allegedly committed by any party to the armed conflict .
the ultimate focus will be upon those most responsible for the most serious crimes , she said in the statement .
the icc was established in 2002 as the world s permanent court for prosecuting the most serious war crimes , including genocide .
it has the backing of the european union and dozens of nations , but several of the world s most powerful countries - notably the united states , russia and china - never joined .
former u.s. administrations first opposed the court s establishment , citing fears that american service members would be targeted by politically-motivated prosecutions , but later backed ad hoc investigations .
a court of last resort , the icc only steps in when a country s government is found to be unwilling or unable to do so .
icc jurisdiction is limited to crimes committed on the territory of member states , or in cases referred to it by the u.n. security council , as happened with sudan over alleged genocide in darfur in 2005 .
however , crimes committed on the soil of member states by soldiers of countries who are not members also fall under the court s jurisdiction under international law .
if a state can show it has investigated and prosecuted the same crimes the icc is looking into , it could avoid any case ending up in the hague .
in a 2016 report on the preliminary examination of alleged crimes in afghanistan , the prosecutor noted that while the u.s. dept .
of justice has looked into allegations of ill treatment of cia detainees in 2009-2011 , the scope of the probe was limited and two cases did not result in a prosecution .