mexico city ( reuters ) - mexican opposition leader ricardo anaya said on sunday he would seek to win the presidency in a left-right alliance after stepping down as head of the conservative national action party ( pan ) .
anaya resigned as leader of the pan on saturday , a day after his party officially joined forces with the center-left party of the democratic revolution ( prd ) and the citizens movement party in the for mexico in front coalition .
if selected , anaya will likely take on leftist former mexico city mayor andres manuel lopez obrador , and former finance minister jose antonio meade , who is seeking the nomination for the ruling centrist institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) .
meade , who has served in both pri and pan administrations , resigned as finance minister in november and pri officials hope he will help the party recover from a spate of corruption scandals .
this corrupt and inefficient pri government has been an absolute national disaster , anaya said on sunday , adding that his own party did not make fundamental structural changes during its two presidential terms from 2000 to 2012 .
anaya saw a split in his party in october when former first lady margarita zavala left to launch a bid for the presidency as an independent candidate .
zavala , the wife of former president felipe calderon , said she quit the pan because the party base had been subordinated to the interests of its leadership .
the left-right coalition on friday presented its official request with the electoral institute to compete in the july 2018 vote .
the group must still pick its leader , with anaya , who had been leader of the pan since 2015 , considered the front-runner .
anaya , 38 , has faced criticism in the mexican press for his family s inexplicable level of wealth , although he denies any wrongdoing .
in a voter poll published on wednesday , anaya came in second behind lopez obrador , who leads the national regeneration movement ( morena ) party , but ahead of meade .
mexico city mayor miguel angel mancera , who was seen as a contender for the coalition , said on saturday he would not run and criticized what he said was an undemocratic selection process .