washington ( reuters ) - u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said on sunday the u.n. security council has run out of options on containing north korea s nuclear program and the united states may have to turn the matter over to the pentagon .
we have pretty much exhausted all the things that we can do at the security council at this point , haley told cnn s state of the union , adding that she was perfectly happy to hand the north korea problem over to defense secretary james mattis .
as world leaders head to the united nations headquarters in new york for the annual general assembly meeting this week , haley s comments indicated the united states was not backing down from its threat of military action against north korea .
north korea launched a missile over japan into the pacific ocean on thursday in defiance of new u.n. security council sanctions banning its textile exports and capping imports of crude oil .
china has urged the united states to refrain from making threats to north korea .
asked about president donald trump s warning last month that the north korean threat to the united states will be met with fire and fury , haley said , it was not an empty threat .
if north korea keeps on with this reckless behavior , if the united states has to defend itself or defend its allies in any way , north korea will be destroyed .
and we all know that .
and none of us want that .
none of us want war , she said on cnn .
we re trying every other possibility that we have , but there s a whole lot of military options on the table , she said .
pyongyang has launched dozens of missiles as it accelerates a weapons program designed to provide the ability to target the united states with a powerful , nuclear-tipped missile .
north korea said on saturday it aimed to reach an equilibrium of military force with the united states .
trump plans to meet with south korean president jae-in moon on the sidelines of the u.n. general assembly .
i spoke with president moon of south korea last night .
asked him how rocket man is doing .
long gas lines forming in north korea .
too bad !
trump said in a twitter post on sunday morning .
white house national security adviser h.r .
mcmaster said on friday , after the latest north korean missile launch , that the united states was running out of patience : we ve been kicking the can down the road , and we re out of road .
on sunday , he warned of imminent danger from pyongyang .
this regime is so close now to threatening the united states and others with a nuclear weapon , that we really have to move with a great sense of urgency on sanctions , on diplomacy and preparing , if necessary , a military option , mcmaster told the fox news sunday program .
military options available to trump range from a sea blockade aimed at enforcing sanctions to cruise missile strikes on nuclear and missile facilities to a broader campaign aimed at overthrowing leader kim jong un .
mattis has warned the consequences of any military action would be tragic on an unbelievable scale and bring severe risk to u.s. ally south korea .
democratic u.s .
senator dianne feinstein said on sunday that trump should not rule out talks with north korea before it agrees to end its nuclear program .
i think that north korea is not going to give up its program with nothing on the table , she said on cnn .
feinstein said that a freeze of both its nuclear program and missile arsenal , rather than ending them , would be more palatable to north korea and to china , who fears the u.s. goal is toppling kim .
the united states still wants a peaceful solution and has been waiting for the north koreans to indicate they are ready to talk , secretary of state rex tillerson said on cbs face the nation .
we have tried a couple of times to signal to them that we re ready , when they re ready , he said .
and they have responded with more missile launches and a nuclear test .