geneva ( reuters ) - south sudan s hellish war will get worse if its neighbors let president salva kiir hold an election before he accepts peacekeepers , a ceasefire and political opposition , u.n. investigators said on wednesday .
south sudan was plunged into civil war in 2013 when kiir fell out with his deputy , riek machar .
since then 50,000-300,000 people have died , according to the african union ( au ) , and millions have been displaced or pushed to the brink of famine .
it s just a story of absolutely unimaginable cruelty , yasmin sooka , head of the u.n. commission on human rights in south sudan , told a news conference in geneva .
last year machar fled , but during his retreat kiir s forces sparked a new conflict in the equatorias region , boosting opposition to kiir s dinka tribe , which almost one in four south sudanese belong to .
kiir s mandate expires in april , and he has made clear he wants a new election , which would be catastrophic , sooka and her fellow commissioner godfrey musila said .
you will not have a democratic dinka president elected , musila said .
if the dinka are to stay in power they will have to do that militarily .
it has to be a police state .
outside powers must urgently find a way to generate a legitimate government , he said .
the first task was to fully deploy a 4,000-strong regional protection force that kiir and east african bloc igad agreed on a year ago .
although limited to the capital , juba , the force would create conditions for the opposition to return and would free up u.n. peacekeepers to go further afield , helping to bring about a ceasefire , which the opposition , with no military supply lines , would accept , musila said .
only 400 of the force have arrived so far .
sooka said the best tool to get action was the hybrid court that the au and south sudan agreed to set up , based on a mix of their laws , to prosecute suspects including top political and military figures .
sooka has an almost prosecutorial mandate from the u.n. human rights council and plans to have a team of 16 on the ground this week , including forensic analysts and military advisers .
on monday , south sudan justice minister paulino wanawilla unango told the council that the government was still incorporating last year s agreement with igad .
sooka said the au must ensure consequences if the government failed to take the necessary steps , as it did in gambia in january , when it intervened to oust president yahya jammeh .
the west africans camped outside of gambia and told the president if you don t go , our armies will come in , she said .
but will the east african community or igad do that ?