the city of baltimore proposed a $ 6.4 million dollar settlement to the freddie gray family leaving people wondering if this is an admission of liability .
what kind of trial will the six accused officers get now that this has been proposed ?
the family of freddie gray , the 25-year-old black man whose death from a spinal cord injury while in police custody set off riots in baltimore in april , has reached a $ 6.4 million settlement with the city , mayor stephanie rawlings-blake announced tuesday.the proposed settlement , which will be taken up by the board of estimates the panel that approves contracts and purchases for the city at its meeting on wednesday , does not constitute an admission of liability on the part of the city , the baltimore police department , individual baltimore police officers , or anyone else who might be responsible for mr. gray s death , ms. rawlings-blake said in a statement.the settlement comes as judicial hearings are just beginning in the cases of six officers facing criminal charges in mr. gray s death .
last week , judge barry g. williams of the baltimore city circuit court ruled that the six would be tried separately ; on thursday , judge williams will conduct another hearing to consider a request by defense lawyers to move the trials outside baltimore .
the proposed settlement agreement going before the board of estimates should not be interpreted as a judgment on the guilt or innocence of the officers facing trial , ms. rawlings-blake said .
the proposed settlement will be paid as $ 2.8 million in the current fiscal year and $ 3.6 million in the year beginning in july 2016.mr .
gray was arrested april 12 in west baltimore , a blighted neighborhood of boarded-up rowhouses .
his death on april 19 set off nearly two weeks of largely peaceful protests , followed by a night of looting and arson the worst rioting baltimore has seen since 1968 .
it also opened a deep wound in baltimore , a majority black city with an african-american mayor and a history of tensions between black residents and the police.in filing criminal charges against the six officers , the state s attorney for baltimore city , marilyn j. mosby , has asserted they improperly arrested and shackled mr. gray , flouting police rules and standards of decency by loading him into a police van without required safety restraints , and ignoring his pleas for help during the ride .
ms. mosby has argued that the spinal cord injury that killed mr. gray occurred while he was being transported in the van.the six face varying charges .
officer caesar r. goodson jr. , the driver of the police van in which mr. gray was injured , is charged with second-degree depraved-heart murder in essence , murder with willful disregard for human life .
sgt .
alicia d. white , lt. brian rice and officer william g. porter are charged with manslaughter .
officers edward m. nero and garrett miller face lesser charges , including second-degree assault.on thursday , lawyers for the six officers are expected to argue before judge williams that the officers can not get a fair trial in baltimore because of the intense publicity surrounding the case.via : nyt