baghdad ( reuters ) - the united states-led international coalition fighting islamic state estimates that fewer than 3,000 fighters belonging to the hardline sunni militant group remain in iraq and syria , its spokesman said on tuesday .
islamic state s self-proclaimed caliphate has crumbled this year in syria and iraq , with the group losing the cities of mosul , raqqa and swathes of other territory .
current estimates are that there are less than 3,000 # daesh fighters left - they still remain a threat , but we will continue to support our partner forces to defeat them , u.s. army colonel ryan dillon tweeted , using an arabic acronym for islamic state .
dillon s tweet was part of his responses to an online question and answer session in which he also said the coalition had trained 125,000 members of iraqi security forces , 22,000 of which were kurdish peshmerga fighters .
when asked if the united states planned to build permanent military bases in iraq or syria the defeat of islamic state , dillon said it would not .
no - the government of # iraq knows where and how many from coalition are here to support operation to defeat # daesh ; all bases are # iraqi led , he tweeted .
the coalition will begin a transition from focusing on retaking territory to consolidating gains , it later said in a statement following a meeting of its leaders with iraqi military commanders .
we will continue to support our iraqi partners in the battle against isis ( islamic state ) with training , equipment , advice and assistance , said major general felix gedney , the coalition s deputy commander for strategy and support .
the next phase will focus on the provision of lasting security , while developing iraqi sustainability and self-sufficiency , he said .
the coalition was responsible for liberating more than 4.5 million iraqis and over 52,200 square kilometres of territory , the statement said .
it has come under fire , however , for the number of civilian casualties resulting from the air strikes it carries out in support of local forces .
the coalition says its strikes have unintentionally killed at least 801 civilians between august 2014 and october 2017 , a far lower figure than figures provided by monitoring groups .
the monitoring group airwars says at least 5,961 civilians have been killed by coalition air strikes .
the coalition says it goes to great lengths to avoid civilian casualties and that it is still assessing 695 reports of such casualties from strikes in iraq and in syria .