kabul ( reuters ) - a suicide attacker rammed a car full of explosives into a bus leaving afghanistan s top military training center in kabul on saturday , killing at least 15 soldiers , including cadets and their trainers , officials said .
taliban insurgents claimed responsibility for the attack , the latest in a particularly deadly week for afghanistan s security forces .
the bombing was also the second major attack in the capital kabul in 24 hours after a suicide attack at a shi ite mosque killed more than 50 worshippers on friday night .
army personnel were coming out of marshal fahim university when a suicide bomber in a car targeted them .
fifteen soldiers who were there for training were killed and four others were wounded , ministry of defence spokesman dawlat wazari said .
a statement from president ashraf ghani s office said the bus was carrying trainers and cadets from the defense university on the western outskirts of kabul that is home to the afghan military s officer training school and other military academies .
afghan security forces have been struggling against the taliban since most foreign troops left at the end of 2014 .
u.s. president donald trump committed to an open-ended military training and support mission in afghanistan in august , despite criticism that it is no closer to peace despite billions of dollars in aid and nearly 16 years of u.s. and allied operations .
taliban spokesman zabihullah mujahid claimed responsibility for saturday s car bomb in an email to reporters .
the taliban have been waging an insurgency for a decade and a half in an attempt to overthrow the western-backed government in kabul and re-establish a fundamentalist islamist regime .
the insurgents now control or contest about 40 percent of afghanistan .
afghan security forces including police were being killed at a rate of about 600 per month in battles and targeted bombings earlier this year , according to a u.s. report .
this week s toll looked to be particularly heavy for afghan forces after attacks across the country , including taliban fighters using captured u.s.-provided humvee vehicles as vehicle bombs to ram into fortified compounds .
on thursday the taliban stormed a military base in the southern province of kandahar , killing at least 43 of the 60 soldiers manning the base , which was left in ruins .
two days earlier dozens of security personnel were killed and scores wounded in taliban attacks on government compounds in paktia and ghazni provinces , with a senior provincial police commander among the dead .
in addition to the taliban , afghanistan has in recent years seen a rise in violence claimed by fighters who have claimed loyalty to the islamic state s middle east-based leadership , although the movement controls little territory in afghanistan .
islamic state claimed responsibility for a suicide attack in kabul on friday evening in which a bomber walked into a shi ite muslim mosque as people were praying and detonated his explosives .
the toll in the attack on imam zaman mosque rose to 54 killed , including children , and 55 wounded , a deputy minister for religious affairs , dai-ul haq abid told a news conference on saturday .
another mosque attack on friday killed at least 33 people in central ghor province .