charleston , s.c. ( reuters ) - as the presidential field winnows after donald trump ’ s commanding victory in south carolina ’ s nominating contest , u.s. republican voters face a choice that grows starker by the day .
do they back the rage-infused , turn-back-the-clock tone of trump , or perhaps his conservative , evangelical rival , ted cruz ?
or do they favor the sunnier , more inclusive appeals of emerging establishment favorite marco rubio or ohio governor john kasich .
not only will the answer decide the republican nominee , it may well change what it means to be a republican .
the party is enduring a schism between those who want to work within the system and those want to tear it down .
“ the gop is broken [ and ] may not be salvageable , ” said juleanna glover , a republican consultant in washington who had supported jeb bush , who dropped out of the race on saturday after a poor showing in south carolina .
trump ’ s support , she said , shows that one-third of the party ’ s voters “ want out. ” bush , the former florida governor , had been part of that camp of republican establishment optimists .
ben carson , the right-wing retired neurosurgeon , was never a factor in south carolina and could be the next to exit .
that leaves a final four , of sorts , as the campaign maintains a southern focus for a string of contests on march 1 that include georgia , texas , and virginia .
trump and cruz will be the favorites in many of them , with rubio , a senator from florida , and kasich seen struggling until the primary schedule shifts to more hospitable regions , including their home states .
rubio finished in a near tie for second in south carolina with cruz , rebounding strongly from his stumble in new hampshire , where he finished fifth and was criticized for being overly scripted .
he stands to benefit the most from bush ’ s departure as the perceived establishment standard-bearer .
kasich trailed well behind , managing fewer votes than bush .
billionaire real estate developer trump has racked up wins in two of the three early-voting states by channeling the disillusionment many americans , especially the white working-class , feel with stagnant wages , globalization , the influence of corporate money in politics , and a gridlocked government .
cruz , a senator from texas , has courted libertarian and religious voters who believe their values are under assault .
both strike a tone of alarm , largely about the porous u.s. southwest border and the threat of islamic state .
and both often offer a paean to the past , asking voters to envision a time when the country appeared to be more prosperous and homogenous .
some republicans fear that the appeal of either candidate will simply be too narrow .
“ it ’ s a dangerous direction for us to go in , ” said chip felkel , a republican strategist in greenville , south carolina .
“ i ’ ll argue with anyone that a cruz nominee or trump nominee is someone who can expand this party and help us beat the democrats. ” alternatively , rubio and kasich bill themselves as healers of america ’ s fractured politics .
on the stump , rubio speaks of uniting the quarrelsome factions of the republican party , and has embraced diversity in a way that his competitors have not .
after the south carolina results rolled in , rubio , a cuban-american , stood with south carolina governor nikki haley , the daughter of indian sikh immigrants , and tim scott , an african-american republican senator from the state .
“ this country is now ready for a new generation of conservatives to lead us into the 21st century , ” rubio said .
rubio has vowed to grow and unite the party and broaden its appeal among younger americans .
at a rally on friday in north charleston , adam mandel , 57 , was approving of rubio .
“ he seems to be a little bit more willing not to go to extremes , ” mandel said .
the contrast between rubio ’ s events friday and those of trump and cruz was vivid .
trump , just a day after getting into public spat with pope francis , told an apocryphal story about a general who executed muslims using bullets dipped in pig blood .
cruz ‘ s rally featured phil robertson , star of the reality show “ duck dynasty ” who has condemned homosexuality as sinful .
but some republican voters worry that rubio , who , like cruz , is a first-term senator , and kasich , who has labeled himself “ the prince of light and hope ” , aren ’ t tough of enough to usher in the radical change they crave .
“ i think rubio is too easily influenced by the establishment , ” james vinson , 70 , a cruz supporter from charleston said .
“ i think he ’ ll be their guy. ” ( reporting by james oliphant ; editing by caren bohan and stuart grudgings ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .