( reuters ) - former illinois governor rod blagojevich lost his latest bid for leniency as a federal appeals court refused to shorten his 14-year prison term in a vast public corruption case , including an effort to sell barack obama ’ s u.s. senate seat .
the 7th u.s .
circuit court of appeals in chicago dismissed arguments that blagojevich deserved a lesser punishment because he had been a “ model prisoner ” in the five years he has already spent in prison and because some counts in his original 2011 conviction had been thrown out .
friday ’ s 3-0 decision came three days after oral arguments , suggesting little or no disagreement .
it likely ends blagojevich ’ s chances at shortening his sentence .
the one-time contestant on donald trump ’ s “ celebrity apprentice ” could ask the entire 7th circuit or the u.s. supreme court to review his case , but both are long shots .
leonard goodman , a lawyer for blagojevich , did not respond to requests for comment .
he told the chicago tribune the decision was “ incredibly sad and disappointing. ” the office of acting u.s. attorney joel levin in chicago declined to comment .
blagojevich , 60 , was convicted on charges including wire fraud , extortion and soliciting bribes while governor .
he served from january 2003 to january 2009 , when the illinois senate removed him from office .
prosecutors said blagojevich solicited campaign contributions in exchange for raising pediatric reimbursement rates and legislation supporting illinois ’ horse racing industry .
blagojevich also tried to sell or trade the senate seat that obama vacated after winning the 2008 u.s. presidential election , prosecutors said .
the appeals court in 2015 voided five of blagojevich ’ s 18 convictions and ordered a resentencing , but u.s. district judge james zagel in chicago reimposed the 14-year term last august .
zagel acknowledged the pain blagojevich ’ s family was suffering but said the punishment reflected federal guidelines and that “ the fault lies with the governor. ” in friday ’ s decision , circuit judge frank easterbrook said zagel acted within his discretion .
“ blagojevich ’ s treatment of fellow inmates may show that outside of office he is an admirable person , but the court was entitled to impose punishment that reflects how blagojevich behaved when he had a different menu of opportunities and to deter those who hold office today , ” easterbrook wrote .
easterbrook also said the supreme court ’ s voiding last june of former virginia governor bob mcdonnell ’ s bribery convictions did not undermine blagojevich ’ s conviction .
blagojevich is housed in a low-security prison in littleton , colorado , and eligible for release in may 2024 .