berlin ( reuters ) - airbus helicopters has warned pilots of its tiger military helicopters to be careful of rapid switches from auto pilot to manual mode during turbulence , after initial indications that such a switch may have played a role in a fatal crash in mali .
the unit of european aerospace giant airbus said in a statement that the warning was aimed at increasing operators safety and should not be seen as an indication of the possible root cause of the crash during a u.n. mission in july , which killed both crew members .
according to a source who has seen the airbus helicopters bulletin that carried the warning , the bulletin said an unexpected switch from automatic to manual flight mode may have played a role in the accident , according to information currently available .
the bulletin did not say whether the unexpected switch had happened automatically or been done manually .
german officials last week met to discuss the accident in the mali desert , but decided to maintain existing flight restrictions on the aircraft after failing to reach a definite conclusion about the cause of the crash .
airbus said its safety guidance - sent to operators in germany , australia , france and spain - was meant to standardise all flight manuals and remind operators that crews must adjust their attention to environmental conditions while using the auto pilot during turbulence .
the guidance reiterated passages already in the flight manuals which instruct pilots not to intentionally enter areas with more than moderate turbulence , and to avoid flying through areas of severe turbulence .
a german defence ministry report last month said the tiger that crashed in mali had been flying at 250 kilometres ( 155 miles ) per hour at a height of 550 metres ( 1,800 feet ) when it suddenly sank its nose and entered a sharp dive .
the helicopter crashed 10 seconds later and burst into flames .
the report , however , said it was too early to speculate about the causes of the crash .
german officials continue to investigate the cause of the crash .
officials say it could take months to complete the probe .
at the time of the crash , they said there were no signs the helicopter was downed by an attack .
germany s deployment of four tiger helicopters to mali earlier this year was controversial since the aircraft required extra maintenance given the strong heat and other environmental conditions in the african country , although officials say the aircraft had been performing normally .
germany agreed to deploy the tiger helicopters and four nh-90 transport helicopters after the dutch military said it could not continue the work in mali .
but germany s increased support was heavily debated in parliament , and required a waiver from the german military allowing the helicopters to operate in higher temperatures .
germany currently has 26 tiger helicopters .