a play scheduled to open saturday night in chicago targets barron trump , the ten-year-old son of newly sworn in president donald trump and first lady melania trump.the play , titled , barron trump up past bedtime , stars comedian shannon noll as barron and is set for the revival theater in hyde park , the neighborhood of trump s predecessor former president barack obama .
melania trump will also be targeted in character on stage .
but the main target , of course , is president trump.after eight years of presidential children being off limits ( to the point news articles about them disappeared after white house warnings ) , they are fair game now that a republican is president .
a headline about the play at the chicago reader makes that very point about young barron trump being fair game : barron trump is fair game in barron trump : up past bedtimethe revival theater s description of the play : join donald trump s youngest heir barron trump ( as played by shannon noll ) for a pee wee s playhouse-style show that features celebrity guests ( melania trump , ben carson , and vladimir putin ) patriotic games ( pin the email on the clinton ) , and fancy fun !
the chicago reader interviewed noll about the play .
noll says her approach is decidedly lighthearted : an exploration of the current political moment through the eyes of a child enmeshed in it .
when i set out to do this show , i did it to use [ barron ] as a vehicle to comment on this administration , noll says .
she was initially inspired to take on the title role due to her resemblance to the youngest trump , who stepped into the spotlight when he appeared to struggle to stay awake during his father s presidential victory speech , which occurred at around 3 am.up past bedtime begins as melania trump tucks barron in for the night .
he then secretly stays awake to explore a fantastical world , a la pee-wee s playhouse , populated by the likes of vladimir putin and ben carson.noll told the chicago tribune that barron trump is absolutely not the butt of a joke .
i noticed that i looked like barron trump and i thought that would be an interesting approach , she said .
she has brought on collaborators who will perform solo material ( the aforementioned imaginary friends ) and i m facilitating that as barron trump as master of ceremonies .
barron trump is absolutely not the butt of a joke , she said.asked if she had any second thoughts about going ahead with the show , noll said , no , i sort of doubled-down .
i was originally going to create a fake trump child , but i look so much like barron .
and going into this , i specifically created this character so that he bears no resemblance in personality to what we ve seen of barron trump .
i m just playing him as a generic kid .
gateway pundit