seoul ( reuters ) - south korean public support for nuclear power on friday sucker punched a government policy to steer the country away from nuclear-generated electricity as seoul said it would bow to a demand to resume construction of two new reactors .
president moon jae-in came to power in may , after running on a ticket that called for reducing south korea s nuclear and coal-fired power generation in a push to use more natural gas and renewables .
those plans were dealt an unlooked-for blow on friday when a public opinion survey found a majority of almost 60 percent in favour of resuming the stalled construction of two reactors .
building the two reactors could mean reversal of a strategy to slowly reduce nuclear energy s share of the power mix , and also significantly eat into the liquefied natural gas ( lng ) demand of the world s second-largest consumer of the fuel .
our recommendation to the government is restarting construction , said kim ji-hyung , chairman of a government-organised committee to study the nuclear projects .
our final public opinion survey showed 59.5 percent of ( responding ) south koreans chose to resume the construction , kim told a news conference .
stability of power supply was cited as a primary reason for the choice in survey responses , the committee said .
we respect the will of the committee , said south korea s presidential office spokesman park soo-hyun .
an expert at a government think tank said the size of the win in favour of the projects meant the government had no choice but to go with the committee s recommendation .
the outcome was very unexpected ...
many expected the difference would be a maximum 10 percentage points , but as it turned out , it stood nearly at 20 , said roh dong-seok , senior research fellow at the korea energy economics institute .
the two 1,400-megawatt ( mw ) reactors - shin kori no.5 and shin kori no.6 - were originally to be completed by march 2021 and march 2022 , respectively , in the southeastern city of ulsan .
the government announced a suspension of the projects after coming to power , saying it would consult the public over their future .
the committee conducted four rounds of surveys , including phone interviews of 20,006 people and public discussions involving some 470 citizens , over the past three months .
with the reactors now likely going ahead , completion dates are set for october 2021 and october 2022 , according to state-run nuclear operator korea hydro & nuclear power [ krhydr.ul ] .
( for a graphic on 'south korea 2016 power generation mix ' click reut.rs/2xtozkb ) shares of korea electric power corp rose 0.6 percent to 41,110 won ( $ 36.32 ) on friday , after jumping nearly 6 percent following the announcement of the survey results .
kepco engineering & construction , in charge of the reactors design , lost 1.2 percent after surging as much as 20 percent .
kepco plant service & engineering gained 1.7 percent .
building nuclear power plants takes years , so the decision in favour of the two new reactors will not change south korea s immediate fuel demand patterns .
but the vote , which surprised many in the industry , does impact the long-term outlook for the country s fuel consumption , with the biggest impact likely falling on imports of lng .
full implementation of moon s election promises could have resulted in around 10 million tonnes ( a year ) of extra lng demand by 2030 .
this now seems unlikely , said kiah wei giam , principal analyst at energy consultancy wood mackenzie .
that compares to south korea s lng imports of 33.4 million tonnes last year , according to customs data .
[ lng/krtrd ] giam said , however , the survey did not totally derail the government s energy policies .
with the planned nuclear phase-out delayed , it will be interesting to see whether more aggressive anti-coal policies are enacted , giam said .
park won-joo , deputy minister for energy & resources , said later at a briefing the government will reach a final decision on the nuclear reactors next tuesday and then tell the state-run nuclear operator when to resume project construction .