hanoi ( reuters ) - a vietnamese court on thursday upheld a 10-year jail sentence for a prominent blogger convicted of publishing propaganda against the state , her lawyer said , the latest move in a crackdown on critics of the one-party state .
despite sweeping economic reform and increasing openness towards social change , including gay , lesbian and transgender rights , vietnam s ruling communist party retains tight media censorship and does not tolerate criticism .
in recent months , it has targeted critics whose voices have been amplified by social media in a country that ranks among facebook s top ten , in terms of users .
nguyen ngoc nhu quynh , 37 , known as me nam ( mother mushroom ) , who gained prominence for blogging about environment issues and deaths in police custody , was found guilty in june for distributing what police called anti-state reports .
a court in the central city of nha trang upheld quynh s sentence , one of her lawyers said .
this sentence is not objective and is unfair , the lawyer , ha huy son , told reuters by telephone .
quynh said she is innocent and she carried out her right as a citizen .
vietnam s state news agency confirmed the outcome of the appeal .
the hearing was public and in accordance with vietnamese law , foreign ministry spokeswoman le thi thu hang added .
quynh s mother said she was among those outside the court protesting against the verdict when plainclothes policemen approached and beat them .
the police beat me repeatedly , nguyen tuyet lan , the mother , told reuters , adding that police detained three activists .
reuters was not able to reach police for comment .
in march 2009 , quynh spent nine days in police detention for receiving funds from viet tan , a california-based activist group which vietnam calls a terrorist group , to print t-shirts with slogans against a major bauxite project , police said .
she has also spoken out against a subsidiary of taiwan s formosa plastics corp that caused one of vietnam s biggest environmental disasters in april .
the european union , whose representatives were denied access to the appeal hearing , urged that quynh be immediately and unconditionally released , its vietnam delegation said on friday , ahead of an annual human rights session in hanoi .
a u.s. diplomat in vietnam said she was deeply troubled that quynh s conviction was upheld .
the united states calls on vietnam to release ms quynh and all prisoners of conscience immediately , and to allow all individuals in vietnam to express their views freely and assemble peacefully , caryn mcclelland , the u.s. charg d affaires , said in a statement .
new york-based human rights watch called the hearing a farce .
the proceedings were a farce , with the judge simply going through the motions before issuing the harsh verdict predetermined by the ruling communist party , upholding her long prison sentence , said phil robertson , the group s deputy director for asia .