new york ( reuters ) - an election analysis conducted in the reuters/ipsos states of the nation project shows that the race has tightened considerably over the past few weeks , with republican presidential nominee donald trump projected to win florida , an essential battleground state , if the election were held today .
the project , which is based on a weekly tracking poll of more than 15,000 americans , shows that the 2016 presidential race could end in a photo finish on nov. 8 , with the major-party candidates running nearly even in the electoral college , the body that ultimately selects the president .
the states of the nation project , which delivers a weekly tally of support for the candidates in every state , shows that the race has tightened in several traditional battlegrounds .
pennsylvania has been moved from a likely win for democratic presidential nominee hillary clinton to a tossup ; ohio has been moved from a tossup to a likely win for clinton .
and florida is now considered a likely win for the republican nominee , with 50 percent support for trump to 46 percent support for clinton .
if the election were held today , the project estimates that clinton has a 60 percent chance of winning by 18 electoral votes .
last week , the project estimated that clinton had a 83 percent chance of winning the election .
in a separate national reuters/ipsos tracking poll , clinton continues to lead trump by 4 percentage points , and her recent bout with pneumonia doesn ’ t appear to have scared away her supporters .
the national sept. 9-15 tracking poll showed that 42 percent of likely voters supported clinton while 38 percent backed trump .
clinton , who has mostly led trump in the poll since the democratic and republican national conventions ended in july , regained the advantage this week after her lead briefly faded in late august .
clinton has an advantage among minorities , women , people who make more than $ 75,000 a year , and those with moderate political leanings .
trump has an advantage with whites , men , avid churchgoers , and people who are nearing retirement age .
overall , americans appear to be relatively uninspired by their choices for president with less than eight weeks to go before the election .
one out of every five likely voters said they do not support clinton or trump for president .
in comparison , about one out of every 10 likely voters wouldn ’ t support obama or republican challenger mitt romney at a similar point in the 2012 presidential campaign .
respondents took the survey after video surfaced of clinton nearly collapsing at a sept. 11 memorial in new york on sunday .
her campaign later said she had a non-contagious , bacterial form of pneumonia .
the video sparked a renewed discussion about the health of both candidates .
trump , 70 , would be the oldest president to take office , while clinton , 68 , would be the second oldest .
clinton and trump candidates have since released details of their personal health .
clinton ’ s doctors said her physical exam was normal , apart from the pneumonia , and that she was in excellent mental condition .
trump released a note from his doctor saying that he was in “ excellent physical health. ” americans do not appear to be overly concerned with the health of either candidate .
according to a separate question in the poll conducted this week , most american adults said the issue would make “ no difference ” to how they voted .
a negligible percentage of clinton supporters said concerns about her health made them “ less likely ” to vote for her .
clinton led all candidates in a four-way poll of likely voters that included gary johnson of the libertarian party and jill stein of the green party .
seven percent of respondents supported johnson , and 2 percent backed stein .
the reuters/ipsos poll is conducted online in english in all 50 states .
the latest horserace poll surveyed 1,579 likely voters over the past week .
the question on the candidates ’ health surveyed 1,179 american adults from sept. 12-16 .
both polls had a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .
national polls have produced varying measurements of support during the 2016 campaign for clinton and trump .
the differences are partly due to the fact that some polls , like reuters/ipsos , try to include only likely voters , while others include all registered voters .
the reuters/ipsos tracking poll gathers responses every day and reports results twice a week , so it often detects trends in sentiment before most other polls .
polling aggregators , which calculate averages of major polls , have shown that clinton ’ s lead over trump has been shrinking this month .
the most recent individual polls put clinton ’ s advantage at 1 or 2 percentage points .