i just happened to be listening to rush today and want to pass this on to everyone .
please share this and stop the false story being reported to try and bring down trump .
it s bad enough that the lefty media is trying to take down trump with big lies , but now it s the establishment republicans like kasich who re doing the trump trashing .
shame on them ! transcript of rush limbaugh explaining the big lie told about trump : rush : now , i don t know if you have seen it yet today .
there are stories all over the drive-by media the associated press , yahoo news , i mean , it s everywhere that donald trump supposedly is calling for the registration of all muslims in america .
trump is demanding that they all be registered and that a massive database be collected .
cnn is all over reporting this .
even the wall street journal has picked up on it .
there s a problem , though : trump didn t say it .
i m gon na tell you what happened .
at a recent public appearance trump s coming off the stage after one of his usual one hour to 90-minute appearances.he s probably worn out and spent , and there s the usual crowd of autograph seekers and supporters and fans , and amongst them is a drive-by media reporter who says to trump , should there be a database system that tracks the muslims that are in this country ?
trump says , there should be a lot of systems , beyond databases .
we should have a lot of systems , and today you can do it .
but right now we have to have a border .
we have to have strength , we have to have a wall , and we can not let what s happening to this country happen again .
reporter : is that something your white house would like to implement ?
there s no specificity there .
the question is just , is that something your white house would like to implement ?
trump has given a multifaceted answer .
she says , is that something , without specifying what she s asking about .
trump said , oh , i would certainly implement that , absolutely , and that s how they report that trump demands a database and registration for all muslims , when he didn t say it !
he never said it .
it s a journalism 101 trick .
it s right out of the manual they teach you at the first year of journalism school in how to destroy political opponents or powerful people you don t like .
it s that common a technique.break transcriptrush : now , i m not sure , but i think that the reporter that asked trump the question and has totally , totally twisted this purposefully to convey something that did not happen , i think the reporter works for business insider .
i think the reporter is hunter walker .
if that s who it is , you need to know that this guy is a major backer of hillary clinton , as most in the drive-by media are .
he has written endless articles championing her , and now i think he writes for yahoo news and is the business insider politics editor.so here is how this happened .
this is in newton , iowa , yesterday after a campaign event .
trump s leaving the stage , and a reporter says , should there be a database system to track muslims in this country ?
now , nobody has suggested that , keep in mind .
trump has not suggested it .
so the reporter s not asking a question bouncing off anything trump has said .
it s just a question thrown at trump , and it comes to him in the midst of autograph seekers and fans and supporters wanting to meet him after his performance is finished.trump : there should be a lot of systems beyond database .
we should have a lot of systems .
and today you can do it .
but right now we have to have a border .
we have to have strength .
we have to have a wall .
and we can not let what s happening to this country happen.reporter : but is it something your white house would like to implement ? trump : oh , i would certainly implement that , absolutely.reporter : what do you think the effect of that would be ?
how would that work ? trump : it would stop people from coming in illegally .
we have to stop people from coming into our country illegally.reporter : muslims specifically , how do you actually get them registered into a database ? trump : it would be just good management .
what you have to do is good management procedures .
and we can do that.reporter : would you go to mosques and sign these people up into the system ? trump : different places .
you sign em up at different but it s all about management .
our country has no management.rush : okay .
now , two things about this .
the first is , as i said , everybody in the drive-by media is running with this because they think they ve got trump again .
they re salivating out there , folks , they are hoping , they ve got their fingers crossed , they ve doubled down , they re putting this story everywhere : trump sexist , trump bigoted , trump anti-muslim , wants a database ; wants to go to their mosques to sign em up ; wants to have them carry around symbols on their clothes to tell everybody who they are .
and he never said it.this reporter , hunter walker , retweeted the headline from the ap .
the ap headline : trump says he would absolutely implement muslim database .
this little know-nothing reporter is so proud of his work today .
this , as i say , journalism 101 .
this is what they teach you when you want to take out a political opponent or a powerful person you don t like , this is how you do it , with innuendo.again , here s what happened .
trump comes offstage , should there be a database system that tracks muslims that are in this country ?
it s a setup question from the get-go .
nobody has suggested it .
trump said there should be a lot of systems beyond databases .
we should have a lot of systems .
and today you can do it , but right now we have to have a border .
we have to have strength .
we have to have a wall , and we can t let what s happening to this country happen again.he has not confirmed a database .
he has not confirmed registration of muslims .
he s changed the question to his favorite subject , the wall and the border and keeping illegal immigrants out .
the reporter says , is that something your white house would like to implement ?
not specifying .
if anything , the guy s talking about the border .
the last thing trump said in his answer was talking about the border , strength , a wall .
the reporter says , is that something your white house would like to implement ?
there is nothing specified .
the use of the word that , the reporter then can say , well , i meant muslim registration , look what trump said , trump knew what i was talking about .
but trump s answer was , oh , i would certainly implement that , absolutely .
reporter : what do you think the effect of that would be ?
it would stop people from coming in illegally .
trump s still talking about the border .
he s still talking about the wall .
he says , we have to stop people from coming into this country illegally .
so how in the world can trump be talking about the registration of muslims or anybody when he s still talking about keeping people out of the country ?
muslims are here .
this is a good , old-fashioned hatchet job by this low-rent reporter named hunter walker who s got everybody in the media reporting it the way he wants because this is what they want people to believe about trump .
this is what they believe about all republicans .
we re bigots , we re racists , sexists and so forth , and trump s just come along and confirmed it .
and i guarantee you there s a contest inside the drive-by media to see who can be the one to take trump out.here is what they are forgetting .
this isn t gon na hurt trump .
even their journalistic malpractice is not gon na hurt trump .
they haven t figured that out .
they keep applying standard , ordinary , everyday tactics on hit pieces to donald trump , and all that happens as a result is that trump increases his support .
trump s support gets stronger .
it gets deeper every time they try something like this because trump is dead serious about protecting this country and its borders and keeping terrorists and so forth out of the country .
he makes no bones about it .
he s one of the only candidates that s unwavering on it .
it s the number one issue.and you combine what s happening with isis in paris and border security , national security , protecting and defending the country and the people who live here is far and away the number one most important issue because everything descends from it .
the economy descends from it .
jobs descend from it .
everything that matters descends from this country remaining a country .
it has to have a border .
that border has to be enforced .
trump s the only guy talking about .
they think they ve got him .
they re gon na be crying in whatever it is they drink .
this is not going to rip the bottom out of trump s campaign .
it s not gon na destroy trump s campaign no matter how much they re lying , no matter how they try to distort this , because trump did not say he s in favor of registration or a database of all muslims in america.and once again , what s gon na happen here is an ever increasingly aware and sophisticated public is gon na just get angrier and angrier at the usual childish tactics of the very unrespected drive-by media .
once the public learns what s happened here , the anger is not gon na be at trump .
there wouldn t have been that much anger at trump anyway among his supporters .
that s what they don t understand .
you people in the media have got to understand something .
you re gon na have to go about this a different way .
you didn t make trump ; you can t destroy him .
there s nothing you can do .
and look at the lengths they re now going to try .
exactly what they did to romney , by the way .
this is no different than harry reid saying , mitt romney hasn t paid his taxes in ten years .
hey , look at mitt romney putting the family dog on top of the station wagon .
hey , mitt romney , one of his employees wives died of cancer , romney didn t care , went ahead and canceled the health care plan , didn t care .
i don t think this guy s questions were even registering with trump .
i think trump continued to talk with his own framework in mind , meaning his focus on the wall .
because if you continue on with the sound bite keep in mind here that trump s never talked about registering or having a database of muslims .
the reporter asks a fake question : is that something your white house would do , like to implement ?
trump answers , yeah .
he keeps talking about the wall .
he keeps talking about the border .
oh , i would certainly implement that , absolutely .
trump s still talking about the border.the reporter says , what do you think the effect of that would be ?
how would that work ?
trump : it would stop people from coming in illegally .
he s still talking about the border .
he s still talking about his wall .
we have to stop people from coming in illegally .
reporter : for muslims specifically , how do you actually get them registered in your database ?
trump has never said that he wants to register them in his database .
he s talking about the wall .
he s talking about the border .
this idiot , talentless reporter says , well , for muslims specifically , how do you actually get them registered in your database ?
trump says , it would be good management .
what you have to do is good management procedures , and we can do that .
he s still talking about the wall .
he s not even listening to this kid .
he s walking out of there , he s answering the question , he s got it answered , he s on the wall , he s on the border , that s what he s talking about.when it s all over the reporter makes it up that trump s talking about registration of muslims and a database .
totally makes it up .
anyway , i got ta take a break here .
i just wanted you to see this .
i wanted you to hear it , the reporter s own words , trump s own words because it s been picked up everywhere , and , mark my words , the next poll that comes out , trump s just gon na jump even higher and they re not gon na know what to do with themselves in the drive-bys .
but you people in the media are gon na have to learn something .
when you don t make somebody , you can t destroy him .
and you haven t made trump .
the media has nothing to do with why trump s where he is , and therefore you can t take him out .
you can try , you may think you can , but he s got a bond , a connection with his supporters and his audience that you people are not gon na be able to break no matter how hard you try.break transcriptrush : so you know how this works ?
i just got an e-mail from a friend of mine who plays around on facebook , and he sent me a screenshot of his facebook post that he sent out , and he wants me to know that he s on top things .
he says , yeah , trump wants to register all muslims .
the last guy that wanted to do that was hitler with the jews !
come on , folks !
we re going backwards .
so i just had to write him back : hey , buddy , you ve got it 180 degrees wrong .
trump didn t say it !
this is a guy that reads the news all day .
this is exactly how this happens .
you ve got every drive-by news source now reporting this.originali m not sure who the reporter was that actually got this whole thing started , but there are the suspects who have taken what that kid did and expanded it are all over the place .
you could mention any drive-by name out there and you d be pretty close to being accurate about who did this .
i m not exactly sure who the reporter was at the trump event .
i was told one thing and now i m told that that s not necessarily true .
but the guy s name i gave you is still responsible for expanding , amplifying , and leading this .
that hunter walker is who kicked it all off .
doesn t really matter.i mean , they re all the same stripe , and they ve all got the same objective here .
and this e-mail i just got from a friend of mine who s not an idiot , and you know , he s not a casual consumer of news .
it s in the wall street journal .
this guy s a financial guy .
he read it in the wall street journal , and the wall street journal to these guys is gospel .
i have tried to tell every friend of mine , and it s probably gone for naught .
i ve tried to tell them just based on the way i get covered , and they know me and they know what s written about me is all bogus .
i said , could you not apply that to every story you hear , particularly about people you support ?
could you just learn to not believe anything you read if it s defaming republicans in the drive-by media ?
could you just learn to be suspicious of it and try to confirm it on your own ?
( sigh ) but it doesn t work that way .
people believe it .
there it is !
it s in print .
it s right there , or , it s on my screen , rush !
i mean , they can t write stuff that isn t true !
i can t tell you how often i hear that .
so trump s gon na i don t know how he s gon na deal with this .
he will , but ( sigh ) let me i m gon na go ahead and get in trouble myself here .
can i give you what i think might have happened with a lot of people when they first saw this bs story ? what do you think ?
you re driving around or you re reading or whatever and you hear , trump wants to register all muslims !
( interruption ) yeah .
( chuckles ) get my drift ?
so i m just marveling here .
i m thankful for the opportunity .
i m thankful i haven t retired .
i m thankful i ve still got this program and a chance to come here every day and illustrate the dishonest , the reprehensible , the just scummy way these people work .
and each time i see something like this , i focus even more on , they re not media !
this isn t media !
this isn t the news .
the media is the democrat party .
the media is all part of the left-wing establishment that s trying to advance the democrat party agenda.every time i see a story like , trump has to fight media here or overcome media , i ask : why would you have to overcome the media ?
the media s just a bunch of journalists telling people what happened who weren t there .
( thumps table ) of course , this is the exact opposite .
everybody knows now , or many people .
and even people who know what the media is , still get sucked in and believe this stuff .
but when you read the transcript of what trump said , when you actually read it or hear it and then compare it to the news being reported , you can t escape the fact that the media s making it up ; that trump never said it.read more : rush limbaugh