karachi ( reuters ) - for an estimated 300,000 rohingya muslims living in squalor in pakistan s largest city , the news from myanmar in the past two weeks is reviving painful memories of the violence that drove many of them here half a century ago .
some say they have got word of relatives being killed in myanmar s rakhine state or are not being able to contact family members .
karachi s rohingya community comprises migrants from an earlier era of displacement dating back to the 1960s and 70s .
despite decades in a foreign land , they have stayed in touch with family back home , especially in recent years through mobile phones and social media .
in the past two weeks , nearly 300,000 rohingya have fled to bangladesh after the myanmar military launched an offensive in response to a series of attacks by rohingya insurgents on police posts and an army base .
hundreds of homes in rohingya villages have been burned and about 400 people have been killed .
the older members of karachi s rohingya community fled from a repressive military regime that took power in 1962 , escaping on foot or by boat to bangladesh , which was then east pakistan .
eventually , they made their way to karachi .
most of the people living in the slum called arakanabad were born in pakistan , or fled violence in their homeland decades ago .
it s named for arakan , which was what rakhine used to be called .
raheela sadiq , a more recent migrant who came to pakistan 15 years ago , said she has been unable to contact relatives in rakhine via mobile phone for nearly two weeks .
i have seen what is happening to people over there on the internet , she said as tears filled her eyes .
videos and pictures depicting violence in rakhine and shared on social media are passed around quickly in arakanabad , adding to fears and anxiety about relatives back home .
fisherman noor mohammed , 50 , said three members of his family in rakhine were killed a few days ago .
my brother , brother-in-law , and nephew were there ( in rakhine ) .
they are all dead now .
the army over there killed them , he said , adding that he heard the news from another nephew who is still alive .
hoor bahar , 60 , said she left rakhine with her husband over 30 years ago when her mother and sister were killed .
i have one sister left who went to bangladesh seven to 10 days ago , she added .
however , she said , her sister is being held on a beach by boatmen who brought her from rakhine and are demanding $ 350 as payment .
arakanabad smells of fish .
the rohingya who live here largely work on fishing boats , or clean the catch brought by fishermen who set sail from the nearby korangi creek .
most of them say they are not able to obtain pakistani identity cards , essential for opening bank accounts , enrolling children in schools , using public hospitals , and even getting a job .
fishing boats , where identity cards are not asked for , are one of the few employment options left although fishermen can sometimes be asked for identification by coast guards .
there is no policy in pakistan for the rohingya , said noor hussain , the pakistan head of the rohingya solidarity organization , pointing out that the without state-issued identity cards the community can not progress .
thousands of rohingya families are crammed into the one-room cement brick houses that line the narrow streets of arakanabad .
children play amidst knee-high garbage , and crowd around to share slices of jello topped with sugar , or other sweetmeats sold by hawkers .
the community is living in extremely difficult circumstances , and our youth is being destroyed because they can not get an education , said hussain .
despite the poverty , the community raised around 1.5 million rupees ( $ 15,000 ) over the eid al-adha holidays earlier this month to help refugees fleeing rakhine .
our community is not a burden on pakistan , hussain said .
the government of pakistan is making millions of dollars by exporting the fish our people catch , he said , adding that giving citizenship rights to the rohingya would only benefit the country .