washington ( reuters ) - members of u.s. congressional defense committees said on wednesday they supported a plan for $ 700 billion in defense spending in fiscal year 2018 , backing president donald trump ’ s call for a boost for the military .
the house of representatives and the senate armed services committees agreed on the national defense authorization act , or ndaa , which would increase troop levels and purchases of fighter jets and ships for the federal fiscal year that began on oct. 1 .
the act would increase active troop levels by more than 16,000 and includes plans to buy 90 stealthy f-35 fighter jets made by lockheed martin corp .
the spending plan is larger than the $ 603 billion in spending proposed by trump in may .
trump wants to pay for a military spending increase by slashing non-defense spending .
the trump proposal included funding for the department of defense as well as nuclear weapons programs at the department of energy and other national defense programs .
senior staff for the armed services committees said the ndaa gives $ 634 billion for the same programs , with total defense spending , including the pentagon and defense related programs at the federal bureau of investigation and other agencies to $ 699.6 billion .
the pentagon alone would get $ 692 billion of that , including $ 65.7 billion for ongoing operations in iraq and afghanistan .
to become law the ndaa must be passed by both the house and senate and signed into law by trump .
the bill , one of the few pieces of legislation that gets through congress every year , has passed every year since 1961 .
the request for defense spending is well beyond last year ’ s $ 619 billion , defying “ sequestration ” spending caps set in the 2011 budget control act .
the caps would need to be lifted before the 2018 spending could be approved .
in addition to more active-duty troops , the spending plan incorporates additional money recently requested for missile defense .
[ nl1n1nc20q ] the proposal also gives the navy authorization for an additional five ships above trump ’ s original budget request .
the ships include an arleigh burke-class destroyer made by general dynamics corp and huntington ingalls industries inc and a total of three littoral combat ships built by lockheed martin and australia ’ s austal ltd .