washington/new york ( reuters ) - opposition has grown among americans to a republican tax plan before the u.s. congress , with 49 percent of people who were aware of the measure saying they opposed it , up from 41 percent in october , according to a reuters/ipsos poll released on wednesday .
congressional republicans are trying to rush their tax legislation to a vote on the senate floor before the end of the week .
president donald trump strongly backs the bill and wants to sign it into law before the end of the year .
in addition to the 49 percent who said they opposed the republican tax bill , 29 percent said they supported it and 22 percent said they “ don ’ t know , ” according to the reuters/ipsos opinion poll of 1,257 adults conducted from thursday to monday .
when asked “ who stands to benefit most ” from the plan , more than half of all american adults surveyed selected either the wealthy or large u.s. corporations .
fourteen percent chose “ all americans , ” 6 percent picked the middle class and 2 percent chose lower-income americans .
the tax bill being crafted in the senate would slash the corporate tax rate , eliminate some taxes paid only by rich americans and offer a mixed bag or temporary tax cuts for other individuals and families .
as congressional discussion on the bill has unfolded , public opposition to it has risen , on average , following trump ’ s unveiling of a nine-page “ framework ” on sept. 27 that started the debate in earnest , reuters/ipsos polling showed .
on oct. 24 , for example , among adults who said they had heard of the “ tax reform plan recently proposed by congressional republicans , ” 41 percent said they opposed it , while 31 percent said they “ don ’ t know ” and just 28 percent said they supported it .
trump and his fellow republicans are determined to make a tax code overhaul their first major legislative win since taking control of the white house and congress in january .
the house of representatives on nov. 16 approved its own tax bill .
the senate is expected to decide on wednesday whether to begin debating its proposal , as the measure moves toward a decisive floor vote later this week .
the two chambers would need to reconcile differences between their plans before legislation could be sent to the white house for trump ’ s signature .
in the nov. 23-27 poll , 59 percent of republicans supported the tax bill , 26 percent said they did not know and 15 percent opposed it .
among democrats , 82 percent opposed it , 11 percent said they did not know and 8 percent supported it .
the online poll has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .