eric holder was embroiled in some sort of controversy for most of the time he served as obama s choice for attorney general .
he was the key figure in the fast and furious gun-running scandal with mexico , and was also involved in the irs scandal that targeted conservatives and conservative leaning organizations .
holder also was instrumental in fanning the flames of the trayvon martin case in sanford , florida .
while he was acting as our nation s attorney general , he was caught by judicial watch spending our taxpayer dollars to deploy a little-known unit of the department of justice ( doj ) , the community relations service ( crs ) to sanford , fl , following the trayvon martin shooting to help organize and manage rallies and protests against george zimmerman .
holder was also present in ferguson where he did absolutely nothing to stop the rioting and chaos .
california lawmakers already are preparing for a legal brawl with the donald trump administration and they ve got president obama s former top attorney in their corner.top state democratic lawmakers announced wednesday that former attorney general eric holder has been tapped as outside counsel to advise the legislature on potential challenges with the trump government .
he will lead a team from the covington & burling law firm , where he s been working since leaving the obama administration in 2015 .
with the upcoming change in administrations , we expect that there will be extraordinary challenges for california in the uncertain times ahead , california senate president pro tempore kevin de le n and assembly speaker anthony rendon said in a statement .
this is a critical moment in the history of our nation .
we have an obligation to defend the people who elected us and the policies and diversity that make california an example of what truly makes our nation great .
they said holder and his team will advise in our efforts to resist any attempts to roll back the progress california has made .
the statement did not specify which policies they anticipate will cause friction , though california s numerous sanctuary cities are likely to face challenges from an administration that has threatened to pull their federal funding .
fox newssets forth articles of impeachment stating that holder : ( 1 ) engaged in a pattern of conduct incompatible with the trust and confidence placed in him in that position by refusing to comply with a subpoena issued by the house committee on oversight and government reform on october 12 , 2011 , in connection with a congressional investigation into operation fast and furious by the bureau of alcohol , tobacco , and firearms ( atf ) ; ( 2 ) failed to enforce multiple laws , including the defense of marriage act , the controlled substances act , and the anti-drug abuse act of 1986 ; ( 3 ) failed his oath of office by refusing to prosecute individuals involved in the internal revenue service ( irs ) scandal of unauthorized disclosure of tax records belonging to political donors ; and ( 4 ) testified under oath before congress on may 15 , 2013 , that he was neither involved in nor had heard of a potential prosecution of the press but later confirmed to the house judiciary committee in a letter dated june 19 , 2013 , that he approved of a search warrant on journalist james rosen .
in an interview with the los angeles times , de le n suggested holder s team will work on issues like immigration , climate change , the environment and voting rights .
the unorthodox arrangement assigns to holder s team some duties that normally would be handled by the state s top law enforcement official , the california attorney general .
gov .
jerry brown has nominated democratic rep. xavier becerra for that job.holder was one of obama s longest-serving and most controversial cabinet members.he had a contentious relationship with congressional republicans , who in 2012 voted to hold him in contempt of congress for not turning over documents on the fast and furious gun-walking scandal .
fox news