( reuters ) - the financially distressed city of scranton , pennsylvania , will soon sell its public sewer utility to a subsidiary of american water works company inc. for $ 195 million , a city official said on tuesday .
the deal would mark another step forward in the city ’ s efforts to stabilize its budget .
an old steel and coal town known as the electric city and as the setting for the television series “ the office , ” scranton ’ s finances have been under state oversight since 1992 .
the city ’ s previous administration made headlines in 2012 when it cut police and firefighter pay to minimum wage for two weeks because it could not make payroll .
“ without this deal the city wouldn ’ t have been able to survive , financially anyway , ” mayor william courtright said late 9on monday in televised remarks on the sewer utility sale .
the scranton sewer authority ’ s board authorized the sale to pennsylvania american water late on monday , city solicitor jason a. shrive told reuters .
before the transaction can close , it needs governmental approvals from state public utility regulators and state and federal environmental protection agencies .
the deal is expected to save the city $ 350 million over 30 years , plus another $ 140 million the authority must spend on environmental mediation under a consent decree .
ratepayers will likely see their rates increase on average 1.9 percent per year for the next 10 years , shrive said , compared to 4.5 to 5 percent every year for the next 30 years if there were no sale .
that amounts to $ 7,600 of savings total for each ratepayer over the next three decades , shrive said .
a spokeswoman for pennsylvania american water , which already owns scranton ’ s drinking water system , declined to comment .
nationally , american water expanded its customer base in 2015 by nearly 42,000 customers , with just over half of those coming from acquisitions that closed that year , according to a transcript of the company ’ s fourth-quarter earnings call in february .
earlier this month , scranton city officials also disclosed details of a $ 31.5 million deal to pay off a long-overdue labor award inherited from the previous administration .
the city will pay about $ 29.3 million in back pay to police and firefighters , including retirees , and put a total of $ 1.59 million into the city ’ s public pension funds .
these steps , combined with a planned long-term lease of the city ’ s parking authority that could be finalized by june , could get the city out of the state oversight program for distressed cities by the end of 2017 , shrive said .