wellington ( reuters ) - the leader of the small nationalist party that will decide new zealand s next government said on wednesday that huge progress had been made in coalition talks , but he has dropped a self-imposed deadline of oct. 12 to announce the new government .
prime minister bill english s ruling national party won 56 seats at the sept. 23 election , while a labour-green bloc have 54 seats , leaving both needing new zealand first s nine seats to meet the 61 seats needed for a majority in parliament .
we re making huge progress finding what we agree on , what we don t agree on , what we can still negotiate on , where we might take things into the future by co-operation , nz first leader winston peters said after four days of talks .
peters told local media on tuesday evening that he would not be ready to announce his choice by thursday - a self-imposed deadline .
peters has held the balance of power now three times and has previously served in both national and labour governments .
the new zealand dollar has fallen around 3.7 percent since the election against the u.s. dollar .
the political uncertainty this week took the currency to its lowest levels since late may at $ 0.7052 .
the kiwi has also been under pressure over concerns new zealand first would see the new government adopt more economically interventionist policies .
the party favors restrictions on foreign ownership and more central bank intervention in the foreign exchange market .
on tuesday , peters fueled those concerns by telling reporters that exporters would welcome the recent fall in the local dollar , adding : if you re an export-dependent nation , why would you persist with an inflated dollar ?
on wednesday , the kiwi recovered ground , climbing to $ 0.7095 , its highest since before the final election tally was released on saturday .
investors were taking advantage of the lull before peters announces his decision to buy the currency while it was cheap and get out of short positions , according to brokers .
it s still anyone s guess which way the penny s going to drop with nz first and people that have been short on the kiwi will suddenly be thinking : i may as well take some risk off the table here , said stuart ive , wellington-based dealer at om financial .