brussels ( reuters ) - nato allies extended jens stoltenberg s term as secretary-general of the western military alliance until late 2020 on tuesday , giving the former norwegian prime minister a rare six-year mandate in the top job .
stoltenberg , who took up the post on oct. 1 2014 , will now step down two years later than planned on sept. 30 2020 , after strong support from germany and the united states , nato s dominant power , which has welcomed his efforts to increase defense spending in europe .
french president emmanuel macron and british prime minister theresa may both congratulated stoltenberg on tuesday .
if he completes his term as the alliance s top civilian , stoltenberg would be the first nato chief to serve a six-year term since germany s manfred worner , who died in office in 1994 .
the post has always gone to a european and at a time when the trump administration is at odds with many of its allies on a host of foreign policy issues , stoltenberg is seen by many as a skilful operator and consensus-builder .
stoltenberg , 58 , who visited donald trump at the white house in april and hosted the u.s. president in brussels in may , said transatlantic ties would be a priority for the remainder of his term .
my main task is to maintain that unity , he told reporters , referring to relations between north america and europe .
stoltenberg has also struck a more conciliatory tone towards moscow than his danish predecessor anders fogh rasmussen , even as he has overseen nato s biggest military build-up since the end of the cold war , prompted by russia s 2014 seizure of crimea and its support for separatists in eastern ukraine .
i believe in dialogue with russia but i am also here to ensure security in europe , he said .
nato , seen by some as a cold war relic until the crimea annexation , has gained new relevance as the west confronts a resurgent russia , state-sponsored computer hackers , security threats on its borders and militant attacks on european cities .
stoltenberg has also thrown his weight behind diplomatic efforts to contain the north korea nuclear crisis , visiting u.s. allies japan and south korea in october .