the race card thing is getting old fast the austin county sheriff s office released the dash camera video of a july 14 traffic stop of state representative garnet coleman tuesday to refute claims coleman made last week about being disrespected and treated like a child .
coleman , as the chair of the committee on county affairs , held a hearing last thursday in austin as the first public inquiry into the arrest and death of sandra bland in waller county .
in that hearing , coleman recounted his own history of being pulled over in traffic stops and gave this account of an i-10 traffic stop that happened just two weeks ago .
he talked to me like i was a child , he said of the sheriff s deputy who pulled him over for speeding .
he was so rude and nasty .
even when he found out i was a legislator , he became more rude and nasty .
and i didn t understand why this guy was continuing to go on and on and treat me like a child .
and basically like i m saying is treat me like a boy .
i want to be very clear about that , coleman said in the committee hearing .
via : breaking 911khou the texas municipal police association , the harris county deputies organization , the houston police officers union and the dallas police union all issued demands for coleman to apologize for his fabrication of the events in the traffic stop .
sheriff brandes asked coleman to apologize for his remarks about the sheriff s deputy .
instead , coleman seemed to double down on the race card boy word .
they may not have [ thought it was rude ] , coleman told khou .
but they weren t sitting in my seat .
and , if you know the history of my people , you know that being treated like a child or a boy is not something that we accept very well .
the houston police officers union ( hpou ) issued a strong rebuke to coleman .
our organization has supported representative coleman during his tenure in the texas legislature , however , since representative coleman refuses to own up to the fact that his statements in committee regarding the stop were in fact not true and completely out of line , we have no choice but to discontinue our support of him .
via : weasel zippers black democratic texas state rep claims mistreatment by police during traffic stop , video shows anything but