( reuters ) - an evergreen crop of elite quarterbacks featuring tom brady , aaron rodgers and ben roethlisberger , offer the promise of a dazzling super bowl tournament with the playoffs getting underway this weekend .
joining that trio is twice super bowl most valuable player eli manning of the new york giants , former super bowl champion russell wilson of seattle seahawks and league mvp candidate matt ryan of the atlanta falcons , underlining the importance of the quarterback in the gridiron game .
oddsmakers installed afc top seeds new england patriots , who have won four super bowls with brady at the helm , as 2-1 favorites to win the title , followed by the nfc top-seeded dallas cowboys at 4-1 .
“ i thought the players and the coaching staff have both done a great job this year of being focused and looking just at what ’ s in front of us ... not getting caught up in other distractions , ” said patriots coach bill belichick , whose team finished with seven straight wins .
the patriots made their way despite missing brady , 39 , for the first four games due to a suspension stemming back to the deflategate controversy in the playoffs two years ago .
brady , a three-time super bowl mvp , and the patriots ( 14-2 ) enjoy a first-round bye along with the kansas city chiefs ( 12-4 ) , who are led by quarterback and former first overall draft pick alex smith .
rodgers , a super bowl mvp , led the green bay packers ( 10-6 ) on a rousing charge into the postseason finishing with six straight victories , while two-time super bowl winner roethlisberger steered the pittsburgh steelers through an 11-5 campaign .
the green bay quarterback predicted the packers could sweep the rest of their games after struggling to a 4-6 start .
“ that ’ s what you have to do sometimes as a leader , ” rodgers said after sunday ’ s victory over the detroit lions to clinch the nfc north title .
“ exude confidence even when it seems to the outside world confidence shouldn ’ t exist. ” bucking the trend favoring experience at quarterback were the young dallas cowboys ( 13-3 ) , who were led by rookie quarterback dak prescott and first-year running back ezekiel elliott , the nfl rushing leader .
atlanta ( 11-5 ) are the nfc second seeds , and will take the week off along with dallas .
the wild card round opens on saturday with the oakland raiders ( 12-4 ) , devastated by the loss of starting quarterback derek carr to injury , taking on the houston texans ( 9-7 ) , who are also playing a back-up signal caller .
the defensive-minded seahawks ( 10-5-1 ) , who have been to two of the last three super bowls , host the lions ( 9-7 ) and their strong-armed quarterback matthew stafford .
on sunday , roethlisberger and the steelers host the miami dolphins ( 10-6 ) , followed by a frigid meeting at lambeau field between the giants ( 11-5 ) and the packers ( 10-6 ) .