washington ( reuters ) - baltimore community organizer perry hopkins , 55 , is looking forward to stepping into a voting booth for the first time in his life this election season .
hopkins lost his never-exercised right to vote when he was convicted for drug and other offenses .
he gained it back last month when maryland joined a growing list of u.s. states making it easier for ex-convicts to vote .
“ to have the right to vote now is empowering .
i ’ m stoked , ” said hopkins , who spent a total of 19 years in prison for non-violent crimes , and was one of 40,000 in the state to regain his right to vote from a legislative action .
“ i plan to vote in every election possible .
i ’ m voting for mayor , i ’ m voting for city councilman in my district , and , yes , i ’ m voting for president , ” said hopkins .
he hopes to vote for former secretary of state hillary clinton , the front-runner in the race for the democratic presidential nomination , on nov. 8 .
hopkins is among some 800,000 americans who have regained the right to vote in the last two decades as about two dozen states have eased restrictions on felons casting ballots , according to the sentencing project , a prison reform advocacy group .
the restoration of voting rights has drawn support from both democrats and republicans as a way to improve prisoners ’ reintegration into society .
“ the trend is to reconsidering policies and scaling back ( restrictions ) .
there are setbacks on the way , but the trend is in that direction , ” said mark mauer , the sentencing project ’ s executive director .
advocates contend it is also a way of promoting racial justice , as african-americans are convicted of crimes and sent to prison at about twice the rate of the overall u.s. population .
of the 5.8 million americans banned from voting , 2.2 million are african-american , according to the group .
in three states - virginia , florida and kentucky - more than a fifth of black residents outside of prison are barred from casting a ballot .
about 13 percent of the u.s. population is african-american .
wyoming ’ s republican-controlled legislature last year restored voting rights to felons convicted of non-violent crimes .
a lawsuit before the iowa supreme court aims to strike down the state ’ s voting restriction .
iowa , along with kentucky and florida , have the country ’ s harshest rules , prohibiting all ex-felons from voting unless they secure an exemption from the governor .
in kentucky , outgoing democratic governor steve beshear signed an executive order in november granting the vote to non-violent offenders who had finished their sentences , including parole .
his successor , republican matt bevin , rolled back the order , saying beshear had acted without approval of the legislature .
at least 60,000 california inmates had voting rights extended to them in august when state officials dropped their challenge to a court ruling that allowed newly released felons to cast ballots .
“ we ’ re seeing more of these proposals .
i do think that change takes time , it ’ s an issue that we ’ ve seen people come around to , ” said tomas lopez , a counsel at the brennan center for justice in new york , who tracks felon disenfranchisement .
while the initiatives have seen bipartisan support in some states , that breaks down on the presidential campaign trail .
among democrats , u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont has a plank in his platform calling for the restoration of voting rights to ex-inmates .
former secretary of state hillary clinton has called on the campaign trail for felons to get rights back .
none of the three republican candidates - real estate magnate donald trump , u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas and ohio governor john kasich - mention felons ’ voting rights in their platforms .
the united states has a patchwork of state laws governing felons ’ voting rights , many dating from the 19th century .
they range from two states - maine and vermont - that allow prison inmates to vote , to the lifetime bans .
re-enfranchising felons has drawn uncommon political bedfellows , with the liberal american civil liberties union aligned with mark holden , the general counsel for koch industries , the conglomerate controlled by conservative political donors charles and david koch .
efforts are also under way in congress , often the scene of bitter partisan divide , to address the issue .
senator rand paul , a kentucky republican , has sponsored a bill that would restore voting rights in federal elections to ex-felons without violent offenses .
democrat harry reid of nevada , the senate minority leader , is co-sponsor .
the american correctional association , the police executive research forum and the american probation and parole association also have backed the trend as potentially helping to reduce crime .
a 2011 study by the florida parole board showed that ex-offenders who were able to vote were one-third as likely to end up back in prison .
“ to continue to place a scarlet letter on an individual as if they had a life sentence is just wrong , ” said veronica cunningham , the parole association ’ s executive director .
( this version of the story corrects the last name of counsel to lopez instead of perez in paragraph 15 )