can you believe a first grader was investigated for whether she intentionally misgendered a fellow student who decided to identify from a boy to a girl ?
this is just too much for a young child to process .
you really won t believe what this little girl went through .
what would you do as a parent of a child who was punished because of misgendering ? apparently , misgendering is a thing now a californian first grader was sent to the principal s office this week after allegedly misgendering a transgender student .
the incident reportedly took place at california s rocklin academy , in the school playground , where the female student called her biologically male classmate by his given name apparently unaware that the boy now identified as a girl , according to fox news .
this innocent little first grader sees a classmate , calls him by the name she knew him last year and the boy reports it to a teacher , claimed karen england , from the capitol resource institute .
the little girl gets in trouble on the playground and then gets called out of class to the principal s office .
during her visit to the principal s office , the child was reportedly investigated to determine whether or not she had bullied the transgender child by calling him by his original name .
after about an hour it was determined the little girl made an honest mistake and she was not punished or reprimanded .
but she was terribly traumatized by the incident , fox news claimed.after the child returned home upset , her mother wrote a letter to the school .
i stressed over and over with the principal that i am all for protecting the rights of [ the transgender child ] , but my children have rights as well , wrote the mother in her letter .
it makes me sad that my daughter felt like she was punished for trying to be kind to the kid .
in response , the mother was allegedly told that whenever there is a pronoun mishap with this biological boy who now claims to be a girl the school must investigate .
read more : breitbart