paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron laid out his vision for reform of the european union on tuesday , detailing a desire for a major overhaul of the single currency bloc and ideas on deeper defense and immigration cooperation .
macron was setting out his ideas before german chancellor angela merkel begins the task of building a coalition government after she suffered a sharp fall in support in sunday s election , which may hamper her ability to help him deliver reform .
below are highlights from his speech : a more fragile europe is today exposed to waves of globalization .
the only path that assures our future is the rebuilding of a europe that is sovereign , united and democratic .
at the beginning of the next decade , europe must have a joint intervention force , a common defense budget and a joint doctrine for action .
we must provide europe with a joint civil protection force .
it is only with europe that we can efficiently protect our borders and welcome those who need protection in a dignified manner , and at the same time send back those who are not eligible for asylum .
we must create a european asylum office , which accelerates and harmonizes our procedures .
says he wants the gradual creation of a european border police to assure the better protection of europe s borders .
we can no longer see africa as a threat but as a partner .
development aid must be increased .
we need a tax on carbon at the borders of europe .
this is indispensable .
studies show that a carbon price below 25-30 euros per tonne is not efficient .
macron says europe needs an agency for disruptive innovation ... let us finance research in new areas such as artificial intelligence .
we can not accept that there are european firms that are taxed and internationals one that are not .
says he wants eu heads of states to take up the issue of a tax on value where it is created , which will enable us to review our tax systems profoundly , to tax without complacency those companies that set up outside europe for the sole purpose of escaping tax .
a durable economic power can only be built around a single currency .
it is from this economic and monetary union that we can create an integrated europe .
the fundamental issue is not a mechanism which will magically solve all our problems ... it is not about mutualizing our past debts or solving the financial problems of one country or another .
what is at stake is to reduce unemployment which affects one in five european youths .
macron says europe needs its own budget to finance joint investments and assure stability when confronted by economic shocks ... a budget can only go hand in hand with strong political leadership led by a common minister and a strong parliamentary supervision at the european level .
macron says wants to define a common corporate tax band ; europe needs to define a minimum wage that reflects the economic reality of each country .
we need a europe that is simpler , more transparent and less bureaucratic .
simple , efficient , protective , the single market should become a space for convergence rather than competition .
in the context of a wider europe : we can not continue with a ( european ) commission of 30 members , as if each country must have its own members .
it has no sense and does not reflect the european project .
a commission of 15 members should be our target .
franco-german axis to germany : why not set ourselves the objective that by 2024 we integrate totally our markets by applying the same rules to our companies , from corporate law to bankruptcy regulation .
on merkel : we share the same european ambitions and i know her commitment to europe .
i m proposing to germany a new partnership we will not agree on everything , not immediately , but we will discuss everything .
this europe which has allowed us to turn our backs on war needs to be ambitious once again .