mexico city ( reuters ) - the current front-runner for mexico s 2018 presidential election on sunday rejected comparisons of his leftist party to venezuela s socialist government , saying his movement was a mexican-made revolution against rampant corruption .
former mexico city mayor andres manuel lopez obrador has led early opinion polls for the 2018 election , supported by frustration with rising crime and corruption scandals that have battered the ruling institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) .
just last week , president enrique pena nieto compared the 63-year-old to venezuela s nicolas maduro , suggesting lopez obrador could unleash economic chaos if he wins office .
( they are ) saying that if morena wins mexico , it s going to be like venezuela .
that s a lie !
lopez obrador told a crowd of thousands of supporters who rallied at a monument in the nation s capital .
we re not taking inspiration from any foreign government ...
neither maduro , nor donald trump .
earlier this year , pena nieto s pri sought to brand lopez obrador s national regeneration movement ( morena ) an ally of venezuela .
[ nl1n1ix09k ] analysts have compared lopez obrador s populist appeal to that of trump .
while trump blamed immigrants and free trade deals for declining incomes among working-class americans , lopez obrador s message is that corruption is keeping mexicans poor .
people are fed up with corruption , lopez obrador said .
this is the cancer that we are going to end with our movement .
in his annual state of the nation address on saturday , pena nieto did not directly attack lopez obrador but he said mexico faced the choice between backing his reforms , like the opening of the energy sector , that were transforming mexico or a model from the past that has failed .
lopez obrador was the runner-up in mexico s past two presidential contests .
a victory by him could mark a leftward shift in latin america s second-largest economy , where centrist technocrats have held sway for decades , and further complicate relations with top trade partner the united states .
maduro s government has been criticized by washington , the united nations and major latin american nations for cracking down on protests and failing to allow the entry of foreign humanitarian aid to ease a severe economic crisis .
critics of lopez obrador have long sought to depict him as an economic liability , likening him to maduro s fiery , late predecessor , hugo chavez , in previous runs for the presidency .
pena nieto told pure lies .
he says all these things , but it s all corruption , said 71-year-old ana maria hurtado as she stood among the crowd at the lopez obrador rally .