( reuters ) - u.s. republican presidential front-runner donald trump said on monday he was “ not 100 percent ” certain he would participate in a debate this week co-hosted by fox news channel ( foxa.o ) because he did not think moderator megyn kelly could treat him fairly .
trump told cnn he would probably participate , but added : “ i ’ m not 100 percent ; i ’ ll see .
if i think i ’ m going to be treated unfairly , i ’ ll do something else .
but i don ’ t think she can treat me fairly , actually , i think she ’ s very biased .
but that doesn ’ t mean i don ’ t do the debate. ” trump added he had won every debate so far .
“ so i want to do the debates , they ’ re good for me , but i don ’ t think she can treat me fairly and i ’ m not a big fan of hers .
maybe i know too much about her. ” thursday ’ s debate , also co-hosted by google ( googl.o ) , is the last one before the feb. 1 iowa caucuses , the first contest in the nomination race for the nov. 8 presidential election .
later on monday , fox news responded to trump ’ s remarks in an emailed statement it attributed to a network spokesperson .
“ sooner or later donald trump , even if he ’ s president , is going to have to learn that he doesn ’ t get to pick the journalists - we ’ re very surprised he ’ s willing to show that much fear about being questioned by megyn kelly. ” following a debate hosted by fox news last august , the real estate billionaire accused the network and kelly of asking him tougher questions than those asked of the other candidates .
kelly responded that probing questions were part of her job .
trump also drew criticism at the time for comments that many people interpreted as suggesting that kelly was affected by hormones during the debate .
trump ’ s blunt speaking style has boosted ratings for the republican presidential debates .
the august debate on fox news drew 24 million viewers , a record for a presidential primary debate and the highest non-sports telecast in cable tv history .
( reporting by eric walsh in washington ; editing by peter cooney ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .