conservatives love to tell us that donald trump speaks his mind and always tells the truth despite a mountain of evidence against the latter point , so when he told us he recorded his conversations with former fbi director james comey it s perfectly reasonable for us to take him at his word.shortly after he fired comey for requesting additional resources for the investigation into the trump administration s collusion with russia , trump threatened to release the recordings in an effort to intimidate a witness recordings whose existence would be just the latest in a long history of trump secretly recording conversations.james comey better hope that there are no `` tapes '' of our conversations before he starts leaking to the press !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) may 12 , 2017apparently , the donald has done some reading on richard nixon , because he seems to have destroyed the tapes he made .
after comey said lordy , i hope there are tapes ( the one time in history lordy has sounded so badass ) , trump realized that his plan wasn t quite working out so well so he now claims that they never existed .
with all of the recently reported electronic surveillance , intercepts , unmasking and illegal leaking of information , i have no idea whether there are tapes or recordings of my conversations with james comey , but i did not make , and do not have , any such recordings , trump tweeted on thursday.with all of the recently reported electronic surveillance , intercepts , unmasking and illegal leaking of information , i have no idea donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 22 , 2017 whether there are `` tapes '' or recordings of my conversations with james comey , but i did not make , and do not have , any such recordings .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 22 , 2017either trump is lying about making the recordings or he is lying about them not existing .or he destroyed them .
that final option , given trump s history , is the one that likely occurred.naturally , the american people once again proved that they are not as stupid as trump thinks they are : what the fuck , trump ?
? ? ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
you lying sack of shit .
holly o reilly ( @ aynrandpaulryan ) june 22 , 2017why should we believe anything you say when you just banned the press from covering the daily briefing ?
alex mayberry ( @ alex_mayberry ) june 22 , 2017you re such a gross failure and a slob .
you can t even lie right .
and look at this shit pic.twitter.com/tjkhwt0cec livia scott ?
( @ livialove ) june 22 , 2017you realize this makes your better hope there are no tapes statement evidence of attempted witness intimidation ray yelle ( @ ryelle62 ) june 22 , 2017you lie about everything .
james comey was right , he was afraid of you lying about convos .
james comey 100 trump 0 !
jennie ( @ jennie2004 ) june 22 , 2017keep tweeting .
robert mueller will gladly use your tweets as evidence .
mario velarde ( @ mariov7 ) june 22 , 2017hahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahayou refuckedhahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahahaha blankety blank ( @ agentzillah ) june 22 , 2017trying to distract the country from your sad healthcare bill .
you are becoming quite predictable mr. president .
# trumpfearspressy mj ( @ themagsterbarks ) june 22 , 2017notice he didn t say he that he didn t know about them or listen to them bens the best ( @ bens_the_best ) june 22 , 2017translation i reviewed tapes with my lawyer and they don t support my point so all tapes and equipment have been destroyed .
brief truth ( @ thebrieftruth ) june 22 , 2017he made/had no tapes .
this , once again is was advised by his lawyers to shield him if and when they ever do surface proving comey right theunsilentmajority ( @ the_unsilent_ ) june 22 , 2017does this mean that there really aren t tapes , or that there are tapes and you don t want to release them because the confirm comey s story ?
dave branson ( @ popsiclemud ) june 22 , 2017here s a disturbing , but likely scenario : there were tapes .
and their existence just created problems trump can t handle.featured image via screengrab/getty images