meanwhile trump is about to make history for claiming the most votes ever in the history of the gop primaries .
what was that the mainstream media keeps saying about trump not being able to beat hillary ?
former secretary of state hillary clinton has badly underperformed in 2016 compared with her first run for president in 2008 , a new data analysis done exclusively by breitbart news shows.it s particularly telling that she s gotten fewer votes in 2016 than she did in 2008 , especially because of the fact that the 2008 race was a three-way race for some time between clinton , now president barack obama , and ex-sen. john edwards .
she was , despite being the frontrunner for some time , the ultimate loser of that race and she got more votes that year in a much more competitive primary that she ended up losing than she has this year against a devout , proud socialist in sen. bernie sanders ( i-vt ) of vermont.clinton is widely expected to be the democratic nominee in 2016 , but her poor performance in the primaries which many believe she should have wrapped up long ago may drag her down heading into the general election , as even many democratic voters seem to distrust her .
to win in november , clinton will need a strong showing from the democrat base .
this data seems to suggest that she has significant problems with her own party s core voters , meaning that if whoever wins the republican nomination is able to woo these disaffected democrats into the gop camp , there could be a blowout in november for the republican nominee.in 2016 , clinton has received 12,437,734 votes so far .
in the states that have already voted this cycle , when she ran and lost back in 2008 , clinton received 12,727,221 votes.specifically , the data shows , clinton has seen a decline of 273,321 votes from 2008 to 2016 among states that have already voted this cycle .
that 2.15 percent decrease nationally is exacerbated in several key states that clinton would need to win to secure the presidency in a general election , suggesting that she s extraordinarily weak on the electoral college scale nationally and that whoever wins the gop nomination will likely be able to thump her in the general in november .
via : breitbart news