geneva ( reuters ) - nearly 340,000 rohingya children are living in squalid conditions in bangladesh camps where they lack enough food , clean water and health care , the united nations children s fund ( unicef ) said on friday .
up to 12,000 more children join them every week , fleeing violence or hunger in myanmar , often still traumatized by atrocities they witnessed , it said in a report outcast and desperate .
in all , almost 600,000 rohingya refugees have left northern rakhine state since aug. 25 when the u.n. says the myanmar army began a campaign of ethnic cleansing following insurgent attacks .
this isn t going to be a short-term , it isn t going to end anytime soon , simon ingram , the report s author and a unicef official , told a news briefing .
so it is absolutely critical that the borders remain open and that protection for children is given and equally that children born in bangladesh have their birth registered .
most rohingya are stateless in myanmar and many fled without papers , he said , adding of the newborns in bangladesh : without an identity they have no chance of ever assimilating into any society effectively .
safe drinking water and toilets are in desperately short supply in the chaotic , teeming camps and settlements , ingram said after spending two weeks in cox s bazar , bangladesh .
in a sense it s no surprise that they must truly see this place as a hell on earth , he said .
one in five rohingya children under the age of five is estimated to be acutely malnourished , requiring medical attention , he said .
there is a very , very severe risk of outbreaks of water-borne diseases , diarrhea and quite conceivably cholera in the longer-term , he added .
unicef is providing clean water and toilets , and has helped vaccinate children against measles and cholera , which can be deadly , he said .
the agency is seeking $ 76 million under a $ 434 million u.n. appeal for rohingya refugees for six months , but is only 7 percent funded , he said , speaking ahead of a pledging conference in geneva on monday .
u.n. agencies are still demanding access to northern rakhine , where an unknown number of rohingya remain despite u.n. reports that many villages and food stocks have been burned .
we repeat the call for the need for protection of all children in rakhine state , this is an absolute fundamental requirement .
the atrocities against children and civilians must end , ingram said .
we just must keep putting it on the record , we can not keep silent .