this is an eye-opening story and should be shared worldwide in sweden , muslim immigrants account for 5 percent of its population but commit 77 percent of its crime .
sweden s rape crisis is a direct result of an influx of muslim asylum seekers .
amnesty international reports that sweden has the highest number of rapes in europe and the lowest conviction rate .
according to swedish public radio , in stockholm alone , over 1,000 swedish women reported that a muslim immigrant raped them ; 300 were under age 15 .
( one third of those living in stockholm are immigrants ; 24 percent are muslim ) .
these numbers represent only 25 percent of all rapes in stockholm because officials claim the majority are unreported .
despite this , the swedish national council for crime prevention and the european commissioner for home affairs refuse to admit the assailants are muslim .
forty years after the swedish parliament unanimously decided to change the formerly homogenous sweden into a multicultural country , violent crime has increased by 300 % and rapes by 1,472 % .
sweden is now number two on the list of rape countries , surpassed only by lesotho in southern africa.significantly , the report does not touch on the background of the rapists .
one should , however , keep in mind that in statistics , second-generation immigrants are counted as swedes.in an astounding number of cases , the swedish courts have demonstrated sympathy for the rapists , and have acquitted suspects who have claimed that the girl wanted to have sex with six , seven or eight men.michael hess , a local politician from sweden democrat party , encouraged swedish journalists to get acquainted with islam s view of women , in connection with the many rapes that took place in cairo s tahrir square during the arab spring .
hess wrote , when will you journalists realize that it is deeply rooted in islam s culture to rape and brutalize women who refuse to comply with islamic teachings .
there is a strong connection between rapes in sweden and the number of immigrants from mena-countries [ middle east and north africa ] .
this remark led to michael hess being charged with denigration of ethnic groups [ hets mot folkgrupp ] , a crime in sweden .
in may last year , he was handed a suspended jail sentence and a fine the suspension was due to the fact that he had no prior convictions .
the verdict has been appealed to a higher court.for many years , michael hess lived in muslim countries , and he is well acquainted with islam and its view of women .
during his trial , he provided evidence of how sharia law deals with rape , and statistics to indicate that muslims are vastly overrepresented among perpetrators of rape in sweden .
however , the court decided that facts were irrelevant.here is a horrible story of a mother of two raped repeatedly by 7 muslim refugees in sweden : american thinker -jihad is one of the five pillars of islam , the obligatory duties of every muslim .
like obama and all the rest , sweden s political class is trying to say the obvious no hate preaching , no violence without actually saying so.violence .
the city of malm , with a muslim majority , is now the violent rape capital of sweden .
socialist politicians are directly responsible for the suicidal mass immigration policy in europe , where 44 million muslims now live .
some of them seem to be assimilating to their host culture .
many are not .
but the political elite everywhere in europe can t admit to their suicidal immigration policy mistake .
which makes it impossible for europe to fix their self-inflicted death sentence.in sweden and europe generally , nobody is yet allowed to talk about reducing mass immigration of violence-prone muslims coming from the tribal lands of pakistan , afghanistan and the rest.because that would be racist.non-traditional sex is very , very prized in pc sweden .
lgbts are a protected victim group , which means they have the power to expose , scapegoat , and , if possible , even fire dissenting heterosexuals from their jobs.which is why muslim migrants from the tribal lands of central asia see their hosts as ripe for religiously sanctioned violence and rape .
so the swedes are caught between the devil and the deep blue sea.when politically correct ideologues can actually quote these verses from the quran , they may begin to address the problem : qur an ( 33:50 ) o prophet !
we have made lawful to thee thy wives to whom thou hast paid their dowers ; and those ( slaves ) whom thy right hand possesses out of the prisoners of war whom allah has assigned to thee qur an ( 8:69 ) but ( now ) enjoy what ye took in war , lawful and good but just as obama can t talk sensibly about jihad warfare in islam , neither can the european socialists.now , next door to sweden , norway recently expelled almost a thousand muslim immigrants for serious crimes , and behold !
the violent crime rate dropped by 30 % in norway .
amazing but true.europe still suffers from a paralyzing multiculturalist hangover .
it is awash in the mind-fog of pc , although here and there signs of sanity are gradually showing up like wildflowers after winter .
the biggest trouble is that today s political class rose to power on the multicultural reign of intimidation .
racist scapegoats were viciously smeared by politicians , the media , and the schools , enforced by eager volunteers.the internet radio station granskning sverige called the mainstream newspapers aftonposten and expressen to ask why they had described the perpetrators as swedish men when they actually were somalis without swedish citizenship .
they were hugely offended when asked if they felt any responsibility to warn swedish women to stay away from certain men .
one journalist asked why that should be their responsibility.a hospital in stockholm is understood to be first in the world to set up an emergency department specifically for male rape victims .
the clinic at s dersjukhuset opened on thursday as part of a strategy to ensure gender equal patient care.s dersjukhuset already runs a round-the-clock walk-in clinic for women and girls who have been sexually assaulted in the city , treating between 600 and 700 patients a year .
now , the hospital , which hosts the largest emergency care unit in the nordic region , is opening its doors to men and boys who are victims of rape and sex attacks .
we are happy that we now can finally open the first rape clinic for men following the rape clinic for women , rasmus jonlund , a press spokesperson for the liberal party , which led the campaign for the department in the swedish capital , told the local just ahead of the launch .
it is the first in sweden ( ) we think it is the first in the world .
we haven t found another from our research on the world wide web , he added.buckle up america unless president trump is allowed to change the way we vet refugees coming into america from nations where rape is acceptable , this will be coming to america s door step very soon