the many , many murders and rapes of american citizens at the hands of people who re here illegally is sickening .
illegal alien criminals are released or deported just to come back and commit another crime .
our elected leaders have done a poor job of protecting the legal citizens of this country but they re welcoming in and expecting us to pay for illegals with our tax dollars .
we have a perfect example of that in gov .
john kasich who s stated that he would give amnesty to the millions of illegals within 100 days of the beginning of his presidency .
unreal !
a mother of a son who was killed by an illegal gives her take on this proposal by kasich : it s all so senseless , maureen maloney said of the death of countless americans at the hands of illegal aliens.maloney s 23 year-old son matthew was hit by a repeat-offending illegal alien drunk driver .
although matthew survived the initial crash , he died as he was subsequently dragged a quarter of a mile caught in the wheel well of the illegal alien s pick up truck as the alien sought to flee the crime scene .
witnesses who saw [ matthew ] pinned screaming under the truck ran out and pounded on the vehicle , crying out to the driver who kept going ' [ matthew ] was alive for a good portion of it , wrote one report from the time .
national day of remembrance for stolen lives he wanted to be a police officer , maloney said of her young son , who was voted most dependable by his high school senior class .
he had taken the civil service exam he liked to help people and do good .
he was just a law-abiding person , she said quietly .
the person who killed him should not have been in this country , maloney explained , noting that matthew s killer had assaulted police officers , he had assaulted paramedics , multiple drunk drivings , domestic violence and each time he had a run in with the police , he d go to court , pay his fine and be let go , maloney said .
somebody needs to start putting american lives first .
somebody has to take care of the people that are in this country legally , maloney declared .
read more : breitbarthere s the account of what happened in milford : an illegal immigrant charged with drunken driving and hitting a motorcyclist and dragging him a quarter of a mile to his death was ordered held on $ 100,000 bail during his arraignment in milford district court yesterday .
nicholas guaman , 34 , of milford , pleaded not guilty to vehicular homicide , driving under the influence of alcohol , leaving the scene of an accident involving personal injury and death , possession of an open container , failing to stop for police , unlicensed operation of a motor vehicle , failure to yield at a stop sign , wanton or reckless conduct creating risk to a child , and resisting arrest .
mr. guaman , a native of ecuador , is being investigated by federal immigration officials .
he was held on a u.s. immigration and customs enforcement detainer and bail was set at $ 100,000 , according to court officials .
police say mr. guaman was drunk when he ran a stop sign about 7:45 p.m. saturday night and struck the motorcycle driven by matthew denice , 23 , of milford .
witnesses told police mr. denice was stuck in the wheel well of mr. guaman s pickup truck and was dragged about a quarter of a mile , despite people chasing the truck and banging on the sides screaming at the driver to stop .
mr. denice was declared dead at milford regional medical center .
mr. guaman s 6-year-old son , who was in the truck , was not injured .
authorities said mr. guaman is in the country illegally and could face deportation .
during mr. guaman s arraignment , a prosecutor said that after mr. guaman s truck dragged mr. denice for more than a quarter of a mile , mr. guaman made a turn and drove onto a sidewalk .
at that point , mr. denice was dislodged from the truck .
mr. guaman then backed up over mr. denice and drove off , prosecutors said .
he was stopped by milford police a short time later .
mr. guaman s lawyer , craig tavares , did not immediately return a call seeking comment .
we have two major issues here , mr. denice s mother , maureen maloney , told reporters .
the drinking and driving , and illegals driving without a license .
i m not against people coming to this country , it s a wonderful country , but do it the right way and abide by the laws once you re here .
pablo guaman , who owns the truck nicholas guaman was driving , was charged with allowing an unlicensed driver to drive a motor vehicle .
authorities were unsure whether the two are related.via : telegram