homestead , fla. ( reuters ) - this sprawling suburb on florida s southern tip was nearly wiped flat by one hurricane 25 years ago .
now its residents hope they have rebuilt strong enough to withstand another .
with hurricane irma churning toward florida on friday , many people in homestead prepared to hunker down in houses that are substantially more fortified than those that were swept aside when hurricane andrew came ashore in 1992 .
barreling ashore with winds of up to 165 miles ( 265 km ) per hour , andrew ripped roofs off houses and stripped palm trees bare .
the category 5 hurricane was responsible for 61 deaths and $ 26.5 billion in property damage , making it one of the most expensive storms in u.s. history .
but a tough new building code approved after the storm required structures to be built to withstand wind speeds of at least 111 miles per hour .
so-called hurricane impact windows , which are now common , must be made with shatterproof glass and cheap materials like particle board can no longer be used on roofs .
even construction cranes , a common sight in downtown miami , must be able to withstand winds of up to 145 miles per hour .
no one knows where irma , a category 4 storm with top sustained winds of 155 miles an hour late on friday , will strike the hardest when it makes its projected landfall in south florida on sunday .
but fortified roofs and other measures to secure buildings have persuaded people like joy mcrae of homestead , which includes a major agricultural area , to stay put rather than join the hordes trying to escape for safer ground north on the florida turnpike and interstate 95 .
i convinced myself that it s not going to be so bad , said mcrae , 56 , as she listed the features of her concrete house , built in 2007 , including both shatterproof windows and aluminum hurricane shutters .
though mcrae was worried about possible flooding - many new neighborhoods in homestead are built in low-lying areas - she said she did not expect a repeat of 1992 , when andrew tore the roof off her house and flattened entire neighborhoods nearby .
we ve got everything battened down , we re just getting some food and we re ready to ride it out , she said .
if south florida is sturdier now than it was 25 years ago , it also presents a bigger target , however .
the population has grown by more than one-third since andrew , to 2.7 million , as high-rise condos have sprouted in downtown miami and potato fields have been transformed into subdivisions in outlying areas like homestead .
homestead s population has more than doubled since 1992 to 67,000 , according to the u.s. census bureau and all that growth could lead to more devastation .
insurer swiss re , in one estimate , said irma would cause between $ 50 billion and $ 60 billion in damages if it were to take an identical path to andrew .
that concerns some longtime residents , who say they are worried less by the prospect of property damage than by how their neighbors might behave in the chaos .
schoolteacher michael littman , 51 , recalls hearing gunshots at night after andrew blew through his neighborhood .
police struggled restore order for several days , he said , adding that he plans to keep his cellphone , wallet and smith & wesson pistol close by this time around .
i ve seen anarchy before , littman said .
it s shocking to see what happens when you strip away the thin veneer of civilization .