the national park service might be out of a job keeping the white house grounds maintained .
a 10-year-old boy named frank wrote president donald trump to offer his lawn mowing services at no charge and we all know the president loves a good deal .
so frank mowed away this morning ! president trump tweeted out : frank fx giaccio-on behalf of @ flotus melania & myself , thank you for doing a great job this morning !
@ natlparkservice gives you an a+ ! frank fx giaccio-on behalf of @ flotus melania & myself , thank you for doing a great job this morning !
@ natlparkservice gives you an a+ !
pic.twitter.com/135dxuapui donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) september 15 , 2017 here s what happened in early august : note to media : if you won t report the good things surrounding trump s spectacular 6 months in office , including positive stories involving scores of his supporters of all ages , ethnicities and genders , sarah huckabee sanders will.here 's sarah huckabee sanders reading a letter from 10-year-old frank from virginia https : //t.co/0tcpj3p2xe meg wagner ( @ megwagner ) august 2 , 2017this smart little entrepreneur clearly touched the president s heart with this letter : dear mr. president , it would be my honor to mow the white house lawn for some weekend for you , even though i m only 10 , i d like to show the nation what young people like me are ready for .
i admire your business background and have started my own business .
i ve been mowing my neighbors lawns for some time , please see the attached flyer , here s a list of what i have and you re free to pick whatever you want : power mower , push mower , and weed whacker , i can bring extra fuel for the power mower and charge batteries for the weed whacker , and i ll do that with no charge.sincerely , frank .
huckabee-sanders , who is a mother of 3 young children , was probably tickled pink to offer president trump s response to this ambitious young man in person : frank , i m happy to report back to you that i just spoke with the president , he wanted me to be sure and tell you that you re doing a great job and keep working hard .
he also asked me , we found out when we called , to let you know that we would be reading this letter to wish you a happy birthday .
i think frank went from 10 to 11 in the time that we received and were able to respond to this letter , and he also wanted to invite you to spend a morning here at the white house with the groundskeeper .