bogota ( reuters ) - a peace deal between colombia and marxist farc rebels is being threatened by drug trafficking and cultivation of coca , the base ingredient for cocaine , a peace official said on thursday , in the wake of a confrontation between coca farmers and police that killed seven .
drug trafficking and illegal crops are the most important threats , rodrigo rivera , the country s peace commissioner , told reuters in his office inside the presidential palace .
while that element exists , it s like honey attracting bees , they re circling and it s creating new organized crime in the territories where the farc no longer are , rivera said .
the government of president juan manuel santos and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) rebels signed a peace accord last year to end their roles in a conflict that has killed at least 220,000 people .
thousands of farc fighters have demobilized under the deal and the group is now a political party , but crop substitution is already a thorn in the side of the government .
last week at least seven farmers protesting eradication were killed in a confused incident with police in tumaco , in southwestern colombia .
the defense ministry accused dissident former farc members of stoking a confrontation and then firing on the crowd , while farmer s groups have accused jittery police of shooting to disperse the protest .
an investigation into the incident is ongoing .
as well as dissidents from the rebel group , crime gangs have begun to take over coca areas , security sources say .
the gangs often offer ex-combatants higher salaries than they are entitled to under the peace deal .
the dissidents and gangs can be a siren s call for ex-rebels , rivera said .
subsistence farmers have often been obliged by rebel groups , paramilitaries and crime gangs to plant coca .
some also choose to grow the crop because illegal groups will pay higher prices than farmers can earn with other products - a tempting possibility amid dire poverty .
coca cultivation reached levels not seen for a decade last year after the government banned aerial fumigation with glyphosate , an herbicide that has been linked to cancer .
the prohibition has sparked criticism from the united states , which is set to give the andean country more than $ 400 million in funding help for the farc deal .
coca is cultivated on about 188,000 hectares ( 464,000 acres ) across colombia and cocaine production capacity is up to 700 tonnes annually .
the government wants to eradicate 100,000 hectares this year .