athens/ankara ( reuters ) - turkish president tayip erdogan will make a historic visit to greece this week , a sign that relations between the two countries are improving , although a long list of grievances remains on both sides .
erdogan visited greece as prime minister , in 2004 and 2010 , but he will be the first turkish head of state to visit athens since celal bayar in 1952 .
he is also scheduled to visit thrace in northern greece , home to a large muslim community .
greece and turkey came to the brink of war as recently as 1996 , but tensions have eased since .
the two now cooperate in a deal brokered between ankara and the european union on stemming mass migration to europe through greece .
turkey s ties with some other european union governments are strained , however , so erdogan s visit on dec. 7-8 will be important for athens .
it will help to ensure that communication continues over the migrant crisis and other bilateral issues .
issues that concern the two countries will be on the agenda of talks - tensions in the aegean sea , the refugee crisis , economic relations with a focus on energy , trade and transport , greek government spokesman dimitris tzanakopoulos said .
what we anticipate is a substantive upgrade of our relationship with turkey ... we expect very constructive talks .
in turkey , a government official said : this will be a visit from which we expect solution to problems .
i think erdogan and ( greek prime minister alexis ) tsipras will show a common will for the solution of some of the problems .
at odds over everything from uninhabited islets , airspace and the boundaries of greece s continental shelf to the ethnically divided island of cyprus , differences between the two countries have outlived the cold war .
none of those issues has ever been resolved .
the fallout of a failed coup attempt against erdogan in 2016 has also tested their relations ; while the coup unfolded , eight turkish commandos flew into greece to evade capture .
the turkish government regards them as coup plotters and wants athens to hand them over .
greek courts have blocked their extradition .
the senior turkish official said terror groups were crossing into greece from turkey .
the prevention of this is critical for turkey , the official said .
erdogan will ask for the extradition of these people , starting with the ones that fled there with a helicopter following the coup attempt .
greek police last week arrested nine suspected members of dhkp-c , a militant marxist group which has claimed responsibility for attacks in turkey since 1990 , including suicide bombings .
tip-toe around cyprus thursday s visit takes place months after cyprus peace talks broke down in july .
the talks are led by the two cypriot communities , but greece and turkey need to agree to future security arrangements for the island .
when the talks broke up there was a lot of ill feeling , so i was a bit surprised to hear about this visit .
positively surprised , said james ker-lindsay , professor of politics and policy at st. mary s university in london .
cyprus remains divided between greek and turkish cypriot communities living on either side of a u.n.-monitored ceasefire line .
it s unclear whether peace talks between them will resume .
greek cypriot presidential elections are scheduled for january 2018 , and nothing will happen before then .
i think that in terms of the symbolism of erdogan in athens , its a good sign .
whether we are going to get anything out of it , i m not sure .
i don t want to overplay it too much , ker-lindsay told reuters .