lima ( reuters ) - a leading peruvian opposition lawmaker on monday called for the country s vice president martin vizcarra to govern the country if congress ousts president pedro pablo kuczynski over graft allegations he denies .
enough political parties have committed to backing a motion to oust kuczynski in a scheduled vote in the opposition-run congress on thursday .
kuczynski has repeatedly said there was nothing improper about recently disclosed business ties that he once denied having with odebrecht [ odbes.ul ] , a brazilian builder at the center of latin america s biggest corruption scandal .
if kuczynski does depart , vizcarra would be authorized to carry out the rest of kuczynski s scheduled 2016-2021 term .
congresswoman luz salgado denied her party , popular force , which has a majority in peru s single-chamber congress , would seek to topple vizcarra as charged by opponents .
if he ( vizcarra ) does his job well and assumes the role that history if offering to him , he ll have our corresponding support , said salgado , a key leader in the party .
we re thinking about what s best for the country .
we re not trying to find fault in anyone .
kuczynski and vizcarra s offices declined requests for comment .
no major policy changes are expected if kuczynski were replaced by vizcarra , a former governor of a copper-rich andean region and peru s current ambassador to canada .
but the political crisis has spooked investors in one of latin america s most stable economies .
it s going to have an important impact on the economy .
investments are going to be delayed , said carlos galvez , the chief financial officer of peruvian miner buenaventura .
a 79-year-old former wall street banker , kuczynski was part of a rightward shift in south american politics when he was elected last year .
his fight for survival underscores the risks facing political leaders with long business resumes as graft scandals roil the region .
kuczynski has described popular force s efforts to unseat him as an authoritarian attack on institutions , and criticized the party for not giving him more time to defend himself .
we look like a banana republic .
without a proper procedure , congress is just usurping the presidency , housing minister carlos bruce told journalists on monday .
popular force said it only hopes to uproot corruption and was acting within the bounds of the constitution .
the party emerged from the right-wing movement started by the country s former authoritarian president alberto fujimori , who is now in prison for graft and human rights crimes .
it is now led by kuczynski s defeated electoral rival keiko fujimori .
new elections , which would be the worst-case scenario for investors , would only be called if both vizcarra and second vice president mercedes araoz leave office before 2021 , a scenario araoz ruled out in an interview with reuters on sunday .