update : no # blacklivesmatter protests plannedchicago has no shortage of thugs .
what they do have a shortage of is support from the # blacklivesmatter terrorists and obama regime .
you don t hear our community organizer in chief running to a microphone every time a young black man or woman is murdered at the hands of another black man or woman .
sadly , it doesn t fit their narrative .
this young boy s murder is far more tragic than the plight of the muslim boy , with a history of discipline issues , who took a fake bomb to school in texas on 9-11 and was rightly punished for his behavior by school officials .
the phony outrage that obama showed the world over this little fake clock boy s arrest should sicken every american .
it is especially disturbing when one considers obama s deafening silence over the horrific gang violence that plagues his hometown of chicago .
where were the tweets of outrage from the white house over the loss of this beautiful young boy s life ?
crickets on friday , prosecutors laid out their case against a man accused of murdering 9-year-old tyshawn lee on nov. 2corey morgan , 27 , of suburban lansing , was charged in the murder .
police have one other man in custody who has not yet been charged , and a third man , kevin edwards , is also wanted in the slaying.prosecutors say corey morgan ( left ) and kevin edwards planned the heinous murder of 9-year-old tyshawn lee.assistant state s attorney george canellis said friday the shooting stemmed from an ongoing feud between morgan s gang , the bbg ( bang bang gang ) /terror dome faction of the black p stones and the killaward faction of the gangster disciples.the feud came to a boil after an oct. 13 shooting in which morgan s brother , tracey morgan was killed and his mother was wounded .
morgan was so enraged he threatened to shoot grandmas , mamas , kids and all in retaliation , prosecutors said.tyshawn was hit in his back , forearm and head , and part of his thumb was shot off as if he was raising his hand to block the shots , canellis said .
this murder was committed in a cold , calculated and premeditated manner , canellis said.chicago police superintendent garry mccarthy vowed to destroy the group responsible for the boy s brutal murder .
they are going to be obliterated , he said .
that gang just signed its death warrant .
mccarthy did not detail each suspect s role in the shooting .
we know that there were three individuals involved in this , he said.morgan s arrest comes nearly a month after tyshawn s nov. 2 shooting death.police are hunting for kevin edwards , also suspected in the shooting.court documents paint a disturbing picture of the planned attack , explaining that morgan and his accomplices allegedly saw tyshawn playing on the swings in a playlot with his basketball beside him .
one of the suspects allegedly started dribbling tyshawn s ball , ultimately luring him into the alley where police say he was executed .
read more on what happened in court friday here.tyshawn lee case : cory morgan proffervia : dnainfochicago