new york ( reuters ) - gasoline stations around florida struggled to keep up with demand from customers anxious to fill tanks as hurricane irma approached , with some locations running out of supply on wednesday .
some convenience stores are out of fuel as delivery trucks wait three to four hours to get cargoes from port everglades , the main supply source for the southern part of the state , said ned bowman , executive director at the florida petroleum marketers and convenience store association , which represents 98 percent of fuel sold in florida .
deliveries in the southern part of the state have been slowed by heavy traffic as residents evacuate .
the category 5 storm , with winds exceeding 185 mph ( 295 km/h ) , clobbered caribbean islands on wednesday as florida officials called for evacuations ahead of expected landfall this weekend .
it would be the second powerful storm to hit the u.s. mainland in as many weeks , following tropical storm harvey .
filling stations in orlando struggled to keep up with demand as early as tuesday , with some running out of fuel or facing long lag times for resupply .
deliveries are usually made on an as-needed basis within an hour of a station signaling low fuel levels .
we re normally not even super busy at our pumps , and there are people parked behind each other right now , waiting , said eli brito , shift manager of a racetrac station in orlando that was out of regular fuel on wednesday after waiting four hours for delivery on tuesday .
gasoline prices in florida hit $ 2.71 a gallon on wednesday , up 42 cents from a month ago , according to motorist advocacy group aaa .
florida has no refineries and its more than 20 million residents rely on refined products delivered by tanker and barge at its ports .
on wednesday , the u.s. environmental protection agency said it would allow diesel fuel normally restricted to off-road use like farm equipment to be sold for highway vehicles that use diesel through sept. 22 , due to the approaching storm .
the u.s. coast guard limited movement of ships into and out of the ports , including port everglades , which houses about a dozen fuel terminals .
commercial traffic is still allowed , said coast guard petty officer brandon murray .
the coast guard plans to further restrict traffic at the port midday thursday , and require ships to make final mooring plans by midday friday .
no timeline for port closure has been set .
port everglades had supplies on hand through mid-september when harvey hit texas , spokeswoman ellen kennedy said .
the port usually has about two weeks of fuel available , she added .
the state s other fuel-receiving ports , including jacksonville and tampa , remained open , said bowman .
we ve been down this horse race before , bowman said from florida s emergency operations center ahead of the storm .