as the years pass , people are doing more and more horrible things to themselves like severe mutilation to deny your gender .
of course , they might not look at it in those terms but most sane people wouldn t go to the extremes to be a nonbinary person .
it s funny because we have people pretending to be a different race and people pretending to be a different or neutral gender .
the world really has gone mad this is just so wrong on so many levels .
this woman is severely disturbed .
author lore graham has now classified herself as a nonbinary person with no gender .
she had her breasts , uterus , cervix and ovaries removed after taking testosterone .
now , her body is evidently in harmony with her mind and is just as screwed up .
what kind of doctor would do this for a patient ?
if i were a doctor , i would have refused on the grounds that the patient wasn t mentally stable and that it would actually hurt the patient in the long run .
graham needs serious mental help .
what she has done now can t be undone and she ll have to live with it .
if she can that is .
if she ever regains mental equilibrium , she may find that hard to do.from mad world news : with the exception of rare genetic abnormalities , everyone who walks the earth is considered one of two genders male or female .
well , that was until an unsatisfied woman from boston , massachusetts decided that she hated being a gender and did the unimaginable to her body and it wasn t a sex change .
author lore graham is a self-described nonbinary person , or rather , someone who chooses not to be defined by a gender .
although she was born a female , she always despised her breasts , ovaries , and uterus .
instead of accepting her gender , she decided to do something rather extreme about it .
i felt weird having breasts and i despised my body s ability to get pregnant , lore explained , according to ij review .
i started taking testosterone three years ago , which improved my mental health and body image but didn t solve the problem of my chest or uterus .
although the testosterone helped her body , she still felt out of harmony .
in order to achieve happiness , she underwent both a mastectomy and hysterectomy this summer , ridding her body of the pesky breasts and uterus she was born with .
on the day of the mastectomy in june , lore was concerned that she may still be unhappy with the way she looked after the procedure .
you would think that someone undergoing such a major surgery , especially an elective one , would be certain that what they were doing was the right move .
after all was said and done , lore was relieved and happy with her boyishly flat chest .
a month later , lore underwent the second procedure the removal of her uterus , cervix , and ovaries .
everything went well , and lore only complained that her abdomen hurt but luckily my vagina didn t , and the doctor said everything had gone swimmingly .
well , that was until she was required to pee before she was discharged from the hospital .
unfortunately , due to the procedure , she temporarily couldn t urinate on her own .
after spending some time dealing with the hassle of a catheter shoved in her urethra , she made a full recovery , much to her delight .
lore is very pleased with her newly surgically mutilated body .
if desired , i put on a shirt .
that s it .
no bras , no binders , no support or compression , no back pain , no worrying about what type of shirt , nothing , explained lore , according todaily mail .
i live in my own body , that i ve customized to better harmonize with my brain , and it s working wonderfully .
that says a lot doesn t it ?
let s repeat that , customized to better harmonize with my brain .
yet , the liberal left denies that what lore and people like her are experiencing is a mental disorder .
in what other circumstance would cutting off appendages or ripping out organs unnecessarily to better harmonize with the brain not be considered a psychiatric disorder ?
unfortunately , our world has become a place where you can pick and choose whether you want to be male , female , or neither , and obvious mental issues are ignored in the name of political correctness .
what happened to enjoying and being thankful for the body god gave you and addressing psychiatric disorders when they present themselves , rather than denying them as to not offend the disturbed ?
what s with the androgynous craze ?
it s just sick , twisted and perverted .
not only that , the government is promoting it and pushing it on children .
whatever freakish perception this woman has of herself , she is still a woman .
god made her that way and rather than learning to accept and embrace her identity , she is butchering it .
what ?
because she didn t want to wear a bra ?
she wanted to go shirtless ?
move to france you could have saved yourself a bunch of money and pain .
i wonder if she realizes by doing this she has significantly reduced her life expectancy .
i wonder if a doctor even bothered to tell her that .
i don t know why she is concerned with the way she looks , she is way past that burden .
i can t believe no one intervened for this poor , delusional woman.read more : patriot update