it was just announced that there will be no autopsy of justice scalia after he was found dead in his room of natural causes .
does anyone else out there think it should be mandatory for an autopsy to be performed ?
since justice antonin scalia was found dead in his resort hotel room at cibolo creek creek ranch on saturday , questions have been flying about the immediate declaration of natural causes as the means of death.according to the ranch owner , scalia was described as animated and engaged during dinner friday night .
he was one of three dozen invitees to an event unrelated to law or politics.yet just hours later , after missing both breakfast and lunch , he was found dead of apparent natural causes .
later , media outlets reported he had suffered a heart attack.houston businessman john poindexter , who owns the 30,000-acre luxury ranch , recalled : he was seated near me and i had a chance to observe him .
he was very entertaining .
but about 9 p.m. he said , it s been a long day and a long week , i want to get some sleep .
poindexter knocked on scalia s door about 8:30 the next morning .
the door was locked and the judge did not answer .
three hours later , poindexter returned from an outing and determined scalia was still missing .
we discovered the judge in bed , a pillow over his head .
his bed clothes were unwrinkled , said poindexter .
he was lying very restfully .
it looked like he had not quite awakened from a nap , he said.scalia did not have a pulse and his body was cold , and after consulting with a doctor at a hospital in alpine , poindexter concluded resuscitation would have been futile .
he then contacted federal authorities , at first encountering a series of answering services because he was calling on a weekend .
ultimately they became available and handled it superbly , he said .
they flew in by helicopter .
they told me to secure the ranch , which i did until this morning .
scalia s body was moved to an el paso funeral home early sunday , then driven from marfa and arrived around 2:30 a.m. at sunset funeral homes , according to spokesman chris lujan.read more : wnd