yangon ( reuters ) - pope francis flew to bangladesh on thursday after a visit to myanmar where he made no direct reference to the plight of muslim rohingya people to avoid a diplomatic incident with a buddhist-majority country some have accused of ethnic cleansing .
there will be no such balancing act for the pope in bangladesh s capital , dhaka , where he is expected to meet a group of rohingya refugees from among the roughly 625,000 who have fled neighboring myanmar since the end of august .
the vatican on wednesday defended the pope s decision not to use the word rohingya in public during his four-day myanmar trip , saying his moral authority was unblemished and that his mere presence drew attention to the refugee crisis .
but a vatican news conference in yangon to wrap up the visit only served to highlight the diplomatic minefield that the issue had presented for francis .
spokesman greg burke said the pope s decision not to refer to the rohingya did not take away from anything he has said in the past - he had mentioned them and their suffering before his myanmar visit - but added that vatican diplomacy was not infallible and others were entitled to their views .
muddying the waters for the vatican delegation , a myanmar regional bishop cast doubt at the same news conference about allegations of ethnic cleansing , suggesting other communities might be responsible for stoking them .
when we speak of the truth , we should go to an authoritative source or a reliable source to get the news ... those who criticize should go to the scene to study the reality and history , bishop john hsane hgyi said .
the global new light of myanmar , a state-run daily , seized on the bishop s comments , putting a banner headline on its front page that read reports of ethnic cleansing in rakhine is not reliable : myanmar church .
the exodus of rohingya people from rakhine state to the southern tip of bangladesh was sparked by a military crackdown in response to rohingya militant attacks on an army base and police posts on aug. 25 .
scores of rohingya villages were burnt to the ground , and refugees arriving in bangladesh told of killings and rapes .
the united nations has accused myanmar of ethnic cleansing and last week washington said the military s campaign included horrendous atrocities aimed at ethnic cleansing .
myanmar s military has denied accusations of murder , rape and forced displacement .
the government blames the crisis on the rohingya militants , whom it has condemned as terrorists .
many people in myanmar regard the largely stateless rohingya as illegal immigrants from bangladesh , they are excluded from the 135 national races recognized by law , and even using the name is considered inflammatory .
although francis studiously avoided the term , following the advice of local church officials who feared it could turn myanmar s military and government against minority christians , his calls for justice , human rights and respect were widely seen as applicable to the rohingya .
francis held talks during his trip with myanmar leader aung san suu kyi , a nobel peace laureate and longtime champion of democracy who in 2016 formed myanmar s first civilian government in half a century .
suu kyi has faced a barrage of criticism from western nations in recent weeks for expressing doubts about reports of abuses against rohingya and for failing to condemn the military .
china has backed what myanmar officials call a legitimate counter-insurgency operation in rakhine , and stepped in to prevent a resolution on the crisis at the u.n. security council , support observers believe will draw suu kyi closer to beijing .
myanmar s ministry of foreign affairs said suu kyi left on thursday morning for china to join a forum of world leaders hosted by the communist party of china .
suu kyi s defenders say she is hamstrung by a constitution written by the military that left the army in control of security and much of the apparatus of the state .
the military s power was clear on monday when senior general min aung hlaing , demanded to meet pope francis before sun kyi , upending a schedule that had her meeting the pontiff first .
i m sure the pope would have preferred meeting the general after he had done the official visits , spokesman burke said .