washington ( reuters ) - the white house said on saturday there would be repercussions for u.s.-pakistan relations unless islamabad took action to detain and charge a newly freed islamist accused of masterminding a 2008 assault in mumbai , india .
a pakistani court ordered the release on wednesday of hafiz saeed , who was put under house arrest in january after years of living freely in pakistan , one of the sore points in its fraying relationship with the united states .
his freedom had also infuriated its arch-foe india .
the white house on saturday urged pakistan to arrest saeed , calling for him to be prosecuted over the mumbai attack that killed 166 people , including americans .
if pakistan does not take action to lawfully detain saeed and charge him for his crimes , its inaction will have repercussions for bilateral relations and for pakistan s global reputation , the white house said in a statement .
this is the first time the united states has acknowledged that the recent decision could have an impact on relations between the two countries , who are allies but view each other with suspicion .
saeed has repeatedly denied involvement in the mumbai attacks in which 10 gunmen attacked targets in india s largest city , including two luxury hotels , a jewish center and a train station in a rampage that lasted several days .
the violence brought nuclear-armed neighbors pakistan and india to the brink of war .
the united states had offered a $ 10 million bounty for information leading to the arrest and conviction of saeed , who heads the jamaat-ud-dawa ( jud ) .
members say the jud is a charity but the united states says it is a front for the pakistan-based lashkar-e-taiba ( let ) militant group .
the white house said pakistan s failure to charge saeed sent a a deeply troubling message about pakistan s commitment to ( combating ) international terrorism .
it added that it also was counter to pakistan s claim that it did not provide sanctuary to militants .
president donald trump has accused pakistan of harboring agents of chaos and providing safe havens to militant groups waging an insurgency against a u.s.-backed government in kabul .
pakistan argues that it has done a great deal to help the united states in tracking down terrorists .
u.s. official expressed hope that relations between the two countries could improve after a kidnapped u.s.-canadian couple and their three children were freed in pakistan in october , after the couple was abducted in neighboring afghanistan .
michael kugelman , of the woodrow wilson center think tank in washington , said he did not expect an imminent change in relations between the two countries , but saeed s release would be a critical point for washington as it considers it options .
this could move the u.s. closer to adapting a largely symbolic but nonetheless major punitive step - the revocation of pakistan s non-nato ally status , which would be a big reputational blow for pakistan , kugelman said .
pakistan won major non-nato ally status in 2004 from the george bush administration , in what was at the time seen in part as recognition of its importance in the u.s. battle against al qaeda and taliban insurgents .
non-nato ally status is a designation given by the u.s. government to close allies who have a strategic working relationship with u.s. armed forces but are not members of the north atlantic treaty organization .