wellington ( reuters ) - a new zealand labour government will still want to be part of the stalled trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) trade deal but only if it allows for foreigners to be banned from buying existing homes , opposition leader jacinda ardern said on tuesday .
labour , firming as the frontrunner ahead of the national government in a sept. 23 election , wants to curb overseas buyers home purchases in a bid to cool the housing market and make home ownership more affordable for new zealanders .
foreigners with the right to live in new zealand would be exempt from labour s proposed ban , which would still be at odds with provisions in the tpp trade deal as well as new zealand s free trade agreement with south korea .
it is an agreement we want to be part of , but we also want to maintain our ability to legislate under our laws to protect what is an overheated housing market , ardern said .
we want to be in there but our housing bottom line is pretty firm for us , she told new zealand media .
the original 12-member tpp , which aims to cut trade barriers in some of asia s fastest-growing economies , was thrown into limbo in january when u.s. president trump withdrew from the agreement .
the remaining 11 members have said they remain committed to the deal , but implementation of the agreement linking 11 countries with a combined gdp of $ 12.4 trillion has stalled .
ardern , who has almost single-handedly changed labour s election chances since becoming leader in august , has made home ownership a campaign focus .
she has criticized national for failing to tackle a housing crisis during nine years in government , promising to build more affordable homes and to crack down on foreign speculators .
labour wants to reconsider new zealand s role in the tpp if foreign investment provisions are not restricted .
banning foreign investment in existing homes would also mean having to renegotiate new zealand s trading agreement with south korea , although its free trade deal with china already provides for restrictions on foreign investment .
korea has the same carve-out ... for themselves so they can restrict new zealanders ... australia has that same carve-out in their agreement with korea , so we don t anticipate that would be a significant sticking point , she said .
national criticized labour s plans to renegotiate the trade agreement with south korea , describing it as an ill-thought out and vague policy .
support for labour rose to 41.8 percent in the latest average of opinion polls , nudging above national s 41.1 percent .