washington ( reuters ) - german automaker volkswagen ag ( vowg_p.de ) will pay as much as $ 15.3 billion after admitting it cheated on u.s. diesel emissions tests for years , agreeing to buy back vehicles from consumers and provide funding that could benefit makers of cleaner technologies .
the largest-ever automotive buyback offer in the united states came in a deal announced on tuesday by the justice department , federal trade commission , environmental protection agency and california state regulators .
the proposed consent decree confirmed that vw will set aside $ 10.033 billion to cover buybacks or fixes for diesel cars and sport utility vehicles that used illegal software to defeat government emissions tests .
vw admitted in september that it installed secret software that allowed u.s. vehicles to emit up to 40 times legally allowable pollution .
vw still may face criminal charges and oversight by an independent monitor , a person briefed on the matter said .
a criminal settlement could include measures to ensure vw would not engage in further cheating .
shares of vw rose as much as 5 percent on tuesday , and closed up 1.7 percent at 107.85 euros .
“ we didn ’ t follow a multiyear , grind-it-out litigation strategy , which would have been counterproductive for volkswagen , ” said robert giuffra jr. , vw ’ s lead lawyer .
“ we moved with lightning speed to settle with our federal and state regulators and the private plaintiffs. ” under the justice department deal , vw will provide $ 2 billion over 10 years to fund programs directed by california and epa to promote construction of electric vehicle charging infrastructure , development of zero-emission ride-sharing fleets and other efforts to boost sales of cars that do not burn petroleum .
vw also agreed to put up $ 2.7 billion over three years to enable government and tribal agencies to replace old buses or to fund infrastructure to reduce diesel emissions .
the settlement covers 475,000 2.0-liter diesel jetta , beetle , audi a3 , golf , and passat vehicles from the 2009-2015 model years .
vw also announced a separate settlement with 44 u.s. states , the district of columbia and puerto rico that will cost at least $ 600 million , bringing the total to as much as $ 15.3 billion .
deputy u.s. attorney general sally yates said a criminal investigation remained active .
“ we ’ re looking at multiple companies and multiple individuals , ” she said .
“ by duping regulators , volkswagen turned nearly half a million american drivers into unwitting accomplices in an unprecedented assault on our environment , ” she added .
the epa is investigating other automakers for potential emissions problems .
epa administrator gina mccarthy said the agency “ will be releasing information as it becomes available. ” vw still faces criminal investigations in germany and other countries , and lawsuits from investors around the world .
the company planned a multi-billion-euro investment program to introduce more than 30 fully electric cars by 2025 .
owners have until late 2018 to decide whether to sell the vehicles back .
the deals would move vw close to the 16.2 billion euros ( $ 18 billion ) it has set aside to cover costs of the scandal .
but spending on buybacks could be much less if regulators approve fixes and owners opt for repairs .
most owners will get $ 5,100 to $ 10,000 in compensation , including the pre-scandal value of the cars , documents filed on tuesday said .
the company expects to begin buying back vehicles in october , when a u.s. judge is expected to give final approval to the settlements , and is to start proposing fixes in november .
vw can not resell or export vehicles it buys back unless the epa approves a fix , the documents said .
volkswagen must repair or buy back 85 percent of the 475,000 vehicles by june 2019 or face penalties of $ 100 million for every percentage point below that figure .
the agreement does not lift a ban on sales by vw of its u.s. 2016 diesel vehicles .
nor does it cover fees for lawyers of owners suing the company or address 80,000 larger polluting 3.0 liter porsche , audi and vw diesel cars .
vw could also face billions in additional costs if it is forced to buy back the 3.0 liter vehicles .
vw will likely face significant yet-to-be determined fines under the u.s. clean air act for emissions violations .
the settlement does not resolve lawsuits filed last year by owners against german auto supplier robert bosch gmbh , which was accused of conspiring with volkswagen to evade emissions standards .