bangkok ( reuters ) - an election could be a year away in army-ruled thailand , but anutin charnvirakul is already eyeing a role as a potential kingmaker with ties across the traditional political divide and to the politicized generals .
a businessman and amateur pilot whose party came third in the last election , anutin , 51 , has seen his political profile rise as parties start to map out a strategy for an election the junta has promised for the end of next year .
pundits have tipped anutin as a possible prime minister in a coalition government made more likely by a new voting system expected to weaken the color-coded parties behind more than a decade of turmoil leading to a 2014 coup .
i think it is better to be a kingmaker in this situation rather than an opportunistic prime minister , anutin told reuters in a recent interview .
the main support for anutin s bhumjaithai party is among farming communities in the lower northeast and he reckoned it could increase its share of seats to 50 out of 500 at the next election , from 34 in the last vote in 2011 .
i have never been closer to the doorstep of government house , he said , referring to the official prime ministerial offices .
anutin said he had a good personal relationship with both major parties - a rarity in polarized thailand , where the army took power in a 2014 coup in the name of ending bloody protests .
anutin was once a senior official in the party led by former prime minister thaksin shinawatra , whose red populist movement has strong support in the north and among the poor .
it has won every election since 2001 and it was a government led by thaksin s sister , yingluck , that was ousted in the most recent coup .
but anutin also has links to thaksin s rivals , led by the yellow democrat party which draws support from the south and particularly from bangkok s elite .
anutin s father - bhumjaithai s founder - served in the last democrat government .
there are major ideological differences between political groups and i no longer want to take sides , anutin said .
the bottom line is , the country should not return to turmoil plagued by street demonstrations between different camps .
anutin was identified in 2009 as a close associate of thailand s then crown prince , who is now king maha vajiralongkorn , according to a u.s. embassy cable published by wikileaks .
thailand s king plays a powerful role behind the scenes .
anutin did not comment on any relationship .
the democrat party s deputy leader , ong-art klampaiboon , said it was too early to comment on what might happen at the election .
former deputy prime minister phongthep thepkanjana of the shinawatra-linked pheu thai party shared a similar view .
suspicions are rife that junta leader prayuth chan-ocha , or another military-backed candidate , will seek to become prime minister after elections .
a new constitution guarantees the army a lasting say .
anutin is the former chairman of sino-thai engineering & construction pcl , thailand s third biggest building firm , which was founded by his father .
his fortune has helped finance his political ambitions as well as his hobbies of flying light aircraft and collecting antique tea sets and buddha statues .