tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - the president of honduras declared himself re-elected on tuesday despite calls from the organization of american states ( oas ) for a fresh vote over allegations of fraud and deadly protests following last month s disputed election .
in washington , his rival asked the united states and others to reject the result and cut off aid , warning that protests in which more than 20 people have died could escalate into generalized violence unless there is a new election .
the opposition alliance said it would file a legal challenge to the country s electoral tribunal s verdict that president juan orlando hernandez won the nov. 26 election .
hernandez spoke for the first time since the tribunal issued that verdict on sunday .
a partial recount did not tip the result in favor of his opponent , tv host salvador nasralla , the tribunal said .
hernandez , who is an ally of the united states , said in a televised address that he would bring peace , harmony and prosperity to the poor central american nation .
as a citizen and president-elect of all hondurans , i humbly accept the will of the honduran people , said hernandez , a conservative who has led a military crackdown on the country s violent gangs .
nasralla , who leads a center-left coalition , called for a new vote monitored by international observers , saying hernandez was holding onto power illegally .
honduras runs the risk of falling into an undesired and fratricidal civil war , with unforeseen consequences in the central american region , he told reporters .
at least 24 people , including two police officers , have died in simmering protests around the country since the opposition declared fraud , according to the honduran human rights group cofadeh , which tracks kidnappings and murders by the state .
however , for the most part the protests have been relatively small .
opposition leaders have accused government security forces of firing into barricades and peaceful protests .
a military official said troops are firing only into the air and only if they are in imminent danger , such as coming under fire .
opposition leaders deny protesters are armed with guns .
the political unrest has hit a country that struggles with violent drug gangs , one of world s highest murder rates - although murders have dropped under hernandez s crackdown - and endemic poverty .
together , these drive a tide of hondurans to migrate to the united states .
nasralla traveled on monday to washington to meet with oas secretary general luis almagro and a senior state department official .
following his visit , the u.s. state department urged honduran political parties to raise any concerns about the official results through a formal legal challenge this week - the step that nasralla s opposition alliance said later in the day that it would take .
however , nasralla earlier rejected the value of a legal challenge , saying the courts are controlled by hernandez .
instead , he said the united states , latin american countries and other foreign powers should push for fresh elections , not recognize the current results and cut off aid to honduras .
in the midst of the post-election chaos , the u.s. state department certified late last month that the honduran government has been fighting corruption and supporting human rights , clearing the way for honduras to receive millions of dollars in u.s. aid .
as results rolled in on nov. 26 , nasralla initially seemed headed for an upset win .
but results abruptly stopped being issued .
when they restarted , the outcome began to favor hernandez , arousing suspicion among nasralla supporters .
shortly after the electoral tribunal backed hernandez s victory on sunday , the oas said the election did not meet democratic standards and called for a re-run .
on monday , one of hernandez s top officials rejected the call for another vote .
hernandez , 49 , has been supported by u.s. president donald trump s chief of staff , john kelly , since kelly was a top general .