sittwe , myanmar ( reuters ) - rohingya muslims who return to myanmar after fleeing to bangladesh are unlikely to be able to reclaim their land , and may find their crops have been harvested and sold by the government , according to officials and plans seen by reuters .
nearly 600,000 rohingya have crossed the border since aug. 25 , when coordinated rohingya insurgent attacks on security posts sparked a ferocious counteroffensive by the myanmar army .
the united nations says killings , arson and rape carried out by troops and ethnic rakhine buddhist mobs since late august amount to a campaign of ethnic cleansing against the rohingya .
civilian leader aung san suu kyi , who has no control over the military , has pledged that anyone sheltering in bangladesh who can prove they were myanmar residents can return .
reuters has interviewed six myanmar officials involved with repatriation and resettlement plans .
while the plans are not yet finalised , their comments reflect the government s thinking on how suu kyi s repatriation pledge will be implemented .
jamil ahmed , who spoke to reuters at a refugee camp in bangladesh , is one of many rohingya who hope to go back .
describing how he fled his home in northern rakhine state in late august , ahmed said one of the few things he grabbed was a stack of papers - land contracts and receipts - that might prove ownership of the fields and crops he was leaving behind .
i didn t carry any ornaments or jewels , said the 35-year-old .
i ve only got these documents .
in myanmar , you need to present documents to prove everything .
the stack of papers , browning and torn at the edges , may not be enough , however , to regain the land in kyauk pan du village , where he grew potatoes , chilli plants , almonds and rice .
it depends on them .
there is no land ownership for those who don t have citizenship , said kyaw lwin , agriculture minister in rakhine state , when asked in an interview whether refugees who returned to myanmar could reclaim land and crops .
despite his land holdings , myanmar does not recognize ahmed as a citizen .
nearly all the more than 1 million rohingya who lived in myanmar before the recent exodus are stateless , despite many tracing their families in the country for generations .
officials have made plans to harvest , and possibly sell , thousands of acres of crops left behind by the fleeing rohingya , according to state government documents reviewed by reuters .
myanmar also intends to settle most refugees who return to rakhine state in new model villages , rather than on the land they previously occupied , an approach criticized in the past by the united nations as effectively creating permanent camps .
the government has not asked for help from any international agencies , who are calling for any repatriation to be voluntary and to the refugees place of origin .
the exodus of 589,000 rohingya - and about 30,000 non-muslims - from the conflict zone in northern rakhine has left some 71,500 acres of planted rice paddy abandoned and in need of harvesting by january , according to plans drawn up by state officials .
tables in the documents , reviewed by reuters , divide the land into paddy sown by national races - meaning myanmar citizens - or bengalis , a term widely used in myanmar to refer to the rohingya , but which they reject as implying they are illegal migrants from bangladesh .
kyaw lwin , the state minister , confirmed the plans , and said there was a total of 45,000 acres of ownerless bengali land .
two dozen combine harvesters operated by officials from the agriculture ministry will begin cutting stalks this month in areas under military control .
the machines will be able to harvest about 14,400 acres according to official calculations contained in the plans .
it is unclear what will become of the remaining crop , but officials told reuters they would try to harvest all the paddy , recruiting additional labor to harvest manually if necessary .
an acre of paddy in myanmar typically makes more than $ 300 at market , meaning the state will gain millions of dollars worth of rice .
the harvested rice will be transported to government stores , where it would either be donated to those displaced by the conflict or sold , rakhine state secretary tin maung swe told reuters by phone .
the land was abandoned .
there is no one to reap that , so the government ordered to harvest it , he said .
human rights watch ( hrw ) deputy asia director phil robertson , said the government should at least guarantee that the rice would be used for humanitarian support and not for profit .
you can t call a rice crop ownerless just because you used violence and arson to drive the owners out of the country , he said .
many refugees are fearful to return and are skeptical of myanmar s guarantees .
those who do decide to cross back into myanmar will first be received at one of two centers , according to government plans reviewed by reuters , before mostly being relocated to model villages .
international donors , who have fed and cared for more than 120,000 mostly rohingya internally displaced persons ( idps ) in supposedly temporary camps in rakhine since violence in 2012 , have told myanmar that they will not support more camps , according to aid workers and diplomats .
the establishment of new temporary camps or camp-like settlements carries many risks , including that the returnees and idps could end up being confined to these camps for a long time , said u.n. spokesman stanislav saling in an emailed response .
satellite imagery shows 288 villages , mostly rohingya settlements , have been fully or partially razed by fires since aug. 25 , according to hrw .
refugees say the army and buddhist mobs were responsible for most of the arson .
the government says rohingya militants and even residents themselves burned the homes for propaganda .
the hamlets where rohingya farmers lived were not systematic , and so should be rebuilt in smaller settlements of 1,000 households set out in straight rows to enable development , said soe aung , permanent secretary at the ministry of social welfare , relief and resettlement .
in some villages there are three houses here , four houses over there .
for example , there s no road for fire engines when fire burns the villages , soe aung said .
those who decide to cross back into myanmar will first be received at one of two centers , according to government plans reviewed by reuters .
at the centers , officials said , the returnees will fill out a 16-point form that will be cross-checked with local authorities records .
immigration officials have for years visited rohingya households at least annually for checks , photographing family members .
for refugees who lost all their documents , the government would compare their photos to those that immigration authorities have on file , said myint kyaing , the permanent secretary at the ministry of labour , immigration and population .
officials will accept as evidence national verification cards handed out in an ongoing government effort to register rohingya that falls short of offering them citizenship .
the card has been widely rejected by rohingya community leaders , who say they treat life-long residents like new immigrants .
we are not going to go back like this , said mushtaq ahmed , 57 , a farmer from myin hlut village now living in the tenkhali refugee camp in bangladesh , where jamil ahmed is also staying .
if i can go back to my house , and get my land back , only then i will go .
we invested all our money into those paddy fields .
they are killing so many of us with swords and bullets , and killing the rest of us like this .