washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama on monday defended his efforts to rein in wall street , telling americans that his administration cracked down effectively on banks and trading firms after the financial crisis of 2007-2009 .
obama , now in the last 10 months of his presidency , met at the white house with federal reserve chair janet yellen and other top regulators to talk about their progress implementing the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act he signed into law in 2010 .
he railed against rhetoric in the nov. 8 presidential election campaign suggesting that dodd-frank failed to work .
“ i want to emphasize this because it is popular in the media and the political discourse , both on the left and the right , to suggest that the crisis happened and nothing changed .
that is not true , ” obama told reporters after the meeting .
on the left , democratic presidential contender bernie sanders has said wall street regulations have not gone far enough .
he wants to break up big banks and has criticized his rival hillary clinton for being too close to wall street .
on the right , republicans have complained that dodd-frank favored big banks and hurt the ability of small banks to make loans .
obama said regulators appear set by the end of the year to have achieved most of the goals he set out for the financial system in 2008 , when he first took office , although he noted there was still work to do on rules for hedge funds and asset managers in what he called the “ shadow banking system. ” “ one of our projects is to make sure that we are covering some of those potential gaps , ” he said .
“ we may need at some point help from congress to do that. ” regulators also need to complete rules on executive compensation to make sure wall street is “ less incentivized to take big reckless risks that could end up harming our financial sector , ” he said .
obama told reporters the republican-controlled congress has tried to weaken regulations established after the financial crisis and “ starve ” regulators with budget cuts .
“ whether you are a democrat or a republican or a tea party member or a socialist , if you are concerned about making sure that wall street is doing the right thing , check to make sure that your member of congress is not trying to cut the budgets of these various agencies , ” obama said .