released from guantanamo and then making his way back to canada thanks to obama , this murderer is free but sfc speer is dead this deification of an al-qaida-trained murderer is a slap in the face to every american soldier and every military family that has sacrificed to combat islamic jihad .
a canadian judge ruled this week that omar khadr poses no public safety threat .
tell that to the children of sergeant first class christopher j. speer and the surviving american soldiers who valiantly fought khadr on the battlefield.in 2012 , khadr pleaded guilty , guilty , guilty , guilty and guilty to five charges related to the killing of speer , a 28-year-old medic with the u.s. special forces .
this young american hero died in afghanistan in 2002 during an ambush by al-qaida operatives .
just days before he gave his life , speer had fearlessly walked onto a minefield to rescue two wounded afghan children .
it was khadr , born and bred an islamic jihadist by his terrorist father , who lobbed the fatal grenade in the war zone .
another american soldier , sfc layne morris , survived the attack , but was blinded in one eye for life.in a sealed plea deal at guantanamo bay , khadr admitted to throwing the grenade .
he admitted to attempted murder , conspiracy , spying and providing material support to terrorism .
he signed a 50-paragraph stipulation that classified him as an enemy belligerent because he has purposefully and materially supported hostilities against the united states and its coalition partners and documented his family s intimate association and friendship with al-qaida leaders osama bin laden , ayman al-zawahiri and muhammad atef.don t believe the international human rights bleeding hearts .
the khadr family is rightfully known as canada s first family of terror .
this so-called child soldier and good kid was a full-blown muslim soldier of jihad ; he trained one-on-one in weaponry , explosives and jew hatred .
a then-teenage khadr bragged to a u.s. official that the proudest moment of his life was constructing and planting ieds to kill u.s. forces .
gloating over the alberta judge s decision to let khadr loose , his radical leftwing lawyer railed against canadian prime minister stephen harper as a bigot .
his fan club thinks he deserves a medal .
no , really .
a toronto sun columnist argued last week that the jihadist deserves some kind of recognition along the lines of the country s order of canada for the dignity and stoicism with which he s borne the mingy behaviour of canada s governments .
disgusting .
this deification of an al-qaida-trained murderer is a slap in the face to every american soldier and every military family that has sacrificed to combat islamic jihad.but don t look for our government to raise its voice in protest .
it is because of jihad-coddler barack obama , working quietly to empty gitmo , that khadr found his way back to canada in the first place .