ankara ( reuters ) - hundreds of iranians took part in rallies across the country on friday to condemn u.s. president donald trump s decision this week to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital , state tv reported .
leaders of iran , where opposition to israel and support for the palestinian cause has been central to foreign policy since the 1979 islamic revolution , have denounced trump s move , including his plan to move the u.s. embassy to jerusalem .
state tv aired footage of marchers chanting death to america and death to israel , holding up palestinian flags and banners saying : quds belongs to muslims , using the arabic name for the city .
in several cities protesters burned effigies of trump , iranian media reported .
iran regards palestine as comprising all of the holy land , including the jewish state , which it does not recognize .
it has repeatedly called for the destruction of israel and backs several islamic militant groups in their fight against israel .
describing the united states and israel as oppressors , iran s supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei said on wednesday that trump s decision was a sign of incompetence and failure .
opposition to trump s move has united iran s hardline and pragmatist factions , with both pragmatist president hassan rouhani and commanders of the hardline revolutionary guards urging iranians to join nationwide day of rage rallies .
some protesters burned pictures of trump and israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu while chanting death to the devil .
rouhani rejected trump s decision as wrong , illegitimate , provocative and very dangerous .
senior cleric ayatollah ahmad khatami told worshippers at friday prayers at tehran university that muslims around the world should unite against israel , state tv reported .
we will not leave palestinians alone , worshippers chanted at friday prayers in tehran , tv reported .
iran s army chief major general mohammad bagheri said trump s decision on jerusalem was unwise and could fuel tension in the crisis-hit middle east , iran s state news agency irna reported .