while bernie sanders has pitched himself as the presidential candidate for the little guy tapping into the wallets of voters angry over wall street s influence in politics a deeper dive shows sanders has enlisted an arsenal of millionaire and billionaire backers who have backed his political career since his early senate runs a decade ago.that big-money support stands in sharp contrast to sanders calls for corporate fat-cats and the uber-wealthy to pay their fair share in taxes by closing loopholes and removing breaks that benefit the mega-rich.at a rally last sunday at the ohio state university , sanders told a cheering crowd , you can tell a lot about a candidate based on how he or she raises money for his or her campaign .
the comment goes hand-in-hand with the theme sanders has been hammering for months .
i am not raising money from millionaires and billionaires , sanders said during the cnn democratic primary debate in las vegas on oct. 13 .
in fact , tonight , in terms of what a political revolution is about , there are 4,000 house parties 100,000 people in this country watching this debate tonight who want real change in this country .
sanders war chest has been driven by smaller donations he raised $ 26 million in small increments in the third fund-raising quarter.jeff weaver , sanders campaign manager , insists the fancy fundraisers and big-name donors are few and far between and that there is no contradiction in what the vermont democrat and self-described socialist practices and what he preaches .
we don t have a super pac , weaver told foxnews.com .
we rely on small contributions .
average contribution is $ 27 .
are there some , a few people in there who have more money , personal money who give larger contributions ?
yeah , of course they do , but within the federal $ 2700 limit .
no , you know , no 50 , 100 , 2 million contributions .
but for years sanders has enjoyed donations from a handful of wealthy donors including media moguls leo j. hindery and steven c. markoff.markoff , who donated to sanders 2012 senate campaign , began trading rare coins when he was 11 .
by 2004 , his company a-mark entertainment was listed as the 65th largest privately held company in the u.s. , and the second largest in los angeles.hindrey , managing partner of the private equity fund intermedia partners and former chief executive of at & t broadband and of the yes network , also maxed out on contributions to sanders .
hindrey , while advocating for fewer tax breaks for the wealthy , is among the biggest democratic fundraisers in the country.another big money donor to sanders campaign is david geffen , co-founder of dreamworks animation and worth a cool $ 6.9 billion .
according to campaign finance records , geffen donated the max at the time $ 2,500 to sanders senate campaign on jan. 27 , 2012.but lara brown , director of george washington university s political management program , told foxnews.com that she doesn t see a big push-back from sanders supporters .
by and large , democrats tend to believe these individuals are giving because they have a strong progressive/liberal orientation in their politics and they are doing this because it equates to them giving to a cause , she said , adding that the same would be true for big-money donors in silicon valley and the tech industry.via : fox news