toronto ( reuters ) - a former canadian police chief and several colleagues who fought against making marijuana use legal have switched sides and embraced the looming legalization of cannabis with a leap into business .
with canada s legalization of a multi-billion dollar marijuana industry set for next year , former police officers who once argued for mandatory jail time for minor marijuana offences are among those in line to capitalize on the change .
the most high profile is julian fantino , a former toronto police chief and conservative cabinet minister who fought against the legalization of pot and who said he now sees the value of a legal medical pot industry .
for a lot of us , until you get into this thing , all we know is the stigma associated with marijuana .
and there is that , of course , but ... it s only a matter of time , before it becomes a recognized , therapeutic , prescribed drug , fantino said in an interview .
canadian prime minister justin trudeau promised to legalize recreational marijuana use in his 2015 election campaign and new legislation will let adults grow , buy or possess small amounts of marijuana as of july 1 , 2018 .
under the new law , private or government retailers will be able to sell marijuana and licensed producers will be able to grow it .
the canadian cannabis black market is estimated to be worth between c $ 7 billion ( $ 5.77 billion ) and c $ 10 billion a year , with rates of youth use among the highest in the world .
analysts expect it will take time for legal trade to push aside unsanctioned competition .
fantino and his partners - a former royal canadian mounted police officer , a former fire chief and a former member of parliament - are promoting their company aleafia , which provides patients with authorizations for medical marijuana , as well as other medical services .
medical marijuana is already legal .
fantino said he would absolutely be pursuing the business even if canada was not legalizing the lucrative recreational industry .
but his change of heart has met with skepticism in some circles .
toronto star newspaper columnist royson james wrote the hypocrisy stinks to high heaven .
on twitter , pot activist jodie emery called the news infuriating .
the canadian broadcasting corp introduced an interview with fantino by noting he had once compared weed to murder .
fantino said the quote was taken out of context and he did what i could to apply the laws of the land with conscience .
other ex-cops are getting into the business side of marijuana .
former deputy toronto police chief kim derry has been involved in medical marijuana businesses since 2012 .
derry is president of met-scan canada , which he said provides security for about half a dozen marijuana growers .
he expects that number to grow once recreational production becomes legal .
from a background of criminal activity , i certainly know how ( grow operations ) operated in the past , derry said .
i know all the pieces , through a chain of supply , where there s weaknesses .
the government s effort to legalize marijuana is headed up by another former toronto police chief , bill blair , who succeeded fantino in 2005 before they both turned to politics .
blair said retired police officers have been getting calls for advice on medical marijuana production since related laws came into effect in 2013 .
i think many are being sought out for their expertise in public service and regulatory law and security around these things , he said , adding he does not think its unseemly for police officers to make money off cannabis .
for me , it s entirely consistent with my life s work and i wouldn t comment on anyone else s history or motives .
pot possession remains illegal until july and canadians continue to be prosecuted for it - 17,733 people in 2016 , according to statistics canada .
studies have found marginalized communities are disproportionately targeted .
the government is developing ways to track each marijuana plant from seed to point of sale and test for quality .
it has yet to draft detailed advertising rules or finalize tax levels .