yep that s correct .
your hard earned tax dollars are helping to pay her salary just days before easter , one professor took to the internet to blast christian conservatives for inventing a white supremacist jesus .
on wednesday , rutgers university professor brittney cooper published a column for online magazine salon excoriating supporters of indiana s religious freedom restoration act which she dubbed religious freedom garbage and alleging that conservative christians harbor antagonistic political views toward every single group of people who are not white , male , christian , cisgender , straight and middle-class .
any time right-wing conservatives declare that they are trying to restore or reclaim something , we should all be very afraid , cooper wrote in reference to the controversial indiana law that prevents the state from constraining individuals free exercise of religion without demonstrating a compelling government interest.according to cooper , the law is the culmination of conservative anxieties over the legalization of same-sex marriage in indiana , and will lead the state back to the idyllic environs of the 1950s , wherein women , and gays , and blacks knew their respective places and stayed in them .
cooper says the supreme court s ruling last june in burwell v. hobby lobby which allowed owners of closely held , for-profit corporations to seek exemptions from laws that violate their owners religious beliefs provided the logic indiana has used to curtail and abridge gay rights .
she also claims the indiana law sanctions the exercise of islamophobia and declares it a slippery slope that will lead to racially inflected religious discrimination .
nothing about the cultural and moral regime of the religious right in this country signals any kind of freedom , writes cooper , adding that this kind of legislation is rooted in a politics that gives white people the authority to police and terrorize people of color , queer people and poor women .
the self-proclaimed christian professor says she often questions if she worship [ s ] the same god of white religious conservatives , who she describes as a white , blond-haired , blue-eyed , gun-toting , bible-quoting jesus .
i call this god , the god of white supremacy and patriarchy , cooper writes.according to cooper , if your politics are rooted in the contemporary anti-black , misogynist , homophobic conservatism , then we are not serving the same god .
that god , she claims , is an asshole with nothing holy , loving , righteous , inclusive , liberatory theologically sound about him .
cooper concludes by encouraging others to declare death to the unholy trinity of white supremacist , capitalist , heteropatriarchy allegedly created by those on the religious right who have pimped jesus death to support the global spread of american empire vis-a-vis war cooper , who teaches women s and gender studies and africana studies at the publicly-funded university in new brunswick , n.j. , describes herself as a next generation black intellectual .
via : campus reform