in case anyone missed it , romney had the 2012 election handed to him on a sliver platter .
explaining how trump should win in an interview with one of obama s closest allies is beyond ridiculous mitt romney , the failed 2012 republican presidential nominee who , alongside running mate rep. paul ryan ( r-wi ) , lost the election to president barack obama and vice president joe biden , is lecturing 2016 gop frontrunner donald trump on how a republican can win the white house .
i think donald trump has said a number of things which are hurtful , and he has said they were childish in some respects , and i think will be potentially problematic either in a primary or in a general election if he were to become the nominee , romney said in a rare interview granted to former obama strategist david axelrod , according to the hill newspaper.romney added that he thinks trump will have some challenges if he proceeds to the next stage and that he thinks to a degree trump s comments and style do hurt the gop as a whole.while romney previously predicted that trump won t win the nomination , his change of tone in this axelrod interview seems to indicate he s now entertaining the possibility of a nominee donald trump .
earlier this week , wisconsin gov .
scott walker a now former 2016 gop presidential candidate who dropped out of the race , and bashed trump on his way out noted that he believes trump has a shot at winning the nomination now .
trump continues to absolutely dominate gop presidential primary polling , in some cases doubling up second place candidates.romney lost the election in 2012 after winning the nomination against a fairly weak gop primary field .
he also lost in 2008 , failing to win the nomination against sen. john mccain ( r-az ) .
like romney would four years later , mccain lost the 2008 presidential election to obama .
even though romney has lost every presidential election in which he s ever competed , some republicans still gravitate to him and his inner circle for political advice.earlier this cycle , romney met with several candidates , including former florida gov .
jeb bush and sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) the two leading establishment candidates vying for the nomination in new hampshire .
in the interview with axelrod , romney spoke very highly of both rubio and bush .
via : breitbart news