remember when experts came out after hillary collapsed following her visit to the 9-11 memorial in nyc and revealed that the odd blue-colored sunglasses hillary was sporting that day are used by epileptic patients to avoid having a seizure.who could forget hillary s bizarre collapse that day , when her legs began to buckle and secret service agents grabbed her arms and threw her into the vehicle .
it was almost as though the people around hillary were well practiced in how to toss her into the vehicle before the cameras could catch her having a seizure only months before the election.watch : infowars hillary was seen wearing the blue sunglasses during the 9/11 memorial in new york city where she later collapsed from complications stemming from her numerous health issues.given her lack of fashion concerns she s regularly seen wearing pantsuits everywhere she goes it s unlikely her blue sunglasses were meant as a fashion statement.epileptic patients often wear zeiss z1 blue lenses in particular because they are effective at treating photosensitive epilepsy .
the z1 lens is highly effective in controlling photoparoxysmal response in a very large number of photosensitive epilepsy patients irrespective of their epilepsy or antiepileptic drug treatment , according to a 2006 studypublished in epilepsia .
the lens might become a valid resource in the daily activity of any clinician who cares for patients with epilepsy .
hillary experiences seizures from flashing lights , such as camera flashes at public events , according to sources inside the secret service who spoke to infowars.hillary clinton appeared in chappaqua , ny in their memorial day parade as a float with her husband bill , the former president and rapist .
the former presidential candidate was seen wearing the same bizarre blue-colored sunglasses that she wore on 9-11.bill & hillary clinton & gov cuomo at memorial day parade pic.twitter.com/rxsatoxzgg michael grabell ( @ michaelgrabell ) may 29 , 2017here s hillary again waving to the crowd as though she s already campaigning for 2020 .
bill s just happy to not have to be cooped up in the same house with her for a couple of hours .
.
@ hillaryclinton wearing anti-seizure zeiss z1 sunglasses at chappaqua memorial day parade .
pic.twitter.com/t0fvt4wn60 josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) may 29 , 2017here s a great shot of the happy couple : they look well .
pic.twitter.com/0i1eth41ta josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) may 30 , 2017the daily mail asked josh caplan of vessel news if they could use his photo of hillary for a story : hi @ joshdcaplan , can the daily mail use this image with a credit to you ?
thanks !
mailonline pictures ( @ mailonline_pics ) may 29 , 2017here is caplan s hilarious response : only if you note her anti-seizure sunglasses .
sick hillary may run in 2020 , so it 's important your readers know extent to how unwell she is .
https : //t.co/z05g8xtetf josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) may 29 , 2017