the fundamental transformation of america continues .
but one photo emerges that defies barack and michelle obama s hateful and divisive narrative.in the latest chapter of the outcry over the confederate flag issue in south carolina , an unexpected scene emerged from rallies involving the ku klux klan and black supporters this weekend a photo of a black police officer helping a white supremacist at the capitol in charleston.members of the loyal white knights of the kkk were protesting the state s recent decision to remove the flag from the statehouse grounds .
black advocates held their own rally , and a clash among the two parties ensued.in the midst of so much hate , one hopeful photo emerged : it didn t take long for the photograph taken by rob godfrey , the deputy chief of staff for south carolina governor nikki haley to spread on the internet .
not an uncommon example of humanity in sc : leroy smith helps white supremacist to shelter & water as heat bears down , godfrey wrote in posting the photo on twitter.officer leroy smith was helping the man find shade and water on a hot day in charleston , when temperatures reached the upper 90s .
about 2,000 people attended the rallies .
he was assisting with crowd control on the stairs where the kkk was rallying , spokeswoman sherri iacobelli said of smith.as might be expected , the general public largely fell into one of two camps applauding the photo , or questioning it .
this kindness chokes me up .
how do sc people find that well of caring in the midst of so much hatred ?
one person replied in the photo s comment thread .
amazing !
i couldn t find it in my heart and i am white , another remarked .
just curious .
put this in reverse .
would that white supremacist have done that for officer smith at a black panther rally ?
countered one tweet .
being nice didn t save those 9 people [ at the charleston church shooting ] though , posted another.thursday , haley encouraged people to stay away from the kkk rally .
the strength and grace the people of south carolina have shown over the last three weeks have inspired our family , our neighbors and the entire world , she wrote on her facebook page .
our family hopes the people of south carolina will join us in staying away from the disruptive , hateful spectacle members of the ku klux klan hope to create .
via : breitbart news