new delhi ( reuters ) - india stood ready to further strengthen ties with the united states , the government said on friday , after u.s. secretary of state tillerson vowed to dramatically expand cooperation as a way to counter china s influence in asia .
tillerson , who is visiting india next week as part of a tour to the region , said in a speech the united states had begun to discuss alternatives to chinese infrastructure financing in asia that critics say has spawned resentment and fears of a debt trap .
he also called for expanding the scope of security cooperation between india , the united states and japan to include other countries such as australia , a plan that china has said in the past would be de-stabilising to the region .
an indian foreign ministry spokesman said tillerson had made an important speech on the future of india-u.s. relations and india looked forward to detailed discussions next week .
we appreciate his positive evaluation of the relationship and share his optimism about its future directions , the spokesman said .
tillerson did not say what he meant by creating an alternative to chinese infrastructure financing , which india has also been increasingly concerned about as china seeks to build trade and transport links in asia .
india was the only major country in asia not to send a representative to a belt and road initiative summit in beijing in may because an economic corridor that china was building in pakistan ran through territory claimed by india .
india warned that china s plans for a modern-day silk road could create an unsustainable debt burden for countries .
the ministry spokesman said india agreed with tillerson s call for a rules-based international order that is seen as under risk from china s assertive posture in asia .
the united states has repeatedly criticized china for disregarding international law with the construction and militarization of artificial islands in the disputed south china sea , where neighbors brunei , malaysia , the philippines , taiwan and vietnam have claims .
tillerson has made a significant policy statement on india-u.s. relations and its future .
he brought out its various strengths and highlighted our shared commitment to a rule-based international order , the indian spokesman said .
india , though , has been wary of u.s. calls for a bigger indian military role including joint patrols in the indian ocean and the pacific , worried it would antagonise china further .