jerusalem ( reuters ) - kafr aqab is no one s dream destination : the overcrowded neighborhood separated from adjacent east jerusalem by israel s barrier in the occupied west bank is notorious for rutted roads , drugs and violence .
but for palestinians in marriages in which one partner comes from the west bank and the other from territory israel had declared to be part of the israeli state , the slum is a haven where they can live legally together .
when 23-year-old yacout alqam , a resident of east jerusalem , first met her fianc , she loved that he was very kind .
very free .
everything .
there was just one catch : the problem of identification cards , said alqam , the wide smile on her small frame fading .
hailing from east jerusalem , alqam carries an israeli-issued jerusalem residency card , which provides her many benefits but not actual citizenship .
israel annexed the area after the 1967 middle east war in a move not recognized internationally .
her fiance , adham abu lateefa , 23 , is a palestinian from the west bank , territory also captured by israel in 1967 but where the palestinian authority administers limited self-rule .
holding a west bank identification card , lateefa can not , under israeli rules , live in east jerusalem .
alqam can not live in the west bank without risking the loss of her residency permit , as she must prove she resides in jerusalem to keep it .
so along with what residents describe as apartments full of other mixed couples , he and alqam see a solution in a sort of twilight zone , in kafr aqab .
since its inhabitants pay jerusalem municipal taxes , alqam can live in kafr aqab and still be considered an east jerusalem resident .
and because israel s barrier and a military checkpoint separate kafr aqab from the city , her fiance can reside there , even with his west bank identification card .
thanks to its special status , kafr aqab , once a small neighborhood of several thousand people , now has a population in the tens of thousands who live in dilapidated high-rise buildings where apartments sell for about a quarter of what they cost in the rest of east jerusalem .
haya khader , a palestinian teacher from east jerusalem , married her high school sweetheart , a west bank resident , 18 years go .
soon after they wed , a palestinian uprising erupted and israel built the barrier , calling it a bulwark against attacks on its cities .
palestinians see it as a land grab .
khader said she hates living in kafr aqab , where she said no one is responsible for us , leading to poor municipal services .
israeli authorities rarely venture in , she said , while the palestinian authority has no jurisdiction .
khader said she is resigned to the situation .
but alqam is holding out hope that her fianc will be granted a permit to live in jerusalem through israel s family unification law .
( this version of the story corrects cost of apartments in paragraph 10 )