milford , new hampshire ( reuters ) - donald trump , the new york businessman seeking the republican u.s. presidential nomination , said on tuesday he felt “ a tinge ” of disappointment after losing to texas senator ted cruz in the iowa caucuses .
cruz bested trump with 28 percent of caucus-goers ’ pledges on monday compared to trump ’ s 24 percent .
florida senator marco rubio came in a close third with 23 percent .
asked by a reporter if he felt at all bad about the result , trump said , “ there ’ s a tinge ... i probably had a tinge because a poll came out that said i was five points ahead. ” in the weeks before the iowa caucuses , trump held leads in almost every statewide and national poll though his dominance in iowa wobbled after cruz won a key endorsement from a local evangelical christian leader .
trump also said there was a chance his decision to skip a fox news debate among republican candidates on thursday might have hurt him in the caucuses .
asked before a rally in milford , new hampshire on tuesday evening if he planned to change his campaign strategy , trump told a news conference he felt confident in his methods , but he was adding more town hall-style events .
but any humility was fleeting as trump went on to say he beat rubio by getting support from almost 3,000 iowans - “ that ’ s a lot of people ” - and that he had gotten a larger percentage of support than any other republican candidate in history “ except for that one number , ” he added , referring to cruz ’ s win .
he also said he had not tried very hard to win iowa .
“ i didn ’ t devote tremendous time to it , ” he said .
“ i didn ’ t expect to do so well. ” trump fielded question after question from reporters about why he thought he lost and whether it made him anxious about primary elections in other states ahead of the nov. 8 presidential election .
when he took the stage before more than a thousand people , trump ’ s swagger had returned .
he criticized the media for focusing more on rubio ’ s third-place showing than his second , calling journalists “ miserable people ” and encouraging the crowd to boo them .
fans interviewed before the rally said trump ’ s loss did not bother them .
“ i think he ’ s done pretty well from the start , ” said eli johnson , 33 , from nearby brookline , new hampshire .
“ he did pretty well considering cruz was praying with everyone at every rally ( in iowa ) and they ’ re a really religious state . ”