update : nordstrom stock closed up slightly today , after taking a hit yesterday following president trump s tweet.president trump tweeted about nordstrom dumping his daughter s brand today and the company is seeing an immediate , negative market reaction .
nordstrom and its outlet store , nordstrom rack , announced last week that they were dumping ivanka s line of shoes and accessories because of poor sales and likely pressure from liberal boycotters who made nordstrom a top target in their anti-trump actions.here is his tweet : my daughter ivanka has been treated so unfairly by @ nordstrom .
she is a great person always pushing me to do the right thing !
terrible !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 8 , 2017and here are a few tweets from women who are saying they re finished with nordstrom : https : //twitter.com/immigrant4trump/status/829529883671945216conservatives protest w/ their wallets , democrats protest by rioting , looting & wearing vagina outfits deplorable mary e ( @ carvercallie ) february 9 , 2017if nordstrom 's want to get involved in politics , then i will do my part as well .
nordstrom card in pieces now .
draintheswamp ( @ zfamilymn ) february 8 , 2017and then there was this public service tweeter who actually offered twitter users a phone number to call to cancel customer credit cards : # to call to cancel nordstrom credit card : 800.964.1800 tweetheart ( @ tweetheart2017 ) february 9 , 2017while trump s missive caused , as usual , a wave of outraged responses on twitter , it also hit nordstrom in the pocketbook .
as soon as trump tweeted , shares of nordstrom stock took a dive.this might be the last thing nordstrom needs : its stock had remained steady most of 2016 , but took a 14 % hit in december on news that department stores had a rough holiday season.but the seattle-based luxury retailer isn t alone in suffering the trump effect .
a number of companies , including boeing , carrier and even amazon have suffered the same result after donald trump took to social media to complain about their business models or product prices .
heat street