is disney officially admitting they re in the business of indoctrinating our children to become good little progressives ?
for anyone who says this book has nothing to do with disney or their philosophy , disney publishing worldwide s company overview claims to publish books that are in support of the franchises : disney publishing worldwide , inc. publishes children s books , comics , and magazines .
the company publishes titles in support of the franchises.disney is selling a new feminist baby children s book so parents can teach their toddlers to grow up to be progressive thinkers who smash the patriarchy and believe gender is a social construct.loryn brantz , the author and illustrator behind feminist baby , told time that her 22-page children s book aims to make children liberal and progressive thinkers .
here s an example of brantz s liberal propaganda : they re not going to take away all the nuances and important parts of feminism necessarily , but it s important just to have it be in their vocabulary and part of their life rather than discovering it when they re older , brantz explained .
it s so that they re aware of feminism and see it as a good thing and not a bad thing .
they need to grow up with feminism and not be scared of it , and not think that it means they re going to be overpowered by women someday , brantz said .
it just means wanting equality for everyone .
it s not something they think they need to fight when they re older .
huffington post in the comics , feminist baby serves as an underage heroine bent on smashing the patriarchy and subverting tired traditions like the gender reveal .
the panels provide both political commentary ( she punches steve bannon who is dressed as a nazi ) and silly comic relief .
but while they re aimed at different audiences , both the comics and the book express the same basic message .
feminism is for everyone including babies !
brantz says .
here are some examples of brantz s feminist baby cartoons : the publisher for the book is disney publishing worldwide .
disney s website claims the book is targeted for children the 0-2 age range.disney s description for the book states the feminist baby likes pink and blue .
sometimes she ll throw up on you !
feminist baby chooses what to wear and if you don t like it she doesn t care !
the book hit online stores and bookshelves on april 11 .
according to the amazon listing for the book , as of the 13th , the book is no .
7 in best sellers for children s books new baby.for entire story : mrctv