new york ( reuters ) - americans are more concerned than they were before the 2016 u.s. presidential campaign began about the potential threat russia poses to the country , according to a reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on friday .
the jan. 9-12 survey found that 82 percent of american adults , including 84 percent of democrats and 82 percent of republicans , described russia as a general “ threat ” to the united states .
that ’ s up from 76 percent in march 2015 when the same questions were asked .
the increased concern comes after a brutal election season during which democrats and others raised questions about president-elect donald trump ’ s financial ties to russia and the u.s. intelligence community accused russia of engaging in cyber attacks during the election .
trump , who has repeatedly praised russian president vladimir putin as a strong leader and signaled during his campaign that he might take a softer line in dealing with moscow , only recently accepted that russia committed the hacks after receiving detailed briefings from intelligence officials .
trump initially criticized the findings , saying the culprit could be china or “ somebody sitting on their bed that weighs 400 pounds. ” the poll asked people to rate russia and a slew of other countries on a 5-point scale ranging from “ no threat ” to “ imminent threat. ” it found that americans were more likely to label russia a threat than they were iran , syria , china , saudi arabia , cuba or yemen .
only north korea ranked higher , with 86 percent of americans labeling it as a threat .
some 25 percent of americans gave russia the highest concern , labeling it an “ imminent threat. ” “ russia is back to the old days of the cold war , ” said oneita wilkins , 69 , a republican who lives in a suburb of new orleans , who rated russia an “ imminent threat. ” wilkins did not vote in the election .
she said she did not trust trump or democratic rival hillary clinton and chose to not vote for the first time in more than 40 years .
the latest reports about russian hacking lowered her opinion of trump even further .
“ trump doesn ’ t have any experience with other countries , ” wilkins said .
“ i have a feeling that he ’ ll be easily influenced by putin. ” trump , earlier this week in his first news conference since the election , defended his goal of better ties with putin , saying , “ if putin likes donald trump , i consider that an asset , not a liability. ” the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english in all 50 states .
it included 1,169 american adults , including 490 democrats and 475 republicans .
the poll has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points for the entire sample and 5 percentage points for republicans and democrats .