dili ( reuters ) - east timor is set to swear in mari alkatiri for a second stint as prime minister , the country s president said on thursday , with asia s youngest democracy facing stiff challenges to boost a flagging economy heavily reliant on oil and gas .
alkatiri , the secretary general of the fretilin party , was east timor s first prime minister after independence from indonesia in 2002 .
he stood down in 2006 after a wave of unrest sparked by the sacking of 600 soldiers .
today i announce to all the people that the president of the republic ... has nominated dr. mari alkatiri to become the prime minister , president francisco lu olo guterres told a news conference .
guterres called for people to remain calm and said alkatiri would form a minority government .
he expected alkatiri s swearing-in to be held either later on thursday or on friday .
the most important thing is the politicians need to think about how to maintain government stability in the future and ensure peace , he said .
fretilin , or the revolutionary front for an independent east timor , won the most votes in july s election but failed to get an outright majority .
it intends to form a coalition with the small democratic party .
it had been in a de facto coalition since 2015 with the national congress for timorese reconstruction , a party founded by former independence fighter xanana gusmao .
alkatiri , who is a muslim in the predominantly roman catholic nation , spent several decades living in exile in mozambique during east timor s struggle for independence .
the next prime minister will face pressure to lift flagging oil production in the tiny nation of 1.3 million people , where unemployment and poverty remain high .
dwindling output from existing oil and gas fields , compounded by the slumping prices of the commodities , have hit the government s budget and crimped its ambition to develop manufacturing as an engine for economic growth .
australia and east timor reached a breakthrough agreement earlier this month on a maritime border , ending a decade-old row that has stalled a $ 40 billion offshore gas project .
the long-running dispute has led the owners of the greater sunrise fields - woodside petroleum , conocophillips , royal dutch shell and japan s osaka gas - to shelve the project .