brasilia ( reuters ) - brazil s government will issue a new decree changing the country s definition of slavery following an earlier order that was widely criticized as a reversal in the fight against forced labor , a presidential aide said on friday .
in brazil , forced labor has been defined as a form of modern-day slavery .
this includes debt bondage , degrading work conditions , and long work hours that pose a risk to a worker s health or life , and violate their dignity .
human rights campaigners said a decree issued by the labor ministry on monday changed the way slavery was defined , limiting it to a victim s freedom of movement but disregarding other abuses .
the new decree , sought by brazil s powerful farm lobby , would derail enforcement efforts that have freed 50,000 workers from slavery-like conditions since 1995 , according to federal prosecutors and labor inspectors .
responding to the criticism , president michel temer said on friday the decree would be modified but not revoked .
in an interview with the poder360 news website , temer said the measure would be perfected with suggestions by prosecutors , among them the creation of a police department for slave labor crimes .
a presidential aide later said the suggestions would be used to reissue a new decree .
the president instructed the labor minister to study them and see which can be incorporated in a new decree , the spokesman said .
rights groups estimate hundreds of thousands of people work in slave-like conditions on farms , sugar cane plantations and cattle ranches across brazil s remote and jungle areas , as well as in urban factories and construction sites .
the government decree as issued would close 506 of 706 working conditions cases under investigation , which would no longer be considered slave labor , a spokesman for brazil s federal prosecutors office said .
temer bowed to pressure from the farm lobby to modify the decree at a time when he is relying on the group s votes in congress to block corruption charges next week .
the farm lobby praised the decree for clarifying the definition of slave labor and eliminating excesses by inspectors .
temer told poder360 the decree needed changing because it contained irrelevant details for defining slavery , such as the need for a soap bar holder or a ladder to a top bunk in workers sleeping quarters .