this story just keeps unraveling two days ago , conservative thomas wictor dropped a bombshell on twitter , exposing what he suggested was a forged roy moore signature on the yearbook that allegedly belongs to beverly young nelson , the most recent sexual misconduct accuser of gop senate candidate roy moore.cnn published a story about roy moore signing nelson s yearbook .
thomas wictor dissected the signature and the validity of her story on twitter : beverly young nelson said alabama gop senate candidate roy moore wrote a message in her yearbook in december 1977 that said , `` to a sweeter more beautiful girl , i could not say , 'merry christmas .
' '' she said he signed it , `` roy moore , d.a . ''
https : //t.co/alujzqsv15 pic.twitter.com/esjgd1ssd9 cnn ( @ cnn ) november 13 , 2017here are close up versions of the signatures .
note , that when viewed close up , the signature is signed in both black and blue ink.here is a closer version of the yearbook signature : here is wictor s explanation for the different colors of ink : ( 4 ) the light is reflecting off of the ink.the ink that looks blue is actually black .
it 's different ink than the original ink.therefore it reflects light differently .
thomas wictor ( @ thomaswictor ) november 16 , 2017 ( 11 ) so , to recap : the signature is a forgery , and everything after the name `` roy-ray '' was added later with different ink .
pic.twitter.com/1spv6aabge thomas wictor ( @ thomaswictor ) november 15 , 2017just like the `` th '' doomed dan rather , `` da '' will doom the anti roy moore forces .
they copied his signature on nelsons divorce order not realizing `` da '' was his assistants initials , not his title .
the sheer stupidity !
pic.twitter.com/owj5fzm6fr truthhurts ( @ tru768 ) november 15 , 2017moore s attorney came out today with a statement regarding the signature in question in the high school yearbook .
here s what he had to say : roy moore 's attorney : `` [ nelson & gloria allred ] said that ms. nelson after the allegations had never seen or had any contact with judge moore in 1999 , ms. nelson filed a divorce action the judge assigned was roy s .
moore . ''
pic.twitter.com/bv5zv0cmvc fox news ( @ foxnews ) november 15 , 2017meanwhile , the leftist , feminist lawyer , gloria allred , refused to deny that her client beverly nelson s roy moore signature in her high school yearbook is not a fabrication .
cnn s wolf blitzer grilled allred on the matter wednesday.big league politics well , all i m saying is , we will permit an independent examiner of the writing we will allow all of this to be asked and answered at the hearing , allred said .
but that s not a flat denial , gloria , blitzer said .
well , all i m saying is , we re not denying , we re not admitting , we re not addressing , allred said .
we will not be distracted .
blitzer asked why allred needed a senate hearing and would not just permit an independent handwriting expert to take a look .
well , uh , all i can say is we want it done in a professional setting to the extent possible , that s the only setting in which people can testify under oath , allred said.blitzer asked if allred s client would take a lie-detector test , but she refused , pushing for a senate hearing.go to the 25:30 min .
mark in the video :