sao paulo ( reuters ) - the brazilian government is looking at all options , including large batteries , to help northern roraima state with power supplies after a series of blackouts in recent months largely related to its dependency on cash-strapped neighbor venezuela .
roraima is the only brazilian state not connected to the national power grid .
its capital , boa vista , and most other cities in the state are supplied by power produced in venezuela and transmitted through a line that was opened in 2001 .
documents produced by a brazilian government committee monitoring the power sector show the state suffered 17 large-scale power outages since august .
the documents , seen by reuters , said only one instance was not related to venezuela .
the situation underscores how venezuela s economic collapse is affecting its neighbors .
roraima is already dealing with a flood of venezuelan migrants looking for food and work .
the economic situation in venezuela is precarious , and it affects power line maintenance , f bio lopes alves , electricity secretary at brazil s energy ministry , told reuters .
it is extremely worrying , we are studying how to assist them , he said .
the energy and the information ministries in venezuela did not respond to requests for comment .
a source at state-controlled venezuelan power firm corpoelec acknowledged that lack of maintenance is hurting venezuela s power transmission system .
the dams are full of water , the rainy season has filled the dams , but the lack of maintenance means that we still have power outages , the source said , asking not to be named because he was not authorized to speak about the issue .
brazil s government is evaluating quickly awarding licenses for companies to build local power generation projects of various types , including both renewable and non-renewable energy .
it is also studying the possibility of buying large-scale batteries .
asked why roraima is still not connected to the national power grid , alves said a project for a new line awarded in 2011 to a consortium formed by centrais el tricas brasileiras sa and alupar investimento sa was never built because of difficulties obtaining environmental permits .
roraima is home to some of the largest indigenous lands in brazil , such as the raposa serra do sol reserve with 1.74 million hectares ( 4.2 million acres ) , an area similar to that of kuwait .
the proposed line would cut through one of them .
the government plans to award a new license early next year for the construction of a power line to connect roraima to the grid , alves said .