rome ( reuters ) - rome s mayor on friday launched an attempt to save the city s ailing public transport company from bankruptcy , asking creditors to support a restructuring of its 1.3 billion euros ( $ 1.54 billion ) of debt .
virginia raggi , a prominent face of italy s anti-establishment 5-star movement , said she would ask magistrates to approve the plan for a total renewal of the company to keep it operating as a public body .
atac s workforce , of around 12,000 people , has been criticized as bloated and its fleet of buses , trams and metros as old and badly maintained .
calls have grown for it to be privatized .
raggi , who was elected in june last year , rejects this solution and on friday the company s board approved the restructuring plan , which will require the backing of her city government and its suppliers .
atac must remain public , raggi wrote in a facebook post .
we are beginning a revolution that will transform the biggest public transport company in europe into an efficient one .
several city transport unions , fearing lay-offs , immediately announced they would hold a one-day strike this month .
turning atac around is a daunting task .
its former chief quit in july after just three months in the job , saying he was unable to salvage the firm and feared possible legal action tied to any eventual collapse .
raggi has had a torrid time since becoming rome s first ever woman mayor .
she has lost several close aides due to political infighting or legal scandals and has so far made little tangible progress in fixing the heavily-indebted city s chronic problems , from road maintenance to refuse collection .
despite her difficulties , 5-star remains italy s most popular party , according to many opinion polls , and raggi s fortunes in attempting to clean up atac could have significant repercussions nationally .
with a general election due by may next year , 5-star can ill afford the bad publicity of extended strikes and legal disputes over the capital s transport company .