berlin ( reuters ) - germany s greens said on monday that closing the country s 20 dirtiest coal-fired power stations would be a key condition of any coalition with chancellor angela merkel s conservatives after this month s election .
greens co-leader cem ozdemir said he wanted to anchor the fight against climate change as the core philosophy of the next government , particularly given the backdrop of recent severe weather - from flooding in germany to drought in southern europe .
it is almost as if nature is trying to speak to us , ozdemir told journalists on a solar-powered boat anchored in berlin , which the greens planned to sail past merkel s office later in the day .
polls show merkel s conservatives are likely to win the sept. 24 election with around 38 percent of the vote but will need a coalition partner to govern , with options including a jamaica coalition of the conservatives , the greens and the liberal fdp .
the greens , however , have raised doubts about the viability of such an alliance , as they would be reluctant to work with the fdp .
ozdemir highlighted the gulf between these two parties , noting that a leading member of the fdp had branded links between recent extreme weather events and climate change as fake news .
we will talk to everybody but not about everything , ozdemir said of potential coalition negotiations .
support for the greens is on 8 percent in the latest polls but a forsa survey showed half of germans would welcome the greens being part of the new government .
a study last week showed that germany is set to miss its goal to cut carbon dioxide ( co2 ) emissions by a far wider margin than previously thought .
instead of being world champions in climate protection , we are world champions in lignite coal , ozdemir said , noting that germany s co2 emissions have been rising for eight years .
once dubbed the climate chancellor for pushing other wealthy nations to address climate change , merkel has come under fire for not moving germany fast enough to cut its reliance on fossil fuels as it phases out nuclear power .
merkel has suggested that germany should eventually consider phasing out lignate coal power plants to help it cut co2 emissions , but she is treading carefully as the move could hit tens of thousands of jobs .
ozdemir said the greens would demand that any government it joins must allot 1 billion euros ( $ 1.2 bln ) a year to improve public transport and cycle paths , and should push for improved co2 emissions trading at a european level .
( $ 1 = 0.8335 euros )