phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodian prime minister hun sen vowed to extend his more than 30 years in power by at least another decade on wednesday , weeks after the highest court dissolved the main opposition party ahead of a 2018 general election .
the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) was dissolved in november at the request of hun sen s government , signaling what one rights group called the death knell for democracy in the southeast asian country .
hun sen , a former khmer rouge cadre who defected from the genocidal group and helped drive it from power in 1979 , is credited with helping cambodia achieve economic growth but has also been criticized for his crackdown on civil society groups and the media .
china , cambodia s biggest backer , has said it supports the government s attempts to maintain cambodia s national security .
at a speech given to thousands of garment workers on wednesday at a pagoda on the outskirts of phnom penh , hun sen said he would stay in power for another two terms and asked workers to vote for his cambodian people s party ( cpp ) .
i will continue to be the elected prime minister for another two mandates which is not less than 10 years , hun sen said .
i hope that you as well as your parents and grandparents , if they are alive , and your families continue to vote , to support cpp on july 29 , 2018 .
garments are cambodia s biggest export by far and garment workers are a politically powerful group .
in 2016 , garment exports were worth $ 6.3 billion and reached $ 4.9 billion in the first seven months of 2017 .
hun sen has been courting garment workers ahead of the vote .
he has promised money for female workers who give birth , among other things .
you have to remember that if you want to keep jobs ... you should not give opportunity to anyone , including cambodians and foreigners , to destroy peace , hun sen said .
concerns about the impact of next year s election and competition from lower-cost asian rivals will slow the growth of cambodia s garment industry next year , the main manufacturers group said earlier this month .