beirut ( reuters ) - iran s allies in lebanon have emerged even stronger from a crisis triggered by saudi arabia , which achieved little more than to force the saudis main lebanese ally - prime minister saad al-hariri - closer to tehran s friends in beirut .
saudi arabia aimed to hurt iran in lebanon by forcing hariri s resignation on nov. 4 and torpedoing his coalition deal with the iranian-backed hezbollah and its allies , using its influence over the sunni leader to cause trouble for the shi ite group .
instead , the move backfired as western states censured riyadh over a step they feared would destabilize lebanon , despite their shared concerns over the regional role of the heavily armed hezbollah .
hariri revoked his resignation on tuesday , drawing a line under the crisis caused by his announcement from riyadh .
lebanese officials say he was put under house arrest before french intervention led to his return home .
riyadh and hariri deny this .
but while the crisis has abated , its causes - hezbollah s growing military influence in the region and saudi arabia s determination to counter iran - seem likely to bring more trouble lebanon s way sooner or later .
hariri has identified possible gulf arab sanctions as a major risk to the lebanese economy .
analysts also see a risk of another war with hezbollah s old foe , israel , which is alarmed by the group s strength in lebanon and syria .
the episode also leaves big questions over lebanese politics , long influenced by saudi arabia , a patron of the lebanese sunni community .
one senior lebanese politician said the experience had left a big scar on hariri , once the the spiritual son of saudi arabia .
after this , it will not be easy to have a normal relationship again .
meeting on tuesday for the first time since the resignation , hariri s government indirectly acknowledged saudi concerns over hezbollah s role outside lebanon .
at hariri s behest , it reaffirmed its policy of staying out of arab conflicts .
a top lebanese official said western pressure forced saudi arabia to retreat from its lebanon plan but further saudi moves could not be ruled out : can we restrain saudi from going toward madness ?
in my view , no .
a western diplomat said saudi measures targeting the lebanese economy were a genuine possibility at some point though the international community would likely try to influence how tough any sanctions would be .
i think the saudis have understood from the international reaction that lebanon isn t a pitch on which they are playing alone .
there are other players who have interests who don t want to see those undermined , the diplomat said .
at the same time , the international community s patience isn t unlimited .
it will be hard to protect lebanon indefinitely if there is no tangible progress on rolling back hezbollah .
hezbollah was the only group allowed to keep its weapons at the end of lebanon s 1975-90 civil war to fight israeli forces occupying southern lebanon .
its militia has been a source of controversy in lebanon since the israeli withdrawal of 2000 .
with saudi backing , hariri led a lebanese political alliance to confront the group , but that resulted in hezbollah s takeover of beirut in 2008 during a brief civil war .
hezbollah s stature has grown in the chaos that swept the arab world after 2011 .
it has backed president bashar al-assad in syria and helped in the war against islamic state in iraq .
but its role in the yemen conflict is seen as the main factor behind the crisis in lebanon .
saudi arabia accuses iran and hezbollah of military support for the iranian-allied houthis in their war with a saudi-led coalition .
hariri has repeatedly flagged yemen as the cause of the latest crisis , and warned that lebanon s economy is at stake .
the economy depends on remittances from expat workers , particularly in the gulf .
any threat to inflows is seen as a risk to the system that finances the heavily indebted state .
hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah has appeared to recalibrate his rhetoric in response to the crisis .
last month , he denied his group was fighting in yemen , or sending weapons to the houthis , or firing rockets at saudi arabia from yemeni territory .
he also indicated hezbollah could pull its fighters from iraq .
the remarks on the eve of hariri s return were seen as appeasing , a source close to hariri said .
hariri has twice led coalition governments including hezbollah despite his enmity toward the group : five hezbollah members have been charged by a u.n.-backed tribunal with the 2005 assassination of his father , rafik al-hariri .
hezbollah denies any involvement .
hariri s willingness to compromise with hezbollah was a factor behind the saudi move against him and has drawn criticism from within the sunni community .
his status as lebanon s most influential sunni will be put to the test in parliamentary elections next year .
ashraf rifi , a hawkish sunni politician , said the way hariri reversed his resignation was a farce and a surrender to the hezbollah project .
the senior politician , who spoke on condition of anonymity , said hezbollah may offer hariri a gesture over its regional role but saw little prospect of the group fundamentally changing course .
president michel aoun , a political ally of hezbollah , could pressure the group a little bit to be cooler on certain issues , the politician said .
but lebanese in saudi arabia still had reason to be afraid for their livelihoods : i think with time the lebanese will try to disentangle themselves from saudi arabia , but this will cost lebanon a lot because revenues will be reduced .
the hariri crisis marked an unprecedented intervention in lebanon , even in a country with a long history of foreign meddling .
it also underlined the different priorities of saudi arabia and its western allies in lebanon - a major recipient of aid to help it host 1.5 million syrian refugees .
on the last day of hariri s stay in saudi arabia , saudi crown prince mohammad bin salman summoned him for a meeting and kept him waiting for hours , delaying his departure for france where president emanuel macron was waiting for him , the senior politician and a top lebanese official said .
macron was calling saad to find out where he was , said the senior politician , adding that macron then called crown prince mohammad to tell him he was expecting hariri for lunch .
western states want stability in lebanon , the politician said .
they need lebanon as a platform for observing the arab world .
they have invested a lot here , and if there is a civil war , ( there is the question of ) what to do with all the syrian refugees .