bauchi , nigeria ( reuters ) - four people were killed when a united nations world food programme ( wfp ) aid convoy was ambushed in northeast nigeria , a wfp spokeswoman said on sunday , in the latest attack in the region as the conflict with boko haram nears its ninth year .
attacks on aid workers are relatively rare in the conflict with the islamist insurgency , compared with assaults on the military and civilians in nigeria s northeast .
the years of fighting have spawned what the united nations calls one of the worst humanitarian crises in the world , with 8.5 million people in need of life-saving assistance .
wfp can confirm that a convoy escorted by the nigerian military including wfp-hired trucks was the subject of an attack by armed groups 35 km southwest of ngala in borno state on saturday , she said in an emailed statement .
four people , including the driver of a wfp-hired truck and a driver s assistant , were killed in the incident , the statement said , adding that wfp is working with the authorities to determine the whereabouts of the trucks .
the spokeswoman declined to comment on whether the driver and assistant were wfp staff , or give details about the other two people killed .
a military spokesman declined to comment .
last year , the united nations suspended aid deliveries in nigeria s northeastern state of borno , the epicenter of the conflict , after a humanitarian convoy was attacked , leaving two aid workers injured .
last week , the nigerian government approved the release of $ 1 billion from the country s excess oil account to the government to help fight the boko haram insurgency , despite a two-year narrative that boko haram has been all but defeated .
there are other signs the government and military may be abandoning that narrative .
nigeria s long-term plan is now to corral civilians inside fortified garrison towns - effectively ceding the countryside to boko haram .
earlier this month , nigeria replaced the military commander of the campaign against boko haram after half a year in the post .
military sources told reuters that came after a series of embarrassing attacks by the islamists .