washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama ’ s fiscal 2017 budget will call for an 11 percent increase in funding for the securities and exchange commission and a 32 percent increase for the commodity futures trading commission , a white house official said on monday .
obama will propose that the sec be given $ 1.8 billion and the cftc $ 330 million in the budget , economic adviser jeffrey zients said in a blog post on the white house website .
“ last year the administration fought hard to keep congressional republicans from using must-pass budget legislation to roll back wall street reform , ” he wrote , referring to fiscal 2016 .
“ we also fought to increase funding for financial regulators and to maintain their independence .
but even these gains aren ’ t enough. ” “ and while the administration is pushing for more funding for these regulators , we ’ ll also continue to oppose efforts to restrict the funding independence of the other financial regulators , including the consumer financial protection bureau , ” he wrote .
the republican-controlled congress is likely to oppose these and many other proposals in obama ’ s budget .
in addition to the proposed increases from the previous fiscal year , the budget will offer support again for user fees to fund the cftc in a similar way to other financial regulators , zients said .
“ fee funding would shift the costs of regulatory services provided by the cftc from the taxpayer to the very firms that benefit from the cftc ’ s oversight .
this is a commonsense change that is long overdue , ” he said .
the budget would also take steps to reduce risk in the financial sector by assessing a fee against large financial institutions based on their liabilities .
“ we learned the hard way in 2008 just how damaging risk and leverage in the financial system can be , and we ’ ve done a lot to curb excessive risk on wall street since , ” zients said , referring to the global financial crisis .
“ this fee is another way to further those reforms , ensuring that taxpayers aren ’ t on the hook for risky wall street gambles. ” federal fiscal 2017 begins on oct. 1 of this year .