brasilia ( reuters ) - brazil s president michel temer has made policy and spending concessions in an effort to survive a congressional vote on corruption charges wednesday that has put his reform agenda at risk , analysts and political actors said .
to please the powerful farm lobby that has two-fifths of the votes in the lower house , temer agreed to lower fines for environmental damage .
he attempted to relax a definition of slave labor but was forced to backtrack after an outcry .
in the clearest move to favor an ally , the republican party that has 37 seats in the 512-seat chamber and runs the transport ministry , temer removed sao paulo s busy and lucrative congonhas airport from a list of airports to be privatized .
the party has appointees in the ministry and state airport operator infraero .
critics and political observers say temer has sacrificed austerity policies to save his presidency but will emerge from wednesday s vote a weakened leader unable to pass substantial measures , such as an overhaul of the pension system .
temer faces charges in a bribery case based on testimony by an owner of the world s largest meatpacker jbs sa that has implicated several of his cabinet ministers .
the lower house decides whether a president should stand trial before the supreme court , which can only take place if two-thirds of deputies vote for it .
he will survive because he has a majority , though not my vote because i believe there is enough evidence to put him on trial by the supreme court , said fabio sousa , a lawmaker of the centrist the brazilian social democracy party ( psdb ) , a member of temer s governing coalition .
temer managed to block a first corruption charge in august .
now he faces charges of obstruction of justice and criminal organization for allegedly receiving bribes from jbs .
temer has met with dozens of lawmakers in recent days to secure their votes .
presidential aides said he hopes to widen his margin of support so that he can move ahead with his reforms , paralyzed for six months by the political crisis .
those votes come at a cost , in pork-barrel spending .
according to public spending watchdog contas abertas , temer fast-tracked spending in congressional districts worth 4.4 billion reais ( $ 1.3 billion ) to help win the first vote , and is now hitting the 2 billion real mark ahead of wednesday s vote .
o globo newspaper estimated the cost of temer s handouts to taxpayers at 12 billion reais , half of which would have come from the planned airport concession auction .
yet most analysts believe temer will get less votes this time , because lawmakers have started to distance themselves from his government ahead of next year s general elections .
after this vote , temer will become a lame duck president .
it will be very difficult for him to pass any reforms , said david fleischer , politics professor emeritus at brasilia university .
investors are waiting to see if temer can deliver a pension reform to tackle a budget deficit that cost brazil its investment grade credit rating .
if he does get social security reform approved , it will be badly watered down , fleischer said .