washington ( reuters ) - large u.s. companies and their executives helped president donald trump raise a record-setting $ 106.7 million for inauguration festivities in january , according to a u.s. government filing released on wednesday .
that tally more than doubled the prior 2009 record of $ 53.2 million for president barack obama ’ s first inauguration , which had topped the previous 2005 record of $ 42.3 million for president george w. bush , government records showed .
the biggest donor by far to trump ’ s inauguration was sheldon adelson , casino magnate and founder of las vegas sands corp ( lvs.n ) .
he gave $ 5 million , according to the 58th presidential inaugural committee ’ s filing with the federal election commission .
adelson declined comment .
many of the companies that donated to trump , a republican , have significant matters pending before the u.s. government or have been invited to white house events .
many of the companies which made donations to the 2017 event also donated to obama ’ s prior inauguration .
for example , aerospace and defense groups boeing co ( ba.n ) and lockheed martin corp ( lmt.n ) each donated $ 1 million to trump ’ s inauguration fund , the filing said .
boeing had donated $ 1 million to the 2013 obama inauguration , according to the opensecrets website run by the center for responsive politics , a campaign finance watchdog .
money donated to the trump inaugural committee falls into two categories , said larry sabato , political analyst at the university of virginia .
“ it ’ s either make-up money or it ’ s a continuation of support by people who are invested in trump .
you don ’ t give this kind of money to get a few tickets to inaugural balls , ” he said .
trump publicly criticized both boeing and lockheed martin before his inauguration .
in twitter messages he said costs on boeing ’ s new air force one plane were “ out of control ” and urged the federal government to “ cancel order ! ” trump in december sent a twitter message saying the cost of lockheed martin ’ s f-35 fighter jet was also “ out of control. ” white house spokesman sean spicer said on wednesday that inaugurations have “ pretty much been a nonpartisan activity ...
this is a time-honored tradition , and i think a lot of americans and companies and entities are proud to support the inaugural. ” financial services companies and executives were among the $ 1-million donors to trump ’ s big festivities , including charles schwab corp ( schw.n ) , bank of america corp ( bac.n ) , financier henry kravis and cantor fitzgerald chairman howard lutnick .
their industry is eager for trump to roll back regulatory reforms put in place after the 2008 financial crisis .
coal and oil companies were also prominent donors .
clifford forrest , owner of the rosebud mining co , gave $ 1 million .
at & t ( t.n ) gave nearly $ 2.1 million in cash and services .
it is seeking approval from the trump administration to acquire time warner inc ( twx.n ) .
at & t donated $ 4.6 million to the 2013 obama inauguration , according to opensecrets .
“ for many years , at & t has contributed to our nation ’ s presidential inaugural celebrations , ” said at & t spokesman mike balmoris .
boeing , lockheed martin and kravis declined comment .
bank of america , charles schwab , forrest and lutnick did not immediately respond to a request for comment .