obama urged indonesians on saturday to resist divisive politics based on race and religion it was really just another swipe at trump .
he s done this fear mongering over and over before ( see video below from 2016 ) and he s doing it again by taking a veiled swipe at president trump during his visit to indonesia : * fyi-he gave the same bs speech on 9/11 , 1/13 , 6/16 , 11/16 another fyi this has been the mantra of the obamas for years !
check out monica crowley s take below .
she calls out these political grifters who always project wrongdoing on others .
aren t they the ones who are guilty of the very thing they re claiming someone else is doing ? check this total bs out : i love that for barack , there is no such thing as us and them he doesn t care whether you re a democrat , a republican , or none of the above .
he knows that we all love our country .
and he s always ready to listen to good ideas .
he s always looking for the very best in everyone he meets .
michelle obama the guardian reported : the former us president said some countries had adopted an aggressive kind of nationalism and increased resentment of minority groups , in a speech in indonesia on saturday that could be seen as a commentary on the us as well as indonesia.obama , who was on a personal visit to the country where he spent some of his childhood , said the muslim community in indonesia had historically protected hindu and buddhist temples .
indonesia is made of thousands of islands , hundreds of languages , scores of regions and ethnic groups .
so my time here made me cherish and respect for people s differences , he told a packed audience in jakarta.obama stopped short of mentioning any specific cases of racial or religious intolerance .
it is very important here in indonesia , the united states , europe , everywhere , to fight against the politics of us and them , he said to cheers from thousands of mostly indonesians who have worked or studied abroad.he arrived in jakarta after visiting the cultural city of yogyakarta and white-water rafting on the tourist island of bali .
he also met indonesian president joko widodo in bogor , south of the capital.indonesia , a country of 250 million people , has experienced rising intolerance against non-muslims and the lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender community.a leader of indonesia s second-largest muslim organization this week called for a boycott of starbucks , saying that the international coffee chain s pro-gay stand risks ruining the religious and cultured core of the country.monica crowley called the obamas out when michelle gave a speech referring to barack s us vs them mantra : last night , michelle obama took the stage and delivered a speech meant to rally the democratic faithful and to humanize her husband .
after nearly four years of his presidency , it does seem odd that she still has to humanize him .
that s usually something that more unknown challengers must do .
but the perception of obama as an aloof , distant , egotistical narcissist has been growing , so michelle was dispatched to paint a warmer picture of him .
if team obama is worried about that at this late hour as well as worrying about their base they know they re in trouble.for what it was , michelle s speech was solid , and she certainly knows how to deliver .
it was a home run , the same way ann romney s speech was a home run last week .
but one short paragraph has become the definitive theme of the speech , because it rings so outrageously false .
she said , i love that for barack , there is no such thing as us and them he doesn t care whether you re a democrat , a republican , or none of the above .
he knows that we all love our country .
and he s always ready to listen to good ideas .
he s always looking for the very best in everyone he meets .
the only thing obama has done since taking office is divide on the basis of us vs. them .
he and his team have divided americans by class ( by incessantly slamming the 1 % , millionaires and billionaires , commanding them to do their fair share , etc ) .he has divided by race ( see joe biden s recent comment , they re gon na put y all back in chains ) .he has divided by age ( attempting to scare seniors by falsely and dishonestly suggesting that the republicans medicare reforms would toss grandma off the cliff , and by giving away the store to college kids on student loans ) .and he has divided by gender ( ginning up a completely bogus gop war on women .
) as far as michelle s comment that obama doesn t care whether you re a democrat , a republican , or none of the above , and he s always ready to listen to good ideas , obama hasn t met with the gop in over a year , scolded them on day one of his presidency with i won , told a democrat who had voted against the stimulus , don t think we re not keeping score , brother , and once referred to punishing our enemies .
not exactly the warm n fuzzy barack michelle was desperately trying to paint.and as far as listening to good ideas , he blew off his own deficit reduction commission , simpson-bowles , as well as paul ryan s budget reform ideas and disregarded moderate democrats ideas to carry out health reform more slowly and with gop buy-in ( see : defeated arkansas senator blanche lincoln and her pleas to obama , which fell on deaf ears ) .so : michelle can try all she wants to resurrect obama s 2004 image of a guy who said there s not a red america or a blue america , and she and other democrats can try to invoke his 2008 image of the transcendent guy sitting above petty politicking and business-as-usual .
but after nearly four years of division , distraction , and destruction , not many people are buying that sales pitch anymore .
it s old , it s tired , and like his radical redistributionism , it s done .