washington ( reuters ) - the ethics committee of the u.s. house of representatives said on tuesday it would continue to investigate possible conflicts of interest by representative alan grayson , a florida democrat and liberal firebrand running for the senate seat soon to be vacated by marco rubio .
the possible conflicts of interest relate to grayson ’ s roles as both a hedge fund manager and a member of congress .
the committee in a statement said the matter needed further review ; it gave no time frame for completion .
grayson has denied any wrongdoing .
in a statement tuesday , his campaign called the ethics probe a “ political witch hunt. ” the extension means the issue will still hover over a race that is seen as key to democrats ’ bid to wrest control of the senate from republicans in november ’ s elections .
the primary is in august .
the new york times reported in february that emails and the fund ’ s marketing documents showed grayson had promoted his international travels , some with congressional delegations , to solicit business for the fund , in possible violation of house ethics rules .
“ the larger picture here is that the washington political establishment has decided who their favored candidate is , and it ’ s not rep. grayson , ” the statement from grayson ’ s campaign said .
top democrats have tried to get grayson to drop out of the florida senate race because of the questions about the hedge fund , throwing their support to democratic opponent representative patrick murphy .
president barack obama has endorsed murphy , and vice president joe biden has campaigned with murphy .
senate democratic leader harry reid said earlier this year that grayson ’ s actions had disgraced congress and that he should leave the senate race immediately .
but grayson has been endorsed by some grassroots liberal groups who appreciate his outspokenness .
one of his more famous lines , delivered during the obamacare debate in 2009 , was that the republican health-care plan for america amounted to “ don ’ t get sick , ” and if you do , “ die quickly. ” the new york times reported that grayson had created the hedge fund in 2011 after losing a race for re-election to congress , and kept it open after he was re-elected in 2012 .
according to filings with the securities and exchange , the fund had been called the grayson fund , but grayson changed the name to sibylline fund lp .
the times reported the fund had closed branches previously located in the cayman islands .
rubio , who recently ended a campaign for the republican presidential nomination , leaves the senate after this year after just one term .
republicans seeking the seat include representatives ron desantis and david jolly .