harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s president robert mugabe said on wednesday the route to leadership was long and full of pitfalls and death , as he accused his fired deputy and former protege of showing impatience in his bid to succeed him .
addressing supporters at the headquarters of his zanu-pf party in harare , 93-year-old mugabe accused emmerson mnangagwa of consulting witchdoctors and prophets as part of a campaign to secure the presidency .
mnangagwa , who was sacked by mugabe on monday and expelled from the ruling zanu-pf party on wednesday , said he had fled zimbabwe because of death threats and was safe .
my sudden departure was caused by incessant threats on my person , life and family by those who have attempted before through various forms of elimination including poisoning , he said in a statement on wednesday .
the head of the influential war veterans association , chris mutsvangwa , said that mnangagwa , 75 , would travel to johannesburg in neighboring south africa very soon .
mugabe said mnangagwa , nicknamed crocodile , had made the same mistakes as joice mujuru , who was the president s deputy for 10 years until she was fired in 2014 .
you should not try to say because the journey is long , then i should take a short cut to arrive quickly .
the road has lions .
there are pitfalls .
there is death , beware , he said .
there is no short cut to being the leader of the people .
just as there was no short cut to our independence .
zanu-pf would move to discipline mnangagwa s co-conspirators , mugabe added .
mnangagwa has not been seen in public since his dismissal from government but his ally mutsvangwa said he was safe and beyond the reach of the assassins .
mutsvangwa ruled out trying to remove mugabe by force and said war veterans , who had publicly backed mnangagwa and broke ranks with the president last year , would form a broad front with the opposition in elections next year .
we don t want to abuse the military to resolve a political problem .
we don t want them to become the arbiter of political power , mutsvangwa said .
he was critical of mugabe s wife grace , who looks set to become vice president after a special zanu-pf congress in december .
this is a coup by marriage certificate .... and it will be resisted , he said .