a white house press release which congratulated exxon mobil corp. for its recent investment in u.s. manufacturing appears to be copied from a paragraph from the oil company s own release , cnn s jake tapper reported monday .
it s straight up plagiarism , word for word .
that draining the swamp of special interests , washington insiders , and lobbyists isn t working out too well , is it ? white house press release plagiarizes paragraph from exxon press release .
pic.twitter.com/hhekvwusdn jake tapper ( @ jaketapper ) march 6 , 2017both releases read , exxonmobil is strategically investing in new refining and chemical-manufacturing projects in the u.s. gulf coast region to expand its manufacturing and export capacity .
the company s growing the gulf expansion program , consists of 11 major chemical , refining , lubricant and liquefied natural gas projects at proposed new and existing facilities along the texas and louisiana coasts .
investments began in 2013 and are expected to continue through at least 2022 .
but it gets worse .
trump pretty much just gave a shout out to exxon mobil corp. in an ad released on twitter to his 26.1 million followers.there is an incredible spirit of optimism sweeping the country right now we 're bringing back the jobs !
pic.twitter.com/bnslvkievj donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 6 , 2017after campaigning on drain the swamp as his tagline , trump filled his cabinet up with terrifying swamp creatures such as secretary of state rex tillerson who previously served as the ceo of exxon mobil from 2006 to 2016 .
tillerson had to leave his position with the company in order to go through the senate confirmation process for the post.during his confirmation hearing , tillerson said , i have never lobbied against [ russian ] sanctions personally , tillerson said .
to my knowledge , exxon never directly lobbied against sanctions .
that s not true , though.trump campaigned on working for the middle class , those who possibly felt forgotten and shifted toward the back burner .
instead , he wants to lower tax rates on the wealthiest , eradicate obamacare , rape the environment , ban muslims from entering our borders ( you can put pretty words on an executive order but it is what it is ) , and he s making a huge profit from his alleged presidency .
trump is in this for trump and no one else .
he d kick a puppy in the face if he and/or his billionaire buddies could profit from it.image via screen capture .