geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations and red cross on tuesday urged the saudi-led coalition fighting in yemen to re-open an aid lifeline to bring imported food and medicine into the country .
it is estimated that seven million people are facing famine there .
the saudi-led coalition fighting the houthi movement in yemen said on monday it would close all air , land and sea ports to the arabian peninsula country to stem the flow of arms from iran .
the saudis and their allies say the houthis get weapons from their arch-foe , iran .
iran denies the charges and blames the conflict in yemen on riyadh .
the u.n. security council is due to meet on wednesday , at the request of sweden , to discuss the humanitarian situation in yemen , diplomats said in new york .
we call for all air and sea ports to remain open to ensure food , fuel and medicines can enter the country , jens laerke of the u.n. office for the coordination for humanitarian affairs said in geneva .
he said humanitarian operations are currently blocked because air and sea ports in yemen are closed , the saudi-led coalition has told the world body to inform all commercial vessels at hodeidah and saleef ports to leave , laerke said , referring to red sea ports controlled by the houthis .
the price of fuel jumped 60 percent overnight in yemen and the price of cooking gas doubled , he said .
this is an access problem of colossal dimensions right now .
the international committee of the red cross ( icrc ) joined the call .
food , medicine and other essential supplies are critical for the survival of 27 million yemenis already weakened by a conflict now in its third year , robert mardini , icrc regional director for the near and middle east , said in a statement .
the icrc said that a shipment of chlorine tablets to prevent cholera did not get clearance at yemen s northern border .
it voiced fears for 50,000 vials of insulin for diabetics due to be delivered by next week , which require constant refrigeration .
icrc spokeswoman iolanda jaquemet said that a ship carrying 500 metric tonnes of rice , which arrived in hodeidah port in october after a three-month trip from pakistan , had to leave the port last week without offloading because the ship s crane had broken .
the port itself lacks adequate cranes after repeated coalition bombing .
rupert colville , u.n. human rights spokesman , said it would study whether the blockade amounted to collective punishment , banned under international law , but hoped that it would be temporary .
attacks in yemen over the past week that have killed dozens of civilians , including children , at markets and homes , he said .
these included at least nine air strikes on the houthi-held city of sanaa since saturday , when a missile was fired from yemen toward the saudi capital of riyadh , he said .
a cholera epidemic has caused 908,702 suspected cases and 2,194 deaths since the outbreak began in april , who spokeswoman fadela chaib said .
in berlin , german foreign minister sigmar gabriel called for increased aid to yemen , citing alarm at the latest u.n. report .
no one will be able to say later , particularly with respect to yemen , that they didn t know what was happening .