kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian opposition leader yulia tymoshenko said on wednesday she has faith in the united states justice system to do the right thing after last week s indictment of paul manafort , the man who helped bring her arch enemy to power .
a political survivor and the strident voice of ukraine s 2004/2005 orange revolution , tymoshenko was jailed during the pro-kremlin presidency of viktor yanukovich in 2011 in a case condemned by western leaders as selective justice .
according to the indictment of manafort , who was a consultant to yanukovich s party of regions before becoming donald trump s campaign manager , manafort used offshore accounts to secretly pay $ 4 million for a report on her imprisonment .
ordered under house arrest as he awaits trial , manafort has pleaded not guilty to a 12-count indictment on charges that include money laundering and failing to register as a foreign agent of yanukovich s government .
money laundering allegations against manafort are not new : tymoshenko herself made them in a legal case she filed in new york against yanukovich , manafort and others that was dismissed in september 2015 .
as a result of the work of yanukovich and his circle , i ended up in prison , the 56-year-old tymoshenko said in an interview , in her first public comments about manafort since his indictment .
she said yanukovich spent huge sums to blacken her name , ... without doubt this affected my life and that of my family and team in a certain way , and ukraine as well , she said .
that is why i believe that u.s. justice will deal with the details , including our claims , and we will get a ruling from one of the most effective legal systems in the world - the u.s. system .
manafort joined the trump presidential campaign in march 2016 and later became campaign manager , but he was forced to resign in august as questions emerged about his previous work for yanukovich s party .
she used her fiery brand of oratory to try to humiliate yanukovich , but he proved her nemesis after beating her in a 2010 election for president .
she was charged with abuse of power in relation to a gas import agreement signed with russia in 2009 as prime minister and was jailed .
she was freed from prison in february 2014 after yanukovich fled into exile to russia during the pro-western maidan protests and she addressed crowds from a wheelchair on kiev s independence square because of chronic back trouble .
the crowd s sympathy for her condition did not help her though to regain a place in the new pro-western leadership and she lost to president petro poroshenko in the 2014 election .
but the two-time prime minister who still sports a trademark peasant braid in her hair is now poroshenko s main challenger at presidential and parliamentary elections due in 2019 , according to opinion polls .
tymoshenko said kiev should have a new type of agreement with the international monetary fund , which has propped up ukraine s economy with a $ 17.5 billion aid program conditional on economic reforms and tackling entrenched graft .
the imf program is in choppy waters : as of now ukraine has refused to implement a sharp hike in gas prices it had previously agreed to , while the fund is also studying whether recently passed pension changes pass muster .
when i served as prime minister i cooperated with the imf and i believe that ukraine can have positive cooperation with the imf , she said , when asked whether she would do as the imf says or abandon the program .
but it seems to me that there needs to be a different emphasis in this cooperation .
she said the program should be focused not on what she termed a reduction in social spending , but instead on tax reform and reducing the size of ukraine s shadow economy .