ankara ( reuters ) - turkey expects to receive its first russian s-400 surface-to-air missiles in 2019 , defence minister nurettin canikli said on wednesday , the first time ankara has given a firm timeline for a deal that has alarmed its nato allies .
turkey has been in negotiations with russia to buy the s-400 for more than a year , a decision seen by washington and some of its other allies in nato as a snub to the western military alliance .
giving the most detail yet on the deal to parliament s budget committee , canikli said it called for delivery of two s-400 systems , but that the second one was optional .
the deal has raised concern among nato countries in part because the weapons can not be integrated into the alliance s defenses .
ankara has said it had no choice but to buy the russian missiles , because nato countries did not offer a cost-effective alternative .
once these systems are received , our country will have secured an important air defense capability .
this solution aimed at meeting an urgent need will not hinder our commitment to developing our own systems , he said .
relations between turkey and russia deteriorated sharply over years during which they backed opposite sides in the war in neighboring syria , but have improved markedly over the past year .
the countries are now cooperating on syrian peace efforts .
canikli said turkey was also in talks with the franco-italian eurosam consortium on developing its own missile defense systems , after signing a memorandum to strengthen cooperation between the three countries in defense projects .
with the memorandum in question , turkish , french and italian firms have started cooperation to identify , develop , produce and use a more advanced version of the samp-t ( missile system ) in a common consortium , he said .
turkey aimed to bring talks with eurosam to a definitive end soon , he said , adding that ankara aimed to finalize the deal by the end of 2017 at the latest .
turkey has been working to develop its own defense systems and equipment , and has lined up several projects for the coming years , including combat helicopters , tanks , drones and more .
canikli said turkey received bids last friday for the production of 500 altay battle tanks , of which 250 are optional .
shares of turkish commercial and military vehicle producer otokar rose almost 3 percent following the news about the 7 billion euro ( $ 8.24 billion ) domestic tank project .