socialism doesn t work but i guess venezuela didn t get the memo .
no toilet paper ?
no food ?
yes , it s come to that in this socialist hellhole venezuela s product shortages have become so severe that some hotels in that country are asking guests to bring their own toilet paper and soap , a local tourism industry spokesman said on wednesday .
it s an extreme situation , says xinia camacho , owner of a 20-room boutique hotel in the foothills of the sierra nevada national park .
for over a year we haven t had toilet paper , soap , any kind of milk , coffee or sugar .
so we have to tell our guests to come prepared .
montilla says bigger hotels can circumvent product shortages by buying toilet paper and other basic supplies from black market smugglers who charge up to 6-times the regular price .
but smaller , family-run hotels can t always afford to pay such steep prices , which means that sometimes they have to make do without .
camacho says she refuses to buy toilet paper from the black market on principle .
in the black market you have to pay 110 bolivares [ $ 0.50 ] for a roll of toilet paper that usually costs 17 bolivares [ $ 0.08 ] in the supermarket , camacho told fusion .
we don t want to participate in the corruption of the black market , and i don t have four hours a day to line up for toilet paper at a supermarket .
recently , venezuelan officials have been stopping people from transporting essential goods across the country in an effort to stem the flow of contraband .
so now camacho s guests could potentially have their toilet paper confiscated before they even make it to the hotel .
shortages , queues , black markets , and official theft .
and blaming the cia .
yes , venezuela has truly achieved socialism.but what i never understood is this : why toilet paper ?
how hard is it to make toilet paper ?
i can understand a socialist economy having trouble producing decent cars or computers .
but toilet paper ?
and soap ?
and matches ? sure , it s been said that if you tried communism in the sahara , you d get a shortage of sand .
still , a shortage of paper seems like a real achievement.read more : cato