tripoli ( reuters ) - islamic state militants in libya set up a desert army composed of at least three brigades after they lost their stronghold of sirte last year , a senior prosecutor said on thursday .
hundreds of militants are believed to have escaped from sirte before or during the seven-month campaign to oust the jihadist group from the coastal city , which it took control of in 2015 .
sheltering in desert camps , fugitive militants have become emboldened in recent weeks , occasionally setting up checkpoints on roads to the south and east of sirte and claiming two deadly attacks against local forces .
the united states , which provided air support for the sirte campaign , has conducted three sets of air strikes targeting the camps - one in january , one on sept. 22 , and one on tuesday .
after the first strikes some wounded militants had been arrested and some materials seized , sadiq al-sour , head of investigations for the attorney general s office , said at a news conference in tripoli .
investigators learned that islamic state had established a desert army led by libyan militant al-mahdi salem dangou , also known as abu barakat , sour said .
the force includes three brigades operating under dangou , each with its own commander .
this army was established after the liberation of the city of sirte ... now they are in the libyan desert , said sour .
separately , sour said authorities had arrested a senior islamic state commander who supervised the beheading of 21 coptic christians from egypt in sirte in february 2015 .
he gave details on the incident and indicated their place of burial , sour said .
we are seeking with military authorities in the central region to discover where the bodies are , and hopefully we will find them , despite the time that has passed .
egypt launched air strikes in libya a day after islamic state released a video showing the copts being beheaded on a beach .
sour said that in the past , islamic state had used established routes to bring foreign fighters into libya from neighboring countries including sudan , egypt , tunisia and algeria .
the largest number of fighters had been brought in from sudan and transited through the libyan city of ajdabiya , about 350 km ( 218 miles ) east of sirte , he said .