mexico city ( reuters ) - the front-runner in mexico s 2018 election has embraced a small , socially conservative party in his bid for the presidency , sparking criticism among progressives that could splinter his support in what is expected to be a tight race .
earlier this week , two-time presidential runner-up andres manuel lopez obrador entered into a coalition with the social encounter party ( pes ) , a tiny party with religious roots that pushes an anti-gay and anti-abortion agenda .
the coalition is led by lopez obrador s left-of-center morena party and also includes the socialist-leaning labor party .
lopez obrador , who is leading in most polls , has been mexico s best-known leftist since he served as mayor of the capital a decade ago .
in previous elections he favored tie-ups with left-wing parties .
some political analysts said a coalition with social conservatives could provide lopez obrador with the margin he needs to prevail in a crowded field of candidates , including first-time independents .
but cracks in his progressive base are emerging .
it looks like our rights will have to keep waiting , said lol kin castaneda , a leading gay rights activist who helped push mexico city s approval of marriage equality in 2010 .
mexico s supreme court ruled that gay marriage is lawful .
still , fewer than half of the country s 32 states have laws on the books that permit civil marriage for gays and lesbians , and individual same-sex couples in most states must fight to be recognized , often at great cost .
it s an error for morena to join forces with pes ...
in this alliance , pes wins , andres lajous , a left-leaning writer and television pundit , posted on twitter .
leo zuckermann , a socially liberal commentator , suggested that lopez obrador , popularly known by his initials amlo , is revealing his true colors by aligning himself with the pes .
people of the left , it s time to recognize that amlo is a conservative on these issues , he wrote in newspaper excelsior .
lopez obrador , like many latin american leftists , has traditionally focused on fighting poverty and graft , not divisive social issues like gay rights or a woman s right to an abortion .
in the past , he has said such issues are not so important compared to the fight against corruption .
he has also proposed putting same-sex marriage and abortion to a popular vote , which rankles activists like castaneda .
asked if she might still support lopez obrador , castaneda was quick to answer .
right now , i haven t made a decision .