two white guys living in a state where 96 % of its residents are white , and who have become extremely wealthy by selling ice cream to the rich , want everyone to know how much they support diversity by marketing over-priced ice cream with diverse labels to more rich people ben & jerry s announced tuesday that proceeds from its newest flavor of ice cream , empower mint , will help benefit the north carolina naacp s campaign to repeal the state s voter id law .
ben cohen , jerry greenfield and north carolina naacp president rev .
william barber kicked off a voter registration drive at north carolina central university in durham on tuesday to help marshal support against a new north carolina law requiring voters to present a photo id before they vote.proceeds from the sale of the new flavor will also go toward the organization s effort to get big money donations from corporations and wealthy elites out of politics .
this flavor will benefit the north carolina naacp , an organization dedicated to ensuring the political , educational , social and economic equality of rights of all persons and eliminating racial hatred and discrimination , the ice cream company wrote in a statement on its website .
it just felt really good to be working with all these people here in north carolina , who ve been struggling to get back their right to vote for them and other people of color , said ben cohen.campaigning against voter suppression is not something we get to do in vermont , because they re so white , he added , chuckling .
this flavor , jerry greenfield said , helps us connect with ben & jerry s fans as we work nationally on trying to help reauthorize the voting rights act .
right now we have a government that represents rich white people , cohen added .
that s not what s it s about .
we ve got to overturn these laws .
ben & jerry s ice cream was founded in 1978 .
cohen and greenfield sold the company they co-founded to british-dutch corporation unilever for $ 326 million in 2000 .
via : breitbart news