cnn s president jeff zucker has dictated questions that are unfavorable of president donald trump to his anchors while they are live on set , according to reports.there have been several instances in which zucker took the reigns , according to the hollywood reporter and the daily caller.during a 25 minute long debate between cnn anchor jake tapper and white house counselor kellyanne conway on feb. 7 , zucker called the control room to tell them to ignore commercial breaks .
he was telling my executive producer , keep going ! '
tapper said.tapper and cnn s wolf blitzer were recapping trump s feb. 16 conference when they interviewed jeff lord , a former cnn contributor and trump supporter .
during the interview , lord said that trump was relaxed and on point during the press conference .
moments later zucker called tapper through a direct line and had him pose a question .
what about the 57 percent of people who didn t vote for him ?
doesn t he have to be their president , too ?
sucker said .
( watch below starting at the 3:10 mark .
) within moments , tapper asked lord the question structured around what zucker wanted.as the debate continued , lord pointed out that trump asking urban radio networks african-american reporter april ryan to set up the meeting with the congressional black caucus is proof that trump was appealing to the african-american base.zucker picked up the phone again , and had the anchors ask another question .
then why does he have to ask april ryan to get a meeting ?
zucker said .
( watch at around the 9:15 mark .
) watch one of the most smug interviews by two liberal cnn puppets you have ever seen .
knowing that their boss jeff zucker was feeding these two stooges questions makes it even more embarrassing .
it s like watching a real-life puppet show : zucker and trump have known each other since before zucker approved the apprentice in 2004 .
sucker told new york magazine in october that trump s attacks on his network made him sad .
the washington free beacon