tuesday morning , donald trump started off his day by tweeting yet another outrageous lie about president obama , apparently unsatisfied with his weekend tweetstorm accusing his favorite muslim kenyan socialist nemesis who totally isn t an american citizen of tapping his wires at trump tower .
122 vicious prisoners , released by the obama administration from gitmo , have returned to the battlefield .
just another terrible decision !
trump claimed after apparently seeing a fox news report that 122 have returned to the battlefield except not even fox news was stupid enough to attempt to pass that off on president obama.122 vicious prisoners , released by the obama administration from gitmo , have returned to the battlefield .
just another terrible decision !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 7 , 2017in reality , 113 of those who have returned to their old ways were released under george w. bush , while 9 were released under president obama.this is something anyone even the donald can easily fact check , but for some reason we will never understand he is so committed to the lie that he ignores verifiable data that proves him wrong .
naturally , the american people stopped by to tell him where he can stick his fabrications : trump 's gitmo tweet is a boldfaced lie.111 prisoners released under george bush returned to the battlefield pic.twitter.com/ropyog3177 jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) march 7 , 2017without even digging into it , trump took what he saw on fox news and blamed obama.except , it was bush .
pic.twitter.com/qfseaudnkl jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) march 7 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump i see you got your infowars briefing this am .
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) march 7 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump which battlefield are they headed to ?
bowling green ?
kristina wong ( @ mskristinawong ) march 7 , 2017hmm , @ realdonaldtrump , i wonder what intelligence agency gave you that info oh right .
my bad , bro .
pic.twitter.com/v0ciimfib5 josh s nchez ( @ jnsanchez ) march 7 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump remember when he claimed a sitting president wiretapped him ?
that was idiotic.oh wait , that was you .
anthony domanico ( @ ajdomanico ) march 7 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump a huge number of them are from russia , saudi arabia and afghanistan , yet those countries are not in the travel ban .
why ?
dave hogg ?
( @ stareagle ) march 7 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump so , donnie .
buddy .
do you have fact checkers ?
kelly scaletta ( @ kellyscaletta ) march 7 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump what do you do when the president is a brainwashed , uninformed conspiracy theorist ?
impeach .
kg ?
( @ kg_nyk ) march 7 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump pic.twitter.com/cdwixirrxh stephen patten ( @ stevepatten ) march 7 , 2017trump is getting desperate in his attempts to distract americans from his administration s numerous ties to russian oligarchs .
he has even demanded and republicans have acquiesced that any probe into his russia contacts be bogged down by an investigation into his stupid claims about president obama tapping his wires .
you re not campaigning anymore , trump .
facts matter now , because most of us do still care about the truth.featured image via getty images ( chip somodevilla ) /screengrab