berlin ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron s proposed european reforms will play a big role in talks between german chancellor angela merkel s conservatives to form a government with the center-left social democrats ( spd ) , a top spd member said .
german foreign minister sigmar gabriel , who led the party until stepping aside earlier this year to make way for former european parliament president martin schulz , said he supported macron s call for a separate budget for the eurozone .
we should be ready to invest more in our future , gabriel told germany s funke newspaper group and the french newspaper ouest-france in an interview published saturday .
germany is the biggest winner of the eu and can afford to contribute more .
gabriel said macron s proposals to reform the european union would be very important in the coalition talks , which are due to begin on jan. 7 after merkel failed to reach agreement with two smaller parties .
he said he was enthusiastic about macron s core idea of strengthening the eu and making it a global player .
the spd had initially hoped to go into opposition after suffering its worst election losses in the post-war era , but was persuaded to enter into negotiations with conservatives to avoid new elections .
merkel earlier this month gave her strongest endorsement of macron s proposals , but germany has been hamstrung in taking more decisive action on any concrete proposals until it has a new government in place .
merkel said she saw promising areas of common ground with social democrats on the future of europe , and urged speedy action to work on eu reforms before the next european elections in 2019 .
this week she said she wants an initial coalition deal with the spd by mid-january .
macron hopes to make progress with germany on ideas to reform the eurozone by march , once germany has a new coalition government in place , with the goal of agreeing a roadmap with all eurozone leaders by june .
gabriel also called for the eu to adopt programs that would encourage communities in poorer member states to accept more migrants by offering financial assistance .