abuja ( reuters ) - the trial of more than 1,600 people suspected of ties with boko haram was expected to begin in nigeria on monday behind closed doors , in the biggest legal investigation into the eight-year militant islamist insurgency .
more than 20,000 people have been killed and two million forced from their homes in northeastern nigeria during the insurgency , contributing to what the united nations has said is among the world s worst humanitarian crises .
nigeria s ministry of justice said last month the trial of around 1,670 people held at the kainji detention facility would begin at the site , in the central niger state , on monday and would be presided over by four judges .
a spokesman for the ministry did not respond to requests for confirmation that the trial had begun .
a military spokesman declined to comment , saying questions should be addressed to the judiciary .
the ministry has said that after the kainji trials are completed , a further 651 people suspected of having links to boko haram and currently being held at prisons in maiduguri , the capital of the northeastern state of borno , would go on trial .
clement nwankwo , a human rights lawyer based in the capital , abuja , said the trials would provide a more effective deterrent if they were open to the media and public .
on the boko haram issue , stories need to be told for the public to be made aware what has been going on and understand the nature of the crimes committed , said nwankwo , adding that secrecy also made it hard to determine whether trials were fair .
the nigerian authorities have not been known to be diligent in investigating and properly prosecuting suspects , he said , warning that a sense of injustice could breed resentment among relatives that could yield future radicalization .
however , fatima akilu - who headed the government s counter violent extremism program under the previous administration - said secrecy was needed to encourage witnesses and judges to take part in the trials because nigeria does not have a witness protection program .
a lot of witnesses were afraid to come forward , akilu , who was based in the office of the national security adviser from 2012 to 2015 , said of previous efforts to pursue trials .
she said judges and witnesses had previously been subjected to death threats .
if the witnesses don t come forward there is limited evidence in terms of reaching a conviction , so i think there was little choice , she said , adding that there were no clear alternatives in the absence of an amnesty program .
nigeria s handling of thousands of people accused of ties with boko haram insurgents has previously attracted criticism .
the legal process marks a steep escalation in the number of insurgency-related cases being handled by nigerian authorities .
the ministry of justice has said that , as of sept. 11 , only 13 terrorism cases had been concluded and nine convictions had been secured .
the decision to start the trials is a response to persistent complaints by local and international human rights groups over thousands of persons detained without access to lawyers and without any specific charges , said nnamdi obasi , of international crisis group .