dubai ( reuters ) - families are being torn apart by the rift between qatar and three other gulf arab states which began six months ago , amnesty international said on thursday , despite measures to ease the impact of the crisis on ordinary citizens .
saudi arabia , the united arab emirates and bahrain , along with egypt , imposed travel , economic and diplomatic sanctions on qatar in june over allegations of supporting terrorism .
doha denies the charge .
the human rights group , citing interviews with individuals and qatari officials , said thousands of people had been affected by the rift , which has split families , raised food prices for foreign workers and made visits to islamic holy sites in saudi arabia more difficult .
officials from saudi arabia , the uae and bahrain could not immediately be reached to comment on the report .
but the three u.s.-allied countries had announced measures in june to ease the impact of the dispute on mixed families , including setting up hotlines to deal with humanitarian issues .
saudi arabia has also said it was allowing visits to holy sites and opened its doors to muslims in qatar to perform the annual muslim haj pilgrimage .
diplomatic efforts led by kuwait to resolve the dispute have so far failed to achieve a breakthrough .
the report was based on interviews with 44 affected individuals conducted in late november in qatar as well as meetings with qatari officials .
despite measures to allow families in mixed marriages to visit , many were finding it difficult to comply with procedures required to apply for a laissez-passer that allows residents of qatar to travel to see loves ones in saudi arabia , bahrain or the uae , the report said .
it said that there was scant , or no , information about the application process on official uae and saudi ministry websites , while travel to bahrain had become more difficult since manama imposed an entry visa requirement for qatari nationals and residents at a time when the embassy in doha is closed .
affected families told amnesty international that hotlines announced by the bahrain , saudi arabian and uae governments were difficult to access , the rights watchdog said .
lynn maalouf , director of research for the middle east at amnesty international , said that by imposing travel restrictions on ordinary people , bahrain , saudi arabia and the uae have violated the right to family life , education and freedom of expression .
since this dispute began in june , our fears about its potential to rip families apart have been cruelly and emphatically realized , maalouf said in a statement .