see also : orlando known wolf watched by fbi , worked with dhs , amid crisis actors , drills & ci s21st century wire says the orlando shooting .
many things are just not right with this story , including the father of the alleged shooter omar mateen , an afghan-american , seddique mateen , who is closely linked to some of the most powerful leaders and agencies in washington dc.below is a photo of omar s father after a meeting at the us state dept .
in washington dc where he met with officials , but oddly , no log of his visit is available in the public record .
image credit : facebook.com/seddique.mateenthe alleged shooter s father played an absolute key role in setting up the entire hate crime narrative by inserting this quote into the msm machine during the immediate aftermath of the sensationalized media event .
seddique mateen said : we were in downtown miami , bayside , people were playing music , and he saw two men kissing each other in front of his wife and kid and he got very angry .
they were kissing each other and touching each other and he said , look at that .
in front of my son they are doing that .
and they we were in the men s bathroom and men were kissing each other .
for the media , and every other political leader in the us , this was now classified as a hate crime , and so case closed .
in other words , a simple story line with real traction was now baked firmly into this event about a homophobic , isis-inspired , crazed lone gunman who went postal in a orlando gay nightclub , and coincidentally , on the eve of an international gay pride celebration day.pictured below is seddique mateen with california republican congressman dana rohrabacher .
rohrabacher ( r-ca ) was initially elected to congress in 1988 , with the fundraising help of friend oliver north.rohrabacher s decades-long involvement in all things afghan eventually earned him the nickname gunga dana .
today he chairs the united states house foreign affairs subcommittee on europe , eurasia and emerging threats.this morning president obama called him a home-grown terrorist .
in a series of phone interviews monday morning , donald trump responded that there s something going on with the president s reaction to the orlando shooting.i guess even a stopped clock is right twice a day .
it s like calling blackwater xe orlando shooter omar mateen s father said his son was not motivated by islamist radical ideology , but in a facebook video posted early monday he said , god himself will punish those involved in homosexuality .
my own suspicion was first awakened on monday morning when u.s. news outlets uniformly reported that the father s tv show aired on a u.s.-based afghan satellite channel .
that sort of circumlocution is typical when something is being hidden which the corporate media prefers we not ask questions about.the name of the nameless afghan satellite channel , payam afghan , is said to be widely-known in southwest asia as a cia-pakistani isi construct , as this picture from flicker shows.the identification of shooter omar mateen also involved deception .
he was said to work for a security company called g4s , which few have ever heard of .
however , g4s is merely a re-branded wackenhut corporation , a name with a storied reputation for scandal in the u.s. and around the world.rohrabacher has stated that he sees radical islam as the source of a major terrorist threat to the u.s.calls to his office today to request comment on whether he views cia assets relocated in the u.s. as a terrorist threat have not been returned.see full report : orlando known wolf watched by fbi , worked with dhs , amid crisis actors , drills & ci shelp support us by becoming a 21wire member at : 21wire.tv