fort lauderdale , fla. ( reuters ) - hurricane harvey s destruction in texas may not have altered florida s well-tested storm plans , but it appears to have infused residents with a new sense of urgency as they prepare for approaching hurricane irma .
officials said harvey s devastating flooding , coupled with the sheer power of irma , ranked as the strongest atlantic storm on record , had sharpened the focus of floridians who were somewhat indifferent about preparing for past hurricanes .
a lot of times they end up having hurricane parties here instead of evacuating , monroe county spokeswoman cammy clark said by phone .
that s been the opposite this time around .
monroe county includes the florida keys , which ordered evacuations for all residents and tourists .
clark said she saw a steady stream of traffic leaving the travel destination as she drove to work early on wednesday .
the u.s. national hurricane center forecasts that irma may strike southern florida on saturday , when it could still be a major hurricane .
as it neared puerto rico on wednesday with maximum sustained winds of 185 miles per hour ( 295 kph ) , irma was a category 5 storm , the highest level on the five-step saffir-simpson scale of intensity .
this storm is bigger , faster and stronger than hurricane andrew , florida governor rick scott told a news conference on wednesday , referring to one of the costliest storms in u.s. history that struck southern miami-dade county 25 years ago .
for south florida , hurricane irma is a once-in-a-generation storm .
it s the big one for us , ed rappaport , acting director of the hurricane center , told wfor-tv in miami on wednesday evening .
miami-dade county mayor carlos gimenez on wednesday evening announced mandatory evacuations for most of the county s coastal cities beginning at 9 a.m. ( 1300 gmt ) on thursday .
miami-dade has a population of 2.7 million .
the evacuation orders affect more than 100,000 residents , the miami herald reported .
miami beach mayor philip levine had already urged residents of that city on tuesday to evacuate .
we don t want any heroes , he said .
we want people to bring themselves to a safer place than a barrier island .
officials across florida said they saw signs of people taking irma more seriously than past storms .
residents were stocking up on water and batteries and even complaining that county leaders were not being quick enough to announce evacuations , said don walker , spokesman for brevard county emergency management .
houston officials were criticized for not ordering an evacuation ahead of the flooding that left hundreds of people in the country s fourth-largest city trapped in their homes .
everyone is really in tune with this storm system .
my neighbors are talking about it , and we don t usually do that , walker said .
for years , many florida residents , joined by an ever-growing number of newcomers , paid little heed to hurricane warnings as most opted to stay in their homes , county officials said .
not this time around .
i ll tell you for the community , heck yeah , they re taking this more seriously , said teri barbera , spokeswoman for the palm beach county sheriff s office , noting that many stores were out of bottled water by monday .
they re not playing .