antonin scalia was one of our most reliable , conservative us supreme court justices .
pray for our nation conservative u.s. supreme court justice antonin scalia has died , setting up a major political showdown between president barack obama and the republican-controlled senate over who will replace him just months before a presidential election .
on behalf of the court and retired justices , i am saddened to report that our colleague justice antonin scalia has passed away , chief justice john roberts said in a statement on saturday , calling scalia , 79 , an extraordinary individual and jurist .
scalia s death was first reported by the san antonio news-express , who said he had apparently died of natural causes while visiting a luxury resort in west texas.appointed to the top u.s. court in 1986 by president ronald reagan , scalia was known for his strident conservative views and theatrical flair in the courtroom.obama , who is traveling in california , extended his condolences , and the white house said he would have more to say about scalia s death later on saturday.the u.s. president will face a stiff battle to win confirmation of a nominee to replace the dead jurist , with republicans likely to delay in the hope that one of their own wins the november election.obama could tilt the balance of the nation s highest court , which now consists of four conservatives and four liberals , if he is successful in pushing his nominate through the senate confirmation process .
conservative justice anthony kennedy sometimes joins with the liberals on high profile issues , including gay rights and the death penalty .
justice scalia was an american hero .
we owe it to him , and the nation , for the senate to ensure that the next president names his replacement , senator ted cruz of texas , a republican presidential candidate , said on twitter.the court is set to decide its first major abortion case in nearly 10 years as well as key cases on voting rights , affirmative action and immigration.possible replacementsscalia s replacement would be obama s third appointment to the nine-justice court.obama s first two appointments to the court , liberals sonia sotomayor in 2009 and elena kagan in 2010 , both experienced relatively smooth confirmation hearings in the senate , which was then controlled by democrats .
sotomayor was approved by a 68-31 vote and kagan by 63-37.the battle over scalia s replacement will be different , with republicans now in charge of the senate and keen to exert their influence over the process .
obama is likely to be forced into picking a moderate with little or no history of advocating for liberal causes .
via : yahoo news