ottawa ( reuters ) - canadian prime minister justin trudeau on monday said he would neither fight donald trump , nor support him , but understood the republican ’ s appeal for people fed up with politics , who he said had also voted for controversial toronto mayor rob ford .
trudeau - who will visit washington this week for talks with president barack obama - took office last november and will be in power when the next occupant of the white house takes over in january 2017 .
trudeau also suggested trump might not be serious about policy platforms such as tearing up the north american free trade agreement , which could badly damage canada ’ s economy .
“ i ’ m not going to pick a fight with donald trump right now .
i ’ m not going to support him either , obviously , ” trudeau told a live forum hosted by the huffington post when pressed to condemn the republican .
trudeau said he was watching the united states closely “ to see how it deals with what is obviously a very real set of issues around frustration toward the body politic ” which had been seen around the world .
he cited the case of ford , the former populist mayor of toronto who gained global notoriety for admitting to smoking crack while in office .
“ we had a mayor called rob ford here for a while and there ’ s a lot of people who didn ’ t get it .
but he tapped into a very real and legitimate sense that people had around who politicians were , ” said trudeau .
the prime minister seemed less concerned when asked about trump ’ s proposals to temporarily bar muslims from the united states and deport millions of illegal immigrants .
“ let ’ s see if the things that he needed to say in order to secure the republican nomination are the same things he chooses to say in order to win the presidency , if that ’ s what happens , ” he said .
( reporting by david ljunggren ; editing by andrew hay ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .