with a vote of 52-47 , senator jeff sessions was confirmed to be our new attorney general ! senator jeff sessions was just conformed as our next ag general ! # trumpcabinet pic.twitter.com/cjwaufnytl katherine ( @ peaceandjoy101 ) february 9 , 2017 sen. jefferson beauregard sessions iii is donald trump s friendly but fierce alabama ally sessions , a 69-year-old former state attorney general who famously donned the make america great again trucker s cap at a massive rally in mobile last august , thinks trump is more a movement than a man .
yes , sessions was one of the very first to support trump : my advice is to listen and accept the will of the american people , the republican voters the republican party is the republican voters immigration is the numero uno reason why the left is freaking out .
sessions knows everything there is to know about what s going on with immigration .
he s the guy we need right now to help fix immigration .
we are so lucky !
he s been a lone voice out there for so long in the battle on immigration .
this is well deserved ! this is why we love attorney general jeff sessions !
please watch the video below ! senator jeff sessions has been such a beacon of common sense and patriotism in his battle to save america s sovereignty .
he s fought the battle of illegal immigration and now this battle of refugee resettlement with great focus .
this is yet another example of his passion for doing what s really right for americans .
bravo senator sessions ! discussion of a nuclear security bill was hijacked in a senate judiciary committee meeting by sen. pat leahy ( d-vt. ) , who insisted on a right to migrate amendment that would bar the united states from banning an potential immigrant based on religion.sen .
jeff sessions ( r-ala. ) then delivered a rebuttal to leahy : fundamentally , foreign nationals living in foreign countries have no constitutional right to enter the united states .
if they did , any alien denied entry could file suit to demand entry and claim damages for lost employment , lost welfare benefits , lost income .
choosing who can immigrate into the united states is , by definition , an exclusionary process .
the goal is to select immigrants for admission based on the benefits they provide to society based on skills , ages , values , philosophy , incomes , etc .
our goal is to choose for admission those likeliest to succeed and flourish and , crucially , to support our constitutional system of government and our values of pluralism and republican governance .
sen. jeff sessions rebuts argument that muslim immigration is a civil right