caracas ( reuters ) - venezuela s socialist government gifted chocolates to creditors on monday , but offered no firm proposals at a brief meeting in caracas that left investors without a clear understanding of the government s strategy to renegotiate $ 60 billion in debt .
president nicolas maduro confused investors this month with a vow to continue paying venezuela s crippling debt , while also seeking to restructure and refinance it .
both restructuring and refinancing appear out of the question , however , due to u.s. sanctions against the crisis-stricken nation .
a default would compound venezuela s dire economic crisis .
monday s short and confused meeting , attended by senior venezuelan officials blacklisted by the united states , gave no clarity on how maduro would carry out his plan , bondholders and their representatives who participated said afterwards .
that means venezuela remains with the dilemma of whether to continuing paying debt at the expense of an increasingly hungry and sick population , or defaulting on creditors and burning its bridges to the global financial system .
there was no offer , no terms , no strategy , nothing , said one bondholder , leaving the meeting that lasted a little over half an hour at the white palace , departing with a colorful gift-bag containing venezuelan chocolates and coffee .
but bond prices maintained last week s rally , with one investor saying there was relief the meeting did not include a default announcement .
nearly $ 300 million in late interest payments on three bonds - pdvsa 2027 , venezuela 2019 and venezuela 2024 - was also due on monday after 30-day grace periods ended .
but bondholders appeared unconcerned at the delay , which was due in part to increased bank vigilance of venezuela transactions .
my expectation is that the coupon payments will come through as well , said jan dehn , head of research at ashmore investment management .
we know that these delays exist and why they exist .
about 100 investors , including some bondholders from new york and lawyers representing creditors , entered the white palace via a red carpet and were greeted by a poster of maduro s predecessor hugo chavez at the entrance of the meeting room inside .
chief debt negotiators vice president tareck el aissami and economy minister simon zerpa - on u.s. sanctions lists for drug and corruption charges respectively - attended the meeting for half an hour .
they met with some bondholders , while others stayed out of the room on concerns about penalties for dealing with officials sanctioned by washington .
el aissami told creditors that deutsche bank may soon cut off some financial services to venezuela , participants said .
deutsche declined to comment .
he read a statement protesting unfair treatment by global financial institutions , including u.s. president donald trump s sanctions aimed at preventing venezuela from issuing new debt .
now maduro can say : i showed goodwill , the bondholders showed goodwill ... but unfortunately because uncle sam is not playing ball we can t ( refinance ) , said dehn , who did not attend the meeting .
i m not hugely surprised nothing s come out of that meeting .
separately , the european union approved economic sanctions and an arms embargo on venezuela on monday , although it has yet to name who will be subject to the sanctions .
markets continue to remain optimistic that venezuela will service its debts , noting it has made close to $ 2 billion in payments in the past two weeks , albeit delayed .
bond prices were up across the board on monday , with the benchmark 2022 notes issued by state oil firm pdvsa [ pdvsa.ul ] rising 3.3 percentage points .
the economic implosion has already taken a brutal toll on venezuelans .
citizens are suffering from malnutrition and preventable diseases because they can not find food and medicine or can not afford them because of triple-digit inflation .
the sight of poor venezuelans eating from garbage bags has become a powerful symbol of decay .
it contrasts sharply with the era of chavez , when high oil prices helped fuel state spending .
halting debt service would free up an additional $ 1.6 billion in hard currency by the end of the year .
those resources could be used to improve supplies of staple goods as maduro heads into a presidential election expected for 2018 .
but the strategy could backfire if met with aggressive lawsuits .
a default by pdvsa , which issued about half of the country s outstanding bonds , could ensnare the company s foreign assets such as refineries in legal battles - potentially crimping export revenue .
( for a graphic on 'venezuela 's economy ' click tmsnrt.rs/2ppjdrb )