nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan police are not cooperating with investigations by a government-funded watchdog into violent deaths that followed last month s election , two sources with direct knowledge of the probes said .
the head of the independent police oversight authority ( ipoa ) told reuters in mid-august it was fast-tracking investigations of all deaths and injuries for which the police were alleged by rights groups to be responsible following the aug. 8 national ballot .
macharia njeru had attended autopsies of a young girl and a baby and called the probes into those deaths priority cases .
but the sources told reuters that police had to date not transferred any documents or evidence to ipoa , which is mandated to investigate cases reported by individuals or police or referred to them by human rights organizations .
the big frustration of ipoa is that the police do not share information critical to investigations into police misconduct , one of the sources said .
... ( but ) officers feel ipoa is there to harass them .
the police are required by law to cooperate with the ipoa , which is civilian-run .
a spokesman for the force , charles owino , did not respond to phone calls on wednesday afternoon .
interior minister fred matiang i last month denied accusations of police brutality .
he said criminal elements , not legitimate political protesters , had caused trouble after the election that provoked a police response .
protests broke out after the election board announced that incumbent president uhuru kenyatta had won by 1.4 million votes .
opposition leader raila odinga disputed the result and took his case to the supreme court , which on friday scrapped the result and ordered a new poll within 60 days .
[ l8n1li1qy ] the state-funded kenya national commission on human rights says at least 28 people were killed in shootings in the days after the results were announced .
it said it believes the killings were linked to the police .
evidence relevant to the investigations could include documents such as police deployment plans and operational orders as well as internal reports into alleged misconduct by officers or units , one of the sources said .
an ipoa spokeswoman said the monitor did not discuss ongoing investigations with the media .
the authority became operational in 2012 and has so far secured the conviction of two police officers in a 2014 murder of a teenage girl in a coastal kenyan town .
in its annual reports for 2014 to 2016 , it listed suspicion by the police , delays in response to requests for information and lack of cooperation from some officers as factors impeding its operations .