havana ( reuters ) - americans traveling to cuba later this month are being moved out of havana hotels to make room for president barack obama ’ s entourage and being sent tantalizingly close to a place u.s. law effectively forbids them from visiting : the beach .
obama will make his historic trip to the communist-ruled caribbean island on march 21-22 with hundreds of people in tow , crowning 15 months of warming relations after more than half a century of cold war animosity .
cuba is already experiencing a tourism boom and march is traditionally its busiest month .
the obama visit has put additional strain on hotels that have already been booked to capacity for much of the high season .
major havana hotels are being cleared , according to the head of a u.s. travel company who asked not to be identified for concern it would damage future business relations .
“ just got notice that the capri , panorama , nacional , half of parque central and potentially other hotels have been told to send all guests to varadero from the 19th to 23rd of march , ” he wrote in an e-mail .
the varadero resort , an hour ’ s drive east of havana , is cuba ’ s most sought after tourism destination , with sandy white beaches , shimmering waters and plentiful hotels .
but the beach is off limits to americans as u.s. restrictions on travel to the island expressly forbid tourism in cuba .
americans are limited to authorized travel such as educational and cultural exchanges .
this means most u.s. visitors are concentrated in havana , where there are lots of cultural sites and activities , a rocky seafront and scarce hotel rooms .
“ the cuban government is clearing out havana hotels and sending visiting u.s. groups to varadero beach for a long weekend , ” said collin laverty , president of cuban educational travel , which organizes authorized u.s. travel groups .
“ tourism will be hard to avoid for a few days as u.s. visitors are surrounded by white sand , turquoise water and all you can eat and drink bars and buffets , ” he added .
“ but we will try. ” cuban travel agencies were not immediately available for comment .
following the u.s.-cuban detente announced by obama and cuban president raul castro in december 2014 , american visits to cuba soared 77 percent in 2015 to 161,000 visitors .
cuba is expecting a similar increase this year .
obama , a democrat , has loosened travel restrictions to the once-forbidden land as well as some other trade barriers .
but only congress , currently controlled by republicans , can lift the u.s. embargo and its ban on tourism , in place since the early 1960s .