so much for the promise of transparency from obama .
hundreds of lawyers ?
the special project this team was given ?
concealing information from congress.the irs s director of privacy , governmental liaison , and disclosure division , mary howard , testified that soon after the irs targeting scandal was revealed , the irs amassed hundreds of attorneys to go through the documents [ requested by congress ] and redact them .
she told congress that once the special project team was created and operational , she never saw requests for information.members of congress have long complained that many of the documents produced by the irs have been redacted to the point of absurdity .
now we know why.her testimony is clear : as soon as the irs targeting scandal broke , the irs set up a special team of hundreds of attorneys , including president obama s political head of the chief counsel s office , to keep requests for publicly available information away from the person who would normally review those documents and turn them over to congress and the public .
that special team then overly redacted , delayed , and determined which documents it wanted congress to see.after setting up a special group to target and delay applications by tea party groups for tax-exempt status , the irs set up a new special project team to delay and redact information from congress about that targeting .
talk about a cover-up.when asked about these revelations and the ongoing investigation by congress into the irs and former top irs official lois lerner s involvement , howard testified , i think that lois lerner was the tip of the iceberg .
this is what we at the american center for law and justice ( aclj ) have been arguing all along .
the targeting of conservative groups , the delays , the unconstitutionally abusive questions go far beyond lerner .
we expect to learn more about lerner s role and the disappearance and later recovery of many of her emails later this month as the inspector general for tax administration is due to issue its report.congress s investigation is far from over .
at the aclj , our ongoing lawsuit on behalf of dozens of conservative and pro-life groups targeted by the irs is far from over .
our appeal is pending before a federal appeals court in washington , d.c.unfortunately , the targeting is far from over as well , as the application of one of our clients has been pending for well over five years .
we will continue fighting to expose irs corruption and pursue justice for the american people.jay sekulow is chief counsel of the american center for law and justice ( aclj ) , which focuses on constitutional law .
he is a new york times bestselling author .
jay s latest book is undemocratic : how unelected , unaccountable bureaucrats are stealing your liberty and freedom ( howard books may 19 , 2015 ) .
he hosts jay sekulow live a daily radio show which is broadcast on more than 850 stations nationwide as well as sirius/xm satellite radio .
follow him on twitter @ jaysekulow.via : fox news