here s one sure way to turn a solidly red state blue in fiscal year 2014 , texas resettled 7,234 refugees .
however , that doesn t tell the whole story because according to the texas dept .
of state health services ( an excellent source of information on refugees in texas ) , the actual number of migrants legally being treated as refugees last year was really 12,800 ( up 24 % from the previous year !
) .the website also tells you which counties got the most refugees.the 12,800 includes refugees , asylees , parolees , special immigrant visa holders ( these are afghans and iraqis ) , and victims of trafficking.they hailed from 58 countries ( therefore texas taxpayers are on the hook for many expensive translators gratis a bill clinton executive order for all sorts of reasons access to health care , school system problems and the criminal justice system ) .when i went to several different sources , i find that over 150,000 refugees have been resettled in texas since 1983 , and that number doesn t include secondary migrants from other states ( dallas county got the most secondary migrants last year 60 % of all those arriving in texas ) .and , of course , it doesn t include all of the children produced in three decades !
nor does it include the thousands of unaccompanied alien children that may not have been distributed around the nation from last year s border invasion .
obama would like nothing more than to have them declared refugees as well ( refugees get all forms of welfare upon arrival !
) .the top resettlement cities in texas are ( resettlement is not limited to these sites , dozens and dozens of smaller cities and towns are receiving refugees ) : abileneamarilloaustincorpus christidallasel pasofort worthhoustonsan antoniofor new readers , you might want to have a look at our archive on amarillo which has developed into a pocket of resistance as the mayor there has asked the federal government to slow the flow since the school system is suffering with the influx of non-english speaking children many of whom are illiterate in their own language .
the meatpacking industry is responsible for much of the resettlement to amarillo ( hunger for cheap labor !
) .the top nations from which texas received refugees in 2014 were in this order : iraq , cuba , burma , afghanistan , and tied for 5th place somalia and bhutan ( nepal ) .so when did texas move into the number one spot in the nation ? for years and years other states ranked above texas including california , new york and florida .
according to this very cool graph ( above right ) , it was in 2011 that texas gained this dubious distinction.and , if you are wondering why the number dipped in 2011 , this is why : that year it was learned that iraqi terrorists disguised as refugees were arrested in kentucky .
turns out the pair had lied ( can you believe it , they lied ! )
on their refugee application and it was only when they were found to be planning on helping al-qaeda in iraq was it discovered that one of them had left fingerprints on an ied shard that was warehoused by the us military .
the shard came from an ied that had killed pennsylvania national guard troops .
they are in prison for life.the arrest threw the refugee admissions program of the us state department into chaos because they had to re-screen thousands and thousands of iraqis headed to america .
iraqis make up the largest ethnic group we are admitting to america now at a rate of about 20,000 a year .
the majority are muslims ( both shiites and sunnis as we import their centuries old squabble to your towns !
) .it s probably no accident that barack obama gave the teacher of the year award to shanna peoples , a high school english teacher from amarillo , texas , who works with refugees : in order to question this 35-year-old legal immigration program , you must first get the facts !
* read our fact sheet , here .
open and read all the links in this post !
* go to the texas department of state health services website and learn all you can about the refugees coming to texas .
don t miss the stats on their health conditions ( refugees are admitted with tb , hepb , hiv and parasites ) .
* you have a state refugee coordinator and her name is caitriona lyons ( she is irish , btw ) , call her and ask her to direct you to the texas refugee plan .
here is a description of the plan and the legal requirement that every state have one ( and they must keep it current ) .
ask her to direct you to it and read it ! remember in texas your governor does have a say in what happens with refugee resettlement !
where has he been ? via : refugee resettlement watch