phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodia s main opposition leader kem sokha was arrested and accused of treason on sunday and a leading independent paper said it was being forced to shut down as prime minister hun sen s government intensified a crackdown on his critics .
hun sen said kem sokha had been plotting with the united states , increasing his anti-american rhetoric as cambodia heads towards elections next year in which the authoritarian leader s grip of more than three decades is at stake .
the u.s. state department expressed concern at the arrest of ken sokha and action against the media .
it raised doubt over whether the southeast asian country can hold a fair election .
hun sen , 65 , a former khmer rouge cadre , who is now one of china s closest regional allies , said kem sokha had been arrested for treason in which the united states was implicated .
it s an act of treason with conspiracy with a foreign country , betraying his own nation .
this requires arrest , hun sen told a group of garment workers , according to the pro-government fresh news website .
kem sokha , 64 , has led the main opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) since his predecessor resigned in february , saying he feared a government plan to shut it down .
kem sokha was taken from his home in handcuffs after a night-time police raid .
the opposition party lost to hun sen s cambodian people s party in local elections in june , but it did well enough to increase expectations of a close contest in the 2018 vote .
the government released a video on its facebook page in which kem sokha appeared to tell a group of supporters about a strategy to win power which he said had the support of the americans rather than an immediate plot to topple hun sen .
in the video , kem sokha said the americans had hired academics to advise on strategy to change cambodia s leaders .
and if i follow such a tactic and strategy and if i could not win , i do not know what else to do , he said .
the opposition party made no immediate comment on the veracity or content of the video .
earlier , it said kem sokha s arrest was politically motivated and violated the law because of the immunity granted to elected lawmakers .
the party called for his release and urged the international community to intervene .
if kem sokha is found guilty of any offence , it could allow the government to shut the party under a new law .
kem sokha made no immediate comment and it was not clear if he had been charged or had legal representation at this stage .
the government has stepped up attacks on the united states and last month ordered the expulsion of the u.s. state department-funded national democratic institute pro-democracy group .
earlier in the year , it suspended joint military exercises with the united states , which has voiced fears over the human rights situation .
state department spokeswoman heather nauert said the charges against kem sokha appeared to be politically motivated .
her statement did not directly address hun sen s accusations against the united states .
nauert also highlighted recent steps by the cambodian government against independent media and civil society , saying they raise serious questions about the government s ability to organize credible national elections in 2018 which produce an outcome that enjoys democratic legitimacy .
in a sign of the pressure on the media , the cambodia daily said it was ceasing publication after the government ordered it to pay a crippling $ 6.3 million tax bill by monday .
the english-language paper , founded by an american journalist , was known for critical coverage of issues such as corruption , human rights and the environment .
after 24 years and 15 days , the cambodian government has destroyed the cambodia daily , a special and singular part of cambodia s free press , it said in a statement .
during hun sen s rule cambodia emerged from the devastating khmer rouge genocide to enjoy record years of economic growth of above 7 percent , but disaffection has been increasing and he only just won the 2013 election against a unified opposition .