ten things that we have learned from hurricane harvey and the texas flood 2017 .
1 .
at & t was sketchy and verizon is owned by a cajun .
2 .
the cajun navy and texan navy are better equipped than the fed govt and are much faster .
3 .
race does not divide us , the media divides us .
4 .
cnn stands for covers negative news and cn stands for cajun navy .
5 .
we will find the means to cook in any situation .
6 .
all lives matter .including animals .
7 .
no water is too deep or too shallow for passage .
8 .
a cajun and a texan can launch a boat anywhere including roadways .
9 .
our strength is togetherness .
10 .
under no circumstances will we be defeated.we love this list !
what would you add to it ? the american spirit is alive and well !
maga ! louisiana came out strong for president trump !
say cheeeese !
harvey evacuees say meeting president trump changed their opinion of him : two women who took a selfie with president trump ( see video below ) and had a chance to speak with him have a totally different view of him now : i think he s a wonderful man !
these # harvey evacuees say meeting @ realdonaldtrump changed their opinion of him .
i think he s a wonderful man !
https : //t.co/fdojhznham pic.twitter.com/3k7r5tauec elex michaelson ( @ abc7elex ) september 3 , 2017these two women changed their opinion of trump after this fun encounter : together , we will prevail in the great state of texas .
we love you ! god bless texas & god bless the usa pic.twitter.com/1rzmeenqib donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) september 3 , 2017president trump serves food at nrg stadium : this is awesome !
president trump puts on gloves to serve food .
he turns to the press and says my hands are too big !
presidentas he puts on plastic gloves to serve food at nrg stadium president trump turns to press and says : my hands are too big !
pic.twitter.com/wiutlos4xd pat ward ( @ warddpatrick ) september 2 , 2017president trump hands out food boxes and meets with harvey victims : we will get through this and rebuild president trump is handing out food boxes & meeting with # harvey victims in houston .
we will get through this and rebuild. # texasstrong pic.twitter.com/4dakfnbrik alex ( @ socal4trump ) september 2 , 2017