yangon ( reuters ) - myanmar s military has launched an internal probe into the conduct of soldiers during a counteroffensive that has sent more than half a million rohingya muslims fleeing to bangladesh , many saying they witnessed killings , rape and arson by troops .
coordinated rohingya insurgent attacks on 30 security posts on aug. 25 sparked a ferocious military response in the muslim-majority northern part of rakhine state that the united nations has said was ethnic cleansing .
a committee led by military lieutenant-general aye win has begun an investigation into the behavior of military personnel , the office of the commander in chief said on friday , insisting the operation was justified under buddhist-majority myanmar s constitution .
according to a statement posted on senior general min aung hlaing s facebook page , the panel will ask , did they follow the military code of conduct ?
did they exactly follow the command during the operation ?
after that ( the committee ) will release full information .
myanmar is refusing entry to a u.n. panel that was tasked with investigating allegations of abuses after a smaller military counteroffensive launched in october 2016 .
but domestic investigations , including a previous internal military probe , have largely dismissed refugees claims of abuses committed during security forces clearance operations .
thousands of refugees have continued to arrived cross the naf river separating myanmar s rakhine state and bangladesh in recent days , even though myanmar insists military operations ceased on sept. 5 .
aid agencies estimate that 536,000 people have arrived in the cox s bazar district , straining scarce resources of aid groups and local communities .
about 200,000 rohingya were already in bangladesh after fleeing persecution in myanmar , where they have long been denied citizenship and faced restrictions on their movements and access to basic services .
myanmar s de facto leader , aung san suu kyi , has pledged accountability for human rights abuses and says myanmar will accept back refugees who can prove they were residents of myanmar .
the powerful army chief has taken a harder stance , however , telling the u.s. ambassador in myanmar this week that the exodus of rohingya , who he said were non-native bengalis , was exaggerated .
in comments to japan s ambassador carried in state media on friday , min aung hlaing denied ethnic cleansing was taking place on the grounds that photos showed muslims departing calmly rather than fleeing in terror .
former u.n. chief kofi annan , who led a commission set up by suu kyi to find solutions for the ethnically and religiously divided rakhine , briefed the u.n. security council and other key states in an informal closed-door meeting on friday .
some council members are exploring if the 15-member body could agree a formal statement or even a resolution to call for an end to the violence , for full aid access , the safe return of refugees , access for a u.n. fact-finding mission to ensure accountability and implementation of annan s recommendations .
annan said he hoped any possible security council resolution urges the government to really press ahead and create conditions that will allow the refugees to return in dignity and with a sense of security , they should not be returned to camps .