male ( reuters ) - the maldives government signed a free trade agreement with china during a visit to beijing by its leader , abdulla yameen , it said on friday , despite criticism from the opposition over the speed at which the deal was concluded .
under the deal - a document of more than 1,000 pages that the maldives parliament signed off on last week after less than an hour of discussion - china and the archipelago nation will impose no tariffs on imports from each other .
fisheries are the main export from the maldives , an indian ocean country of 400,000 that also relies heavily on tourism .
the free trade agreement between china and maldives signed during the visit was a milestone in the development of china-maldives economic and trade relations , yameen s official website said in a joint communique .
the maldives government also endorsed china s proposed maritime silk road business development project , part of its vast belt and road infrastructure project .
china s state-run xinhua news agency quoted chinese president xi jinping as telling yameen that the belt and road program matched up with the maldives development strategies .
president yameen s government has had good relations with china since taking power in 2013 .
china has been striking deals with countries in asia and africa to improve its imports of key commodities and boost its diplomatic clout .
the main opposition maldivian democratic party ( mdp ) said in a statement that the fta contained technical details that should have been thoroughly reviewed and called for its implementation to be suspended until an independent feasibility study is conducted .
the government says the fta will help diversify the $ 3.6 billion economy and boost fisheries exports , crucial since the european union declined in 2014 to renew a tax concession on them .
fisheries account for 5 percent of maldives economic output and earned the country $ 140 million in 2016 .
the eu declined to extend the tax exemptions because the country has failed to comply with international conventions on freedom of religion , european diplomats in colombo say .
maldives law prohibits the practice by citizens of any religion other than islam , while non-muslims are barred from voting , gaining citizenship or holding public office .