because bob price at breitbart news had the courage to attend and film an unbelievable black panther rally aimed at threatening cops in houston last year , america was able to see just exactly how hateful and dangerous this group really is .
obama s celebrity bestie , beyonc promoted the black panthers to a staggering 114.4 million viewers in her anti-cop , anti-white performance during her super bowl 2016 halftime act .
her over-the-top performance included black panther clad dancers who proudly displayed the divisive black power fist.the mainstream media ignored her hateful performance .
impressionable young americans who ve been watching obama s race war unfold didn t. beyonc wasn t promoting the girl scouts of america , she was promoting a hate group who openly vocalizes their desire to kill cops !
thanks to bob price , we now know the dallas cop killer was part of that group.only hours before the dallas cop killer took the lives of 5 innocent american law enforcement officers , beyonc posted this rant to her website : dallas cop killer micah x. johnson was a member of the radical , violent black panthers , the same group that beyonce promoted at the 2016 super bowl .
our current president marched with them in 2007 .
obama s ag , eric holder gave them a pass , after they were caught in the act of blatantly intimidating voters during the 2008 election .
micah x. johnson was a member of the houston new black panther party for a short period of time .
he was reported to be a member for about six months a few years ago.quanell x told reporters at kprc nbc2 in houston that johnson was a member of the houston chapter of the new black panther party for a short time a few years ago .
he said he parted ways with johnson after about six months because johnson would not follow the chain of command.during negotiations with the dallas police department friday morning during the ambush shooting that left five officers dead and seven other people shot , johnson said he was not part of any group .
he stated he wanted to kill white people and white police officers.watch this shocking video showing the black panthers ( including dallas cop murderer ) openly calling for the killing of cops : breitbart texas was present at an armed march carried out by the houston new black panther party in waller county last summer .
this writer took photos and video of the armed marchers at that time .
one of the members holding an ar-15 style rifle appears to be micah xavier johnson.during the march , the armed members of the new black panther party stood off against harris county sheriff s deputies who came to waller county responding to a request for assistance from sheriff glenn smith.this writer stood between the protesters and the deputies to take these photos and video .
via : bob price , breitbart newsnot surprisingly , barack obama also has a history with the vile , racist black panther group .
obama appeared and marched with members of the new black panther party as he campaigned for president in selma , ala. , in march 2007.biggovernment.com posted the photographs , reporting the images were captured from a flickr photo-sharing account before they were scrubbed.among the people visible in the pictures with obama is nbpp chairman malik zulu shabazz , a defendant in the voter intimidation case that attorney general eric holder dismissed in 2009.shabazz himself has given scores of speeches condemning white men and jews.the nbpp s official platform states white man has kept us deaf , dumb and blind , refers to the white racist government of america , demands black people be exempt from military service and uses the word jew repeatedly in quotation marks .
wndit should come as no surprise to anyone that beyonc has endorsed the pandering hillary clinton .
democratic presidential frontrunner hillary clinton paid a surprise visit to beyonc during last week s fundraising trip to los angeles .
hillary praised beyonc while speaking to a crowd at a town hall in iowa city , iowa in december .
i want to be as good a president as beyonce is a performer , hillary responded after she was asked if she would rather be beyonc or president .
breitbart newsthis hateful movement promoted by our president and supported by celebrities and hate groups across america is growing .
america needs to wake up to this hate and division and stop supporting those who are working behind the scenes to promote it .
bob price serves as associate editor and senior political news contributor for breitbart texas .
he is a founding member of the breitbart texas team .
follow him on twitter @ bobpricebbtx .