at least 26 people have been killed inside a texas church including a two-year-old child after a gunman dressed in full combat gear opened fire during the morning service before cops shot him dead.confirmed reports are beginning to circulate that the shooter is a left-wing antifa member , devin patrick kelley ( 26 ) , with military experience , acting out on behalf of the previously promoted november 4th resistance via antifa .
kelley is a former u.s. air force member who served from 2010 to 2014 .
he was dishonorably discharged and court-martialed in may 2014 , cbs news has learned .
( via cbs ) [ ] kelley is a former u.s. air force member who served from 2010 to 2014 .
records confirm kelley previously served in logistics readiness in new mexico until his discharge in 2014 , air force spokesperson ann stefanek said in a statement.kelley was court-martialed in 2012 for two counts of assault on his spouse and assault on their child , stefanek said .
he received a bad conduct discharge and confinement for 12 months .
he has a residence in new braunfels , texas , which is about a 35-mile drive from where the attack took place in sutherland springs .
conservative treehousekelley showed off an image of a rifle on his facebook page , calling it a bad bitch : although gun-control advocates will use kelley as an example of why no american should be able to legally own a gun , it s worth pointing out that , given kelley s dishonorable discharge from the air force , which is a felony , he would be banned from possessing a firearm in the u.s. : if devin kelley was dishonorably discharged from military it would mean he couldn t have legally bought a gun .
it s same as a felony pic.twitter.com/nzitfhhdzn joe biggs ( @ rambobiggs ) november 6 , 2017kelley s facebook page has now been deleted , but you can see a screenshot of the weapon he posted above .
his profile picture showed two small children , which was a chilling juxtaposition next to the semi-automatic rifle that was his cover photo .
according to the daily beast , kelley was married and kelley s mother-in-law listed a p.o .
box in sutherland springs as a mailing address .
san antonio police reportedly raided kelley s home on sunday evening he briefly taught at a summer bible school .
he lived about 35 miles from the shooting scene.the shooter was described as a white male in his 20s from outside san antonio by mike levine , a journalist for abc news , who reported that law enforcement had uncovered a weapon photo on kelley s facebook page .
authorities are now scrubbing his social media ; on facebook in recent days , he showed off an ar-15 style-looking gun , levine wrote .
authorities said the rifle used in the massacre was similar to the one kelley posted on facebook , but they could not confirm it was the same weapon .
heavykelley s facebook page revealed that had recently shaved his beard .
it s kelley s response to a friend who asked him , don t you have a beard ?
that s curious .
kelley s responded , not anymore .
long story .
although there is no evidence so far that indicates kelley was radicalized by islam , it s common knowledge , that before a muslim commits jihad , they are to be cleanly shaven.slate magazine explains why a terrorist shaves before blowing himself up : so he s clean when he enters heaven .
traditionally , muslims purify corpses by washing the skin and nails and sometimes by shaving the pubic hair .
but suicide attackers are deprived of a proper burial since there are usually no remains .
to compensate , the attackers shear themselves ahead of time , both to guarantee some level of cleanliness at the time of instant incineration and to prove extreme devotion to personal purity .
some scholars offer an alternative explanation : they believe that suicide terrorists adopted the no-hair practice from the pashtun tribesmen of afghanistan , who shave their bodies before going into battle.hair removal is mentioned in islamic law as a method of maintaining personal hygiene .
in addition to nail clipping , the sunnah instructs muslim men and women to shave or trim pubic hair regularly and to remove underarm hair .
men must also clip their mustaches .
in some circumstances , muslims are encouraged to shave their heads .
for example , al-bukhari , a ninth-century muslim scholar who spent years collecting hadith , quotes the prophet as saying may allah bless those who shaved during the hajj ( pilgrimage ) ; and the quran states that ye shall enter the sacred mosque , if allah wills , with minds secure , heads shaved , hair cut short , and without fear .
here are the facts we know from texas leo and fbi press conference : largest mass shooting in state history ~ gov .
greg abbott [ texas ] 26 dead + shooter = total 27 [ 23 inside church , 2 outside , 1 hospital death ] 11:20 am suspect was seen dressed in all black .
tactical gear and ballistic vest weapon : ruger ar-type rifle .
eyewitness neighbor engaged shooter with his own rifle [ possibly hit the shooter in neck ] .
shooter dropped a weapon and fled in the vehicle .
citizen pursued the suspect in a vehicle .
police arrived at the vehicle , shooter dead .
ages of 26 victims : 5-years old to 72-years-old.paul joseph watson posted a screenshot of some of the pages and issues that kelley was interested in : these are the facebook likes of the shooter , as being reported by heavy and other outlets .
pic.twitter.com/lqw1ecwnla paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) november 5 , 2017while kelley was clearly interested in atheism , he also appeared to be a liberal as it relates to social issues.interests of shooter devin patrick kelley , according to his linkedin page .
https : //t.co/zxexim4irm pic.twitter.com/mszwname4j paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) november 6 , 2017hopefully , we ll get more details about the motive behind the worst shooting massacre in texas history , faster and more accurately , than the misinformation campaign we ve been fed by local las vegas and federal authorities about the worst mass shooting in us history only one month ago