brasilia ( reuters ) - the approval rating for brazilian president michel temer s scandal-plagued government has sunk further since new corruption charges were brought against him , and 92 percent of brazilians do not trust him , a new poll published on thursday showed .
the survey by pollster ibope said the number of people who consider temer s government bad or terrible rose to 77 percent from 70 percent in the previous survey carried out in july .
the proportion of those who rate his government as great or good slipped to just 3 percent from 5 percent .
only 6 percent of brazilians still trust temer , down from 10 percent , the poll said .
the government s approval rating collapsed in july after temer was hit by a first corruption charge that was blocked by congress in august , which saved him from standing trial before the supreme court .
but federal prosecutors filed new accusations against him of obstructing justice and being a member of a criminal organization in a corruption case involving the owners of the world s largest meatpacker jbs sa .
they accused temer of taking bribes in return for political favors and of conspiring to buy the silence of a witness who could implicate the president .
the lower house of congress , which has the authority to decide whether a president should be put on trial , is expected to vote on the new charges in mid-october at the earliest .
analysts expect the congress to again reject a supreme court trial for temer , putting him on course to serve out his term until the end of 2018 .
but the corruption debate will delay passage of his plan to overhaul brazil s costly pension system , a key measure to bring a gaping budget deficit under control .
he was already a very unpopular president proposing unpopular measures .
now there is the perception that he , his cabinet and his ruling coalition are involved in a series of wrongdoings , said lucas de arag o , partner at the brasilia-based political risk consultancy arko advice .
temer s ratings have fallen below the worst result of his predecessor dilma rousseff , whom he succeeded when she was impeached last year .
rousseff and her workers party called her ouster a coup orchestrated by temer and his allies so they could shield themselves from corruption investigations .
thursday s poll was commissioned by the national confederation of industry lobby and surveyed 2,000 people between sept. 15-20 across brazil .
it has a margin of error of 2 percentage points .