washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court on wednesday appeared likely to rule that property owners can challenge the federal government in court over the need for permits under a national water protection law in a case involving a company ’ s plans for a minnesota peat mine .
the court heard a one-hour argument in a case balancing property rights and environmental law , in this instance the landmark 1972 u.s. clean water act .
a majority of the eight justices appeared sympathetic toward north dakota-based hawkes co inc , which is fighting an obama administration finding that its property includes wetlands .
the law mandates that property owners get permits in such situations .
whether a particular plot of land falls under the law ’ s jurisdiction is important to developers and other property owners because such a finding triggers a lengthy and expensive permitting process .
hawkes ’ lawyers argued the company should be able to contest whether it even needs to go through the permit process .
liberal and conservative justices alike expressed concern about the current arrangement ’ s burden on property owners .
conservative chief justice john roberts said applicants who disregard a government finding that they need a permit do so at “ great practical risk. ” liberal ruth bader ginsburg called the process “ very arduous and very expensive. ” liberal stephen breyer called the government decision that hawkes needed a permit “ perfectly suited for review in the courts. ” only liberal elena kagan expressed support for the government , raising concerns about the impact a ruling favoring property owners would have on actions by other government agencies such as the securities and exchange commission .
property rights advocates said the permitting process can take two years and cost up to $ 270,000 , with owners facing penalties of up to $ 37,500 a day for noncompliance .
business groups including the national association of home builders and the u.s. chamber of commerce and 29 states filed court papers opposing the obama administration in the case .
the case follows the justices ’ unanimous 2012 ruling that property owners facing enforcement action under the clean water act can ask a court to intervene before being forced to comply or pay financial penalties .
the obama administration last year issued a new regulation defining the scope of federal jurisdiction over bodies of water .
a federal appeals court put the rule on hold after it was challenged by 18 states .
only eight justices participated in the case following justice antonin scalia ’ s february death .
a ruling is due by the end of june .