lagos ( reuters ) - a nigerian militant group whose attacks on energy facilities in the niger delta last year helped push africa s biggest economy into recession said on friday it had ended its ceasefire .
the niger delta avengers announced a halt to hostilities in august 2016 , although they carried out attacks in october and november last year .
`` niger delta avenger 's ceasefire on operation red economy is officially over , '' the group said on its website ( www.nigerdeltaavengers.org/ ) .
our next line of operation will not be like the 2016 campaign which we operated successfully without any casualties ; this outing will be brutish , brutal and bloody , it said in a section of its statement addressed to oil companies .
the move threatens nigeria s fragile economic growth and poses a further security challenge for president muhammadu buhari , in addition to the jihadist boko haram insurgency in the northeast and rising secessionist sentiments in the southeast .
the government has been in talks for more than a year to address grievances over poverty and oil pollution but local groups have complained that no progress has been made , despite buhari receiving a list of demands at a meeting last november .
buhari s office did not immediately comment .
the 2016 attacks cut oil production from a peak of 2.2 million barrels per day ( mbpd ) to near 1 mbpd , the lowest level in africa s top oil producer for at least 30 years .
the attacks , combined with low oil prices , caused the opec member s first recession in 25 years .
crude sales make up two-thirds of government revenue and most of its foreign exchange .
nigeria came out of recession in the second quarter of this year , mostly due to the rise in oil production after attacks stopped and as prices strengthened .
the niger delta avengers , who say they want a greater share of nigeria s energy wealth to go to the impoverished swampland region , said they decided to end the ceasefire because they had lost faith in local leaders .
we can assure you that every oil installation in our region will feel the warmth of the wrath of the niger delta avengers , it said .
there have been no substantial attacks in the region since january .
eric omare , president of the ijaw youth council , which represents the largest ethnic group in the niger delta , said the government had paid only lip service to communities concerns .
the truth is that the federal government has not demonstrated any seriousness towards addressing the issues that led to the niger delta agitation , omare said , while adding that his group sought a peaceful dialogue .
nigeria s economy grew 0.55 percent year-on-year in the second quarter , largely on higher oil receipts .
the world bank cut its 2017 growth forecast in october to 1 percent from 1.2 percent as the oil production increase was lower than expected and non-oil sector growth was subdued .