washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama has turned to senior adviser brian deese , an economic expert who previously led the administration ’ s climate change efforts , to head a team formed to pick a supreme court nominee and win confirmation , the white house said .
white house counsel neil eggleston will be a part of that team and will steer the legal process , including the vetting of potential candidates , administration officials said on monday .
leading republicans have vowed to block any nominee obama chooses , leaving the white house with the challenge of finding someone it believes could change republican minds or galvanize enough public support to pressure them to back down .
obama has been in the early stages of choosing a candidate to replace conservative supreme court justice antonin scalia since his death two weeks ago .
the process is likely to take at least a month , and the deese-led team was created to ensure the entire white house staff was not consumed with the potentially legacy-defining project .
the group will report regularly to chief of staff denis mcdonough , senior advisers and obama .
deese has a history of taking on projects important to the president within the white house .
he was involved in leading the administration ’ s bailout of the u.s. auto industry , budget deals with congress and , most recently , international climate change talks that culminated in a paris deal to fight global warming .
“ the president has relied on brian in a variety of critical situations to do important work and to take on important projects , ” white house spokesman josh earnest said .
“ given brian ’ s performance in his other priorities , i don ’ t think it ’ s particularly surprising he would be tapped for this responsibility too. ” republican senate majority leader mitch mcconnell has said repeatedly that the senate will not confirm an obama nominee in this election year .
mcconnell and other congressional leaders are scheduled to meet with the president on tuesday .
the white house keeps an ongoing list of potential candidates for the supreme court for instances in which a vacancy opens up , according to a former administration official involved in the process previously .
that list is now being reviewed and is open to new entrants .
candidates will be vetted and interviewed before obama makes his final decision .