berlin ( reuters ) - a senior member of germany s social democrats ( spd ) said her party would start talks next week with chancellor angela merkel s conservatives on forming a governing coalition , a move that could end a political impasse in europe s largest economy .
the spd voted on thursday to open discussions with the conservatives despite having earlier pledged to go into opposition after suffering its worst election result in the post-war era in september .
the consultations - between merkel , her bavarian ally horst seehofer and spd leader martin schulz , as well as the parliamentary leaders of the three parties - will begin in berlin on wednesday evening .
the result of the talks remains open and a grand coalition between the spd and conservatives was no foregone conclusion , andrea nahles , the spd s parliamentary leader , told deutschlandfunk radio on friday .
it s no more and no less than having talks , nahles said .
it s not automatic that we ll end up in a grand coalition - rather tough discussions will be necessary , and i don t know what the conservatives are prepared to work with us on .
merkel , who has been at the helm in germany for 12 years , hopes the spd will agree to a re-run of the grand coalition that has governed germany for the last four years .
she was forced to turn to the spd after talks with the environmentalist greens and liberal free democrats ( fdp ) on a three-way alliance collapsed .
her conservative bloc has welcomed the spd s decision to start initial talks .
they would still need to decide later whether to proceed to full-blown coalition talks .
the majority of germans ( 70 percent ) expect a grand coalition to form , a forsa poll for broadcaster zdf showed on friday .
it found almost half of germans ( 47 percent ) would be happy with such an alliance .
around a third ( 36 percent ) disapproved of another conservative alliance , which would make the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) the biggest opposition party .
the spd gained two points in the forsa poll to 23 percent ; the conservatives shed a point to 32 percent .
merkel s conservatives and the spd both saw their vote share shrink in september elections , complicating the coalition arithmetic .
their coalition remains in place as a caretaker government .
nahles said the spd had not set any conditions for joining a coalition with the conservatives , adding : you don t go into negotiations with a huge backpack full of red lines .
but she said the spd had laid out key points , including getting rid of germany s two-tier public and private health system - an idea the conservatives oppose .
seehofer , leader of bavaria s arch-conservative christian social union ( csu ) - the sister party to merkel s conservatives - said his party would not agree to that , telling magazine der spiegel he could not imagine how such a system could be implemented without causing profound injustices .
seehofer also rejected schulz s idea to create a united states of europe by 2025 , saying that would certainly remain a utopia .
on the issue of immigration - which was behind the collapse of the talks between the conservatives , greens and fdp - nahles said the spd needed to take the bull by the horns .
speaking at the spd party congress on friday , she said germany needed an immigration law but also a realistic recognition of the difficulties that some municipalities face in integrating refugees .