the old reliable stone most commonly used by a group of neanderthals who still adhere to a stone-age mentality .
it s the weapon of choice for muslim migrants when a knife or machete isn t available .
because stoning 4 year old boys is such a great way for these migrants to show german citizens how grateful they are for their hospitality a four-year-old boy has been hospitalised after having a stone thrown at him by a resident of a troubled german migrant centre which has seen riots and islamist violence.the young boy , who has not bee identified , suffered massive bruising after he inadvertently interrupted a football game taking place at the state of thuringa migrant centre in suhl , germany .
the child entered a gymnasium looking for his brothers when he kicked a football , enraging another migrant.the child was then beaten around the head several times with the ball until a supervisor stepped in to end the violence.unluckily for the small boy , his assailant then caught up with him again after the game , and threw a rock at his head .
admitted to hospital for serious injuries , police said the boy had massive bruising , reports focus.de.police have failed to identify the migrant who caused the injuries to the child.this is not the first time the suhl migrant receiving centre has made headlines recently .
breitbart london reported in august after residents staged a major riot at and around the buildings .
the disturbance started as sectarian violence , as an afghani migrant tore out pages of a koran and stuffed them down a toilet , and was instantly set upon by fellow muslims.fearing the man would be killed as opposing sects of islam came to blows in the migrant centre , police moved in to put the migrant into protective custody , but their intrusion into what the participants of the brawl saw as a private fight united to attack the police .
cries of allahu akhbar were heard as officers were pelted with stones , forcing them to retreat and hide in a nearby building.deprived of police officers to attack , the residents of the asylum shelter turned on the building itself , smashing down doors , breaking windows , and even tearing down internal walls .
fires were lit , and furniture destroyed .
eighteen , including six police officers , had to seek hospital treatment .
via : breitbart london