new york ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan said on thursday turkey will deploy troops in syria s northern idlib region as part of a so-called de-escalation agreement brokered by russia last month .
the de-escalation zones , agreed by turkey , russia and iran , would be further discussed in talks with russian president vladimir putin during his trip to ankara next week , erdogan said in an interview with reuters while he was in new york for the annual united nations general assembly .
under the agreement , russians are maintaining security outside idlib and turkey will maintain the security inside idlib region , erdogan said .
the task is not easy ... with putin we will discuss additional steps needed to be taken in order to eradicate terrorists once and for all to restore peace .
erdogan also said turkey was considering counter-measures , including imposing sanctions , against kurdish northern iraq over a planned referendum .
iraqi kurdish authorities have defied growing international pressure to call off the referendum on independence .
iraq s neighbors fear it will fuel unrest among their own kurdish populations and western allies said it could detract from the fight against islamic state .
turkey has brought forward a cabinet meeting and national security council session to friday over the referendum , erdogan said .
he said that parliament would also convene for an extraordinary meeting on saturday .
without any further delay we are going to discuss what kind of sanctions should be imposed and when the sanctions will be imposed , he said without elaborating on what they might be .
turkish troops are also carrying out military exercises near the border and erdogan said on saturday the resolution on troop deployment abroad will be submitted to parliament for a vote .
erdogan called on the united states to extradite u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , whom erdogan accuses of orchestrating a failed coup attempt in turkey , in which rogue soldiers commandeered tanks and fighter jets , bombing parliament and trying to abduct or kill erdogan .
gulen denies any involvement in the july 2016 coup attempt , during which more than 240 people were killed .
gulen s entire network is being run from the united states .
terrorists should not be harbored here .
we need u.s. assistance on this matter , erdogan said .
since the failed coup , turkish authorities have shut more than 130 media outlets and a press union says more than 150 journalists have been jailed , raising concerns about media freedom in turkey .
turkey has also suspended or dismissed more than 150,000 judges , teachers , police and civil servants and has arrested nearly 50,000 others suspected of links to the gulen movement .
the eu and human rights organizations have expressed concern over turkey s security crackdown since the failed coup .
turkey says its crackdown is targeting supporters of gulen .
let me be very clear , in terms of freedom of press , there are no challenges in turkey ...
if journalists are supporters of terrorists , if they are double-agents , are we not supposed to do what is necessary against them ?
erdogan said .
turkey is a state of law , within which the judiciary takes necessary measure ...
this is sheer lie ... they were coup plotters .
meeting erdogan on the sidelines of the u.n. general assembly , u.s. president donald trump on thursday praised his leadership and said he has become a friend of mine .
relations between turkey and the united states were strained over turkish security officials involved in street fighting with protesters during a visit to washington in may .
turkey is part of the u.s.-led coalition against islamic state ( is ) in syria and iraq but ankara s ties with washington are strained over support provided by the united states to the syrian kurdish militia ypg .
viewed by turkey as the syrian extension of the outlawed kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) , the ypg has been among the most effective partners on the ground in the u.s.-led fight against the islamic state .
erdogan warned washington that arming the ypg could end up hurting washington and its allies .
weapons are being deployed to ypg ... we are strategic allies with the united states ... , we should avoid helping ypg , he said .
at a critical time for turkish-germany relations , erdogan said in the interview he hoped relations with germany could be improved , praising german chancellor angela merkel for refraining from criticizing turkey and its policies .
i am quite hopeful relations will improve ... we have no problem with the german public .
we have a problem with some officials wrong attitude against turkey , he said .
merkel , who has been at odds with erdogan on many fronts over the last year , has said that the fact is clear that turkey should not become a member of the eu .
merkel has said she will speak to other european union leaders to end turkey s eu accession talks .
things never went well for the last 54 years regarding turkey s eu membership ... we have been lingering at the doorstep of the eu and things have got worse .
they have never kept their promises , erdogan said .