tow the party line or pay a heavy price .
there is no room for dissention in a party where thugs who cut backroom deals with climate change related lobbyists in dc dictate what is best for america .
there s probably a very good reason that the democrats have an avowed socialist and a career criminal running neck in neck in their presidential primaries in a shocking exchange on wednesday , attorney general loretta lynch and loony liberal senator sheldon whitehouse discussed whether the doj had considered civil action against climate change deniers .
this tells you just how out of control this doj is .
if you don t buy into the climate change scam then you will be punished .
that s fine if you live in san francisco and can afford a tesla , said husing .
it s not fine if you re a poor family living in downtown san bernardino and the folks that stopped that deserve a welcome thanks .
what happens when a democratic lawmaker strays from party leaders on a key piece of gov .
jerry brown s policy agenda ?
one assemblywoman who held back support for a sweeping climate-change bill last year is starting to find out.rep .
cheryl brown ( d-san bernardino ) was among a group of business-aligned democrats who objected to a provision in the bill , sb 350 , that would have cut california s motor vehicle petroleum use in half by 2030.now brown , a moderate , is facing what could be a bruising reelection fight against an intraparty challenger from the left , attorney eloise gomez reyes .
the race raises a question : what does it mean to be a democrat in san bernardino , where concerns over jobs often compete with those about the environment ? some early signs indicate brown could be in trouble .
protesters have showed up at her local events .
some of her supporters have defected , endorsing reyes early in the fight .
do you ever feel that something is not going quite right ?
brown said in a recent phone interview .
they are after me , and i still don t know why .
i don t know who they are .
but i will find out soon .
last week , brown s suspicions began to crystallize when a dozen students in breathing masks from san bernardino valley college threw themselves on the floor of a town hall meeting she hosted.brown was there to discuss the region s logistics industry and its vast network of trucking and distribution centers , which deliver everything from headphones to heads of lettuce to big-box retailers and amazon customers throughout southern california.at the event , brown supporter john husing , an economist with the inland empire economic partnership , discussed sb 350 s scrapped petroleum provision , which was removed after brown and other democrats objected to its inclusion .
husing came to brown s aid , arguing that lower-income families might have been harmed by potential rising energy costs that may have resulted from implementation of the provision .
that s fine if you live in san francisco and can afford a tesla , said husing .
it s not fine if you re a poor family living in downtown san bernardino and the folks that stopped that deserve a welcome thanks .
a group of twenty-somethings interrupted him , calling brown a corporate hack .
they held up signs that read people over profits and don t sell us out .
via : la times