cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - myanmar security forces intensified operations against rohingya insurgents on monday , police and other sources said , following three days of clashes with militants in the worst violence involving myanmar s muslim minority in five years .
the fighting - triggered by coordinated attacks on friday by insurgents wielding sticks , knives and crude bombs on 30 police posts and an army base - has killed 104 people and led to the flight of large numbers of muslim rohingya and buddhist civilians from the northern part of rakhine state .
u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres is deeply concerned by reports that civilians have been killed in rakhine state and appealed for neighboring bangladesh to allow fleeing rohingya to seek safety , his spokesman said on monday .
many of those fleeing are women and children , some of whom are wounded , u.n. spokesman stephane dujarric said in a statement .
( the secretary-general ) calls for humanitarian agencies to be granted unfettered and free access to affected communities in need of assistance and protection .
the united nations stands ready to provide all necessary support to both myanmar and bangladesh in that regard , dujarric said .
the violence marks a dramatic escalation of a conflict that has simmered since october , when a similar but much smaller series of rohingya attacks on security posts prompted a brutal military response dogged by allegations of rights abuses .
the treatment of about 1.1 million muslim rohingya in mainly buddhist myanmar has emerged as the biggest challenge for national leader aung san suu kyi , who has condemned the attacks and commended the security forces .
the nobel peace laureate has been accused by some western critics of not speaking out on behalf of the long-persecuted minority , and of defending the army s sweep after the october attacks .
the rohingya are denied citizenship in myanmar and classified as illegal immigrants , despite claiming roots there that go back centuries , with communities marginalized and occasionally subjected to communal violence .
now the situation is not good .
everything depends on them - if they re active , the situation will be tense , said police officer tun hlaing from buthidaung township , referring to the rohingya insurgents .
rohingya villagers make up the majority in the area .
we split into two groups , one will provide security at police outposts and the other group is going out for clearance operation with the military , he said .
a buthidaung-based reporter , citing police sources directly involved in events , said three police posts in northern buthidaung had been surrounded by rohingya insurgents .
many houses had been burning since sunday in parts of neighboring maungdaw town , another journalist and a military source in maungdaw told reuters .
a rohingya villager in the area said the army attacked three hamlets in the kyee kan pyin village group with shotguns and other weapons , before torching houses .
everything is on fire , he said by phone .
now i m in the fields with the people , we re running away .
a military source in rakhine state confirmed that houses were burned in the area but blamed the insurgents , who he said opened fire when soldiers came to find them and clear landmines .
the insurgents fled , he said , adding there were no casualties .
the myanmar military reported clashes over the weekend involving hundreds of insurgents , taking the death toll to at least 104 , the majority militants , plus 12 members of the security forces and several civilians .
there were no official updates from the army or the government on monday .
the unrest has exposed the dark side of myanmar s historic opening : an unleashing of ethnic hatred that was suppressed during 49 years of strict military rule that ended when the generals stepped back from direct rule in 2011 .
the following year , hundreds of people , most of them rohingya , were killed in communal clashes in rakhine state and about 140,000 people were displaced .
in neighboring bangladesh on monday , border guards tried to push back refugees stranded in no man s land near the village of gumdhum .
reuters reporters have heard gun fire from the myanmar side in the last three days .
a bangladesh foreign ministry official told reporters bangladesh was willing to work with myanmar to crack down on the insurgents .
the main purpose is to ensure myanmar can t accuse us of harboring them to use against them , said the official , who was not authorized to speak publicly to media .
an islamist group called the arakan rohingya salvation army , which myanmar has declared a terrorist organization , claimed responsibility for the friday attacks .
it was also behind the violence in october .
in a video posted online on monday , arsa leader ata ullah , flanked by two gun-toting men in masks , warned myanmar against oppressing rohingya and vowed to keep fighting to protect the rights of the community .
rohingya have been fleeing myanmar since the early 1990s and there are now about 400,000 in bangladesh , which has said no new refugees will be allowed in .
bangladeshi police threatened refugees already in the country with arrest if they help new arrivals , refugee sources said .
how can we go back there ?
just to get killed ?
asked mujibur rahman , standing on the border .
nevertheless , an estimated 5,000 people have crossed into bangladesh in the past few days , with more than 1,000 coming early on monday , according to rohingya refugees in camps in the border district of cox s bazar .
myanmar has urged rohingya civilians to cooperate with security forces , assuring those with without ties to the insurgents they would not be affected .
the government has evacuated thousands of non-muslim villagers from the north of rakhine state to towns , monasteries and police stations .
about 500 people arrived in the state capital , sittwe , on monday , the government said .
a lot of kalar were coming and we had to run away , said nyo nyo win , 52 , using a racial slur for rohingya .
they followed us and we ran and ran .
( for a graphic on myanmar 's ethnic groups click tmsnrt.rs/2wy3msq )