lome ( reuters ) - togo security forces fired tear gas at hundreds of anti-government protesters carrying out a late night sit-in at an intersection in central lome as part of a bid to end the 50-year-old gnassingbe family dynasty , witnesses said on thursday .
the move to disperse the crowds comes after two days of mass country-wide protests involving tens of thousands of people that have amounted to the biggest challenge to faure gnassingbe s rule since he succeeded his late father 12 years ago .
in the past , security forces have violently suppressed protests , killing at least two people during an opposition march in august and hundreds after the contested election in which gnassingbe took power in 2005 .
but up until late on thursday , police officers armed with batons had watched passively at protesters wearing the red , pink and orange t-shirts of the opposition , who danced and blew whistles as they wound through the streets of the capital lome .
it was not immediately clear how the opposition would respond to the security forces intervention with tear gas late on thursday .
the head of the main anc opposition party , jean-pierre fabre , had earlier pledged to remain seated on the tarmac of the dekon crossroads until gnassingbe left power .
we want the end of this 50-year-old gnassingbe regime .
enough is enough , kodjo amana , a 42-year-old baker , shouted over a chanting crowd earlier in the day .
the protests in the west african country of 8 million people have proceeded despite widespread reports of network outages confirmed by non-governmental organization internet without borders .
other african incumbents in gabon and cameroon have used network cuts to control criticism and suppress protests at sensitive times .
residents said that text messages had also been blocked on thursday .
the communications minister could not be reached for comment , although another minister said earlier this week that the cuts had been carried out for security reasons .
the president s father gnassingbe eyadema seized power in a coup in 1967 , a few years after the territory known as french togoland that was once in german hands became independent from colonial power france .
the current president this week sought to appease opponents by tabling a draft bill to reform the constitution and reintroduce a two-term limit that his father scrapped in 2002 .
but opposition leaders are skeptical about the implementation of the reforms that the government has stalled on for more than a decade and prime minister komi selom klassou confirmed on thursday that the term limits would not apply retroactively .
that could mean that gnassingbe , 51 and currently in his third term , could remains in power for two more mandates from the next election , until 2030 .
gnassingbe sent a tweet from his official account on thursday , saying that he had met with the u.n. special representative for west africa and the sahel , mohammed ibn chambas , on the subject of reforms .
a spokesman for the latter confirmed the meeting without elaborating on its content .
state tv said thursday evening that parliament , which still needs to approve the bill , will meet for an emergency session on september 12 .
however , if the protests resume , analysts say gnassingbe may find himself isolated amid growing criticism of autocratic rule in west africa .
the president s position is very fragile and we do not think his peers in ecowas or his friends in europe will help him if things get ugly , said the head of research at nkc african economics , francois conradie .
togo , a regional financial hub that aspires to be an african singapore , is at odds with west african neighbors which mostly have laws restricting presidential mandates .
the government , along with gambia s , voted in 2015 against introducing them across the 15 members of the ecowas regional body which gnassingbe currently chairs .
since then , gambia s longtime leader yahya jammeh has been voted out of power .
african rulers , notably in rwanda , burundi and burkina faso , have moved to drop term limits in recent years in order to remain in power .
in some cases this has sparked strong opposition that has led to violent unrest ; in others , leaders have been driven from power , as happened in burkina faso .