about a month ago , people started noticing a large black man who always seemed to rush to hillary s aid during coughing fits , or when she exhibits bizarre behavior .
hillary attempted to disparage trump during one of her first appearances before the press since the last time in july where she appeared to have a seizure while being asked about her vice presidential options.watch this video in slow motion .
pay particular attention to the expressions on the interviewers faces : on august 6 , mike cernovich started asking about hillary s mystery handler : hillary 's handler ?
brain washer ?
pic.twitter.com/5lsctc8vdk mike cernovich ( @ cernovich ) august 7 , 2016the man is dressed like a secret service agent but his actions prove otherwise.in a recent campaign stop in a union hall in front of a sparse crowd , at about the time when some liberal protesters began to protest , hillary clinton suddenly froze .
she looked dazed and lost .
seeing this , a group of men rushed to assist the candidate on the stage .
one man however gently pats the candidate s back and then says , keep talking .
secret service agents walk on stage during hillary clinton rally https : //t.co/btp1na4pxt abc news politics ( @ abcpolitics ) august 4 , 2016an expert on secret service tactics told tgp secret service agents would not touch a candidate in the manner that this individual did and especially hillary clinton .
it has been widely reported on hillary s disdain for the agents who work to protect her .
the man who touches hillary may be a member of hillary s close staff but he is not a secret service agent.mike cernovich pointed out earlier that hillary s handler carries what looks like a diazepam pen.hillary s mysterious handler disappeared from the campaign trail in mid-august after several reports were written about his strange appearances on the campaign trail.hillary also cut down on her appearances at the same time.on monday hillary clinton suffered another severe coughing spat on her plane and later during a speech in cleveland .
via : gateway punditlook who came to her rescue ! watch the video here at the 1:10 mark as hillary is unable to stop her coughing fits and heads towards the front of the plane where is met with the mystery handler who appears to be closing the curtains to the front of the plane .
the mystery handler accompanies hillary to the front of the plane where he outreaches his arms to protect her from being seen by media and appears to be consulting with another man at the front of the plane.watch how quickly a woman who appears to be part of hillary s campaign rushes to the back of the plane to divert the attention of hillary s bizarre coughing fit from hillary s cheerleading media squad at the back .