vienna ( reuters ) - iran has remained within the main limits on its nuclear activity set by its 2015 deal with six world powers , the u.n. atomic watchdog said in its first report since u.s. president donald trump decertified iranian compliance with the terms .
iran undertook to curb its uranium enrichment program in return for relief from international sanctions that crippled its economy , and u.n. nuclear inspectors have repeatedly verified tehran s adherence to the key aspects of the accord .
trump has called the agreement between iran , the united states , britain , france , germany , russia , china and the european union the worst deal ever and he disavowed iran s compliance last month .
his decision did not constitute a u.s. exit from the accord but raised concern about its staying power .
trump s move , at odds with the commitment of the other parties to the deal , meant the u.s. congress must decide by mid-december whether to reimpose economic sanctions lifted under the accord , reached under his predecessor barack obama .
if congress reimposes the sanctions , the united states would in effect be in violation of the deal and it would likely fall apart .
if lawmakers do nothing , the deal remains in place .
in response , iranian supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei has said tehran will stick to the nuclear accord as long as the other signatories respected it , but would shred the deal if washington pulled out .
if the deal unravels , it would strengthen hardline opponents of hassan rouhani , iran s pragmatist president who opened up diplomatic channels to western powers to enable nuclear diplomacy after years of worsening confrontation .
iran s stock of low-enriched uranium as of nov. 5 was 96.7 kg ( 213.2 pounds ) , well below a 202.8-kg limit set by the deal , and the level of enrichment did not exceed a maximum 3.67 percent cap , said the confidential international atomic energy agency report sent to iaea member states and seen by reuters .
iran s stock of so-called heavy water , a moderator used in a type of reactor that can produce plutonium , a potential nuclear bomb fuel , stood at 114.4 metric tonnes , below a 130-tonne limit agreed by the parties to the deal .
the 3.67 percent enrichment and 202-kg stockpile limit on uranium , and the 130-tonne cap on heavy water , aim to ensure that iran does not amass enough material of sufficient fissile purity to produce a nuclear bomb .
such a device requires uranium to be refined to around 90 percent purity .
iaea director general yukiya amano told reuters in september he would welcome clarification from the powers on how the agency should monitor iran s implementation of the so-called section t of the nuclear pact that deals with certain technologies that could be used to develop an atom bomb .
russia had been critical of the agency s monitoring of section t provisions , but monday s report said the iaea had verified iran s commitment to the section .