how much more criminal activity are american voters willing to overlook ?
have we , as americans gotten to the point that no crime committed by hillary or anyone attached to hillary will disqualify her from being elected to the highest office in our nation ?
are we willing to accept that we can no longer trust anyone working for a government organization in america ?
the political organization of virginia gov .
terry mcauliffe , an influential democrat with longstanding ties to bill and hillary clinton , gave nearly $ 500,000 to the election campaign of the wife of an official at the federal bureau of investigation who later helped oversee the investigation into mrs. clinton s email use.campaign finance records show mr. mcauliffe s political-action committee donated $ 467,500 to the 2015 state senate campaign of dr. jill mccabe , who is married to andrew mccabe , now the deputy director of the fbi.the virginia democratic party , over which mr. mcauliffe exerts considerable control , donated an additional $ 207,788 worth of support to dr. mccabe s campaign in the form of mailers , according to the records .
that adds up to slightly more than $ 675,000 to her candidacy from entities either directly under mr. mcauliffe s control or strongly influenced by him .
the figure represents more than a third of all the campaign funds dr. mccabe raised in the effort.mr .
mcauliffe and other state party leaders recruited dr. mccabe to run , according to party officials .
she lost the election to incumbent republican dick black.a spokesman for the governor said he supported jill mccabe because he believed she would be a good state senator .
this is a customary practice for virginia governors any insinuation that his support was tied to anything other than his desire to elect candidates who would help pass his agenda is ridiculous .
among political candidates that year , dr. mccabe was the third-largest recipient of funds from common good va , the governor s pac , according to campaign finance records .
dan gecker received $ 781,500 from the pac and $ 214,456 from the state party for a campaign that raised $ 2.9 million , according to records ; and jeremy mcpike received $ 803,500 from the pac and $ 535,162 from the state party , raising more $ 3.8 million that year for his candidacy.the governor could recall only one meeting with mr. mccabe when he and other state democrats met with the couple on march 7 , 2015 , to urge dr. mccabe to run , according to the spokesman.the fbi said in a statement that during his wife s campaign mr. mccabe played no role , attended no events , and did not participate in fundraising or support of any kind .
months after the completion of her campaign , then-associate deputy director mccabe was promoted to deputy , where , in that position , he assumed for the first time , an oversight role in the investigation into secretary clinton s emails .
fbi officials said that after that meeting with the governor in richmond on march 7 , mr. mccabe sought ethics advice from the bureau and followed it , avoiding involvement with public corruption cases in virginia , and avoiding any campaign activity or events.mr .
mccabe s supervision of the clinton email case in 2016 wasn t seen as a conflict or an ethics issue because his wife s campaign was over by then and mr. mcauliffe wasn t part of the email probe , officials said .
once i decided to run , dr. mccabe said , my husband had no formal role in my campaign other than to be a supportive husband to me and our children .
as a federal official everyone who participated in our campaign understood and respected that he could not participate .
mr. mccabe is a longtime fbi official who focused much of his career on terrorism .
his wife is a hospital physician who campaigned in northern virginia , where the couple live with their children.the 2015 virginia state senate race was dr. mccabe s first run for office and her campaign spent $ 1.8 million .
the race was part of mr. mcauliffe s failed effort to win a democratic majority in the virginia legislature , which would have given him significantly more sway in richmond , the state capital.mr .
mcauliffe has been a central figure in the clintons political careers for decades .
in the 1990s , he was bill clinton s chief fundraiser and he remains one of the couple s closest allies and public boosters .
mrs. clinton appeared with him in northern virginia in 2015 as he sought to increase the number of democrats in the state legislature .
for entire story : wsj