local charlotte , nc news station wsoctv is reporting that sources tell them dash cameras captured keith scott getting out of car and coming towards officers with a gun in his hand : # breaking : sources tell channel 9 dash camera video shows # keithscott getting out car , coming toward officers with gun in his hand pic.twitter.com/ggum2ow3wk wsoctv ( @ wsoctv ) september 21 , 2016for a second night , protests over a deadly officer-involved shooting in charlotte , north carolina , turned violent , with police firing tear gas and demonstrators throwing objects and trying to damage vehicles.keith lamont scott , a father of seven , was killed by police in an apartment complex parking lot tuesday as officers looked for another man named in a warrant they were trying to serve .
the shooting set off a long night of violent protests and wednesday the demonstrations continued for a second night , starting off as a peaceful march through downtown charlotte .
but when the demonstrators neared an omni hotel , some people climbed the roof of an outdoor mall and started throwing objects at the crowd.other people were banging on the doors of the hotel , and police in riot gear emerged in the entrance.his family said scott , an african-american , was unarmed and sitting in his car reading a book , waiting for his son to come home from school.but charlotte-mecklenburg police chief kerr putney said scott exited his car with a gun , not a book .
he said officers couldn t find a book at the scene .
it s time for the voiceless majority to stand up and be heard , said the police chief , who is black .
it s time to change the narrative because i can tell you from the facts that the story s a little bit different as to how it s been portrayed so far , especially through social media .
cnnbut b b but what about the book ? neighbor who says she saw police shoot # keithscott disputes cmdp 's claim that he was armed with a gun .
she says he had a book .
@ wsoctv pic.twitter.com/x1pww5qj7o mark barber ( @ mbarberwsoc9 ) september 21 , 2016and of course , there s hillary s irresponsible tweet confirming that the cops were in the wrong , without even having any facts to back up her ignorant statement : keith lamont scott .
terence crutcher .
too many others .
this has got to end .
-h hillary clinton ( @ hillaryclinton ) september 21 , 2016