puerto ordaz , venezuela ( reuters ) - venezuelan drivers are facing growing queues to buy gasoline despite having the world s largest oil reserves , adding to the opec country s woes as its refineries sputter and its socialist economic system crumbles .
lines to buy fuel and shuttered service stations have been intermittent problems for much of this year , most notably outside the capital caracas .
but in recent days the problem has worsened , with lines popping up at service stations in caracas , while drivers in the southern city of puerto ordaz were waiting an average of four hours to fill their tanks .
i had an urgent medical appointment but i had to suspend it because i didn t have gasoline and the lines are several blocks long , said nelly gutierrez , 35 , an accountant .
there s no medicine , water , internet , and no gasoline .
how long is the government going to put us through this ?
state oil company petroleos de venezuela ( pdvsa ) did not immediately respond to a request for comment and the reasons for the apparent dip in supply this week were unclear .
but the country s refineries are functioning at record lows due to constant outages and insufficient supply of crude resulting from slumping output , union leaders and refinery workers say .
pdvsa , suffering a dramatic cash flow shortage as a result of low oil prices , has struggled to pay for imports of fuel to fill the gap .
in most cases , it has resolved major supply disruptions within a few days , although one shortage in march lasted several weeks and affected exports to ally and trading partner cuba .
fourteen tankers are waiting in ports in venezuela and the caribbean to unload a total 4.2 million barrels of fuel and blending components commissioned by pdvsa , but have not yet done so for lack of payment , according to thomson reuters data and shipping sources .
earlier in september , as many as 24 cargoes were held awaiting payment , but at least six of those have been diverted to other destinations as atlantic storms have caused supplies to tighten elsewhere .
others have discharged in recent days , after receiving payments .
pdvsa is now forced to prepay its fuel imports because payment delays have led suppliers to halt open credit to the company .
u.s. sanctions imposed last month are also making it difficult for pdvsa to get letters of credit needed for some imports and exports .
president nicolas maduro says the country is a victim of an economic war and accuses the administration of u.s. president donald trump of worsening the situation through sanctions .
i m really sad that my country is in this situation , said driver marvelia dominguez , as she waited to fuel her car in caracas .
now we don t even have gasoline , which was always one of the easiest things for us to find .