washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama is considering appointing a moderate republican to the supreme court , a source close to the process said on wednesday , but leaders in the republican-led senate held firm to their threat to block anyone he nominates .
the source said nevada governor brian sandoval , a republican and former federal judge , was among the possible candidates .
as governor , sandoval has taken a traditional republican stance in support of gun rights , but his more moderate views on social issues , such as abortion rights , could make him an attractive choice for the democratic president .
a 52-year-old mexican-american , sandoval was appointed a judge by republican george w. bush , obama ’ s predecessor , before being elected governor in 2010 .
he abandoned his state ’ s legal defense of a same-sex marriage ban before the supreme court declared such bans unconstitutional last year .
the feb. 13 death of long-serving conservative justice antonin scalia created a vacancy on the nine-seat court and ignited a political fight .
republicans are maneuvering to foil obama ’ s ability to choose a replacement who could tilt the court to the left for the first time in decades .
scalia ’ s death left the court with four liberals and four conservatives .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell announced on tuesday the senate will not hold hearings or vote on any supreme court nominee until the next president takes office in january 2017 , following the nov. 8 presidential election .
republicans hope to win back the white house then .
the senate must confirm any high court nominee , but mcconnell remained unswayed even with word that obama was considering the republican sandoval for the job .
“ this nomination will be determined by whoever wins the presidency in the fall , ” mcconnell said .
senator chuck grassley , chairman of the judiciary committee that would hold any confirmation hearings , concurred , saying , “ it ’ s the principle , not the person. ” the white house said it was hoping for a meeting with grassley and his committee ’ s top democrat , patrick leahy .
a mcconnell aide said mcconnell was trying to schedule a meeting with obama to reiterate his opposition to any nominee .
sandoval met on monday in the u.s. capitol for about 30 minutes with senate democratic leader harry reid of nevada , and reid asked him whether he would be interested in being considered for the high court job , according to the source , who asked not to be identified .
“ he said he was interested , ” the source said of sandoval , adding that “ a number of people are being checked out ” for the job .
reid is a close ally of obama .
white house spokesman josh earnest declined during a briefing to confirm whether sandoval was on obama ’ s list of potential nominees .
white house officials are seeking a candidate they think lawmakers from both parties could support , but obama may be unlikely to choose any republican , even a centrist .
the democratic political base would object to such a choice , a risk obama is unlikely to take during an election year .
some liberal groups expressed alarm that sandoval would be considered .
charles chamberlain of the group democracy for america called it “ downright absurd ” that obama would risk his legacy by appointing “ another anti-labor republican ” to an already pro-big business supreme court .
sandoval opposed obama ’ s healthcare law , but opted to expand his state ’ s medicaid health insurance program for the poor under the measure , breaking from a number of republican governors who refused to do so .
he expressed support for bipartisan immigration legislation that passed the senate in 2013 before dying in the house of representatives amid republican opposition .
in 2013 , sandoval vetoed legislation to require background checks on all nevada gun sales .
last year , he signed a law backed by the national rifle association that expanded the defenses for justifiable homicide and repealed a local ordinance that required handgun registration .
obama vowed on wednesday to move ahead with a nominee and said republicans would risk public ire if they blocked a qualified candidate for political motives , as well as diminishing the credibility of the high court .
obama said he expected the senate judiciary committee to extend his nominee the courtesy of a confirmation hearing and then vote on whether he or she is qualified .
“ in the meantime , the american people are going to have the ability to gauge whether the person i ’ ve nominated is well within the mainstream , is a good jurist , is somebody who ’ s worthy to sit on the supreme court , ” obama told reporters in the oval office .
“ i think it will be very difficult for mr. mcconnell to explain how , if the public concludes that this person ’ s very well qualified , that the senate should stand in the way simply for political reasons. ” liberals vowed to pressure senate republicans into considering obama ’ s nominee , with several groups delivering to the senate boxes of what they said contained 1.3 million signatures from citizens demanding that a confirmation process go forward after the president announces his pick .