( reuters ) - a third of republican voters who support donald trump could turn their backs on their party in november ’ s presidential election if he is denied the nomination in a contested convention , according to a reuters/ipsos poll .
the results are bad news for trump ’ s rivals as well as party elites opposed to the real estate billionaire , suggesting that an alternative republican nominee for the nov. 8 presidential race would have a tougher road against the democrats .
“ if it ’ s a close election , this is devastating news ” for the republicans , said donald green , an expert on election turnout at columbia university .
the reuters/ipsos poll conducted march 30 to april 8 asked trump ’ s republican supporters two questions : if trump wins the most delegates in the primaries but loses the nomination , what would they do on election day , and how would it impact their relationship with the republican party ?
sixty-six percent said they would vote for the candidate who eventually wins the nomination , while the remaining third were split between a number of alternatives such as not voting , supporting a third-party candidate , and switching parties and voting for the democratic nominee .
meanwhile , 58 percent said they would remain with the republican party .
another 16 percent said they would leave it , and 26 percent said they did not know what they would do with their registration .
the online poll of 468 republican trump supporters has a credibility interval of 5.3 percentage points .
( click here for the poll results : tmsnrt.rs/25prlze ) trump has topped the national polls throughout most of the race for the republican nomination , and has won more delegates than any other republican so far .
a reuters/ipsos online poll from april 4-8 showed that 42 percent of republicans support trump , compared with 32 percent for u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas and 20 percent for ohio governor john kasich .
[ l2n17b1j0 ] cruz and kasich have both said their paths to victory rely on winning at least enough votes to block an outright win for trump and force a decision at the republican national convention in cleveland .
but trump , whose supporters have remained loyal even as he rankled women , hispanics , muslims , veterans and others with his fiery rhetoric on the campaign trail , predicted last month there would be riots outside the convention if he was blocked .
“ if they broker him out , i ’ ll be fed up with the republicans , ” said chuck thompson , 66 , a trump supporter from concord , north carolina , who took the poll .
thompson , a lifelong republican , said he admires trump ’ s independence from big campaign donors and takes that as a sign that the front-runner will be able to think for himself if he were to become president .
if trump loses the nomination , thompson said he would quit the party .
“ the people want donald trump .
if they ( republicans ) can ’ t deal with that , i don ’ t need them , ” he said .
green said the departure of even a small number of republicans would make it tough for the party to prevent the democrats from winning the white house , especially if the election is again decided by razor-thin margins in a handful of battleground states .
in 2012 , president barack obama won florida by less than 1 percentage point and ohio and virginia by less than 4 percentage points .
“ the republicans don ’ t really have any margin of error , ” green said .
trump and cruz both trail democratic front-runner hillary clinton among likely general election voters in a hypothetical general election matchup , but not by much , according to the latest reuters/ipsos polls .
generally , a convention battle is a bad sign for the health of a political party , said elaine kamarck , a senior fellow at the brookings institution and author of the book , “ primary politics : how presidential candidates have shaped the modern nominating system. ” “ when a party gets to a point when it has a contested convention , it almost always hurts them , ” kamarck said .
“ it ’ s a confirmation of some really deep fissures within the party that were unable to be dealt with during the primary season. ” trump supporter elizabeth oerther , 40 , of louisville , kentucky , said she would switch parties and vote for the democratic nominee if the republicans denied trump the nomination .
“ if you don ’ t give it to him , i ’ m going to vote against them , ” said oerther , who took the poll .
“ they want to take away the choice of the people .
that ’ s wrong . ”