nairobi ( reuters ) - it all started with a rumor : the mungiki , a dreaded kikuyu tribal militia , had infiltrated nairobi s kawangware slum .
within minutes , local men already fired up by kenya s divisive election had grabbed machetes and sticks to defend their turf .
by the end of friday night s confrontation , a man had been beaten to death and rows of shops and homes set alight , a worrying taste of how quickly ethnic violence can erupt in the kenyan capital s volatile slums .
almost all the 50 deaths since august s presidential vote have been in clashes between protesters and police .
the deeper fear of kenyans is that the months of political strife , exacerbated by the courts annulling the august vote , eat away at deep tribal divisions and ignite a wave of inter-ethnic violence , as happened after a disputed 2007 vote when 1,200 people were killed .
the kawangware fighting was sparked by rumors that kikuyu , the tribe of president uhuru kenyatta , had drafted in members of the mungiki to protect them from opposition supporters .
on friday , a reuters witness saw a group of men armed with machetes , known locally as pangas , on the streets of kawangware .
their identity was unclear , although several residents said they were mungiki , brought in after opposition loyalists burnt down a prominent kikuyu-owned business the previous night .
the mungiki , notorious for castrating and decapitating victims , were blamed for hundreds of deaths in the 2007 clashes .
their relative quiet since has not diminished their reputation .
they were more than a hundred , and they were carrying all new pangas , vitalis aloyi , a kawangware resident , said .
another man said residents had to act to defend themselves .
we had to teach them not to bring mungiki here .
if they bring mungiki , we will destroy their property and their lives , said kennedy ochieng , an ethnic luo , like opposition leader raila odinga .
as the pro-odinga vigilantes , also armed with clubs and machetes , swept down the muddy street they set fire to kikuyu businesses suspected of hiding mungiki militiamen , ochieng said .
one man was killed , and his body burned , leaving a charred spot on the road .
some odinga supporters denounced him as mungiki , but no one could explain how they knew .
the next day , with smoke still rising from the twisted wreckage of homes and shops , the remaining traders in kawangware began loading their wares of pipes , popcorn machines and meat onto trucks .
all the other tribes are against the kikuyu here because of the voting , said stephen kamau , whose fruit stall was burned down .
these people will come back and burn more .
others in the district , long home to mixed communities , said the truth was more nuanced .
as political tensions rose , some businesses had hired local youths for protection , said rhoda kungu , a market trader .
she insisted the vigilantes were not mungiki .
we are all brothers and sisters .
we just want to live in peace , she said .
another trader , brian njenga , said it may merely have been pro-odinga youths spotting a chance to enrich themselves , demanding protection money or looting businesses before they burned them .
some people are just using this situation to get personal benefit , njenga said to somber nods from a crowd of youths around him .
many have not worked for a long time because the economy is very down .
a few hundred meters down the rubbish-strewn road , hundreds of young men milled around on street corners .
teargas from the night before lingered in the air .
we want to kill mungiki .
they must know this is our territory , one man shouted .
don t think because it is quiet now that we are at peace .
we are just waiting for something !