berlin ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron s proposals to strengthen the european union drew mixed reaction in germany , with a lawmaker from chancellor angela merkel s bavarian allies warning against turning the bloc into an unlimited transfer union .
macron offered a sweeping vision for a renewal of europe in a speech on tuesday , calling for the eu to cooperate more closely on defense , immigration , tax and social policy , and for the single currency bloc to have its own budget .
he was speaking two days after the german election in which merkel s conservative cdu/csu bloc scored its worst result since 1949 , limiting her freedom to maneuver on europe .
the co-governing social democrats ( spd ) , which suffered its worst election result since the end of world war two , ruled out a re-run of a grand coalition with merkel .
outgoing foreign minister sigmar gabriel , a senior spd member , lauded the french proposals .
emmanuel macron today held a courageous , a passionate plea against nationalism and for europe - a europe which he wants to reform , strengthen and unite with our help , gabriel said .
right now , we need to seize this opportunity for franco-german initiatives to make europe more democratic , involve the citizens and make it fit for the future .
gabriel said a joint determination by eu member states was needed to resolve problems in europe , adding of macron : he can count on us .
cem ozdemir , co-leader of the left-leaning greens , a potential coalition partner for merkel , told reporters in berlin : germany should take macron s extended hand and push europe forward , with other partners .
it s an important signal to us in berlin that macron makes his proposals directly after the german election .
because only if paris and berlin work closely together and have the courage to implement concrete reforms , can we strengthen europe .
ozdemir , seen as a possible foreign or finance minister in merkel s coalition government , said the euro zone in particular needed reforms to make it resilient against future shocks .
we need investment in digitization , sustainable technologies and infrastructure , in particular , to ensure long-term investment and create future-proof jobs , ozdemir said .
but hans michelbach , a lawmaker from merkel s csu allies , said macron s ideas were unsuitable to take europe forward .
they do not lead to a deepening ( of the eu ) but to a deeper split in the eu , he said .
michelbach accused macron of planning to turn the euro zone into an unlimited transfer union and to roll back the eu s stability pact .
but these are the wrong lessons from the euro zone crisis , michelbach said , adding macron should not be relieved of his duty to bring the french budget deficit in line with the eu s fiscal rules .
his comments were echoed by alexander graf lambsdorff , a senior member of the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) , another potential coalition partner for merkel .
this was a courageous speech by president macron , even if not all of his proposals meet approval of the fdp , lambsdorff said .
lambsdorff welcomed macron s call to strengthen military cooperation in the eu and seize the opportunities of digitization , but he rejected the call for a euro zone budget .
the problem in europe is not a lack of public funds , but the lack of reform .
a euro zone budget would set exactly the wrong incentives , lambsdorff said .
the fiscally conservative fdp dislikes the idea of any facility that may lead to financial transfers from wealthier euro zone countries to poorer ones .
macron said he hoped his ideas would be taken into account in germany s coalition building negotiations .
those talks are not expected to begin until mid-october and may take several months .