global climate cooling warming change frauds around the world are celebrating earth day today .
if they were just celebrating god s glorious gift to mankind that would be one thing , but they re not .
jack-holes like barack obama are jumping on gas guzzling , co2 emitting jets and flying to europe to lecture europeans on the dangers of cow farts and such .
they re shutting down coal industries around the world , leaving a wide swath of mass poverty in their wake , which interestingly enough , affects the least protected class in america ; the white working man .
but none of these things matter to a group of we-know-better-than-you leftists who base their fight against energy producers on science that is less than settled as the basis for their arguments .
it s time to peel back the layers of fraud and deceit and stand up to the climate change bullies who are actually beginning to threaten prosecution for anyone who disagrees with them.having expressed our views on the validity of global whatever they call it today , it seems like the perfect time to expose the founder of earth day .
enjoy ira einhorn was on stage hosting the first earth day event at the fairmount park in philadelphia on april 22 , 1970 .
seven years later , police raided his closet and found the composted body of his ex-girlfriend inside a trunk.a self-proclaimed environmental activist , einhorn made a name for himself among ecological groups during the 1960s and 70s by taking on the role of a tie-dye-wearing ecological guru and philadelphia s head hippie .
with his long beard and gap-toothed smile , einhorn who nicknamed himself unicorn because his german-jewish last name translates to one horn advocated flower power , peace and free love to his fellow students at the university of pennsylvania .
he also claimed to have helped found earth day.but the charismatic spokesman who helped bring awareness to environmental issues and preached against the vietnam war and any violence had a secret dark side .
when his girlfriend of five years , helen holly maddux , moved to new york and broke up with him , einhorn threatened that he would throw her left-behind personal belongings onto the street if she didn t come back to pick them up.and so on sept. 9 , 1977 , maddux went back to the apartment that she and einhorn had shared in philadelphia to collect her things , and was never seen again .
when philadelphia police questioned einhorn about her mysterious disappearance several weeks later , he claimed that she had gone out to the neighborhood co-op to buy some tofu and sprouts and never returned.it wasn t until 18 months later that investigators searched einhorn s apartment after one of his neighbors complained that a reddish-brown , foul-smelling liquid was leaking from the ceiling directly below einhorn s bedroom closet .
inside the closet , police found maddux s beaten and partially mummified body stuffed into a trunk that had also been packed with styrofoam , air fresheners and newspapers.after his arrest , einhorn jumped bail and spent decades evading authorities by hiding out in ireland , sweden , the united kingdom and france .
after 23 years , he was finally extradited to the united states from france and put on trial .
taking the stand in his own defense , einhorn claimed that his ex-girlfriend had been killed by cia agents who framed him for the crime because he knew too much about the agency s paranormal military research .
he was convicted of murdering maddux and is currently serving a life sentence .
via : nbc news h/t weasel zippers i don t think there is a person alive who doesn t agree we should be good stewards of the earth and that we should always be searching to find ways to leave this earth better than when we found it .
the time has come however , for americans to stand up to what is really a backdoor attempt at total government control over our lives.read story at link : eye-opening : why liberals won t talk about white , poverty stricken , rural americansare you willing to sit back and watch your fellow americans working in the essential production of domestic energy lose everything they have worked so hard for their whole lives ?
what happens to working americans when our government shuts down coal mines , devastates communities who depend on fracking or towns dependent on offshore drilling ?
are you willing to watch entire towns and communities be destroyed because a petulant , huckster president promised he would bankrupt an industry that didn t fit into his radical agenda ?
people need to stop relying on donald trump to fight back .
we have the ability today to fight back .
stop allowing people to treat you like a criminal if you don t agree with the climate change lie .
call your local , ( click here for state ) and ( click here for federal ) representatives and demand they stop placing unrealistic regulations on our coal mines that are essentially being used to shut them down .
individuals have more power when we work together to fight back against a government with a radical progressive agenda .
there has never been a better time than now .
make earth day be the day you decide to fight back against the dirty little lies of the progressive left .