harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe president emmerson mnangagwa appointed senior military officials to top posts in his first cabinet on friday in what was widely seen as a reward for the army s role in the removal of his predecessor , robert mugabe .
sworn in as president a week ago after 93-year-old mugabe quit in the wake of a de facto military coup , mnangagwa made major-general sibusiso moyo foreign minister and handed air marshal perrance shiri the sensitive land portfolio .
the new president , who later on friday spoke publicly about the need to draw on local expertise and skills to put the economy back on robust footing , also brought back patrick chinamasa as finance minister despite his chequered record in that post previously .
most zimbabweans remember moyo as the khaki-clad general who went on state television in the early hours of nov. 15 to announce the military takeover that ended mugabe s 37-year rule .
shiri is feared - and loathed - by many zimbabweans as the former commander of the north korean-trained 5 brigade that played a central role in the so-called gukurahundi massacres in matabeleland in 1983 in which an estimated 20,000 people were killed .
the land portfolio is a sensitive but economically crucial one since land reforms in the early 2000s led to violent seizure of thousands of white-owned farms and the collapse of the nation s economy .
for most observers , this ( the new cabinet line-up ) looks like a reward for the military - or more specifically like the military asserting its authority , london-based political analyst alex magaisa wrote on twitter .
mnangagwa , a former state security chief known as the crocodile , dropped allies of mugabe s wife , grace , but brought back many mugabe loyalists from the ruling zanu-pf party , disappointing those who had been expecting a break with the past .
zimbabweans were expecting a sea change from the mugabe era .
after all , had there not been a revolution , or so they thought ?
magaisa said .
new information minister chris mutsvangwa , leader of the powerful liberation war veterans , was not immediately available for comment .
mnangagwa s opponents from grace mugabe s ousted g40 faction derided the line-up as old wine in a khaki bottle .
even # nigeria didn t have so many commanders in cabinet in its coup days !
former information minister and g40 leader jonathan moyo , who remains in hiding , said on twitter .
chinamasa , a lawyer by training , had been finance minister since 2013 until he was shifted to the new ministry of cyber security in a reshuffle this year .
his predecessor and mugabe ally ignatius chombo , is in jail facing corruption charges dating back more than two decades .
a high court on friday postponed chombo s hearing to next tuesday .
during chinamasa s time in charge , though , the economy stagnated , with a lack of exports causing acute dollars shortages that crippled the financial system and led to long queues outside banks .
the issuance of billions of dollars of domestic debt to pay for a bloated civil service - a key component of the zanu-pf patronage machine under mugabe - also triggered a collapse in the value of zimbabwe s de facto currency and ignited inflation .
i had expected a more broad-based cabinet , said economist anthony hawkins , adding that mnangagwa s faith in chinamasa suggested loyalty trumped ability .
chinamasa s appointment was to be expected , notwithstanding his appalling record .
with elections due next year , mnangagwa needs to deliver a quick economic bounce and has made clear he wants to curb wasteful expenditure .
his cabinet has 22 ministers compared to mugabe s 33 .
one of his most pressing tasks will be to patch up relations with donors and the outside world and work out a deal to clear zimbabwe s $ 1.8 billion of arrears to the world bank and african development bank .
without that , the new administration will be unable to unlock any new external financing .
british foreign secretary boris johnson told reuters this week london was thinking about extending a bridging loan to harare to allow this to happen , although said it depended on how the democratic process unfolds .
speaking publicly for the first time as president at a graduation ceremony at a university in chinhoyi , 110 km ( 68 miles ) south of harare , mnangagwa , however , appeared to be looking to local expertise to put the economy on a stronger footing .
as we engage the world it is of great importance to have our own home-grown solutions to develop our economy and benchmark ourselves on the best in the global village , he said .