london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may s blueprint to leave the european union emerged unscathed on tuesday from a first day of debate in parliament on legislation to sever ties with the bloc .
the debate , expected to last for weeks , is on the eu withdrawal bill , seen by may as crucial to give companies confidence that there will be no major legal changes that affect business when britain leaves the eu in march 2019 .
opponents want to use the debate to force concessions on may s plan for leaving the bloc , but the initial challenges - including on the hour and day britain should pull out as well as on the future role of the eu court - were voted down or dropped .
the prime minister will face tougher battles as the debate goes on , testing her ability to steer through a bill intended largely to copy and paste european rules and regulations into british law by the time it leaves the 28-member eu .
her absence from parliament on tuesday due to other engagements suggested she was not unduly worried by the initial discussion .
but the debate s ill-tempered tone showed the level of anger in parliament with a government which some lawmakers say is mounting a power grab to force through its plans .
with catcalls , sarcastic jokes and jeers being bandied about - not just between the two main parties , as is the custom , but often within them - many of the divisions before britain voted in june 2016 to leave the eu re-emerged .
you re a disgrace , one conservative lawmaker yelled at another , while a labour member of parliament openly quarreled with his colleagues in the main opposition party over which way their supporters voted in last year s referendum .
anna soubry , a conservative lawmaker , went on to criticize the bullying tactics of the telegraph newspaper , who published the names of those politicians in may s party who voted against the government on the exact timing of brexit .
behind the debate was the fear of pro-brexit lawmakers that britain may never leave the eu , and of pro-eu lawmakers who are worried britain might crash out of the eu without a deal .
the debates go to the heart of what parliament calls one of the largest legislative projects ever undertaken in the uk , a process that could undermine may s already fragile authority .
may , 61 , has lost two ministers to scandals and her foreign minister , boris johnson , is facing calls to resign over remarks he made about a jailed iranian-british aid worker in iran .
the sunday times has reported that 40 conservatives support a no-confidence vote .
may s conservative government depends on a small northern irish party for its majority since a june election which dented her authority , and many lawmakers - even some conservatives - will use the debate to increase pressure .
the prime minister has tried to ease tensions by offering lawmakers some concessions on the bill before the debate began .
but her moves have not yet eased everyone s concerns .
one of her lawmakers , pro-eu ken clarke , ended his speech by saying : i am a rebel .