aboard the papal plane ( reuters ) - pope francis on saturday urged world leaders to turn back from the brink of possible human annihilation , suggesting that some of them had an irrational attitude towards nuclear weapons .
the pope made his comments to reporters aboard the plane taking him back to rome from a trip to myanmar and bangladesh , which was dominated by the crisis of rohingya refugees affecting both countries .
in a speech last month , the pope suggested that he was ready to officially harden the decades-old church teaching that possessing nuclear weapons as a deterrence was morally acceptable as long as the ultimate goal was their elimination .
in that speech on nov. 10 , francis said even the mere possession of nuclear weapons should now be condemned because there appeared to be little or no intention by world leaders to reduce their numbers .
aboard the plane , he was asked what had prompted him to consider changing the official church position and specifically , what he felt about the war of words between u.s. president donald trump and north korean leader kim jong un .
what has changed is the irrationality ( of the attitude toward nuclear weapons ) , francis said .
today we are at the limit , he said .
it can be debated but it is my opinion , my conviction , that we have reached the limit of the ( moral ) licitness of having and using nuclear weapons , he said .
why ?
because today , with such a sophisticated nuclear arsenal , we risk the destruction of humanity or at least a great part of humanity , he said .
the pope has in the past suggested that a third nation should try to negotiate a deal between the united states and north korea and had urged both sides to cool down the rhetoric and stop trading insults .
we are at the limit , and because we are at the limit , i ask myself this question ... today , is it licit to keep nuclear arsenals as they are , or today , in order to save creation , to save humanity , is it not necessary to turn back ?
south korea said on friday that north korea s latest missile test puts washington within range , but pyongyang still needs to prove it has mastered critical missile technology , such as re-entry , terminal stage guidance and warhead activation .
the test prompted a warning from the united states that north korea s leadership would be utterly destroyed if war were to break out , a statement that drew sharp criticism from russia .