ottawa ( reuters ) - canada , which has been accused of sharing intelligence that led to the torture of prisoners abroad , on monday issued rules to prevent its security agencies from disclosing or requesting information from other countries if it would result in mistreatment .
the rules also prohibit canada s spy agency , border services agents and federal police from using information likely obtained through torture , unless it is necessary to prevent death or significant injuries .
the directions replace 2011 rules put in place by the previous conservative government that was replaced by prime minister justin trudeau s liberals in 2015 .
the liberals appear to have publicized the rules to repair the government s reputation , according to experts who noted that it is unusual for a country to publicly disclose such guidelines .
canada has taken the lead in this regard , partly because it has been stung by past history , said university of ottawa professor wesley wark .
in one high-profile case , the conservative government in 2007 apologized and paid c $ 10.5 million to compensate maher arar , who was deported to syria by u.s. agents after canadian police mistakenly labeled him an islamic extremist .
earlier this year , canada apologized to three canadian men of arab descent who said they had been tortured in syria and blamed canadian secret services for their ordeal .
the canadian security intelligence service , the royal canadian mounted police and the canada border services agency will be prohibited from disclosing or requesting information that would result in a substantial risk of mistreatment , the government said .
information that was likely obtained through torture also can not be used if there is a risk it would lead to further mistreatment .
the government of canada unequivocally condemns in the strongest possible terms the mistreatment of any individual by anyone for any purpose , public safety minister ralph goodale said in a statement .
alex neve , secretary general of amnesty international canada , said the clearer rules were an improvement over the previous directions that allowed for information to be shared with other countries in exceptional circumstances .
there s been a lot of pressure in canada over the last several years as the previous guidelines came to light and all of the inadequacies in those guidelines gathered quite a bit of concern , said neve .