these grifters have no shame .
how much more evidence do americans need to see before they understand hillary has no interest in our nation s security ?
how much more evidence do we need before the everyday american queen of the clinton crime syndicate is sent to prison ?
judicial watch today released nearly 70 pages of state department records that show that former secretary of state hillary clinton and her top aides , deputy chiefs of staff huma abedin and jake sullivan , received and sent classified information on their non-state.gov email accounts .
the documents , also available on the state department website , were obtained in response to a court order from a may 5 , 2015 , lawsuit filed against the state department ( judicial watch , inc. v. u.s. department of state ( no .
1:15-cv-00684 ) ) after it failed to respond to a march 18 freedom of information act ( foia ) request seeking : all emails of official state department business received or sent by former deputy chief of staff huma abedin from january 1 , 2009 through february 1 , 2013 using a non- state.gov email address.the new documents show that hillary clinton used the clintonemail.com system to ask huma abedin ( also on a non-state.gov email account ) to print two march 2011 emails , which were sent from former british prime minister tony blair ( using the moniker aclb ) to jake sullivan on sullivan s non-state.gov email account .
the obama state department redacted the blair emails under exemption ( b ) ( 1 ) which allows the withholding of classified material .
the material is marked as being classified as foreign government information and foreign relations or foreign activities of the us , including confidential sources .
another email shows that clinton wanted to know how meetings in washington , including a four-hour meeting concerning america s war on libya , would impact her hampton vacation .
responding to an email that details the sensitive meetings in dc , clinton emails abedin on august 26 , 2011 , ok. what time would i get back to hamptons ?
again , this email discussion takes place on non-state.gov email accounts.the documents also include advice to clinton on libya from sidney blumenthal , a clinton foundation employee who , according to a judicial watch investigative report , also had business interests in libya .
clinton wanted blumenthal s march 9 , 2011 , libya memo to be printed without any identifiers .
the newly released abedin emails include a lengthy exchange giving precise details of clinton s schedule using unsecured government emails .
the email from lona j. valmoro , former special assistant to secretary of state clinton , to abedin and clinton reveals exact times ( including driving times ) and locations of all appointments throughout the day .
another itinerary email provides details about a meeting at the united nations in new york at 3:00 on tuesday , january 31 , 2012 , with the precise disclosure , that would mean wheels up from andrews at approximately 12:00pm/12:15pm .
these emails show that hillary clinton isn t the only obama official who should be worried about being prosecuted for mishandling classified information .
her former top state aides ( and current campaign advisers ) huma abedin and jake sullivan should be in the dock , as well , said judicial watch president tom fitton .
the obama state department has now confirmed that clinton , abedin , and sullivan used unsecured , non-government email accounts to communicate information that should now be withheld from the american people in the interest of national defense or foreign policy , and properly classified .
when can we expect the indictments ?
via : judicial watch