two of the most despicable rino s ( republicans in name only ) in dc just can t seem to keep their mouths shut when it comes to opposing any measures trump takes to defend our nation .
wouldn t it have been great if they had been as vocal when barack obama was our president ?
aside from his honorable service to our nation while in our military , john mccain has offered very little in the past decade to our nation .
now might be a good time for constituents in their districts to think about replacing arizona senator john mccain and south carolina s senator lindsey ( crybaby ) graham with someone who puts our nation first and their political relevance dead last republican senators .
john mccain and lindsey graham on sunday denounced president donald trump s executive order on travel from several muslim-majority countries , calling it hasty and warning that it could prove counterproductive in the fight against terrorism.mccain , arizona s senior senator and the gop s 2008 presidential nominee , and graham , a south carolina politician who also competed briefly for the 2016 nomination , are both considered hawkish on national security .
however , they frequently buck their party on key issues , which in the past has drawn the ire of grassroots conservatives.they join several of their gop senate colleagues , including ben sasse of nebraska , jeff flake of arizona , susan collins of maine and rob portman of ohio , in criticizing the measure .
the white house has defended the order , arguing it is necessary to properly vet people coming into the u.s. from nations with terrorism concerns.late friday , trump signed the order , which indefinitely bars syrian refugees from entering the country .
it also suspends all refugee admissions for 120 days and blocks citizens of seven muslim-majority countries from entering the country for 90 days .
cnbctrump didn t waste any time blasting these two presidential race losers , who both seem to have a penchant for war : the joint statement of former presidential candidates john mccain & lindsey graham is wrong they are sadly weak on immigration .
the two donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 29 , 2017 senators should focus their energies on isis , illegal immigration and border security instead of always looking to start world war iii .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 29 , 2017watch mike huckabee tell fox news host bill hemmer : he didn t ban people from 7 countries .
i don t know if john mccain read the executive order , he might want to do that because those countries are not mentioned in the executive order .
the only country mentioned is syria .
where did that list of 7 come from ?
it came from the obama administration dating back to 2011 , signed into law and i assume john mccain probably voted for that law .