valletta ( reuters ) - thousands of maltese called for justice on sunday in a protest held by a group of non-governmental organizations after a journalist was killed last monday .
the demonstrations in malta s capital , valletta , were organized by the group civil society network after the car bombing that killed anti-corruption blogger daphne caruana galizia , 53 , in a murder that shocked the mediterranean island .
some of those present at the protest carried placards or wore t-shirts with the last words written by caruana galizia , minutes before she was killed : there are crooks everywhere you look now .
the situation is desperate .
you remember , we gathered , almost three years ago , in paris , after the charlie hebdo killing .
we have gathered today in valletta for daphne and everybody can say i am daphne , je suis daphne , christophe deloire , secretary-general of reporters without frontiers , told the crowd .
michael briguglio , who heads the civil society network , said the commissioner of police and the attorney general should be removed for not having acted following revelations in the so-called panama papers .
caruana galizia reported in april that the wife of maltese prime minister joseph muscat was the beneficiary of a secret company in panama , called egrant , in which $ 1 million had been deposited from azerbaijan .
the claim was strenuously denied by the prime minister and by his wife .
a magisterial inquiry on the egrant charges is still under way .
the maltese government on saturday announced a one million- euro reward and protection for anyone who comes forward with information leading to the identification of whoever was behind the journalist s murder .
this is a case of extraordinary importance which requires extraordinary measures , the government said in a statement on the reward .
muscat , re-elected with a large majority for a second five-year term in june , did not attend the protest on sunday , saying it would have been inappropriate .
a delegation from his labour party and the opposition nationalist party attended .
president marie-louise coleiro preca attended , walking at the back of the large crowd with her husband .
she was later due to meet a delegation of the civil society network .
flowers were laid at the foot of the malta great siege monument commemorating the unsuccessful siege of malta by ottoman turks in 1565 - which has become a temporary shrine for caruana galizia .
it is us who are now under siege , a participant said as he looked at the banks of flowers under a picture of caruana galizia .