next up is a law suit to make it legal for h-1b visa holders , felons and illegal aliens to vote in every state .
you didn t think the democrats were trying to protect illegals and grant dangerous criminals an early release because they cared about them , did you ?
bernie sanders s campaign has filed a lawsuit against ohio s secretary of state to allow 17-year olds to vote in the democratic primary on march 15 , according to a cnn report.sanders s campaign manager told reporters in michigan on tuesday that republican jon husted , who is ohio s secretary of state , has changed the rules to make it so that those who are currently 17 , but will be 18 by the time of the november general election , can not vote in the state s primaries .
the secretary of state has decided to disenfranchise people who are 17 but will be 18 by the day of the general election , weaver said , according to cnn .
those people have been allowed to vote under the law of ohio , but the secretary of state of the state of ohio has decided to disenfranchise those people to forbid them from voting in the primary that is coming up on march 15 .
sanders has galvanized the support of many young liberal voters , and routinely thumps democratic rival hillary clinton among voters under the age of 40 .
clinton generally dominates sanders among older voters .
[ quote_box_center ] after eight years of obama , who delivered the same false message of hope via free sh * t to america s youth , bernie sanders supporters are ready to cast their vote for another lying politician who is promising them a utopia that s impossible to deliver .
[ /quote_box_center ] millenials are struggling with an immense burden of student debt debt that rose 25 % between 2008 and 2012 alone ( the obama years ) even as the economy struggled .
according to one 2014 calculation , millennials make up about 40 % of the ranks of the unemployed ; when they have jobs , they may be underemployed ( starbucks barista , anyone ? )
or underpaid , or competing ruthlessly for a handful of lucrative opportunities .
some studies suggest that while they might be frugal , their financial situations ( coupled , sometimes , with a dearth of financial literacy ) can spell trouble.one pricewaterhouse coopers survey found 24 % of millennial respondents were familiar with basic financial concepts ; 30 % routinely overdrew their checking accounts ( racking up banking fees ) and more than 20 % ended up dipping into their retirement savings ( incurring fees and penalties ) .
nearly half couldn t come up with $ 2,000 in the next month in an emergency , making them financially fragile .the last president elected with a platform of hope and change largely failed to deliver , in their eyes .
oh , and his administration included hillary clinton.the issue [ of allowing 17 year olds to vote ] came to light after a report in the columbus dispatch , in which a state democratic lawmaker accused husted of changing the rules to keep those who will be 18 by nov. 4 from voting in the presidential primary.husted called those accusations and the sanders lawsuit baseless in a statement released over twitter , saying that ohio is operating under the same set of rules it has used in past primaries.husted s response to sanders ridiculous lawsuit can be found here : some facts about voting for 17-year-olds they can vote in the primary on nominations , not on delegates or issues .
pic.twitter.com/i7pe7eg6wl jon husted ( @ jonhusted ) march 8 , 2016via : the hill