here s how the mainstream media spun this story : here s the truth : details about the syrian family of the three-year old boy , who drowned as they made their way to europe from turkey on a small dingy , began to emerge recently and some things do not add up.according to the wall street journal , abdullah kurdi , the little boy s father , was living in a relatively safe area in a turkish town for three years while working on construction sites for 50 turkish lira ( roughly $ 17 ) a day.however , kurdi told a syrian radio station it was not enough to support himself and his family and he relied on his sister tima kurdi , who is a 20-year resident of canada , to assist in paying the rent.it should be noted that tima told reporters thursday that the family just came to turkey last year , even though wsj points out he came to turkey three years ago , and his facebook shows pictures of the family in istanbul crossing the bosporus and feeding pigeons next to the famous yeni cami , or new mosque .
tima told wsj that their father was still in syria and advised his son to leave turkey and go to europe and have his teeth fixed .
once in europe , he was instructed to find a way to bring his entire family over from turkey .
tima wired 1,000 ( $ 1,100 ) to her brother for the trip one month ago.according to the ottawa citizen , turkey does not register thousands of syrian kurdish refugees in the country exit visas , as the un does not register them as refugees .
i was trying to sponsor them , and i have my friends and my neighbours who helped me with the bank deposits , but we couldn t get them out , and that is why they went in the boat .
i was even paying rent for them in turkey , but it is horrible the way they treat syrians there , tima told the ottawa citizen.other reports say the family was fleeing kobane in syria , an area that isis attacked previously , but the wsj report as well as others say the family wanted to leave turkey for reasons that were not isis or war related .
if we go , we go all of us , ms. kurdi recounted him telling her .
she said she spoke to his wife last week , who told her she was scared of the water and couldn t swim .
i said to her , i can not push you to go .
if you don t want to go , don t go , she said .
but i guess they all decided they wanted to do it all together .
the family boarded a 15-foot boat intended to take them from the turkish resort town of bodrum to the greek island of kos.according to earlier reports , the family s application for asylum in canada was rejected by canada , but canadian immigration authorities told the bbc they had no record of receiving an application for refugee status from abdullah .
tima later admitted the asylum application for the family was never submitted.tragically , the boat capsized wednesday .
twelve passengers died as a result including abdullah s young sons and wife .
he was the only member of his family to survive , but the photo of his 3-year old drowned child on a turkish beach made headlines across the globe.one australian politician blamed the father for the death of the boy when the australian parliament debated the refugee issue .
senator cory bernardi told australia s parliament he was not swayed by these emotive arguments , and in particular to characterise this as some sort of humanitarian mission .while acknowledging that the boy s death was a tragedy , he said : that boy and his family had lived in turkey for three years .
the money for that boy s father to pay the people smugglers was sent from canada .
he added , the father sent them on that boat so the father could get dental treatment .
they were in no fear , they were in no persecution and they were in no danger in turkey .
via : daily caller