21st century wire says in the old days , this scandal would be filed under gross conflict of interest or government corruption .
in the america in 2016 , it s simply filed under news .
far from being a great charity organization , the clinton foundation appears to be merely a vehicle for those who want access to a us-based syndicate of international oligarchs , elite financial institutions , foreign governments , and even dictator-friendly lebanese-nigerian billionaires.as 21wire reported last week , this international syndicate stretches right through the heartland of islamist radicalization and state-sponsored terrorism to the feudal monarchs in saudi arabia , qatar , bahrain and others.to be sure , this is only the tip of a much larger political iceberg rtnewly released emails reveal more ties between the clinton foundation and the state department during hillary clinton s tenure as secretary of state , showing that major donors received special perks including lunch with the chinese president.the state department emails were released as part of a public records lawsuit by conservative group citizens united .
the documents were then shared exclusively with abc news .
after more than two years of freedom of information act requests and lengthy litigation , the truth is finally coming out , david bossie , president of citizens united , said in a statement .
hillary clinton s senior staff at the state department routinely worked with the clinton foundation to reward big donors with special access and favors for four years .
the emails seem to suggest that some of the clinton foundation s biggest donors were given special treatment , including seats at a meal attended by chinese president hu jintao.one particular email chain dated december 2010 includes correspondence between clinton s closest aide , huma abedin , and then-top clinton foundation official doug band.the email gives names of those expected to attend a state department lunch with the chinese president scheduled for january 2011 and some of the foundation s biggest donors were on the guest list.the list included three executives from organizations that have donated millions to the clinton foundation bob mccann , then-president of wealth management at ubs ; dr. judith rodin , president of the rockefeller foundation ; and hikmet ersek , the ceo of western union.according to the clinton foundation s website , ubs has contributed between $ 500,000 and $ 1 million to the organization .
the rockefeller foundation has donated between $ 10 million and $ 25 million , and western union and its foundation has given between $ 1 million and $ 5 million.nearly two weeks after the initial email , band sent a follow-up requesting that rodin be seated at vice president joe biden s table .
i ll ask , abedin wrote in response.in a separate email , abedin forwarded band an attachment titled updated china rsvp guest list 1-5-11 .
the attachment itself was not included in the documents seen by abc read more at rtread more clinton news at : 21st century wire clinton files