quetta , pakistan/islamabad ( reuters ) - two suicide bombers stormed a packed christian church in southwestern pakistan on sunday , killing at least nine people and wounding up to 56 , officials said , in the latest attack claimed by islamic state in the country .
police guards stationed at the church entrance and on its roof killed one of the bombers but the second attacker detonated his explosives-filled vest outside its prayer hall just after sunday services began in quetta , capital of baluchistan province , said sarfraz bugti , the provincial home minister .
baluchistan police chief moazzam jah said there were nearly 400 worshippers in the church for the pre-christmas service .
the death toll could have been much higher if the gunmen had forced their way into the sanctuary , he said .
jah said the venue - bethel memorial methodist church - was on high alert as christian places of worship are often targeted by islamist extremists over the christmas season .
we killed one of them , and the other one exploded himself after police wounded him , he said .
islamic state claimed the attack , the group s amaq news agency said in an online statement , without providing any evidence for its claim .
another police official , abdur razaq cheema , said two other attackers escaped .
broken wooden benches , shards of glass and musical instruments were scattered around a christmas tree inside the prayer hall that was splashed with blood stains .
kal alaxander , 52 , was at the church with his wife and two children when the attack happened .
we were in services when we heard a big bang , he told reuters .
then there was shooting .
the prayer hall s wooden door broke and fell on us ... we hid the women and children under desks .
maryam george , 20 , cried at a hospital where her younger sister alizeh was fighting for life with two broken legs and multiple other wounds .
pakistani christians , who number around 2 million in a nation of more than 200 million people , have been the target of a series of attacks in recent years .
baluchistan , a strategically important region bordering iran as well as afghanistan , is plagued by violence by sunni islamist sectarian groups linked to the taliban , al qaeda and islamic state .
it also has an indigenous ethnic baloch insurgency fighting against the central government .
middle east-based islamic state has created an active branch in pakistan and afghanistan in recent years mostly by recruiting among established militants , and its followers have claimed some of pakistan s most deadly attacks in recent years .
a suicide bomber killed 52 people and wounded over 100 at a baluchistan sufi shrine in november last year , in an attack claimed by islamic state .
in february , islamic state attacked a sufi shrine in pakistan s southern sindh province , killing 83 people .
violence in baluchistan has fueled concern about security for projects in the $ 57 billion china pakistan economic corridor , a transport and energy link planned to run from western china to pakistan s southern deep-water port of gwadar .
the church attack came a day after the third anniversary of a pakistani taliban attack on an army-run school that killed 134 children , one of the single deadliest attacks in the country s history .
pakistan s army chief , general qamar javed bajwa , condemned the attack .
quetta church attack targeting our brotherly christian pakistanis is an attempt to cloud christmas celebrations , he said .
we stay united and steadfast to respond against such heinous attempts .
last year s easter day attack in a public park that killed more than 70 people in the eastern city of lahore was claimed by a taliban splinter group previously associated with islamic state .
the united states strongly condemned the shocking and brutal attack on innocent worshippers , u.s .
ambassador to pakistan david hale said in a statement .