mar del plata , argentina ( reuters ) - a storm on sunday complicated efforts to find an argentine navy submarine missing in the south atlantic with 44 crew members , while satellite calls thought to come from the vessel did not help searchers identify the vessel s location .
the defense ministry has said the ara san juan appeared to try to make contact through seven failed satellite calls on saturday between late morning and early afternoon .
the vessel was 432 km ( 268 miles ) off argentina s coast when its location was last known early on wednesday .
as waves of up to 8 meters ( 20 feet ) and winds reaching 40 knots complicated the search by sea , authorities spent sunday trying to trace the submarine s location through data from the satellite calls without significant progress , a navy official told reporters .
we analyzed these signals , which as we know were intermittent and weak , said gabriel galeazzi , a naval commander .
they could not help determine a point on the map to help the search .
u.s. satellite communications company iridium communications inc , which was brought in to help analyze the calls , said they did not originate with its device aboard the vessel and may have been from another satellite communications company s equipment .
it said the last call it detected from its device was on wednesday , the same day the government said the vessel vanished .
more than a dozen boats and aircraft from argentina , the united states , britain , chile and brazil had joined the effort .
authorities have mainly been scanning the sea from above as the storm made the search difficult for boats , navy admiral gabriel gonzalez told reporters .
unfortunately these conditions are expected to remain for the next 48 hours , gonzalez said from the mar del plata naval base , about 420 km ( 240 miles ) south of buenos aires where the submarine had been heading toward before vanishing .
a search of 80 percent of the area initially targeted for the operation turned up no sign of the submarine on the ocean s surface , but the crew should have ample supplies of food and oxygen , balbi said .
the navy said an electrical outage on the diesel-electric-propelled vessel might have downed its communications .
protocol calls for submarines to surface if communication is lost .
three boats left mar del plata on saturday with radar detection probes and were following the path that the submarine would have taken to arrive at the base in reverse , balbi said .
those probes allow the boats to sweep the ocean floor during their journey and try to make a record of the floor in three dimensions , balbi said .
the u.s. navy said its four aircraft were carrying a submarine rescue chamber designed during world war ii that can reach a bottomed submarine at depths of 850 feet and rescue up to six people at a time .
the chamber can seal over the submarine s hatch to allow sailors to move between the vessels .
it said it also brought a remote-controlled vehicle that can be submerged and controlled from the surface the dramatic search has captivated the nation of 44 million , which recently mourned the loss of five citizens killed when a truck driver plowed through a bicycle path in new york city .
crew members relatives gathered at the mar del plata naval base , where the submarine had once been expected to arrive around noon on sunday from ushuaia .
however , it would not be unusual for storms to cause delays , balbi said .
at the entrance of the base , locals hung signs with messages in support of the crew members and their families on a chain-link fence .
strength for argentina .
we trust in god .
we are waiting for you , read a message inscribed on a celestial blue-and-white argentine flag hanging on the fence .
let s go , men of steel .
we are waiting for you at home , read a message written on a picture of the submarine .
argentine-born pope francis mentioned the missing vessel in his sunday noon prayer .
i also pray for the men of the crew of the argentine military submarine which is missing , the pontiff said .
the ara san juan was inaugurated in 1983 , making it the newest of the three submarines in the navy s fleet .
built in germany , it underwent maintenance in 2008 in argentina .
that maintenance included the replacement of its four diesel engines and its electric propeller engines , according to specialist publication jane s sentinel .