phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodian prime minister hun sen has warned his party it could still lose next year s election even after the banning of the opposition and demanded that it improve its image , according to a recording leaked online on thursday .
hun sen s cambodian people s party ( cpp ) played down the importance of the message , in which hun sen tells senior officials they must stop corruption , extortion and other illegal practices and start making people happy .
the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) was banned at the government s request last week , deepening hun sen s fight with western donors who accuse him of demolishing democracy in the country he has ruled for over 32 years .
it doesn t mean that now the opposition is dissolved we can be careless , hun sen says in the 12-minute recording of a message to party officials , warning that his opponents could start a new party and should not be underestimated .
if we get bad results and lose it would be twice as bad after we already dissolved the opposition party ... people can also dissolve us through an election .
he said the international community could try to revive their puppets and channel funding to cambodia despite a five-year political ban on 118 cnrp politicians .
the cnrp was banned after its leader , kem sokha , was arrested for allegedly plotting treason with american help .
he has rejected the accusations as a ploy to let hun sen win next year s election .
in his message , hun sen called on party officials to stop corruption , extortion , illegal logging and other irregularities that had pushed cambodians to vote for the opposition .
votes were cast because of anger due to our mistakes in the past and that can not happen again , hun sen said in the recording .
cpp spokesman sok eysan said the message had not been secret .
he did not say when the recording had been made .
there is nothing to hide , he said .
he was doing his work as the party leader and the prime minister .
the 55 parliamentary seats that the cnrp won in the last election in 2013 were allocated to smaller parties on thursday by the national election committee .
the biggest winner was the royalist funcinpec party of prince norodom ranariddh , who was once hun sen s main rival but is now aligned with the prime minister .
funcinpec will get 41 seats in parliament - a third of all the seats - despite winning less than 4 percent of the vote in 2013 .
the ruling party did not get any more seats , but already had a majority with 68 seats .
the will of the people has been violated , said mu sochua , a deputy to kem sokha who fled abroad in fear of arrest .
the national assembly of the kingdom of cambodia has lost its legitimacy .