sevastopol , crimea ( reuters ) - vitalina bordova received a good morning text message from her husband sergei , a russian marine major deployed in syria .
half an hour later , he was hit by mortar fire that killed him .
since he died on april 18 , bordova has been in dispute with the russian military , trying to get the financial support she believes she is entitled to as an officer s widow .
bordova described the row with the defense ministry in an interview with reuters , becoming the first relative of a russian serviceman killed in syria to complain publicly about her treatment since russia launched operations there two years ago .
the ministry did not reply for a request for comment on the dispute .
her case shows how the syrian war is exacting a greater toll on russians whose lives are touched by it as the conflict changes from a swift anti-terrorist operation to a longer drawn-out engagement .
the true level of casualties in the syrian conflict is a sensitive subject in a country which was stung by casualties sustained in the soviet-afghan war which ended in 1989 .
according to a reuters tally , more than 80 russian fighters , including high-ranking officers and private military contractors , were killed in syria in the two years of the operation .
the official death toll is 39 , because the defense ministry does not disclose all deaths .
the government has denied understating casualty figures in syria , where president vladimir putin entered the conflict to support president bashar al-assad .
officially , russia is participating only in an air war over syria with a small number of special forces and non-combat troops on the ground .
moscow denies that its troops are involved in regular ground combat operations .
with the conflict drawing on , more people are being affected as the death toll rises .
bordova , who works as a military psychologist , said her wage is 8,600 roubles ( $ 149 ) per month .
she said that she had previously depended on the wages of her 42-year-old husband to survive .
to date , she has received a payment of about $ 17,000 a one-fifth share of compensation that was paid out to her husband s closest relatives children from his first marriage and his mother .
she has not received the pension to which war veterans widows are usually entitled , or the apartment to which she argues that she is entitled under defense ministry rules .
the dispute centers on the fact that she is still officially registered as living in the apartment of her first husband , whom she divorced three years ago .
officials say this means she does not qualify as a person living alone in need of housing support and the pension .
however , she argues that this is not the case because she does not live with her first husband , and can not cash in the share of his apartment which nominally belongs to her .
bordova can not change her status unless she has her own apartment and only then can she register as living alone .
my wage is very small , bordova told reuters in her parents house , where she lives with her daughter from her previous marriage .
i have no money for lawyers .
my husband supported me .
she described how she had reacted when her husband , bored with a desk job he had just been moved to , said he wanted to sign up for the deployment in syria .
he asked me if i would let him go , bordova recalled .
i said nothing and started crying .
later ... he asked one more time .
i told him i can t keep you from it and i can t let you go , bordova said in the interview .
bordova lives in crimea , a region of ukraine that was annexed by russia in 2014 .
it was already home to many russian military families , like bordova s , before the annexation because russia s black sea fleet is based there .
reuters has seen an official russian defense ministry response to bordova , which said she is not eligible for an apartment as she owns one third of her first husband s flat .
bordova says a benefits office issued her with a document stating she is a family member of a military veteran who was killed .
as a person living alone with a child , that would ordinarily entitle her to a widow s pension .
but the certificate was taken back from her once a local official learnt that she is registered with her ex-husband and therefore officially is not living alone .
an employee at the benefits office confirmed to reuters that bordova is not eligible , citing the law on veterans .