yangon ( reuters ) - if there s one thing that unites aung san suu kyi s party , the army that once tried to crush her , and the majority of people in mostly buddhist myanmar , it is their vehement dislike of the rohingya muslims , seen as a threat to national security .
we don t love the military , but we are together on this one , said nyan win , a top official of suu kyi s national league for democracy ( nld ) , who the country s former junta had detained for nearly three years .
our sovereignty can t be violated and that is why we are united .
these people are illegal immigrants , that s for sure .
but the international community never mentions that , said nyan win , 75 , who chairs the ruling nld s media team and is one of the most influential members of the party .
but even as the united nations has called the army crackdown on the rohingya ethnic cleansing , western diplomats - from countries competing with china for influence in the southeast asian nation - say abandoning suu kyi or reimposing sanctions could risk myanmar s democratic transition .
though rohingya families have lived in myanmar for generations , they are denied citizenship and access to basic civil rights such as freedom of movement , decent education and healthcare .
attacks by rohingya militants on security posts last month triggered an army operation that has killed more than 400 people , destroyed over 6,800 houses and sent nearly 400,000 rohingya fleeing to bangladesh .
rohingya refugees and rights groups say the army has launched a campaign aimed at driving them out .
suu kyi , who holds the title of state counsellor and is de facto head of government , has said the militant arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) is responsible for the burning of homes , civilian deaths as well as a huge iceberg of misinformation on the strife in rakhine .
revered when she was under house arrest for some 15 years , the nobel peace winner has been criticized by fellow nobel laureates and some leaders across the world .
a petition drive is under way to revoke her nobel prize .
malala yousafzai , a fellow nobel peace prize laureate , called on her to condemn the shameful treatment of the rohingya , saying the world is waiting for her to speak out .
shame on you malala !
you know nothing about real situation in our country , myanmar internet user nann wint war wrote in a tweet .
there is no rohingya , only bengali terrorists in rakhine , said the tweet , a reference to rohingya that suggests they come from bangladesh .
suu kyi s government launched a media campaign aimed at shoring up public support for the operation .
in facebook and twitter posts , it has shown off support for non-muslims displaced by the violence and blamed the international community for distributing fake news about alleged rights abuses .
hard evidence please !
, suu kyi s spokesman , zaw htay , said in a tweet last week reacting to a bbc news report that rakhine buddhist villagers set muslim houses on fire .
you wrote you just saw it , share your # evidence .
aung shin , an nld spokesman , said only myanmar citizens understand the situation in rakhine as foreign countries made their assumption based on questionable facts they obtained .
many in myanmar fear the rohingya present a threat to the buddhist rakhine majority in rakhine state .
sixteen non-muslims were killed and nearly 30,000 have also been displaced , fleeing to larger towns .
the conflict in rakhine has stoked communal tensions across the country .
a mob armed with sticks and swords , threatening to attack a mosque in central myanmar , was only dispersed on sunday after police with riot shields fired rubber bullets .
muslims have voiced fear that other mosques will come under attack and have asked for tighter security .
thiri thant mon , managing director at yangon-based investment advisory firm sandanila , said many in myanmar think the international community has wrongly directed its attention to the rohingya fleeing myanmar , instead of the suffering of rakhine buddhists in one of its poorest states .
the entire population here just feel misunderstood .
they feel like we are not bad people .
it s not us , it s them who are killing us and why aren t you talking about it ?
said thiri thant mon , who herself does not identify with such views .
the rohingya issue has put suu kyi in an awkward position politically , the diplomats said .
the military still controls much of the state apparatus even after the 2011 transition to democracy .
it portrays itself as the true guardians of nationalism and buddhism .
they say that could be a reason for suu kyi s reticence .
if she speaks out on such a sensitive issue , the situation will explode , making it harder for her to solve the problem in rakhine , said nyan win , the nld executive .
we can accept them as humans but we can not let them move around freely , which violates our sovereignty , he said , adding the rohingya belong in camps for displaced people in rakhine due to security reasons .
we can t give them freedom of movement because they are not our citizens .