i simply put together the stories that your profession reported , on the public record .
do you deny there were two fisa applications ?
do you deny the first was turned down ?
do you deny the second was approved ?
it s called the foreign intelligence surveillance court .
it is about surveillance .
the fact that we can not discern all the details because of the secrecy , except for what the media have revealed and selective leaks by the government , should cause you to want to know more , not to trash those who point it out.and yes , we can make several logical implications based on events and experience .
a fisa application is a big deal .
one , or two in this case , that involve campaign surrogates , or a server or computer related to a candidate or campaign , etc. , is a big deal .
president obama s statement is not a definitive statement of anything , other than he , personally , did not order a wiretap , which i never claimed .
but that does not mean he was unaware of surveillance activity by several of his departments , even through routine reports to the president , such as the daily intel briefing or information conveyed to him or his staff via the justice department re the fbi counter-intelligence activities .
as for clapper , despite his past dissembling before congress , he may not have been aware of what was taking place since the fbi counter-intel operation reportedly sought the warrant .
the daily intel briefing might provide useful information in that regard as well.of course , the release of the fisa applications would also shed a lot of light on events , assuming you believe reports that they were filed.furthermore , clapper has said , as recently as yesterday , that no connections between the russians and the trump campaign have been found .
i am extremely critical of russia , putin , and the efforts to influence our election , although i do not believe they succeeded .
that said , how would clapper know of no connections if he , as former director of national intelligence , didn t look ?
on what is that based ? your lack of curiosity and dishonesty about such matters and in dealing with me demean you and your profession .
you are free to circulate this communication to whomever you wish , as i am making it public .