tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - honduras two main opposition parties on friday presented formal requests to annul the results of the still-unresolved presidential election , deepening a political crisis that has roiled the poor , violent central american nation .
the nov. 26 vote has been marred by accusations of electoral fraud , sparking protests , a widespread curfew and a growing chorus of international concern over the situation in honduras , which has one of the world s highest murder rates .
opposition leader salvador nasralla , who trails conservative president juan orlando hernandez by 1.6 percentage points according to the widely criticized official count , arrived at the election tribunal shortly before the midnight deadline to present his center-left coalition s request .
we re asking for the result to be declared null at the presidential level , due to the scandalous fraud we have discovered , nasralla said .
earlier , octavio pineda , the secretary of the third-placed liberal party , presented a similar document , saying the vote should be annulled due to a violation of constitutional norms .
there have been violations since the president of the republic was allowed to participate in the electoral process when the constitution prohibited it , pineda said .
the liberal party s candidate , luis zelaya , has repeatedly said nasralla won the election .
hernandez s bid for a second term , which was made possible by a 2015 supreme court decision on term limits , divided opinion in the coffee-exporting nation of 9 million people .
the election has been plagued with problems since voting stations closed .
the tribunal declared nasralla the leader in an announcement on the morning after the vote , with just over half of the ballot boxes counted .
however , it gave no further updates for about 36 hours .
once results then started flowing again , nasralla s lead quickly started narrowing , sparking a major outcry .
on thursday , tribunal chief david matamoros said there would be a re-count of 4,753 ballot boxes that arrived after the 36-hour pause , and which the opposition has claimed are tainted .
the oas , which on wednesday said it may call for new elections if irregularities undermine the credibility of results , had previously called for a recount of those 4,753 ballot boxes .
marlon ochoa , nasralla s campaign manager , reiterated that the coalition wants a full recount of the complete 18,000-odd ballot boxes .
on wednesday , nasralla said he no longer recognized the honduran tribunal because of its role in the process .
the tribunal has 10 days to respond to the requests .