sen. dick durbin ( d. , ill. ) announced tuesday that he will join fellow democrats in filibustering neil gorsuch s nomination to the supreme court , despite in 2006 supporting gorsuch to become a judge on the u.s. court of appeals for the 10th circuit.durbin , the senate s second-ranking democrat , took to the senate floor on tuesday to voice his opposition to gorsuch s nomination .
he did not earn my vote , durbin reportedly said .
i ll vote no when his nomination comes before the committee next week .
i will vote no on cloture , and i ll oppose his nomination on the senate on the senate floor .
at least 21 other senate democrats have pledged to vote against gorsuch as senate minority leader chuck schumer ( d. , n.y. ) rallies support to filibuster the judge s nomination.gorsuch , president donald trump s nominee to the high court , spent last week going through severals hours of testimony during his confirmation hearings before the senate judiciary committee as they asked him questions about previous rulings and his judicial philosophy.durbin , a member of the judiciary committee , appeared to be impressed by gorsuch s performance , calling the judge very gifted last week.watch senator durbin explain how democrats are dumbfounded after not being able to pin anything on judge gorsuch during his lengthy hearings .
durbin appears to be flabbergasted by the idea that judge gorsuch would actually rely on our us constitution to make decisions as a possible future supreme court justice.durbin also previously voted to confirm gorsuch to be a federal circuit court judge .
the illinois democrat appeared on msnbc s morning joe last month , when he was asked by co-host willie geist whether he supported gorsuch in 2006 .
do i have it right that you voted aye on the voice vote in 2006 when gorsuch was up for the federal appeals court , geist asked .
good question , willie .
i just don t remember , to be honest with you , durbin responded .
on voice votes , you don t make much of a note of it and it s possible i don t believe there was a lot of controversy surrounding it , but let me tell you he s moving from triple-a ball to the big leagues here .
geist cited the congressional record to point out that durbin did support gorsuch .
the congressional record shows you did vote in favor it was a unanimous vote , but has something changed in your view of gorsuch since 2006 when you did vote aye for him ?
geist asked no , durbin said.not a single senate democrat voiced an objection to gorsuch in 2006 , when then-president george w. bush nominated him to the colorado-based 10th circuit court of appeals.for entire story : wfb