michelle obama just can t stop digging at president trump but she s now going after female voters for voting for him in the 2016 election !
video below is of michelle obama on finding your voice , hillary clinton , and women who voted for trump from inbound17 hate to tell these women but we ve already found our voice-election 2016 ! vid of michelle obama on finding your voice , hillary clinton , and women who voted for trump # inbound17 pic.twitter.com/gbnzbaufxo allyanna anglim ( @ allyannaanglim ) september 27 , 2017 obama s statement reeks of bitterness : any woman who voted against hillary clinton voted against their own voice , she said at the inbound 2017 conference in boston , according to video from inside the event .
what does it mean for us as women that we look at those two candidates , as women , and many of us said , that guy , he s better for me , his voice is more true to me , obama said .
well , to me that just says you don t like your voice .
you like the thing you re told to like .
another video from inbound17 michelleobama s message to women : find & use your voice .
your words don t need to be perfect .
don t be silenced .
who is trying to silence women ?
the answer is no one ! !
! # inbound17 @ michelleobama 's message to women : find & use your voice .
your words do n't need to be perfect .
do n't be silenced .
# wow # yes pic.twitter.com/v5a1weit3t amanda ( @ mandygasse ) september 27 , 2017 michelle is the eternal victim who always speaks of the shtruggle the problem is there is no struggle !
she lives in america where there are great opportunities for everyone ! it s interesting that michelle obama criticized hillary clinton yet she s now flip flopping on how she feels .
hillary also tried to shame women who voted for trump : when i see women , and look , it s predominantly white women , let s just be clear about that .
i won women , i lost white women although i got more white women s votes than president obama did in 2012 so this is an ongoing challenge , hillary said .
but when i see women doing that , i think why are they publicly disrespecting themselves ?
, hillary continued.note to hillary and michelle : women can think for themselves !
we don t blindly follow a candidate just because she s a woman !