ankara ( reuters ) - turkey s banking regulator urged the public on saturday to ignore rumors about financial institutions , in an apparent dismissal of a report that some turkish banks face billions of dollars of u.s. fines over alleged violations of iran sanctions .
it has been brought to the public s attention that stories , that are rumors in nature , about our banks are not based on documents or facts , and should not be heeded , the bddk banking regulator said in a statement , adding that turkey s banks were functioning well .
the haberturk newspaper on saturday reported that six banks potentially face substantial fines , citing senior banking sources .
it did not name the banks .
one bank faces a penalty in excess of $ 5 billion , while the rest of the fines will be lower , it said .
asked to comment , a spokesman for the u.s. treasury , which is responsible for u.s. sanctions regimes , said only : treasury doesn t telegraph intentions or prospective actions .
two senior turkish economy officials told reuters turkey has not received any notice from washington about such penalties , adding that u.s. regulators would normally inform the finance ministry s financial crimes investigation board .
u.s. authorities have hit global banks with billions of dollars in fines over violations of sanctions with iran and other countries in recent years .
the administration of u.s. president donald trump last week adopted a harsh new approach to iran by refusing to certify its compliance with a nuclear deal struck with the united states and five other powers including britain , france and germany under his predecessor barack obama .
trump argues the deal was too lenient and has effectively left its fate up to the u.s. congress , which might try to modify it or bring back u.s. sanctions previously imposed on iran .
last week , the u.s. treasury under secretary for terrorism and financial intelligence sigal mandelker said trump s strategy involved placing additional sanctions on tehran and that washington had been engaging our allies and partners with the aim of denying funds to iran s revolutionary guard corps .
the haberturk report comes as relations between washington and ankara , which are nato allies , have been strained by a series of diplomatic rows , prompting both countries to cut back issuing visas to each other s citizens .
u.s. prosecutors last month charged a former turkish economy minister and the ex-head of a state-owned bank with conspiring to violate iran sanctions by illegally moving hundreds of millions of dollars through the u.s. financial system on tehran s behalf .
president tayyip erdogan has dismissed the charges as politically motivated , and tantamount to an attack on the turkish republic .
the charges stem from the case against reza zarrab , a wealthy turkish-iranian gold trader who was arrested in the united states over sanctions evasion last year .
erdogan has said u.s. authorities had ulterior motives in charging zarrab , who has pleaded not guilty .