tell us again barack , about the poor widows and orphans who are being strategically placed in our small towns and communities across america .
with all the rape and violence being committed by these refugees , why in the world would we welcome these savage animals into our country ?
oh that s right to vote for democrats a muslim councilor has admitted that some feel as though it takes two to tango as 12 men were jailed for gang-raping a 13-year-old white girl in west yorkshire.the gang of men from pakistani origin were jailed for a total of 143 years at bradford crown court today , for 13 months of horrendous abuse of the british white girl in 2011 and 2012 .
however , the councillor for keighley central , where the abuse took place , has admitted that some members of the community felt it takes two to tango and that the girl may have played her part .zafar ali , who has been a member of the keighley mosque for decades believes that some of the men may have attended in the past , but said the muslim community totally condemn their actions.he told mailonline : everyone now believes that justice has been done , we need to move forward and it is a lesson for the whole muslim community .
there are a few bad apples but this does not represent the muslim community as a whole and any sensible muslim totally condemns these actions .
eleven of the men were today jailed for rape and a twelfth man was jailed for sexual activity with a child under 16 today at bradford crown court , but the ringleader has fled to bangladesh.west yorkshire police confirmed that the men jailed were of pakistani origin.the sentences come as it emerged that : ringleader ahmed al-choudhury who facilitated most of the offences is believed to now be living in bangladesh after fleeing at the beginning of the investigation in 2012 after the sentencing , kris hopkins , conservative mp for keighley spoke out against the sick model of organized groups of asian men grooming young white girls , but said there are more women out there who need justice.he said the sentenced were vindication for controversial comments he made during a parliamentary debate in 2012 , claiming that organised groups of asian men were going around raping white girls .however , he claims that even today he has been lambasted for even mentioning that the men are asian when talking about the sentences.he told mailonline : there are sexual offenders who are white , but the fact is this particular model is all asian men and all the victims were white .
i was attacked in 2012 and today , when these men were convicted , the community was silent .
you have to ask yourself why these men get away with this behavior .
there is broader issues around the way women are treated in that community , there are hundreds if not thousands of women who live behind that door and have no voice .
in a commons speech three years ago , mr hopkins caused controversy three years ago when he suggested muslim men were fundamentally sexist towards women.judge roger thomas qc condemned the insolent and disrespectful behaviour the accused showed in court which he said reflected their treatment of their victim.they showed her no shred of decency or humanity when as a vulnerable child she so needed care and understandingjudge roger thomas qc told them : the attitudes of the majority of you have so clearly demonstrated to these proceedings has been contemptuous , disrespectful and arrogant on a scale that i have hardly seen before in many years of practice in criminal law .
exactly the same attitude to the 13/14 year old girl who you all sexually abused and exploited for your own selfish gratification .
he added : none of these defendants had any concern for the victim .
they were totally uninterested in her welfare and what damage they were causing her .
the victim clearly demanded pity and understanding but their view of her was heartless and demeaning .
they saw her as a pathetic figure who had no worth and who served no purpose than to be an object that they could sexually misuse and cast aside .
via : daily mail