it s not the first time that the name of vladimir putin has been brought up in the us presidential campaign , but this time the us president used this argument while openly campaigning for clinton against trump .
the situation has become really ludicrous and it borders on the ridiculous , believes gregory r. copley , editor of defense & foreign affairs .
in my 50 odd years covering the us government , i have never seen this level of partisanship within the administration where a sitting president actually regards the opposition party as the enemy of the state , copley told rt.the analyst said that the democrats are blaming the messenger to revert the attention from the message .
the message which donald trump delivered on rt was unambiguous in his campaign .
just like the fact that wikileaks revelation of the hacked emails was very explicit in showing up what the democratic party itself was doing , copley added.the us establishment is sacrificing key bilateral relationships in order to win [ a ] domestic election , believes copley .
he added that neither obama nor clinton are interested in unifying the country , but they are rather interested in winning and engaging in what modern democracy seems to have become the tyranny of the marginal majority over the marginal minority .
when you think about the number of times that the clinton campaign has brought up president putin and the alleged russian hacking of hillary clinton s service , it makes you wonder just how desperate they are , copley noted .
president obama has lost literally all prestige in an international community with the loss of prestige he has become desperate .
read more : rtanother round of hacked democratic national committee documents have been released .
provided by an anonymous representative of a hacker , guccifer , the 500 megabytes detail the dnc s information technology infrastructure and internal reports on donors.forbes reports that on tuesday in london at the future of cyber security europe conference , guccifer addressed cybersecurity experts through an unknown and remote transcriber.the notorious hacker then shared a trove of documents ostensibly obtained via a breach of the dnc s cybersecurity .
according to forbes , a password and login was given to them , and the documents they accessed appeared to show details of dnc donors and finances as well as the information technology setup to protect the sensitive data.in july , just as the democratic national convention was getting underway , wikileaks released the results of the first dnc hack carried out by guccifer .
that hack revealed signs of bias in favor of hillary clinton over her primary opponent bernie sanders , and consequently led to the resignation of the dnc chair , debbie wasserman schultz , as well as several other top officers.the dnc responded to the latest hack claim tuesday through its interim chair donna brazile , who stated that the dnc is the victim of a crime , which she blamed on russian state-sponsored agents , while also cautioning that the hacked documents were still being authenticated by the dnc legal team , as it is common for russian hackers to forge documents .