hillary lied again !
this time , a very important e-mail recently obtained by judicial watch shows that the pentagon was demanding secretary of state hillary clinton allow them to send help to benghazi during the 2012 attack .
this would completely contradict the claim from hillary and leon panetta that no forces were available and within reach to provide help to the compound that was under siege.as the attack on the u.s. consulate in benghazi was unfolding , a high-ranking pentagon official urgently messaged secretary of state hillary clinton s top deputies to offer military help , according to an email obtained by judicial watch.the revelation appears to contradict testimony defense secretary leon panetta gave lawmakers in 2013 , when he said there was no time to get forces to the scene in libya , where four americans were killed , including u.s .
ambassador to libya christopher stevens .
i just tried you on the phone but you were all in with s [ apparent reference to then-secretary of state hillary clinton ] , reads the email , from panetta s chief of staff jeremy bash .
after consulting with general dempsey , general ham and the joint staff , we have identified the forces that could move to benghazi .
they are spinning up as we speak .
ironically , hillary clinton and her minions were concerned with spinning the story instead of gearing up the military forces.the email was sent out at 7:19 p.m .
et on sept. 11 , 2012 , in the early stages of the eight-hour siege that also claimed the lives of foreign service information management officer sean smith and two former navy seals , ty woods and glen doherty , private cia contractors who raced to the aid of embattled state department workers.although the email came after the first wave of the attack at the consulate , it occurred before a mortar strike on the cia annex killed woods and doherty .
this leaves no doubt military assets were offered and ready to go , and awaiting state department signoff , which did not come , judicial watch , a nonprofit government watchdog said in a statement.parts of the email from bash were redacted before release , including details on what military forces were available.but , if you want to know what forces were likely to be available , all you have to do is listen to , or read , the account from an ex special forces member who explained it to bryan suits on the dark secret place , a popular radio show in los angeles.in the interview from november of 2012 , he explained why panetta s claim was a lie , and described the cif which stands for commanders in extremis force , that could have been sent to benghazi : [ the cif is a ] heretofore little known american option you ve probably never heard that before .
it s not secret per se , but it s not publicized very much the cif , as it s called is something that is available to every theater commander.the cif are us army special forces soldiers who are specifically dedicated to being prepared at all times for months on end to leave with no notice , with little or no information to move by air or whatever vehicle , to a situation , that they have been determined to be the best immediate solution to .
they oftentimes get in the air with absolutely no idea where they re going or what the mission is .
oftentimes they are briefed in the air .
the entire purpose of this [ cif ] in the extreme , there is no worse case than this .
something is happening right now , and we don t have 24 hours to get delta force in there .
something is happening right now , and that s why these forces , the cif are pre-positioned to at the drop of a hat , to go anywhere and do anything.it s time to explain what is angering so many people in the special operations community , because they re aware of the cif.he then explained why panetta was lying about there not being enough time to send them : the bottom line is this did the president have an option ?
he did .
what leon panetta said about real-time information , when leon panetta was saying that on thursday , we know that s a lie .
because we ve known for weeks that there was a predator drone orbiting the benghazi consulate .
have us forces been sent places with less information ?
yes .
i can personally vouch for being sent places where my initial mission was to find out what was going on.there s no such principle that you don t deploy people without information.so there it is .
panetta and hillary lied to the american public over and over , and the media never pressed them enough to demand answers.and this information has been available since a month after the attack testimony from whistleblower gregory hicks :