bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand will hold a general election in november 2018 , prime minister prayuth chan-ocha said on tuesday , the most precise date he has given yet for the vote since taking power in a 2014 military coup .
prayuth , head of the ruling junta , said the exact date would be announced in june 2018 .
the junta has announced election dates at least two times in the past , only to push them back later , citing concerns such as changes to the constitution and security issues .
around june we will announce the date for the next election , prayuth told reporters at bangkok s government house .
in november we will have an election .
former army chief prayuth , who led the may 2014 coup widely criticized by western nations , said it was necessary to end a decade of political turbulence and root out corruption .
in april , king maha vajiralongkorn signed into law a military-backed constitution that kickstarts the process for an election the junta has promised will restore democracy .
the new charter provides for a proportional voting system likely to reduce the influence of major political parties , which critics say aims to strengthen the role of the military .
analysts expect political activities to resume slowly after the funeral of king bhumibol adulyadej this month ends a year of mourning for a monarch many thais saw as a father figure .
prayuth wants to delay the election but he knows that after the king s cremation , there will be pressure for an election , said kan yuenyong of the siam intelligence unit think tank .
this announcement for the election in november next year will act to reduce that pressure , because if not , there could be chances for protests , he told reuters .
thailand s main stock index rose 0.7 percent after the news , having opened tuesday down 0.3 percent .
the government has faced increasing pressure to lift a ban on political activities levied soon after the coup .
prayuth will consider lifting the ban at an appropriate time , he told reporters , without giving details .
the junta had initially promised an election in 2015 , after seizing power from the government of prime minister yingluck shinawatra , sister of thaksin shinawatra .
thaksin s governments , or those backed by him , have won every election since 2001 , partly because of their overwhelming popularity with politically-powerful rural voters .
but the shinawatras made enemies , including those among the military-backed establishment who accused thaksin and his allies of corruption .
thaksin was ousted in 2006 and lives abroad in self-imposed exile .
yingluck followed suit in august , when she fled thailand ahead of the verdict in a criminal case .
some politicians expressed skepticism over the election date .
it isn t really believable , because they have changed it many times , said chaturon chaisang , a member of thaksin s puea thai party .
ong-art klampaiboon , deputy leader of the democrat party , puea thai s biggest competitor , welcomed the news .
the election date creates clarity , ong-art said .
this should be good for the country and the people .