tokyo ( reuters ) - even as a new party under a populist female leader scrambles the outlook for japan s general election next month , one thing is clear : the winner will loosen a grip on the government s runaway debt as lawmakers forego higher taxes or boost spending .
prime minister shinzo abe wants to use the revenue from a planned sales-tax hike not to pay down debt but to spend more on education and other popular programmers .
tokyo governor yuriko koike , whose party of hope is challenging abe s ruling coalition by effectively absorbing japan s largest opposition party , wants to put off the tax hike altogether .
japan has yet to emerge from deflation as consumption , which makes up a large portion of the economy , remains weak , she told a briefing on thursday , criticizing abe for doing little to prop up household income .
the debate is shifting to how much more to spend and in what areas , rather than on what is acceptable within the limits set by japan s public debt , which at well over twice the size of its economy is the biggest among industrialized nations .
regardless of who wins , there will be increased spending because that s how you win votes , said koichi haji , chief economist at nli research institute .
very few lawmakers call for fiscal reform , haji added .
that may be fine now , but there s no telling when loss of market trust in japan s finances could trigger a spike in bond yields .
japan s ballooning public debt has not bothered the bond market much so far , as investors trust the country can repay public debt with its huge current account surplus and abundant domestic savings .
but the long-term risk is that snowballing social security spending for a fast-ageing population will strain government finances , making it more vulnerable to a sudden spike in borrowing costs that would hurt the economy .
japanese government bond ( jgb ) prices tumbled on thursday , with the benchmark futures posting their biggest fall in three months , as investors braced for bigger spending .
abe came into office in 2012 vowing to eradicate two decades of economic stagnation with abenomics his three policy arrows of fiscal spending , monetary stimulus and structural reforms .
while the fiscal and monetary support reflated the economy , critics say abe has made little progress on structural reforms .
in announcing a snap election for oct. 22 , abe said he will proceed with the sales tax hike in 2019 but divert more proceeds to education and child care , and less on debt payment .
he acknowledged it was now impossible to fulfill his promise to balance the budget excluding debt service and new bond sales by march 2021 as planned .
finance minister taro aso said japan will delay the timing for meeting the target by several years , with a new deadline to be set by the middle of next year .
what s worrying is that the delay ( in achieving the fiscal target ) would make it impossible for the government to put the brakes on spiraling fiscal spending , said hideo kumano , chief economist at dai-ichi life research institute .
the government may resort to bigger fiscal stimulus if a pull-back in demand after the 2020 tokyo olympic games pushes the economy into a downturn .
finance ministry officials charged with drafting the state budget are relieved abe will proceed with the tax hike , but stress the need to set a new deadline to keep spending in check .
it s a good thing that the premier has stuck with a primary balance goal , even with a delay , a senior ministry official said .
japan s fiscal discipline will remain intact as long as we set a new timeframe .
koike s new party , on the other hand , calls for freezing the sales tax hike , makes no mention of balancing the budget and proposes boosting wise spending - without giving details .
an opposition win would mean even bigger spending and a collapse of japan s fiscal discipline , said a ruling party lawmaker close to abe .
critics say the bank of japan s ultra-easy policy is partly to blame for a lack of discipline in japan s fiscal spending .
politicians so far are paying no price for being lax about spending because the boj pins the 10-year bond yield at zero , essentially letting the government borrow for free .
boj governor haruhiko kuroda says his bank isn t printing money to bankroll public debt .
but some policymakers worry that the central bank could be forced to maintain its ultra-easy policy for longer than it wants , for fear that slowing its bond buying could trigger a spike in bond yields and push up government borrowing costs .
once the economy slumps , there will be demands for more fiscal spending .
lawmakers may pressure the boj to keep its monetary spigot open , said a former boj executive who retains close contact with incumbent policymakers .
rating agency s & p says abe s decision to ditch the fiscal target timeframe won t affect japan s sovereign debt ratings .
but kim eng tan , senior director of sovereign ratings at s & p in singapore , warns against complacency .
i have no real concern right now about delaying the primary budget target , he said .
however , it does prolong the period in which finances are at risk to a sudden increase in interest rates .