( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump continued to dominate twitter in 2017 even though former president barack obama ’ s tweets were more liked and both were blown away by one man ’ s quest for free chicken nuggets .
twitter revealed the year ’ s most liked and retweeted tweets on tuesday , reflecting how a nation bitterly divided between republicans and democrats is likewise split on social media .
trump , whose 44 million followers of @ realdonaldtrump rank him 21st on twitter , was the most tweeted about world leader and u.s. elected official .
likewise @ foxnews , the conservative cable news channel , was the top tweeted news outlet , led by @ seanhannity , the host who is a friend and ally of the president .
obama was also well-represented .
the former president , whose @ barackobama ranked as the third-most-followed twitter account behind @ katyperry and @ justinbieber , posted the most popular tweet : nearly 4.6 million likes for the nelson mandela quote , “ no one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin or his background or his religion , ” with a picture of obama greeting a diverse group of babies through a window .
that was also the second most retweeted item at 1.7 million times .
no president could compete with free nuggets , however .
a 16-year-old named carter wilkerson , @ carterjwm , garnered 3.6 million retweets in his campaign for a year ’ s supply of nuggets from wendy ’ s .
he came up short of wendy ’ s target of 18 million retweets , but wendy ’ s still gave him the nuggets and a $ 100,000 donation in his name to the wendy ’ s-linked dave thomas foundation for adoption .
the top four new u.s. political accounts were some of trump ’ s most forceful critics , led by @ preetbharara , the former federal prosecutor he fired .
next came @ sallyqyates , the former acting attorney general who was also fired by trump .
third was former obama adviser ben rhodes , @ brhodes , followed by obama ’ s former official photographer , @ petesouza , who has tweeted flattering pictures of obama during some of trump most criticized moments .
white house press secretary sarah sanders , @ shsanders45 , rounded out the top five .
other results underscored the punch and counterpunch of politics .
right behind @ foxnews on the top tweeted news outlet list was @ cnn , which trump derides as fake news .
the most tweeted activist hashtag was # resist , as in resist trump , followed by # maga for trump ’ s slogan make america great again .
among national leaders , trump was followed by @ narendramodi of india , @ nicolasmaduro of venezuela and @ rt_erdogan of turkey .
( this story corrects paragraphs 8 and 9 to show request was for one year of free nuggets instead of lifetime supply )