berlin ( reuters ) - german politicians seeking to form a first of a kind coalition of conservatives , liberals and leftist environmentalists agreed on one thing after their first talks on wednesday : it s going to take a while .
chancellor angela merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) and their bavarian christian social union ( csu ) partners held separate talks first with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and later with the greens .
their party colors - black , yellow and green - match those of the jamaican flag and have given name to the proposed coalition .
if you look in the atlas , the road to jamaica is long , said csu general secretary andreas scheuer after his party and the cdu met with the greens .
setting the stage for tough talks that could take several months , politicians from all parties have set out their stall , narrowing room for compromise in areas from immigration to the european union and environmental policy .
after the first two-hour meeting , general secretaries from the two conservative parties and the fdp emerged , smiling , to tell reporters the talks had been positive .
it was a good exchange , at times nice and above all mutually respectful and joyful , scheuer said .
separate talks between the conservatives and the greens appeared to have been less joyful .
straight-faced representatives of the cdu , csu and greens told reporters the meeting had been positive but made clear that it would take a long time to nail down an agreement .
cdu general-secretary peter tauber said both meetings , with the fdp and greens , were good .
merkel , whose conservatives bled support to the far right in the sept. 24 election , warned her parliamentary party on tuesday they would have to compromise .
chancellor for 12 years and known as a skilled negotiator , she angered many voters over her open-door migrant policy and her conservatives saw their worst election result since 1949 .
she has said she expects a government to be in place by christmas , but others say january is more likely , pointing to a months-long policy standstill in europe s biggest economy .
the prospect of a minority government or new election hangs over the talks , a scenario merkel wants to avoid due to fears the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) could make bigger gains .
it is totally conceivable that before christmas or in january we say that the whole thing is pointless and we ll talk to the social democrats ( spd ) , peter ramsauer , a senior csu member not on the negotiating team , told deutschlandfunk radio .
the spd , which suffered its worst result since 1933 , has said it will go into opposition .
the parties recognize it will not be easy .
the first steps on this path went well , in an objective , solution-oriented atmosphere , said fdp general secretary nicola beer .
we agreed that some of us might need to be creative to continue on this path in this way .
the talks which will continue on thursday and friday focused on building trust and agreeing a format for future talks rather than tackling hard policies .
one of which will be immigration .
merkel , further weakened on sunday by losses in a state election , has already had to give way to the csu on immigration , effectively bowing to a demand to limit the number of people allowed into germany .
that may be unacceptable to the greens .