ankara ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan has called on mayors of three major cities to resign , including the high-profile mayor of the capital , ankara , the hurriyet newspaper reported on thursday , in a push to revitalize his ruling party ahead of 2019 elections .
the comments mark erdogan s most explicit demand yet for a shake-up of veteran politicians - some of whom are nationally prominent - after voters in many cities rejected an april referendum granting him sweeping power .
while erdogan narrowly won the referendum to change the constitution and create an executive presidency , voters in 17 of turkey s 30 largest cities voted against the change .
since then , erdogan has spoken of the need for renewal in local government and the ruling ak party , citing signs of metal fatigue within administrations .
people do not take these offices as independent candidates but as candidates shown by parties .
we can not regard these posts as chairs which are kept eternally and never abandoned , the hurriyet quoted him as telling reporters on his plane back from a trip to poland this week .
a request had been conveyed for the resignation of the mayor of balikesir in northwest turkey , the newspaper quoted him as saying .
likewise , this situation was conveyed to ( ankara mayor ) melih ( gokcek ) .
the same with bursa , he was quoted as saying .
bursa is a city in northwest turkey .
the mayor of istanbul has resigned in the last month , as has the mayor of duzce city in northwest turkey .
the mayor of nigde city in central turkey , resigned on wednesday .
but gokcek , who has been ankara mayor since 1994 and won five consecutive elections , has so far stayed in place , despite widespread speculation that we would step down .
gokcek has avoided addressing the resignation issue and pointedly steered clear of the subject in public when he made an unexpected visit to the presidential palace this month .
i presented to my president all the project details of the museum to be built opposite the ( presidential ) palace .
i also gave various information about ongoing municipal projects ... for the public s information , he wrote on twitter .
gokcek , generally regarded as a staunch erdogan loyalist , is well known in turkey for tweets in which he has engaged in spats with journalists and other senior members of the akp .
in february he suggested the u.s.-based cleric blamed for last year s failed coup might be plotting an earthquake , with the help of foreign powers , to damage the economy .