belfast ( reuters ) - sinn fein on monday dismissed as unacceptable a bill proposed by a british conservative party lawmaker to set a 10-year limit on prosecuting soldiers , saying it breached a 2014 deal intended to rescue the province s power-sharing arrangements .
if the bill wins the backing of the british government , it could seriously complicate efforts to resolve a political crisis in northern ireland , which is facing a return to direct rule from london for the first time in a decade .
the bill was sponsored by a member of sinn fein s main rival the democratic unionist party ( dup ) , which did a deal this year to support prime minister theresa may s government .
sinn fein , the largest irish nationalist party in northern ireland , has repeatedly warned that the deal would undermine power-sharing in northern ireland .
conservative party member of parliament richard benyon on wednesday proposed the bill , which would set a 10 year-statute of limitations beyond which it would be impossible to bring a case against any individual about whom an allegation was made regarding actions he or she took while serving .
while presenting the bill , sponsored by dup lawmaker emma little pengelly , benyon cited the case of a 78-year-old former british soldier facing prosecution for the shooting of an unarmed 27-year-old catholic in 1974 .
sinn fein says the commitment to prosecute crimes committed by british soldiers during the three decade conflict in northern ireland is a key foundation of the peace process in the british region .
about 3,600 people died before a 1998 peace deal , approximately half of them killed by sinn fein s former armed wing , the irish republican army .
under the terms of the 1998 peace agreement , sinn fein and the dup have shared power in northern ireland for a decade .
the proposed bill is simply unacceptable , said linda dillon , a sinn fein member of the northern ireland assembly , who accused british forces of being directly involved in state sponsored killings .
the decision of the dup to support it is in direct contravention of the ( 2014 ) stormont house agreement which ruled out any amnesties and instead provided a range of mechanisms to deal with the past , she said .
the bill , whose second reading is not due until june next year , was brought to parliament within hours of the collapse of talks between the dup and sinn fein to re-establish a northern ireland devolved executive following its collapse in january .
failure to reach agreement is expected to force the british government to impose direct rule of northern ireland , in effect cutting irish nationalist parties out of the governance of the region during a key stage of britain s negotiations to leave the european union .