novi pazar , serbia ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan received a rapturous welcome on wednesday during a visit to the serbian town of novi pazar , capital of the muslim majority sandzak region that has seen mass emigration to turkey since the violent breakup of yugoslavia .
erdogan , on a two-day visit to serbia , hopes to boost turkey s economic and cultural influence in the balkan region , which was part of the ottoman empire for centuries , at a time of increased tensions with the european union and united states .
we have special relations with this region .
your happiness is our happiness , your pain is our pain , erdogan told more than 10,000 people gathered in front of the municipality building .
sandzak is the biggest bridge linking us with our brothers in serbia , he said , with serbia s president aleksandar vucic standing close by .
turkish influence is already strong among fellow muslims in bosnia , albania and kosovo , but mainly orthodox christian serbia is traditionally much closer to russia .
however , belgrade and ankara , which both want to join the eu but are frustrated by the slow pace of progress , are keen to increase bilateral trade .
erdogan said turkey would finance the construction of a road linking sandzak with the bosnian capital sarajevo , reconstruct an ottoman-era hammam and build a bridge in novi pazar .
in belgrade on tuesday , erdogan pledged gas and turkish investments for the balkans and he signed deals with vucic to expand a bilateral free trade agreement .
in novi pazar , local people waved turkish flags and the green and blue flags of serbia s muslim community , and chanted allahu akbar ( god is greatest ) .
a big banner read welcome sultan and was signed by ottoman grandchildren .
erdogan is our nation s leader , vucic is our state leader , this is the greatest day for us muslims to have them both here , ismail ismailovic , 28 , from the nearby town of tutin , farmer , sporting long beard and white embroidered muslim skull cap .
it was a far cry from the 1990s when serbia and turkey were sharply at odds in the conflicts that tore apart yugoslavia .
turkey sees itself as the historic defender of muslims across the balkan region .
i know i am not going to be welcomed here like erdogan is , said vucic , who was a firebrand serbian nationalist during the wars of the 1990s but has turned strongly pro-eu .
but at least i can come out and say that i am working in your best interest .