caracas ( reuters ) - days before masked agents arrested him , family and friends pleaded with eulogio del pino to flee , warning that he could be next among executives detained or pursued , one after another , in a mounting purge of venezuela s faltering oil industry .
but the former oil minister , detained by police before dawn on nov 30 , was reluctant to believe he could soon be among those targeted in what president nicolas maduro has characterized as a cleanup of the all-important sector .
i told him : go !
, said one of three people who described the leadup to the former minister s detention .
but he told me i haven t done anything wrong .
i trust that they re not going to do anything bad to me .
that trust , the product of three years in which del pino held the top two jobs in venezuela s oil ministry , now appears alarmingly misplaced .
maduro is charging del pino and many other former industry executives with corruption and blaming them for economic woes now crippling the andean nation .
i m not going to shield anyone , maduro said in a speech on nov 28 , as he swore in a general who replaced del pino as oil minister .
if you re corrupt , you have to pay with jail and return what you ve stolen .
the crackdown has led to uncertainty , panic and paranoia across the sector , with as many as 65 former executives arrested over the past four months .
prosecutors , critics say , have provided scant evidence for the charges .
corruption has long plagued the opec member s oil industry and much of the broader maduro government , a leftist administration struggling with an imploding economy , soaring crime and debilitated public services .
but critics of maduro s beleaguered administration , and many within the oil industry itself , see the purge as nothing more than an effort to eliminate rivals within the sector and consolidate control ahead of presidential elections next year .
maduro wants control of pdvsa and control of its cash flow , said opposition legislator and economist angel alvarado , using the initials for state-controlled oil company petroleos de venezuela sa .
venezuela s information ministry did not respond to a request for comment .
pdvsa and the oil ministry did not respond to requests for comment either .
it is not clear whether any of the charges against del pino are substantiated .
prosecutors , without presenting any evidence , accused him of belonging to a cartel that operated a roughly $ 500 million corruption scheme in the western state of zulia .
but the stanford-educated engineer , who led the ministry until nov. 26 and pdvsa for three years before that , was previously known as a government loyalist , committed to maduro s vision for 21st century socialism .
only after he was ousted from the ministry , the three people familiar with his arrest said , did del pino finally begin to believe that his time was probably up .
his final days as a free man illustrate how swiftly fortunes can shift for even senior officials in maduro s government .
just after his firing , del pino told reuters in a whatsapp message : i need a rest .
on nov. 29 , three days after his ouster , an exhausted del pino went to avila , a verdant mountain that towers over caracas , the capital , where he liked to hike , one of the people said .
del pino found a quiet spot under a tree and recorded a video on his cell phone .
he said he believed he was about to become a victim of an unjustified attack .
before sunlight the following morning , hooded and armed military intelligence agents burst into his home and arrested him .
footage of the detention showed del pino wearing the burgundy-colored soccer shirt of venezuela s national team .
later that day , the video del pino recorded appeared on his twitter account .
i hope the revolution will give me the right to a legitimate defense , he said , referring to the government in the militant terms embraced by maduro .
del pino did not respond to requests for comment on whatsapp , where he had recently changed his profile picture from one of him in a pdvsa hat to one of his children .
after del pino s detention , stunned workers at pdvsa s caracas headquarters , where he was generally well-liked , watched the state tv footage on screens in company elevators .
fear has gripped employees at both institutions , according to a half-dozen current and former pdvsa insiders as well as foreign oil executives .
managers are scared to sign routine documents in case it could be used against them .
maduro promoted del pino , who was born in the canary islands and holds a spanish passport , from pdvsa s exploration and production division to the company s top job in 2014 .
at the time , foreign oil executives and analysts largely welcomed the arrival of the genial and low-profile technocrat .
he replaced rafael ramirez , a once-powerful loyalist of the late hugo chavez , maduro s predecessor .
ramirez , who dominated venezuela s oil industry for a decade , sought to make pdvsa redder than red .
he urged workers to wear red shirts in support of chavez s socialist movement and to attend pro-government rallies .
del pino , by contrast , eased up on revolutionary garb and attendance at militant gatherings .
he also sought closer relationships with foreign partners frustrated by currency controls and a lack of professionalism at pdvsa .
still , many pdvsa insiders and oil executives were ultimately disappointed with del pino s management .
instead of improvements , he presided over a major production fall that brought venezuela s oil output to near 30 year-lows .
del pino ultimately found his hands tied at a company where intervention by the government is common .
last january , maduro replaced many of his top executives with political and military appointees .
whether del pino and other arrested executives are ultimately found guilty or not , many in venezuela see opportunism behind the ongoing purge , not a concerted effort to stamp out graft .
the industry , after all , has been under tight control of the ruling socialist party since shortly after chavez came to power in 1998 .
although the government ridiculed a report last year by the opposition-run congress , finding that some $ 11 billion went missing at pdvsa over a decade , it now recognizes that many voters support the anti-corruption stances espoused by rivals .
the opposition has been pushing for a fight against corruption , and now maduro wants to appropriate that , said alvarado , the opposition lawmaker .
after surviving major protests this year and pushing through a controversial pro-government legislative superbody , maduro is feeling empowered , government officials said .
he seeks to fortify his position for re-election next year .
he is also expected to continue finding ways to target perceived threats to his political power .
some in venezuela see del pino s arrest as a way of getting at an old rival : ramirez , the former pdvsa boss .
ramirez , until recently venezuela s envoy to the united nations , is believed by many in the government to have presidential ambitions .
although ramirez has not been mentioned by prosecutors , senior government officials increasingly refer to his time at pdvsa as a period when mafias were formed and executives like del pino grew ascendant .
this week , after ramirez criticized the president in recent opinion articles online , maduro fired him and summoned him back to caracas , according to people familiar with the clash .
late friday , police arrested diego salazar , a relative of ramirez , in what prosecutors said was another corruption investigation .
ramirez did not respond to a request for information on friday .