islamabad ( reuters ) - the ruling pakistan muslim league-nawaz ( pmln ) party nominated ousted premier nawaz sharif as its leader on monday , a government minister said , hours before it used its parliamentary majority to amend a law to allow him to be re-elected party chief .
sharif resigned as prime minister in july after the supreme court disqualified him for not declaring a source of income .
he was also forced to step down as president of pml-n , though he kept control of the party and installed shahid khaqan abbasi , a loyalist , as prime minister .
the party s state minister for interior , talal chaudhry , said a parliamentary meeting of the ruling party chaired by abbasi had nominated sharif as its leader .
he said sharif would be formally re-elected president in a session scheduled for tuesday .
he will become party president tomorrow , god willing , chaudhry said .
hours later , pakistan s parliament amended a law to enable sharif to re-take pml-n leadership .
the amendment bill was presented by law minister zahid hamid and passed by lower house with a majority .
we feel very strongly nawaz sharif has to lead our party .
he s the symbol of unity in our party , said rana afzal khan , a pml-n lawmaker .
khan said sharif was battling to assert civilian supremacy and boost democracy in a nation that has been beset by military interference in politics .
in protest some opposition lawmakers tore up paper copies of the election bill 2017 , passed by the senate last week , that allows sharif to become the party president again despite his disqualification by the court .
but the vote was more of a formality as pml-n has a vast majority .
a previous election bill barred from office someone disqualified under article 62 and 63 of the constitution , which was used by the courts to remove sharif .
you are making a law for one person .
you are putting the assembly on stake for one person , said sheikh rashid ahmed , the leader of awami muslim league , a small opposition party .
sharif on monday appeared before an anti-corruption court and is expected to be indicted next week , along with three of his children .
the veteran leader denies any wrongdoing and has alleged there was a conspiracy against him , with senior pml-n figures pointing fingers at elements of pakistan s powerful military .
the army denies playing a role .
relations between the military and civilian establishment were strained again on monday when the paramilitary rangers force , nominally under the control of the interior ministry , barred interior minister ahsan iqbal from entering the national accountability bureau ( nab ) courts where sharif appeared .
iqbal , visibly angry , threatened to resign in protest .
i can not be a puppet interior minister , iqbal said .
i am the interior minister and my subordinate force takes orders from somewhere else .
two states can not function in one state , he said .