bangkok ( reuters ) - thai airlines can now add flights to the growing china , south korea and japan markets after the u.n. international civil aviation organization removed a red flag against thailand over safety concerns , officials said on monday .
thailand was downgraded in june 2015 after its regulator missed a deadline to resolve significant safety concerns , meaning that airlines were unable to add further international routes , though they could continue to operate routine flights .
the civil aviation authority of thailand ( caat ) said the icao had made the decision after a meeting on friday .
the montreal-based u.n. agency was not immediately available for comment , but the red flag which appeared against thailand on its website had disappeared .
although lifting the red flag is a significant turning point for her aviation industry , thailand as well as caat need to carry on their missions to improve the aviation safety standards , the caat said on its website .
shares in thai airways climbed nearly 8 percent on the news before falling back to trade at over 5 percent higher .
shares in asia aviation , which operates as thai air asia , rose as much as 5 percent and later traded up nearly 4 percent .
shares in airport operator airports of thailand rose over 2 percent .
the biggest beneficiaries would be smaller carriers , such as thai airasia x , nokscoot and thai lion , said corrine png , the ceo of singapore-based transport research firm crucial perspective .
the icao downgrade had seriously impeded these new entrants growth to lucrative markets such as japan and south korea , she said .
these airlines can now grow more aggressively .
this would , however , imply increased competition for thai airways when they expand .
thai airasia x ceo nadda buranasiri said his airline was studying new routes , including to hokkaido in japan , after the red flag was lifted .
we will likely increase routes and frequencies for china , south korea , and japan , he told reuters on monday , adding thai airasia x now hoped to add three to four aircraft to its fleet next year .
nok airlines pcl vice chairman patee sarasin said new routes would be added as slots became available .
thai airways lacks enough aircraft to take advantage of the situation and expects rivals will boost routes to other asian countries , said a source at the national carrier who declined to be named because he wasn t authorized to speak to the media .
thai airways declined to comment .
caat director general chula sukmanop told a news conference that he expected thailand would regain a category one status from the u.s. department of transportation s federal aviation administration ( faa ) , which also downgraded thailand in 2015 .
the faa downgrade meant thai carriers could not start new routes to the united states .
the caat said its aim was to be at the world s forefront in safety and reach the global average in each safety category .
actions were still needed to address findings of an icao inspection in january 2015 and an audit in july , it said .
icao s red flag was based on its audit of the regulatory body , rather than individual airlines .
some major thai airlines , including thai airways , bangkok airways , thai lion and nokscoot , have passed the international air transport association operational safety audit , a benchmark for global safety management in airlines .
aviation safety is particularly important for thailand given that tourism accounts for around 12 percent of its economy , the second largest in asia .
the countries which still have red flags against them are djibouti , eritrea , haiti , kyrgyzstan and malawi , according to the icao list .