beijing ( reuters ) - australian media reports on chinese interference in australia are racist and paranoid , china s top newspaper said on monday , stepping up a war of words over concerns in australia about chinese influence in the country .
australian prime minister malcolm turnbull said last week he took reports very seriously that china s communist party had sought to interfere in his country .
turnbull said that foreign powers were making unprecedented and increasingly sophisticated attempts to influence the political process in australia and the world .
he cited disturbing reports about chinese influence .
the chinese government has already protested the remarks , and on monday the ruling communist party s official people s daily stepped up the attacks .
the reports in australian media have been full of imagination , making baseless attacks on the chinese government and have maliciously slandered chinese students and people living in australia , the paper said in a commentary .
this type of hysterical paranoia had racist undertones , and is a stain on australia s image as a multicultural society , the people s daily said .
the commentary was published under the pen name zhong sheng , meaning voice of china , which is often used to give the paper s view on foreign policy issues .
china s soft power has come under renewed focus last week after a politician from australia s opposition labor party was demoted from government having been found to have warned a prominent chinese business leader and communist party member that his phone was being tapped by intelligence authorities .
in june , fairfax media and the australian broadcasting corporation reported on a concerted campaign by china to infiltrate australian politics to promote chinese interests .
turnbull has vowed to ban foreign political donations to curb external influence in domestic politics .
the people s daily said that china had no intention of interfering in australian politics or using financial contributions to curry influence .
china is australia s largest trading partner .
the two countries have no historical enmity or conflicts over each others basic interests and can absolutely forge good relations , it added .
china urges the australian government and media to cast aside political prejudice and bigotry and stick to the principle of using the facts in handling issues of relations with china , the paper wrote .