jerusalem ( reuters ) - interpol voted on wednesday to admit the state of palestine as a member over israeli objections at the international police organization s general assembly in beijing .
the decision came despite israeli efforts to delay a vote and prime minister benjamin netanyahu said in a statement that the palestinians joining the global police agency contravened signed agreements with israel .
israel had argued that palestine is not a state and that it is ineligible to join .
under interim israeli-palestinian peace deals , a palestinian authority was granted limited self-rule in the occupied west bank and the gaza strip .
shortly before the vote in the chinese capital , the israeli foreign ministry said israel s efforts to delay the ballot until next year had failed .
this victory was made possible because of the principled position of the majority of interpol members , palestinian foreign minister riyad al-maliki said in a statement .
interpol said membership applications by the state of palestine and the solomon islands were approved at its annual general assembly by more than the required two-thirds majority of votes .
the organization now has 192 members .
a palestinian bid to join last year , at an interpol conference in indonesia , was foiled by what israel said was its diplomatic campaign against it .
in 2012 , the u.n. general assembly upgraded the palestinian authority s observer status at the united nations to non-member state from entity , like the vatican .
the step fell short of full u.n. membership , but it had important legal implications in enabling the palestinians to join the international criminal court and other world bodies .
netanyahu s statement said palestinian membership of interpol was one of the issues discussed during a meeting with u.s. president donald trump s middle east envoy , jason greenblatt , who is visiting the region .
netanyahu also raised the palestinian refusal to condemn an attack on tuesday in which a palestinian laborer shot dead three israeli guards in the israeli-occupied west bank .
the actions of the palestinian leadership in the past few days directly harm the prospects of achieving peace and the palestinian diplomatic offensive will not go unanswered , the statement said .
some israeli media commentators have voiced concern that as an interpol member , palestine could ask the organization to issue a red notice , an alert to police worldwide to locate and provisionally arrest an individual , pending extradition .
but the procedure does not appear to pose serious legal problems for israelis such as government officials and military officers whom pro-palestinian groups have sought to have arrested by local authorities as suspected war criminals during overseas visits .
a red notice is not an international arrest warrant , and on its website interpol notes that it can not compel any member country to detain an individual named in one .