21st century wire says defense news said that sixty-two percent of the us navy s f-18s are grounded and out of service and attributed this to be , mostly because there isn t enough money to fix them and noted they are awaiting planned maintenance and are held up waiting on spare parts .
one must wonder if there is more to the story .
could this many of the us navy s fighters be out of commission when the dod budget in 2016 was almost 600 billion dollars ?
how can there not be enough money for spare parts ?
with rt breaking this story down further , we ll find that there are many other factors to consider than just not enough money for spare parts .
factors including shore facilities in disrepair , refurbish/retrofit issues for new equipment , the delays in development of a replacement platform such as the f-35 and compounded by over a decade of war rtsixty-two percent of the us navy s f/a-18s are out of service , of which 27 percent are in major depot work and 35 percent are simply awaiting maintenance or parts , defense news said , adding that 53 percent of all navy aircraft some 1,700 combat aircraft , patrol , transport planes , and helicopters can t fly.moreover , there isn t enough money to fix the fleet s ships , and the backlog of ships needing work continues to grow , the article says .
some subs have allegedly been out of service literally for years , as much as four years or more , defense news reports.the navy can t get money to move around service members and their families to change assignments , and about $ 440 million is needed to pay sailors , according to the publication .
and the service claims 15 percent of its shore facilities are in failed condition awaiting repair , replacement or demolition , it added.according to john venable , a senior research fellow for defense policy at the heritage foundation , the backlog is so huge it ll take them several years to refit , refurbish , and repair the f-18s that are in unserviceable condition .
they can t catch up even if the trump administration gave them all the money they need , he told the washington free beacon .
for a variety of reasons , our shipyards and aviation depots are struggling to get our ships and airplanes through maintenance periods on time , vice chief of naval operations admiral william moran told lawmakers on the house armed services committee on wednesday.read more : defense secretary mattis orders reviews of f-35 and air force one to cut costs it has become clear to me that the navy s overall readiness has reached its lowest level in many years , he noted , adding that among the problems causing the situation are funding reductions and consistent uncertainty about when those reduced budgets will be approved .
between 2001 and 2015 , the navy was able to keep an average of 100 ships at sea each day , moran said , adding that the navy is smaller today than it s been in the last 99 years .
the budget caps imposed on military and nonmilitary spending in the budget control act have degraded our military readiness , representative adam smith ( d-washington ) told cnn , adding that among other factors , constraints have been compounded by over a decade of war continue this report at rtsupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv