lahinch , ireland ( reuters ) - three people died as tropical storm ophelia battered ireland s southern coast on monday , knocking down trees and power lines and whipping up 10-metre ( 30-foot ) waves .
over 360,000 homes and businesses were without electricity with another 100,000 outages expected by nightfall , ireland s electricity supply board said , describing it as an unprecedented event that would effect every part of the country for days .
around 170 flights from ireland s two main airports at dublin and shannon were canceled .
two people were killed in separate incidents when trees fell on their cars a woman in her 50s in the south east and a man on the east coast .
another man in his 30s died while trying to clear a fallen tree in an incident involving a chainsaw .
the storm , downgraded from a hurricane overnight , was the worst to hit ireland in half a century .
it made landfall after 10:40 a.m. ( 0940 gmt ) , the irish national meteorological service said , with winds as strong as 190 kph ( 110 mph ) hitting the most southerly tip of the country .
coastal flooding was likely .
this storm is still very active and there are still very dangerous conditions in parts of the country .
do not be lulled into thinking this has passed , the chairman of ireland s national emergency coordination group , sean hogan , told national broadcaster rte .
the armed forces were sent to bolster flood defenses , public transport services and hospitals were closed and schools across ireland and northern ireland will remain shut for a second day on tuesday .
hundreds of roads were blocked by fallen trees , hogan said .
photos on social media showed roofs flying off buildings , including at cork city soccer club s turner s cross stadium where the roof of one stand had collapsed .
prime minister leo varadkar advised people to stay indoors .
the transport minister said it was not safe to drive .
the storm winds were due to peak between 1600 gmt and 1800 gmt in dublin and galway , two of ireland s most populous cities , and later on monday in northern areas .
britain s meteorological service put an amber weather warning into effect for northern ireland from 1400-2100 gmt , saying the storm posed a danger to life and was likely to cause transport cancellations , power cuts and flying debris .
it is expected to move towards western scotland overnight and impactful weather is expected in other western and northern parts of the united kingdom , it said .
british media are comparing ophelia to the great storm of 1987 , which subjected parts of the united kingdom to hurricane strength winds 30 years ago to the day .
the irish government said the storm was likely to be the worst since hurricane debbie , which killed 11 in ireland in 1961 .
it passed close to a western ireland golf course owned by u.s. president donald trump , who has been planning a wall to protect its greens from coastal erosion .
similar storms in the past have changed the shape of stretches of the irish coastline , climatologists said .