washington ( reuters ) - former virginia senator jim webb , who dropped his bid for the democratic party presidential nomination last october , told a texas foreign affairs group on thursday that he had studied an independent bid for the white house and decided against it .
“ we looked at the possibility of an independent candidacy .
theoretically it could be done , but it is enormously costly and time sensitive , and i don ’ t see the fundraising trajectory where we could make a realistic run , ” webb told the world affairs council of dallas , according to a statement from his spokesman .
in his speech to the council , webb called for a vigorous foreign policy debate in the presidential campaign and said neither political party appeared to be addressing the needs of most voters .
“ we have not had a clear statement of national security policy since the end of the cold war , ” he said .
“ and i see no one running for president today who has a firm understanding of the elements necessary to build a national strategy. ” webb is a decorated war veteran who served in the vietnam war and was navy secretary during the administration of republican president ronald reagan .
he is the author of 10 books and an emmy award-making journalist and filmmaker .
webb ended his bid for the democratic nomination in october after only four months , acknowledging his more conservative political views were out of sync with many of the party ’ s leaders and primary voters .
he indicated at the time that he planned to review his options and talk to people and groups who have urged him to run for president as an independent candidate .
“ i ’ ve worked with both parties , including as an official in the reagan administration and as a democrat in the senate .
both parties , in my view , have moved away from the major concerns of the average american , ” he told the world affairs council of dallas .
for more on the 2016 presidential race , see the reuters blog , “ tales from the trail ” ( here ) .
( reporting by david alexander ; editing by doina chiacu , grant mccool and bernard orr ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .