beirut ( reuters ) - syrian and iraqi forces closing in on the last scraps of islamic state s caliphate straddling the remote border area between the two countries have already witnessed the jihadists likely response .
while their comrades mounted last stands in their syrian capital of raqqa and the city of hawija in iraq , is militants seized the syrian town of al-qaryatayn and launched its biggest attack for months in ramadi late last month .
that is the kind of guerrilla insurgency both countries foresee is turning to .
it is expected that after the daesh terrorist organization s capacity to fight in the field is finished , its remnants will resort to this type of ( guerrilla ) operation .
but for a certain period of time , not forever , said a syrian military source , using an arabic acronym for islamic state .
the continued ability for is to mount attacks in areas where it was thought to have been eliminated will hinder efforts to stabilize regions when the fighting wanes .
in iraq , where islamic state originated , it has a proven record of falling back upon local networks from which it can rise anew when conditions allow .
so far , it has not shown it has the same capacity in syria , and it might find doing so more challenging there than in iraq .
the sectarian divisions on which it thrives are less pronounced in syria , and it faces competition there for jihadist loyalty from other powerful militant groups .
daesh is in essence an iraqi organization , it will survive to some extent in iraq .
syrian members will dissolve in other syrian salafi jihadist groups , said hisham hashami , an adviser on islamic state to the iraqi government .
but in both countries it has shown it can exploit holes left by overstretched enemies to carry out spectacular attacks - the one in syria s al-qaryatayn most clearly - that spread panic and tie down opposing forces .
it has also proved able to carry out bombings and assassinations in areas controlled by the iraqi and syrian governments , u.s.-backed kurdish militias and rival jihadist rebel groups , signaling an ability to survive underground .
a jihadist from a syrian rebel faction opposed to islamic state said the group had won enough support among young men to give it a latent capacity to revive .
i believe that it is possible , given that its ideology has spread widely among the youths , that something new will emerge , the jihadist said , pointing to the highly effective propaganda machine deployed by islamic state over the last three years .
the al-qaryatayn attack began on the evening of 29 september , when up to 250 militants with guns , rockets and mortars spread around the area with terrible speed , said ayman al-fayadh , a resident .
it was particularly alarming because the government had declared al-qaryatayn safe months ago , and had helped its residents to move back into their homes .
when the jihadists were finally forced out after three weeks of fighting around the outskirts of al-qaryatayn , they took their revenge , slaughtering scores of its inhabitants .
they were very bloodthirsty and didn t spare anyone , fayadh said .
the syrian military source said it took three weeks to retake the town because it was inhabited and the army was trying to avoid civilian casualties .
however , the attack showed how towns in syria s deserts , where armed forces can be spread only thinly , are vulnerable to islamic state and that such operations can tie down opposing armies .
people are afraid of daesh returning , said a syrian journalist who visited the town this week .
they killed anyone who had taken part in pro-government protests .
bodies had been thrown in streets and in wells .
fayadh also said townspeople were among the attackers , indicating that islamic state used its years of rule to build local support networks and establish sleeper cells for future attacks - something that could be replicated elsewhere in syria .
they re going to continue to have to look for places where they can plan and finance and resource and launch their attacks from , said colonel ryan dillon , spokesman for the u.s.-led coalition , noting islamic state had often used sparsely populated areas .
the assault on ramadi took place three days before .
militants attacked iraqi security forces with suicide car bombs , mortars and machine guns in a city that it had apparently lost months earlier .
the big challenge in both iraq and syria is to co-opt the sunni arab tribes , or risk a revival of jihadist insurgency .
the suuni-shi ite divide has plagued iraq since the u.s.-led invasion in 2003 that ignited the civil war .
shi ite parties backed by iran have dominated the government and used militia forces against mostly sunni insurgents .
the syrian government may have the same problem .
it is allied to the region s main shi ite powers - iran and militia groups such as lebanon s hezbollah - and led by a president , bashar al-assad , from a shi ite offshoot sect .
it will also be a challenge for the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) alliance in northern syria , which is spearheaded by kurdish groups .
they have sometimes struggled to convince arabs that it will protect their interests .
it all depends on the degree to which those fighting under assad and the sdf incorporate settled tribes into governing structures , said andrew tabler , a fellow at the washington institute for near east policy .
even in northwestern syria , where rebel groups including jihadist factions hold sway , hardship and insurgent infighting might create space for islamic state to again seize ground .
beside the al-qaryatayn attack , a group of islamic state fighters have managed to take a pocket of territory in rebel-held areas near hama in recent weeks , battling a rival jihadist group for control of several villages .
it has used bomb attacks and assassinations to target government-held cities in the west , kurdish security forces in the northeast and islamist rebel factions in the northwest .
in the isolated enclave it holds in yarmouk camp south of damascus , it has also shown renewed aggression , taking over the headquarters of a neighboring rebel group this month by force .
the jihadist rebel said he believed islamic state could repeat the strategy it used in iraq last decade of retrenching when under attack , then rebounding in more virulent form .
in this period of weakness , islamic state depends on the ideology that it spread , the jihadist said .
it appears that the same experience is being repeated .
they could carry out bombings , a guerrilla war .