donald trump just delivered a humble and heartfelt speech in detroit.https : //youtu.be/becylcxd2lghe s been bashed on social media all day for his visit .
hillary s thugs were out in force because they re shaking in their boots that trump might win .
the people deserve better and hopefully they ll wake up and break free of doing the same thing they ve done for decades .
detroit needs someone like trump ! doing the same thing over and over the definition of insanity : i m protesting # trumpindetroit pic.twitter.com/uucwlm4ak8 madamecain ( @ madamecain ) september 3 , 2016republican presidential candidate donald trump praised the black church saturday at the greater faith ministries international church as he made his first direct outreach to african-american voters.trump in detroit : i will always defend your church so important and defend your right to worship , said trump , who was introduced by bishop wayne t. jackson to polite applause.the new york businessman emphasized issues such as fighting for good-paying jobs , expanded school choice and a civil rights agenda in his first campaign appearance before a predominantly african-american audience .
he acknowledged the discrimination african-americans still face in the country and pledged to work to heal it .
we re all brothers and sisters , he said in measured tones from notes during almost 10 minutes of remarks .
we must love each other and support each other and we are all in this together .
the nation is too divided and talk past each other , trump said .
i m here today to learn about how to move beyond racial and economic divides .
i am here to listen to you , he said.the real estate developer noted that he had seen people sitting on the street and inactivity and a lack of jobs in the surrounding neighborhood when he came to the church .
we re going to turn it around .
we re going to turn it around , pastor , trump said to bishop jackson after noting that he had seen people sitting on the street and the lack of activity and jobs in the surrounding neighborhood.before the service , he shook hands with the audience and showed off a baby to the congregation .
trump sat in service with omarosa , the villain from his the apprentice reality television series and his director of african-american outreach.he also introduced and hugged dr. ben carson , the native detroiter who ran against him in the republican presidential primaries and now is an adviser .
it was uncertain whether carson would take trump on a tour of a detroit neighborhood after the service .
via : detroit news