jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia s speaker of parliament , who was arrested last week over his alleged role in a $ 170 million graft case , has sent a letter from his cell to house leaders pleading to be allowed to keep his job while he fights the charges .
setya novanto , who has denied wrongdoing , is being held for 20 days for questioning by indonesia s corruption eradication commission ( kpk ) .
he made the request in a letter handwritten in his holding cell that was released to the media late on tuesday .
the kpk is investigating state losses of about $ 170 million after allegations that sums ranging from $ 5,000 to $ 5.5 million , generated by marking up procurement costs for national electronic id cards , were divided up among politicians in parliament .
i ask other parliament leaders to give me an opportunity to prove that i wasn t involved , novanto wrote .
and in the meantime do not organize an ethics council plenary session on the possibility of making me non-active either as parliament speaker or as a member of parliament .
novanto , also chairman of golkar , indonesia s second-largest party and a partner in the ruling coalition , is one of the most senior politicians to be detained by the kpk , which is popular among indonesians for targeting members of the establishment suspected of abuse of power .
his battle with the graft agency has gripped indonesia , where newspapers have splashed the story on front pages and memes mocking him have circulated on social media .
he has clung to power through several previous corruption cases and repeatedly missed summonses for questioning by the agency in recent months , saying he needed heart surgery .
novanto was named a suspect on nov. 10 again after using a controversial legal maneuver to get earlier charges dropped last month .
in another letter , addressed to golkar , novanto said there has been no discussion of me temporarily or permanently stopping as chairman of golkar .
in that letter he nominated idrus marham to serve as acting chairman of the party .
novanto s lawyer , fredrich yunadi , told reuters it was up to parliament and party officials to decide if he should keep his posts , but he was confident that his client would win his case .
we have strong proof ( and ) in every court we always win , yunadi said .
asked if he was concerned about the strength of evidence against novanto , kpk spokesman febri diansyah said : from the beginning the kpk has had strong evidence , and the two people we have put on trial already ( in this case ) have been found guilty even up to an appeal stage .