dhaka ( reuters ) - the u.s. government will constantly monitor its sanctions regime to respond to violence in myanmar s rakhine state that has sent hundreds of thousands of rohingya muslim refugees across the border to bangladesh , a senior u.s. official said on saturday .
we are constantly evaluating the situation , simon henshaw , acting assistant secretary of state for the bureau of population , refugees , and migration , told reporters at a news briefing in dhaka after visiting camps in cox s bazar where hundreds of thousands of rohingya refugees are sheltering .
congress has given us a number of tools we can use , he said , noting disturbing reports of atrocities in rakhine state .
we call for a full investigation of these reports , we call for those who committed ( the atrocities ) to be held accountable , he said .
it is incredible that only within two months more than 600,000 refugees have taken shelter in a country .
a seven-member delegation led by henshaw visited myanmar from oct. 29 before traveling to bangladesh on wednesday .
it went to cox s bazar on thursday .
during our meetings with myanmar government officials we told them that it is their responsibility to return a secure and stable situation in rakhine state .
it is also their responsibility to investigate the reports of atrocities .
the delegation also asked myanmar to allow rohingya people back to their land and to rehabilitate the villages that were burned .
he said they had been shocked by rohingya accounts of atrocities , murder and sexual assaults .
the delegation called on the myanmar government to allow access to press and international organizations so they could see the situation on the ground , he said .
u.s. state department spokeswoman heather nauert said the issue has been taken to the highest level of authority in the u.s. government .
the statements related to the situation in myanmar have been issued from the white house and also from the state department .
she said the delegation would update u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson before his visit to myanmar on nov. 15 .
some 2,500 rohingya refugees crossed into bangladesh on friday through two border crossings , a senior security official said on saturday .
those refugees are already being sent to different camps under the supervision of bangladesh army , major mohammad iqbal , deputy commanding officer of bangladesh border guard of cox s bazar district told reuters .