sydney ( reuters ) - australians have voted overwhelmingly for same-sex marriage , paving the way for legislation by the end of 2017 and sparking rainbow celebrations on wednesday , with people wearing wedding dresses and sequined suits and declaring our love is real .
australia will become the 26th nation to formalize the unions if the legislation is passed by parliament , which is expected despite some vocal opposition within the government s conservative right wing .
thousands of people in a sydney park broke into a loud cheer , hugged and cried as australia s chief statistician revealed live over a big screen that 61.6 percent of voters surveyed favored marriage equality , with 38.4 percent against .
australian olympic swimmer ian thorpe , who came out as gay three years ago , said the result was a huge relief .
it means that the way you feel for another person , whoever that may be , is equal , thorpe told reporters at the sydney celebrations .
the voluntary poll is non-binding but prime minister malcolm turnbull immediately said he would fulfill a pledge to raise a bill in parliament with the aim of passing laws by christmas .
turnbull played down concern of a split in his coalition government over the policy as the conservative faction presses for amendments to protect religious freedoms that discriminate against same-sex couples .
it is unequivocal , it is overwhelming .
they have spoken in their millions and they have voted overwhelmingly yes for marriage equality , turnbull told reporters in canberra after the survey results were announced .
they voted yes for fairness , yes for commitment , yes for love .
a marriage equality bill was introduced into parliament later on wednesday .
the result marks a watershed moment for gay rights in australia , where it was illegal in some states to engage in homosexual activity until 1997 .
it s a g day .
way to go australia , tweeted u.s. tv host ellen degeneres , who is married to australian actress portia de rossi in the united states .
almost 80 percent of eligible voters took part in the survey - a higher turnout than britain s brexit vote and ireland s same-sex marriage referendum .
mark barry , 59 , wiped away tears as he took in the result with his partner of 35 years , gerrard boller .
i know a celebrant who is going to be very happy about this , barry told reuters .
irish-born qantas airways chief executive alan joyce , one of the few openly gay business leaders in australia , told the sydney crowd , many of whom sheltered from the sun under rainbow umbrellas , that the result was an amazing outcome and urged turnbull to move quickly on legislation .
turnbull has been under pressure amid a citizenship crisis that has cost him his deputy and the government s majority in parliament and political analysts said the resounding yes vote presented him with his first opportunity in months to exert decisive control .
nick economou , a political scientist at monash university , said turnbull should feel emboldened by the result and this is the sort of thing he has been looking for to show some assertive leadership .
the no campaign had sought to leverage powerful religious organizations in a survey campaign that was criticized by some in the yes camp as divisive and aggressive .
catholic archbishop of sydney anthony fisher said he was deeply disappointed that the likely result will be legislation to further deconstruct marriage and family in australia .
on the strength of the yes vote , conservatives dropped a plan for a competing bill that would have allowed private businesses to refuse services like wedding cakes for same-sex weddings by objecting on religious grounds .