wow maybe they could include a place where the mothers could pose with their dead babies a photo gallery of sorts women all over the world have opened up on the still relatively taboo subject of abortion on secret-sharing app whisper.finding relief in the anonymity aspect of the app , individuals took the opportunity to reveal their true unabashed feelings on the termination of their pregnancies.without censorship , frank confessions varied from lack of remorse , to one woman even admitting that she visited a nightclub the very same day.whisper is an online community that allows anonymous users to share and comment on each other s secrets , allowing individuals to air their emotions without any fear of retribution .
women of all ages , who admitted to not regretting their decision to have an abortion , were asked to shed a light on their thought processes and emotions.one woman talked about her unshakable stance , citing : having an abortion was the easiest decision of my life .
another individual revealed her own extensive and unbridled history with terminating pregnancies , stating : i ve had 5 abortions because i love getting pregnant but just not ready for kids .
many of the whisper users talked about other people s projection of guilt or regret , that they had failed to experience themselves .
one confused woman wrote : sometimes i feel guilty over the fact that i feel no guilt about my abortion .
a rather shocking confession came from a woman that continued on with her party lifestyle after the often exhausting procedure : i had an abortion a week ago .
i don t feel the slightest bit of guilt , i even went out to a club on the same day .
here are some women who shared their thoughts on abortion : here s a woman who in 2010 made a youtube video to share her positive experience about her abortion .
she finishes her video by saying : i hope everyone on youtube has a great and godless day .
another whisper user talked about how time passing had no effect on the feeling of regret with her decision : 5 years and i ve not once felt regret for my abortion .
no regret , no guilt , no second thoughts , nothing .
another added : i ve had two abortions in two years .
i keep waiting for the guilt to come , but so far i feel nothing .
others used the opportunity as an emotional outlet to directly speak to people who had judged them.one woman argued : i don t regret my abortion regardless of how much you think i should .
some women even went so far to express the happiness at their decision , with one woman adding : i ve had 5 abortions and i don t feel bad or sad about any of them i was kinda happy .
similarly , another woman compared her own sensations of relief and happiness to other people s darker experience , writing : i actually find it strange how depressed people get after having an abortion .
i don t regret mine one bit , let alone feel depressed about it .
via : uk daily mail