beijing ( reuters ) - china s ruling communist party continues to hold talks and maintain contacts with its north korean counterpart , a senior official said on saturday , describing the two countries friendship as important for regional stability .
while the united states and its allies , and many people in china , believe beijing should do more to rein in pyongyang , the acceleration of north korea s nuclear and missile capabilities has coincided with a near-total breakdown of high-level diplomacy between the two .
china , pyongyang s sole major ally , has said it will strictly enforce u.n. security council sanctions banning imports of coal , textiles and seafood , while cutting off oil shipments to the north .
china accounts for more than 90 percent of world trade with the isolated country .
guo yezhou , a deputy head of the chinese communist party s international department , told reporters on the sidelines of a party congress that its exchanges , communication and dialogue with the north s ruling workers party of korea were continuing .
china and north korea are neighbours and the two have a traditional friendly cooperative relationship , guo said .
maintaining , developing and consolidating those ties not only accord with both sides interests , they also have important meaning for regional peace and stability , he added .
exchanges between the two parties play an important role in developing overall china-north korea relations , guo said .
our party and the workers party of korea have traditional friendly exchanges .
when and at what level these exchanges happen depend on both sides need and both sides convenience , he added , without elaborating .
guo did not directly answer a question on when the department s head , song tao , last met with any north koreans .
the department is in charge of the party s relations with foreign political parties , and has traditionally served as a conduit for chinese diplomacy with north korea .
the workers party of korea on wednesday congratulated china on its 19th communist party congress despite the increasingly frayed relationships between the allies as china tightens sanctions over pyongyang s nuclear weapons program .
though china has been angered by north korea s repeated nuclear and missile tests and demanded they stop , beijing also sees the united states and south korea sharing responsibility for rising tensions with their military drills .
north korea is likely to be at high on the agenda when u.s. president donald trump visits china next month for talks with president xi jinping .