athens ( reuters ) - the greek parliament passed a law on tuesday to make it easier for people to change their legally recognized gender , a move that angered the church but was welcomed as long-overdue by human rights groups .
the law will allow people to change their gender on official documents with a court ruling , and without requiring medical tests or sterilization , as is the case now .
it has been condemned as immoral by the greek orthodox church and as a monstrosity by right-wing politicians .
until now , anyone needing to officially change their gender had to be diagnosed with a gender identity disorder and have their reproductive organs removed , a practice condemned by human rights campaigners .
absolutely no tradition , no perception of family calls for people to be sidelined or tossed aside into a social and institutional abyss , prime minister alexis tsipras , who supported the law , told a heated discussion in parliament .
the law applies to anyone over the age of 15 and allows a person to change legal gender twice .
applicants must not be married and a final decision will be taken by a court .
the main opposition conservative new democracy party voted against the bill saying it was a sloppy attempt to divert public attention from greece s financial woes .
your only goal is to stay in power , said conservative lawmaker simos kedikoglou .
you ve found various methods of deception and this bill is the latest proof .
supporters rallied outside parliament during monday s debate , holding a banner reading : transgender rights are human rights .
the church had urged the government to withdraw the bill .
for every human , gender is a sacred legacy .
it is a precious thing for a woman to know about her feminine nature , and for a man to be aware of his male nature , bishop nicolaos of mesogaia told greek skai tv .
the church , he said , embraced people with difficulties .
the bill passed by 171 votes in the 300-seat parliament , but it exposed fissures in the ruling coalition of syriza and right-wing independent greeks party .
most independent greeks approved the bill in principle but voted against an article setting the minimum age at 15 , arguing that was too young .