a salt lake city town hall held by republican rep. chris stewart was hijacked by left wing activists who went ballistic when stewart said he supports building the border wall .
notice how he totally caved on all pro-illegal issues except the wall .
the crowd was there to persuade this weak congressman to cave on building the wall too.a hispanic man in the crowd asked stewart if he supports trump s budget which includes funding for the wall .
he claimed trump would be tearing families apart if he builds the wall .
this is a tired claim that open borders advocates use .
it s supposed to tug at your heart strings .
did those families think about being split up when they came here illegally ?
parents sent their children to make the dangerous trip .
were these parents thinking of their children then ?
obama s policy of catch and release only fueled the illegals desire to make the dangerous trip through the desert to america .
he s responsible for much of the mess we re in now .
why should these illegals get anything but a trip back home ?
americans should realize that there are people like obama who believe in open borders and that america should be fundamentally transformed .
the new dnc chair is for open borders !
by flooding our towns with illegals and refugees , we will be fundamentally transformed we need to resist this effort to drown out the silent majority by making it the minority .
i do support securing our border , stewart said to raucous boos from a crowd that , apparently , believes america should have no borders.he said that , while he does support a secure border , he also supports a plan to give legal status , short of citizenship , to illegal immigrants who have committed no other crime other than entering the nation illegally.and though the crowd cheered momentarily , they weren t satisfied with that answer.they demanded to know if stewart supported the building of a border wall with mexico .
are you asking if i support the wall ?
yeah , of course i do , he said.notice the signs are all the same paid soros protesters ?