mexico city ( reuters ) - mexico s prison population has fallen by a fifth from the peak in 2014 as fewer people are locked up under a new criminal justice system , with experts saying that cases are falling apart under a higher bar for police conduct and standards of evidence .
the number of people imprisoned has dropped 19.8 percent from a record of 258,563 in september 2014 , according to the statistics from the national security commission ( cns ) , meaning for the first time in more than 20 years there are technically more beds than inmates .
the drop in the prison population has coincided with a spike in murders to record levels .
politicians have linked rising crime to the u.s.-backed 2008 reform , introduced to modernize mexico s opaque and slow justice system .
it was adopted by many states by 2014 and was fully in force from mid-2016 .
data shows fewer people have been entering prison .
even justice experts who support the reform say police and prosecutors are struggling to make watertight cases due to a lack of training in the new system across the country .
they had eight years to make the transformation and they didn t do it , said maria novoa , a criminal justice expert at think tank mexico evalua .
we don t have either the institutions or trained people .
novoa said police are not detaining people because they fear they could make mistakes and be held liable .
she also said prosecutors are overusing a rule that allows suspects to face the criminal process at liberty rather than trying to ask a judge to detain them .
in 2016 , 37 percent fewer people entered state prisons than in the prior year , according to the latest data from national statistics institute inegi .
and contrary to political rhetoric , fewer were also let out , the data shows .
neither mexico s attorney general s office nor the federal police returned a request for comment .
the 2008 reform moved mexico to an adversarial justice system with oral trials from an inquisitive one mostly done on paper , with a deadline of june 2016 .
it radically changed the role of the police and prosecutors , by giving police greater responsibility and raising the evidentiary standard that prosecutors must reach to get a conviction .
it also limits pre-trial detention , bringing an end to a practice where people were locked up for years without trial .
in 2017 , for the first time in more than 20 years , the country has enough space for all prisoners .
but their uneven distribution across the country and a number of federal inmates in state facilities mean prisons in at least 13 states still have overcrowded facilities .
think tank cidac estimated last year that the reform would take 11 years to take hold properly , due to lack of police training in high quality investigations .
we always knew that for the new system to work people would have to be trained , but there was a lot of resistance and lack of interest from state governments , said vicente sanchez , a professor at the college of the northern border .
now governors and prosecutors blame the new system and want to undo it .