vatican city ( reuters ) - a vatican diplomat working in washington has been recalled to the holy see after the u.s. state department said the priest may have violated child pornography laws , the vatican said on friday .
prosecutors in the vatican have opened an investigation into the case , which represents a fresh blow to the roman catholic church as it struggles to overcome repeated sex abuse scandals among its clergy .
the state department notified the holy see in august of a possible violation of laws relating to child pornography images by a member of the diplomatic corps of the holy see accredited to washington , the vatican statement said .
a state department spokesman said the united states had requested that the man s diplomatic immunity be waived to open the way for possible prosecution , but the vatican refused .
the priest , who was not named , has returned to vatican city and is awaiting the outcome of the holy see investigation , which could lead to a trial in the tiny city state .
the u.s.-based survivors network of those abused by priests ( snap ) said possession of child pornography was not a victimless crime because the children involved were being abused .
( pope francis ) must bring the diplomat back to the united states in order to adhere to his promises of complying with investigations by civil authorities in cases of child sexual abuse , snap managing director barbara dorris said .
pope francis has declared zero tolerance over abuse scandals that have beset the church for decades , but has appeared to struggle to overcome resistance within the vatican hierarchy .
the state department spokesman said the pope had promised to act decisively with regard to cases of sexual abuse and punish those found guilty of wrongdoing .
the united states encourages the holy see to ensure full implementation of its reforms and policies designed to protect minors and provide justice regarding allegations , the spokesman said .
two years ago the vatican put the former papal ambassador to the dominican republic on trial for child sex offences , a case that was seen as showing the pope s determination to clean up the church .
the priest , jozef wesolowski , was charged with paying boys to perform sexual acts , of downloading and buying pedophile material .
he died before a verdict was reached .
he was the first high-ranking catholic official to stand trial in the vatican on such sex charges and the case was closely watched by victims of priestly abuse , who have accused the vatican of repeatedly hushing up previous scandals .
earlier this year , cardinal george pell , a top adviser to pope francis , was charged with multiple historical sex crimes in his native australia .
the highest-ranking church official to face such accusations , pell has denied any wrongdoing .
just last month , in the foreword to a new book written by a swiss man who was raped by a priest when he was eight years old , pope francis said sexual abuse of children by priests was a monstrosity and pledged to take action against perpetrators .