sochi , russia ( reuters ) - a three-way summit on wednesday between the leaders of russia , iran and turkey could produce decisive steps toward ending the bloodshed in syria , turkish president tayyip erdogan said at the start of their talks .
the summit , hosted by russian president vladimir putin , is a rare occasion bringing together the leaders of russia and iran who back syria s president bashar al-assad around a table with erdogan , who has supported assad s opponents .
in opening remarks at the summit in the southern russian resort of sochi , putin , erdogan and iran s president hassan rouhani spoke of an opening for peace in syria now that islamic state has been pushed out of its last major stronghold there .
the point we have reached is important , but not enough , erdogan told the gathering , also attended by military commanders and foreign ministers from the three countries .
it is critical for all parties to contribute to a permanent and acceptable political solution for the people of syria , he said .
this summit is aimed at results , i believe critical decisions will be taken .
as a prelude to the summit , putin earlier this week hosted assad at his residence in sochi .
it was the only time the syrian leader is known to have left syria since his last visit to russia , two years ago .
putin also made telephone calls in the past 24 hours to other leaders with influence in syria , including u.s. president donald trump and saudi arabia s king salman , as part of moscow s drive to build an international consensus over a peace deal to end the six-year conflict .
we can say with certainty that we have reached a new stage , opening up the possibility to launch a real political process towards a peace deal , putin told the gathering .
compromises and concessions will be needed on all sides ... including ( from ) the syrian government , putin said .
he said the focus of peace efforts should be the convocation of a congress bringing together all of syria s ethnic groups .
russia has offered to host such a congress in sochi , but attempts to agree a date have so far foundered , in part because turkey raised objections to the presence of some kurdish groups .
iran s rouhani used his remarks at the summit to rail against the presence of foreign forces in syria , an apparent reference to the united states and tehran s arch regional rival saudi arabia , which alongside turkey have backed assad s foes .
there is no excuse for the presence of foreign troops in syria without the approval of its legitimate government , rouhani said .
the syrian nation will not allow any interference of foreigners in their state affairs and will confront any move that harms syria s integrity , independence and unity , he said .
iran s military is also present in syria , alongside russian troops and hezbollah , the pro-iran lebanese militia .
they say that does not amount to foreign interference because they are in syria at assad s invitation .