beirut ( reuters ) - u.s. and turkish troops are illegal invader forces on syrian territory and syria will deal with them , a top adviser to president bashar al-assad said on tuesday .
bouthaina shaaban also said in a television interview that damascus would not give up on the northern city of raqqa , which was liberated from islamic state last month by the u.s.-backed , kurdish-led syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) .
turkey today is a colonizer country , its forces on our soil are illegal , just as the american forces are on our soil illegally , she told lebanese channel al-mayadeen .
we will deal with this issue as we deal with any illegal invader force on our lands , she said , without elaborating .
assad s forces , helped by russian air power and iran-backed militias , have managed to reestablish control over most of syria over the past two years .
the united states and turkey are backing various rebel groups opposed to both assad and to islamic state .
turkey has started setting up observation points in idlib province in northwest syria under a deal with assad s allies , russia and iran .
the u.s.-led coalition battling islamic state in syria has repeatedly said it does not seek to fight assad s forces , though washington and ankara both want the president to step down .
the sdf has said raqqa will be part of a decentralized federal syria and hopes for a new phase of negotiations that will shore up kurdish autonomy in northern syria , but last friday a senior iranian official said syrian government forces would advance soon to take the city .
everything is up to the syrians and to discussions between syrians , and there can not be discussion on the division or cutting up of a part of the country or on so-called federalism , shaaban said .
she added that what happened in iraqi kurdistan should be a lesson to the sdf , referring to iraq s kurdish leaders who suffered a major blow when the central government in baghdad - backed by iran and turkey - retaliated against them for holding an independence referendum last month .
shaaban also said comments by the syrian foreign minister in september , when he said damascus was open to negotiations with the kurds over their demand for autonomy within syria s borders , had been misinterpreted .
i don t think any government can discuss with any group when it comes to the topic of the country s unity , she said .
earlier on tuesday , assad said the army and its allies would keep fighting in syria after it has driven islamic state militants from their last significant stronghold in the country , in deir al-zor province .
he also indicated that he might take the war to the sdf , which controls more than a quarter of syria , by saying the war must target those who seek to divide and weaken states .