beijing ( reuters ) - china and vietnam s communist parties have a shared destiny and there is great potential for bilateral economic cooperation , a senior beijing official said on tuesday on a visit to vietnam , which has clashed with china over the south china sea .
although both nations are under communist rule , they are deeply suspicious of each other and relations have been strained over the past few years because of disputes in the strategic south china sea .
china has appeared uneasy at vietnamese efforts to rally southeast asian countries over the busy swathe of sea as well as at its neighbor s growing defense ties with the united states , japan and india .
in july , under pressure from beijing , vietnam suspended oil drilling in offshore waters that are also claimed by china .
however , hanoi and beijing have also tried to prevent tensions from getting out of control , and senior officials from two countries make fairly regular visits to each other .
liu yunshan , a member of the chinese communist party s elite standing committee that runs the country , told vietnamese prime minister nguyen xuan phuc in hanoi , in the first such high level visit since relations deteriorated in july , that the two parties constitute a community of shared destiny with strategic significance , china s official xinhua news agency reported .
the sound and stable development of the bilateral ties will help to solidify the ruling position of the two parties , which is in the interests of the two parties and people of the two nations , xinhua cited liu as saying .
the two economies are highly complementary , with huge potential for practical cooperation , the report quoted him as saying .
phuc told liu that two countries should strive to maintain peace and stability in the south china sea and avoid all activities that could increase tension , the vietnamese government news website reported .
he also urged china to have substantial discussions soon with southeast asian nations to reach a code of conduct in the disputed sea , the report said .
while both the chinese and vietnamese reports made no direction mention of the south china sea by liu , they quoted him as suggesting the two countries properly manage and control their divergences , so as to create favorable environment for bilateral cooperation .
china claims nearly all the south china sea , through which an estimated $ 3 trillion in international trade passes each year .
brunei , malaysia , the philippines and taiwan also have claims .