beirut ( reuters ) - the syrian government is open to negotiations with kurds over their demand for autonomy within syria s borders , the foreign minister has said , striking a conciliatory tone as military tensions worsen between the sides in eastern syria .
walid al-moualem said the government could discuss the kurdish demand once islamic state is defeated , state news agency sana reported , citing an interview with russia today .
this topic is open to negotiation and discussion and when we are done eliminating daesh ( islamic state ) , we can sit with our kurdish sons and reach an understanding on a formula for the future , moualem said .
the syrian kurdish ypg militia controls a swathe of northern syria where the main kurdish party , the pyd , and its allies have established autonomy since the start of the syrian war in 2011 .
syrian kurds say their aim is to preserve that autonomy as part of a decentralized syria , and they do not aim to follow the path of kurds in iraq who held an independence referendum on monday .
moualem reiterated his government s rejection of that referendum , saying damascus supported iraqi unity , but he noted that syria s kurds want a form of autonomy within the borders of the syrian arab republic .
kurdish-led authorities in northern syria held elections last week to choose local community leaders , the first stage of a three-phase process that will culminate in january with the election of a parliament .
the ypg has been a major partner for the u.s.-led coalition against islamic state in eastern and northern syria , fighting as part of the syrian democratic forces alliance ( sdf ) .
while the ypg and damascus have mostly avoided confrontation , tensions have flared as the u.s.-backed sdf and the russian-backed syrian army wage separate campaigns against islamic state in deir al-zor province .
the sdf accused the syrian government and its russian ally of striking its fighters on monday , something moscow denied .
earlier this year , moualem characterized the syrian kurdish battle against islamic state as legitimate and suggested an accommodation could be reached with the syrian kurds .
president bashar al-assad has vowed to take back the whole of syria .