caracas ( reuters ) - a general appointed at the weekend to run venezuela s energy sector will name more military officers to senior management posts at state oil company pdvsa as part of a shakeup the government says is aimed at fighting corruption , two company sources told reuters on monday .
in a surprise move , unpopular leftist president nicolas maduro on sunday tapped major general manuel quevedo to lead pdvsa [ pdvsa.ul ] and the oil ministry , giving the already powerful military control of the opec nation s dominant industry .
besides the corruption scandals , quevedo will have to tackle an attempted debt restructuring , within the context of a deep recession and debilitating u.s. sanctions .
sources in the sector said quevedo s appointment could quicken a white-collar exodus from pdvsa and worsen operational problems at a time when production has already tumbled to near 30-year lows of under 2 million barrels per day .
about 50 officials at state oil company pdvsa have been arrested since august in what the state prosecutor says is a crusade against corruption .
sources within pdvsa and the oil industry said maduro s administration was using corruption allegations to sideline rivals and deepen its control of the industry , which accounts for over 90 percent of export revenue .
the order given is to militarize pdvsa in key areas , said a pdvsa employee , asking to remain anonymous because he was not authorized to speak to the media .
a second source said he was told military officials would take over key production divisions in venezuela s east and west .
venezuela s president , a former bus driver and union leader whose popularity has plummeted during the economic crisis , has gradually handed the military more power in his cabinet and in key sectors such as mining .
unlike his popular predecessor hugo chavez , maduro does not hail from the military .
the opposition says he has been forced to buy the loyalty of the army , historically a power broker in venezuela , giving them top posts and juicy business contracts while turning a blind eye to corruption .
pdvsa did not immediately respond to a request for comment , but an internal company message seen by reuters called on workers to come to caracas on tuesday for quevedo s swearing in .
let s all go to caracas to consolidate the deepening of socialism and the total , absolute transformation of pdvsa , the message read .
quevedo , a former housing minister with no known energy experience , is not a heavyweight in venezuela s political scene , although two sources close to the military told reuters he was a maduro ally .
opposition lawmaker angel alvarado predicted the appointment would worsen pdvsa s operations .
they re getting rid of the old executives , who although socialist and working under catastrophic management , at least knew about oil , he said .
now we re going to have totally inexperienced hands .
although military appointees had been on the rise within the oil industry too , quevedo s appointment is the first time in a decade and a half that a military official has taken the helm of the oil industry .
pdvsa so far had been led by chemist nelson martinez and the oil ministry by engineer eulogio del pino , both of whom rose in the ranks under previous pdvsa president and oil minister rafael ramirez .
later demoted to become venezuela s representative at the united nations in new york , ramirez recently criticized maduro for not reforming venezuela s flailing economy , in what insiders say is a power struggle between the two rivals .
the opposition has also accused quevedo of violating human rights during the national guard s handling of anti-maduro protests , in which stone-throwing hooded youths regularly clashed with tear gas-firing soldiers .
u.s .
senator marco rubio included quevedo on a 2014 list of venezuelan officials whom he said should be named in u.s. sanctions , although quevedo does not appear in the list released by the u.s. treasury department .
venezuela s government denies abuses , saying protesters were in fact part of a u.s.-promoted armed insurrection designed to sabotage socialism in latin america .
quevedo s appointment has worried foreign oil companies in venezuela , including u.s. major chevron and russian state oil giant rosneft , according to industry sources .
venezuela is also trying to pull off a complex restructuring of foreign debt , including $ 60 billion in bonds , about half of which have been issued by pdvsa .
bondholders were invited to caracas for a meeting with the government two weeks ago , but market sources say there has been no concrete progress or proposals since .
pdvsa said on friday it was making last-minute payments on two bonds close to default , including one backed by shares in u.s.-based citgo , a venezuelan-owned refiner and marketer of oil and petrochemical products , due on monday , and called for trust as it seeks to maintain debt service amid the crisis .
quevedo s position on the debt issue is not publicly known .