seoul ( reuters ) - the only western-funded university in north korea is scrambling to recruit teachers not from the united states after a u.s. travel ban to the isolated country forced the school to start the september semester with only half of its faculty .
according to a recruitment notice from a faculty member of pyongyang university of science and technology ( pust ) reviewed by reuters , the school is on a vigorous lecturer recruitment campaign for the spring semester slated to start next year .
the notice , which said the recruitment focus is non-u.s. professors mainly from asia and europe , suggests that discussions with the u.s. state department about receiving special exemptions for pust s volunteers have not gone well .
of the roughly 130 foreigners at pust including faculty members , staffers and family members , about 60 had been u.s. citizens , according to people familiar with pust operations .
needless to say , our chronic faculty shortage and curriculum instability have been exacerbated even further , translating into the emergency situation of crippled school operation and curriculum running , said the notice sent out by paul song , currently acting dean of the international finance and management department at pust .
as of sept. 1 , the u.s. state department has enforced a ban on americans traveling to north korea following the death earlier this year of an american student who had been detained by the state while on a tour .
it also advised u.s. citizens living there to leave .
north korea has criticized washington s decision to ban u.s. passport holders from visiting the north , with state media describing it as a sordid attempt to limit human exchanges .
it has also said its doors are always open for all americans who wish to visit .
tensions on the korean peninsula have escalated significantly in the wake of numerous missile tests and its sixth and most powerful nuclear test by pyongyang last month .
insults and threats exchanged between the north s leader kim jong un and u.s. president donald trump have also exacerbated global jitters over possible military conflict .
a month after the fall semester had started , a pust official told reuters high security concerns over north korea has made it difficult to find additional replacement staff .
a number of organizations are unwilling to approve staff to travel , the official added .
the school was founded in 2010 by a korean american evangelical christian with the goal of helping north korea s future elite learn the skills to modernize the north and engage with the outside world .
since its founding , the school has grown to about 500 undergraduate and 60 graduate students studying in mostly three departments - electronic and computer engineering , international finance and management and agriculture and life sciences .