president trump has started his presidency out in the worst possible way : his inauguration turnout was dismal ; his most controversial executive action has been halted ; his cabinet is facing confirmation troubles ; his approval rating is at an historic low ; and now , 40 percent of the american public supports impeaching him.a new poll released by public policy polling shows that , while 4 in 10 support his impeachment , only 48 percent do not .
twelve percent are ( still ) unsure at this point.that s not a lot of wiggle room .
that s actually close to evenly split.the most fascinating parts ?
the 40 percent mark is up five points from where it was just a week ago .
also , the poll found that 3 percent of trump voters want to see him impeached.according the analysis : usually a newly elected president is at the peak of their popularity and enjoying their honeymoon period after taking office right now .
but donald trump s making history once again with a sizable share of voters already wanting to impeach him , and a majority of voters wishing they could have barack obama back.the poll also found that the overall impressions of president trump continue to remain negative , with 52 percent of the american public viewing him unfavorably , and 45 percent viewing him favorably .
these numbers are almost identical to a recently released poll from cnn , which show his disapproval rating at 53 percent.rep .
joaquin castro , a democrat from texas and potential senate candidate for 2018 , told buzzfeed that , should president trump and his administration continue to defy the judge s ruling regarding the muslim ban stay , house democrats would be looking at possible impeachment .
senator dick durbin echoed castro s warnings.while republicans wanted to impeach president obama for supposedly being a marxist muslim , democrats ( and independents alike ) want to impeach trump for violating the constitution and a federal judge s order.to think , in only two weeks , forty percent of the country is in favor of removing their president from office .
perhaps republicans should be taking notice .
after all , 2018 is right around the corner .
and history shows that the more unpopular a president is , the more his party suffers in the midterms.featured image via chip somodevilla via getty images