berlin ( reuters ) - germany s social democrats ( spd ) leader martin schulz wants chancellor angela merkel s conservatives to leave the powerful finance ministry to his center-left party in coalition talks , a report in business daily handelsblatt said .
spd leaders agreed on friday to open exploratory talks on forming a government with merkel s center-right bloc , providing a chance to end a rare period of political deadlock in europe s economic powerhouse after an inconclusive federal election .
merkel , who lost many supporters to the far-right in the sept. 24 election , is banking on the spd to extend her 12-year tenure after attempts to cobble together an awkward three-way alliance with two smaller parties failed in november .
spd members fear the party risks losing its identity and sustaining further electoral defeats if it signs up for another grand coalition with the conservatives .
the spd was merkel s junior coalition partner from 2005-2009 and from 2013-2017 .
handelsblatt said in a report to be published on monday that schulz had told a group of spd lawmakers that his party should take control of the finance ministry which was led by veteran conservative wolfgang schaeuble for the past eight years .
the goal is ( to get ) the federal finance ministry , schulz was quoted as saying , adding that the past years had shown how important the finance department had become .
the spd was not immediately available to comment on the report .
merkel s conservatives and the spd are expected to meet next wednesday to discuss the timetable and agenda of exploratory talks which will not start in serious before early january .
then another spd party convention will have to give green light to kick off official coalition negotiations , scheduled for mid-january .
any agreement would finally be subject for approval by spd members afterwards .
that could mean that germany most probably will not have a new government in place before march .
if the spd were to agree to another grand coalition - an option that the spd says is by no means a foregone conclusion - and demand the finance ministry , it would likely result in changes to germany s european policy such as more focus on spending and investment rather than austerity .
schaeuble , who has taken on the role of president in the bundestag lower house of parliament , became unpopular among struggling euro zone states during his eight years in office due to his focus on fiscal restraint and structural reforms .
merkel ally peter altmaier has taken over the role as finance minister in the current caretaker government .
schulz has repeatedly said europe could not afford to undergo another four years of the kind of european policy that schaeuble had practiced .