madrid ( reuters ) - spain s state prosecutor has summoned more than 700 catalan mayors who have backed an independence referendum , in an escalation of madrid s efforts to block the vote that it has declared illegal .
officials engaging in any preparations for the vote could be charged with civil disobedience , abuse of office and misuse of public funds , the prosecutor said in a letter delivered to local authorities on wednesday .
if the mayors do not answer the summons , police should arrest them , it added .
one mayor said the legal move was unprecedented .
we don t think any european country has ever tried to make more than 700 mayors testify , said neus lloveras , mayor of vilanova i la geltru near barcelona , head of the association of municipalities for independence ( ami ) .
we have nothing to hide .
when we have to go and testify , we will say everything we have been saying for days , that we owe it to our people to keep working to make sure they can freely express themselves at the ballot box , he told reporters .
but the small , anti-capitalist cup group , which governs 19 catalan municipalities , said it would not answer the summons , and called on other political forces to do the same .
catalonia s regional parliament passed laws last week to prepare for a referendum on oct. 1 .
spain s constitutional court suspended the vote after prime minister mariano rajoy challenged it in the courts .
judges are now considering whether the legislation contravenes spain s constitution , which states that the country is indivisible .
so far , 712 of a total 948 municipal leaders have said they would allow public spaces to be used for the referendum , according to ami .
the mayor of barcelona - the region s most populous area - has yet to take a definitive position , and has asked for reassurances that civil servants involved in the process will not risk losing their jobs .
the website set up by the catalan government to give information on the vote , referendum.cat , stopped working on wednesday evening , with spanish media reporting that the regional prosecutor had ordered all websites promoting the referendum to be shut down .
civil guard police confirmed that they had gone to deliver a warrant at the website s offices , but declined to say if judges had ordered it to be closed .
catalan leader carles puigdemont quickly posted two new web addresses on twitter linking to a page with information on the referendum .
polls show a minority of catalans want self-rule , although a majority want the chance to vote on the issue .
hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets of barcelona this week to show support for independence .
in a separate order , the constitutional court told regional government officials on wednesday they had 48 hours to show how they were preventing the vote from going ahead .