when loretta lynch was confirmed as the new director of the doj , it was clear that our senate had once again caved to the radical agenda of the obama administration .
lynch is nothing more than eric holder in a dress .
so now we have a power grab on gun control that could have been predicted because lord knows obama needs to fulfill his agenda on everything before leaving office .
bottom line is that our senate failed us blame them for this mess because it could have been avoided.president barack obama will meet monday with attorney general loretta lynch to discuss options for tougher gun restrictions and is expected to announce in the coming days a new executive action with the goal of expanding background checks on gun sales.described as imminent by people familiar with the white house plans , the set of executive actions would fulfill a promise by the president to take further unilateral steps the administration says could help curb gun deaths.plans for the action are not yet complete , and those familiar with the process warn that unforeseen circumstances could delay an announcement .
but gun control advocates are expecting the new actions to be revealed next week , ahead of obama s annual state of the union address , set for january 12.the white house wouldn t comment directly on the exact timing or content of obama s executive orders .
white house spokesman eric schultz said that the president expected a set of recommendations on unilateral action to arrive at the beginning of the year.plans began to become clearer on new year s day with a white house announcement accompanying obama s weekly address that on monday the president would meet with lynch .
change , as always , is going to take all of us , obama said in his weekly address .
the gun lobby is loud and well organized in its defense of effortlessly available guns for anyone .
the rest of us are going to have to be just as passionate and well organized in our defense of our kids .
that s the work of citizenship to stand up and fight for the change that we seek .
read more : cnn