americans had to know it would come to this .
the anarchists , the whiny , petulant college students with nothing better to do and the angry blm protesters are about to meet up with a group who doesn t care much about their feelings or about political correctness .
a large percentage of bikers who belong to groups are veterans who have fought for our nation and are not about to step aside and allow a billionaire communist who supports a woman under investigation by the fbi and left four of their brothers to die in benghazi , to take away the right of americans to attend a political rally for a candidate they support.it s a military tradition of sorts , running back more than six decades.in the wake of world war ii , as a generation of troops returned home from combat , veterans across the country found a certain pleasure and purpose through a newly evolved piece of gear they d become friendly with downrange : the motorcycle.new motorcycle clubs sprang up everywhere , filling the void of camaraderie and brotherhood not to mention adrenaline and adventure that many found themselves craving with the end of their military service.they called themselves outlaws not because they were criminals but because they refused to be boxed in by the rules and regulations of the fledgling american motorcycle association .
combat is where motorcycle outlaws come from , says don charles davis , who writes the aging rebel biker news blog from los angeles .
clubs like the boozefighters and the outlaws were either invented or transformed by veterans on cheap army surplus bikes .
one club in particular drew its inspiration from the 3rd pursuit squadron of the flying tigers , the american volunteers who flew combat missions against the japanese over china .
the squadron was better known among the fliers as hells angels .
it was just the first of three waves of motorcycle club membership , davis says .
the second surge , of which the former ii corps artilleryman was a part , arose in the wake of vietnam .
like many war fighters returning home to a largely hostile nation , he found his own family among bikers.that s when clubs such as the mongols , the devils disciples named after a george bernard shaw play about revolutionary war patriot ethan allen , davis says and the bandidos got their start , again largely fueled by returning veterans.and now a new generation of currently serving troops and veterans are pouring into the old clubs , and starting their own groups as well .
via : military timesmeanwhile , donald trump is ending his vacation with a rally in the critical state of wisconsin , tomorrow at 11am .
his event has already sold out , and a violent protest has been organized to cause mayhem and havoc as they did in arizona and illinois .
[ quote_box_center ] from the trump patriots facebook page : patriotic bikers , from all across the united states are planning to show up at all future trump rallies to make sure that any paid agitator protesters don t take away mr. trump s right to speak .
or interfere with the rights of trump supporters to safely attend .
we shall not be silenced ! to all those paid protestors planning on causing chaos , violence , anarchy and riots .
trump rallies are private paid events on private property and trump is under secret service protection .
if you want to peacefully assemble across the street from any of trumps rallies to protest , that is your 1st amendment right .
but to publicly plan , incite and organize your events as paid agitators disrupting others civil rights from attending any private event , will most likely end very bad for you , despite the medias attempt to be your cheerleaders .
[ /quote_box_center ] janesville nichole mittness thought about 100 people would respond to a facebook page inviting a protest of donald trump s janesville appearance.as of midday saturday , 1,200 had pledged to be there , and mittness figured that meant 1,000 or so would show up on tuesday .
it s really overwhelming .
i was not anticipating this kind of response , mittness said.while mittness is working to have a peaceful protest that doesn t interfere with the trump event , janesville police are preparing for any possibility.janesville police chief dave moore said friday he didn t yet know how many officers would be assisgned , but his department reached out to police agencies in rock county , including the sheriff s office , as well as the state patrol , dnr and dane county sheriff s office.the joint beloit-janesville-rock county sheriff s mobile field force , which specializes in crowd control , will be there , moore said.moore noted the janesville conference center holds 1,000 and said he expects a substantial number of people outside .
trump s event is scheduled for 3 p.m .
the local protest is slated to begin at 11 a.m.police respect the constitutional right to freedom of speech , and to the degree possible , we intend to allow all citizens to voice their opinions , but we will require that it be done in a peaceful and safe manner , moore said.inside the janesville conference center a part of the holiday inn express is a different story , moore said.if the holiday inn , trump s people or the u.s. secret service want disrupters removed , it is private property , and that s their right , moore said .
via : prntly