houston ( reuters ) - venezuela s former oil czar rafael ramirez said on wednesday the government would make one of its worst political moves if investigators target him in an anti-corruption purge , which is gaining traction ahead of the country s 2018 presidential election .
friction between ramirez and president nicolas maduro reflect growing rifts in the socialist party once firmly united under late venezuelan leader hugo chavez .
this comes amid a deep economic recession and financial sanctions imposed by the united states on what it considers a dictatorship .
ramirez , who spoke with reuters from an undisclosed location after being pushed out last week as venezuela s ambassador to the united nations , said he is waiting for the right time to return to his country .
the 54-year-old engineer also said he has not yet decided if he will launch a run in the 2018 venezuelan presidential election , in which maduro is expected to seek another term .
ramirez , who led state-run oil company pdvsa for a decade under chavez , said he has not been approached by venezuelan or u.s. prosecutors investigating corruption cases linked to pdvsa and its subsidiaries .
some of those probes focus on incidents that occurred under his watch as one of chavez longest serving officials .
i have not been involved in any act of corruption .
i have been very careful to follow internal control mechanisms , he said .
thus far , the expanding corruption probe by the state prosecutor s office has resulted in authorities accusing over 100 people , including two former pdvsa presidents who also served as oil ministers under maduro .
ramirez said he is prepared to fight back if investigators target him or his close family , some of whom served as advisors of the venezuelan government in international arbitration cases .
that scenario would be offbeat .
who aims to attack my family is going to find me , he said .
he added that he trusts venezuelan institutions will confirm his family members have faithfully served venezuela , not charging the government for their work .
one of ramirez s relatives , diego salazar , was detained last week under accusations of corruption and money laundering .
still , ramirez said accusations from corruption scandals should not be taken lightly because they hurt pdvsa s reputation and its ability to recover from a deep production decline .
the country s oil output has fallen this year to its lowest level in almost three decades , down 1 million barrels per day from its 2013 level .
but he also criticized the government s focus on pdvsa in its corruption accusations , while excluding public institutions that oversaw a long-standing currency control system used to convert and distribute billions of dollars coming from exports .
the company should be investigated without subjecting its employees to a moral lynching , he said .
i will believe that a corruption probe is genuine when it includes the whole venezuelan economy .
ramirez in 2014 submitted an economic plan to the government before moving to his position in the united nations .
but no action was taken due to the central government s lack of confidence in him , he said .
in the following years , the government s failure to take needed actions , which also has been criticized by analysts and the opposition , have led to a greater financial instability , spiraling inflation and mounting debt , which maduro is now struggling to restructure .
economic action has to be taken with urgency , he said .
a lack of motivation among pdvsa s workers , delayed crude output due to infrastructure problems and a very low currency exchange rate impacting pdvsa s cash flow also have to be addressed , he said .