beirut ( reuters ) - the syrian kurdish ypg militia said on sunday it had fully captured deir al-zor s eastern countryside from islamic state with the help of both the u.s.-led coalition and russia .
the ypg spearheads the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , an alliance of mostly kurdish and arab militias fighting islamic state with washington s backing .
the sdf offensive in deir al-zor province , which borders iraq , has focused on territory east of the euphrates river .
on the western bank , the syrian military has waged its own attack against islamic state with support from iran-backed militias and russia .
the separate assaults advanced from opposite sides of the river , which bisects oil-rich deir al-zor , mostly staying out of each other s way .
the u.s.-led coalition and the russian military have held deconfliction meetings - to prevent clashes between planes and troops - though the two offensives have sometimes come into conflict .
the sdf s most powerful component , the ypg , announced that it had defeated islamic state militants on its side in cooperation with the arab tribes .
the u.s.-led coalition and russian forces in syria provided air and logistical support , advice and coordination on the ground , its statement said .
we hope for an increase in this support and for ensuring the necessary air cover .
a ypg spokesman declared the victory in a village in deir al-zor in the presence of a russian envoy from moscow s hmeimim military base in syria , it said .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said this week that as the battle against islamic state entered its final stages , he expected the focus to move toward holding territory instead of arming syrian kurdish fighters .
washington s support for the ypg has infuriated turkey , which sees the growing influence of kurdish forces on its border as a security threat .
ankara considers the ypg an extension of the outlawed kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) movement , which has fought a decades-long insurgency on turkish soil .
since the start of syria s conflict in 2011 , the ypg and its allies have carved out autonomous regions in the north .
they now control around a quarter of syria , the largest part outside government control , after seizing vast land from islamic state .
their autonomy plans face opposition from their battlefield ally washington , from turkey and from the syrian government .
the ypg said on sunday it was forming civil councils for deir al-zor that include kurds , arabs and other components based on the principle of democracy and self-rule .
it would mirror governing arrangements in other towns and cities that the kurdish fighters and their allies captured .
with islamic state close to collapse in syria , syrian kurdish leaders hope for a phase of negotiations to shore up their autonomy in the north .
but in recent months , the damascus government and its iranian allies have more forcefully asserted ambitions to take territory under the control of kurdish-led forces .