we re gon na go out on a limb , and guess that glenn beck s open hatred for donald trump will destroy his tea party and conservative base glenn beck was back on his game today .
and that game is trump bashing .
in between the sophomoric jokes , the mindless banter , it was cutting edge conversation about how donald trump is a progressive.trump has taken a lot of in-coming as rush limbaugh famously pointed out following donald s campaign launch .
and a ton of it has been from glenn beck.today , beck decided to read an article by rich lowry entitled the right s post constitutional moment .
lowry does a yeomen s job lambasting trump , the tea party and the right for falling for trump s brand of populism.who knew there would be a day when the constitution would be used as a whipping boy for conservative geeks who like to lose elections .
lowry complains that trump plans on using the same pen that obama used to undo all of the president s unconstitutional executive orders.so is lowry suggesting trump go before congress ?
what beck and lowry are taking umbrage with is trump s willingness to use the eraser .
they aren t laws , their meaningless executive orders .
does that stuff need to stop cold turkey ?
yes .
but it will have to wait for donald s second term in office.the inference here is that trump supporters are the other side of the coin to obama supporters .
our anger is justified , but we should be picking a pristine constitutional scholar like ted cruz .
cruz may have a brain filled with rulings and arguments , but none of what he says connects to the average american voter .
trump connects on a level that no other candidate in my lifetime has managed to do.and quite frankly that pisses glenn beck off to no end .
all of his hard work talking about freedom works and orchestrating rallies .
and then trump comes along with a populist message that finally makes the gop tent big enough to win an election .
how dare someone relate to the common man.here s glenn beck explaining how he ll vote 3rd party ( for hillary ) if trump is the nominee : what both lowry and beck miss is the fact that the average joe has not studied the constitution .
they may tacitly approve of what s in it , but they are more concerned about jobs , the economy and national security.in addition , the article gets things wrong .
lowry claims that trump wants to shut part of the internet down .
just some generic part .
no mention of how donald wants someone from silicon valley to surgically take out isis related sites.lowry goes on to praise beck for earnestly exploring the founders with his audience .
no offense , but beck did us no favors .
his show became a myriad of things that beck , and beck alone was interested in .
we get it , woodrow wilson was a bad dude .
now , can we get on with fixing the damn country ? here s youtube sensation and tea party darling , wild bill for america .
he offers a scathing rebuke of glenn beck and his hateful sabotaging of the tea party and donald trump : beck s mind meld with lowry on his show proves one thing .
he would rather lose the election than win with trump .
he knows that donald trump will damage the blaze brand and possibly put beck back in the unemployment line.it s ludicrous to think that all of these veterans and military people who support trump know nothing about the constitution .
and then there s ann coulter .
sarah palin .
jeff sessions .
rick scott .
ted nugent .
michael savage .
sean hannity .
rush limbaugh .
and dozens of other constitutional conservatives who support donald trump.if you haven t pulled the plug on your blaze membership , it s about time you looked into it .
glenn beck s personal animosity towards donald trump and his wife melania have proven that he is not ready for prime time anymore .
via : scorched earth