aboard the tcg alemdar ( reuters ) - in blazing sunlight , two dozen u.s. and turkish sailors on a nato exercise lower an american diving bell from an advanced turkish rescue ship , sending it deep under the aegean sea where it is secured to a submarine .
part of a combined nato rescue simulation this week off turkey s southwest coast , the seamless cooperation at sea comes amidst a storm between ankara and its alliance allies who are concerned about its decades-old commitment to the organization .
under president tayyip erdogan , turkey , with nato s second-biggest army , has sought to bolster ties with russia and iran .
in a clear sign of rapprochement , ankara is buying a missile defense system from russia - unnerving nato officials , who are already wary of moscow s military presence in the middle east , as the system is incompatible with the alliance s systems .
turkey said it opted for the s-400 anti-aircraft system because western arms suppliers had not offered a financially effective alternative .
the pentagon said it expressed concern to turkey about the deal .
they went crazy because we made the s-400 agreement .
what were we supposed to do , wait for ( them ) ?
erdogan said recently .
if we have difficulty in obtaining any defense element from some places , if our initiatives are often frustrated by obstacles , what will we do ?
we will sort it out on our own .
erdogan s frustration stems from washington s support for the syrian kurdish ypg in the fight against islamic state .
ankara sees the ypg as an extension of the outlawed kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) , which has carried out an insurgency in turkey s largely kurdish southeast and is considered a terrorist organization by the united states and europe as well as turkey .
the president was also angry that u.s. prosecutors charged his former economy minister for conspiring to violate u.s. sanctions on iran .
the indictment marked the first time an ex-government member with close ties to erdogan had been charged in the investigation that has strained relations between washington and ankara .
part of the reason erdogan is doing this s-400 deal is he s angry with the u.s. over the indictment of the former economy minister as well as continued u.s. cooperation with the ypg , said soner cagaptay , a fellow at the washington institute think-tank and author of the new sultan : erdogan and the crisis of modern turkey .
he s using the s-400 as a lever , in terms of bargaining , to convince washington to change its mind on a number of issues .
ties with europe , especially germany , were hit by turkey s crackdown after last year s failed coup .
some 150,000 people were purged from the civil service , military and private sector and over 50,000 jailed , including german nationals .
alarmed by what it sees as ankara s deteriorating record on human rights , germany has said it would restrict some arms sales to turkey .
it initially announced a freeze on major arms sales , but scaled that back , citing the fight against islamic state .
ankara also refused to allow german lawmakers to visit their troops stationed at an air base in turkey .
this has led germany to move troops involved in the campaign against islamic state from turkey s incirlik base to jordan .
turkey rejects the idea it is turning away from the west .
the good relations turkey has developed with russia are not an alternative to the good relations it has with the west , they complement each other , erdogan spokesman ibrahim kalin said .
erdogan told reuters in an interview on thursday that turkey s position in nato had not been weakened by the deal .
still , some fear turkey might eventually find itself at the periphery of the alliance .
germany is our most important supplier of weapons after the united states , said umit pamir , a former turkish diplomat .
he said the suspension of arms sales , would surely impact our defense systems .
erdogan has been on a push to improve ties with moscow after turkey s economy , particularly its tourism industry , was shaken by sanctions imposed by russia after turkey shot down one of its warplanes over syria in late 2015 .
he is due to meet russian president vladimir putin next week to discuss a plan agreed by their countries and iran to reduce the fighting in syria s northwestern idlib province .
turkey supports rebels against syrian president bashar al-assad , who is backed by russia and iran .
erdogan plans to visit iran next month .
the two countries agreed in august to boost military cooperation when iran s military chief , general mohammad baqeri , met erdogan in a visit .
the trip was the first by an iranian military chief of staff to turkey since the 1979 islamic revolution in iran .
while they back opposite sides in syria , ankara and tehran have found some common ground over their opposition to the kurdish independence referendum in iraq .
both countries fear that an independent kurdish state could inflame separatists tensions with their kurdish minorities .
recent discord over the s-400 purchase did not signal a drastic break from nato for turkey , said mustafa kibaroglu , a professor of international relations at turkey s mef university .
he said the west had over-reacted to the purchase .
i don t think there is any debate about turkey leaving an alliance it has invested so much in , kibaroglu said .
are we going to bring down u.s. planes with our s-400s ?
he said .
there is no backbone to these comments , it is purely political polemics , and we are not the ones doing this .