new york ( reuters ) - some rabbis and jewish students are planning protests against donald trump ’ s speech on monday at a conference of the pro-israel lobby group aipac over what they say are his belittling comments about muslims and other groups .
about 18,000 people are expected to attend the american israel public affairs committee ’ s three-day annual conference in washington .
it is not clear how many will either boycott or walk out of the republican presidential front-runner ’ s address .
“ he has taken every opportunity to vilify women , muslims , mexicans , immigrants and the disabled , ” said jeffrey salkin , a rabbi in hollywood , florida , who asked rabbis across the country to join him in a boycott .
he said 40 had agreed and signed a protest letter he hoped to distribute at the conference .
another group of rabbis and students called come together against hate is planning to walk out of the room after trump takes the stage .
jesse olitzky , one of its organizers , said he did not know how many people would participate .
the group ’ s facebook page had 300 members .
some of the students received an email earlier this week from aipac warning that if they disrupted the speech , they would have their conference access revoked .
an aipac official said on thursday the message “ went out in error and was not authorized. ” “ i know nothing about that , ” trump said in a reuters interview on thursday when asked if he had heard about the planned protests and whether he intended to respond .
when he announced his candidacy last summer , trump said some people crossing the u.s. border from mexico were criminals and rapists , and promised to build a wall along the border .
in december , he called for a temporary ban on muslims entering the country , on national security grounds .
last week , he told cnn : “ islam hates us. ” the anti-defamation league and an organization of reform rabbis condemned his comments .
aipac , which is non-partisan , routinely hosts presidential hopefuls at its conference .
trump ’ s remaining republican rivals , u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas and ohio governor john kasich , will address the group as well .
“ the job of aipac is not to decide whose policies we like or look into the souls of people , ” said seth siegel , an aipac veteran who said he was not speaking on behalf of the organization .
“ it ’ s the organization ’ s job to try to educate elected officials about how to deepen the u.s.-israel relationship for the benefit of both parties , ” he said .
“ having trump speak at the policy conference is unambiguously part of that mission . ”