boa vista , brazil ( reuters ) - last august , victor rivera , a 36-year-old unemployed baker , left his hometown in northern venezuela and made the two-day journey by road to the remote amazonian city of boa vista , brazil .
although work is scarce in the city of 300,000 people , slim prospects in boa vista appeal more to rivera than life back home , where his six children often go hungry and the shelves of grocery stores and hospitals are increasingly bare .
i see no future in venezuela , said rivera , who seeks odd jobs at traffic lights in the small state capital just over 200 km ( 124 miles ) from brazil s border with the andean country .
countries across latin america and beyond have received a growing number of venezuelans fleeing economic hardship , crime and what critics call an increasingly authoritarian government .
the once-prosperous country , home to the world s largest proven oil reserves , is struggling with a profound recession , widespread unemployment , chronic shortages and inflation that the opposition-led congress said could soon top 2,000 percent .
at least 125 people died this year amid clashes among government opponents , supporters and police .
as conditions there worsen , nearby cities like boa vista are struggling with one of the biggest migrations in recent latin american history .
with limited infrastructure , social services and jobs to offer migrants , brazilian authorities fear a full-fledged humanitarian crisis .
in roraima , the rural state of which boa vista is the capital , the governor last week decreed a social emergency , putting local services on alert for mounting health and security demands .
shelters are already crowded to their limit , said george okoth-obbo , operations chief for the united nations high commission on refugees , after a visit there .
it is a very tough situation .
he noted the crush of migrants also hitting trinidad and tobago , the caribbean country to venezuela s north , and colombia , the andean neighbor to the west , where hundreds of thousands have fled .
not even venezuela s government knows for certain how many of its 30 million people have fled in recent years .
some sociologists have estimated the number to be as high as 2 million , although president nicolas maduro s leftist government disputes that figure .
unlike earlier migration , when many venezuelan professionals left for markets where their services found strong demand , many of those leaving now have few skills or resources .
by migrating , then , they export some of the social ills that venezuela has struggled to cope with .
they re leaving because of economic , health and public safety problems , but putting a lot of pressure on countries that have their own difficulties , said mauricio santoro , a political scientist at rio de janeiro state university .
international authorities are likening venezuela s exodus to other mass departures in latin america s past , like that of refugees who fled haiti after a 2010 earthquake or , worse , the 1980 flight of 125,000 cubans by boat for the united states .
in brazil , okoth-obbo said , as many as 40,000 venezuelans have arrived .
just over half of them have applied for asylum , a bureaucratic process that can take two years .
the request grants them the right to stay in brazil while their application is reviewed .
it also gives them access to health , education and other social services .
some migrants in boa vista are finding ways to get by , finding cheap accommodation or lodging in the few shelters , like a local gym , that authorities have provided .
others wander homeless , some turning to crime , like prostitution , adding law enforcement woes to the social challenges .
we have a very serious problem that will only get worse .
said boa vista mayor teresa surita , adding that the city s once quiet streets are increasingly filled with poor venezuelans .
most migrants in boa vista arrive by land , traveling the southward route that is the only road crossing along more than 2,100 kms of border with brazil .
arriving by public transport in the venezuelan border town of santa elena , they enter brazil on foot and then take buses or hitch rides further south to boa vista .
staffed only during the day , the border post in essence is open , allowing as many as 400 migrants to enter daily , according to authorities .
for a state with the lowest population and smallest economy of any in brazil , that is no small influx .
brazil s government is not ready for what is coming , said jes s l pez de bobadilla , a catholic priest who runs a refugee center on the border .
he serves breakfast of fruit , coffee and bread to hundreds of venezuelans .
despite a long history of immigration , latin america s biggest country has struggled this decade to accommodate asylum seekers from countries including haiti and syria .
although brazil has granted asylum for more than 2,700 syrians , the refugees have received scant government support even in sao paulo , brazil s richest state .
a senior official in brazil s foreign ministry , who asked to remain anonymous , said the country will not close its borders .
okoth-obbo said his u.n. agency and brazil s government are discussing ways to move refugees to larger cities .
boa vista schools have admitted about 1,000 venezuelan children .
the local hospital has no beds because of increased demand for care , including many venezuelan pregnancies .
in july , a 10-year-old venezuelan boy died of diphtheria , a disease absent from roraima for years .
giuliana castro , the state secretary for public security , said treating ill migrants is difficult because they lack stability , like a fixed address .
there is a risk of humanitarian crisis here , she said .
most migrants in boa vista said they do not intend to return to venezuela unless conditions there improve .
carolina coronada , who worked as an accountant in the northern venezuelan city of maracay , arrived in brazil a year ago with her 7-year-old daughter .
she has applied for residency and works at a fast-food restaurant .
while she earns less than before , and said she makes lower wages than brazilians at the restaurant , she is happier .
there was no milk or vaccines , she said .
now i can sleep at night , not worried about getting mugged .
others are faring worse , struggling to find work as brazil recovers from a two-year recession , its worst in over a century .
one recent evening , dozens of young venezuelan women walked the streets of caimb , a neighborhood on boa vista s west side .
camila , a 23-year-old transsexual , left venezuela nine months ago .
she said she turns tricks for about $ 100 a night - enough to send food , medicine and even car parts to her family .
things are so bad in venezuela i could barely feed myself , said camila , who declined to give her last name .
rivera , the unemployed baker , one afternoon sheltered from the equatorial sun under a mango tree .
he has applied for asylum and said he is willing to miss his family as long as he can wire his earnings from gardening , painting and bricklaying home .
it s not enough to live on , but the little money i can send home feeds my family , he said .