kabul ( reuters ) - the afghan capital kabul braced on saturday for further possible attacks ahead of ashura , the holiest day on the shi ite muslim calendar , a day after an attack claimed by islamic state that killed at least five people near a large shi ite mosque .
ahead of the celebration on sunday , signs of increased security were in evidence across kabul , with extra police checkpoints and roadblocks in many areas , while security was also increased in other cities .
afghanistan , a majority sunni muslim country , has traditionally not suffered the sectarian violence that has devastated countries like iraq , but a series of attacks over recent years have targeted the shi ite community .
we are concerned about this .
we had internal fighting in the past but never religious fighting , said arif rahmani , a member of parliament and a member of the mainly shi ite hazara community that has been particularly targeted .
the government has provided some basic training and weapons for a few hundred volunteer guards near mosques and other meeting places but many fear that the protection , which covers only some of the city s more than 400 shi ite mosques , is insufficient .
in 2011 , more than 80 people were killed in ashura attacks in kabul and the northern city of mazar-i-sharif and there have been a string of others since , with 20 people killed in a suicide attack on a mosque in kabul a month ago .
friday s attack , by suicide bombers posing as shepherds walking their sheep along a road outside the hussainya mosque in the qala-e-fatehullah area of the city , did not reach the mosque itself but wounded 20 people in addition to the five killed .
no up-to-date census data exists for afghanistan but different estimates put the size of the shi ite community at between 10-20 percent of the population , mostly persian-speaking tajiks and hazaras .
ashura , on the 10th day of the month of muharram , celebrates the martyrdom of hussein , one of the grandsons of the prophet mohammad , and is marked by large public commemorations by shi ite muslims .
president ashraf ghani condemned friday s attack and said it would not break the unity between religions in afghanistan .
but at a time when rivalry between the patchwork of different ethnic groups in the country has increasingly come into the open , rahmani said the evident objective of the attacks was to ratchet up the tensions to create instability .
in the past , there were warnings that there were groups that wanted to stir ethnic and religious conflict among afghans but now it is reality , rahmani said .
there are people who want to create disunity among ethnic and religious groups , he said .