yangon ( reuters ) - turkey s state broadcaster said a team of journalists filming a documentary in myanmar had told the government of their plans before they were detained for attempting to fly a drone near the country s parliament .
the journalists , lau hon meng from singapore and mok choy lin from malaysia , have been held since friday in the capital naypyitaw , along with their myanmar interpreter aung naing soe and driver hla tin .
police have said they are investigating the four for bringing the drone into myanmar in violation of an import-export rule that carries a penalty of up to three years in jail .
the two foreign nationals had obtained official journalist visas before they entered myanmar on oct. 21 , trt world , the english-language subsidiary of the turkish radio and television corporation , said in a statement late on tuesday .
they shot in various locations with conventional cameras as well as with a drone , up until october 27 , the broadcaster said .
the myanmar information ministry was previously informed about all filming activities and the filming schedule .
the broadcaster did not say if the reporters had specifically sought permission to operate a drone near the parliament building .
they had interviewed a lawmaker and were about to film the parliament with a drone when they were detained , it said .
myint kyaw , an information ministry official in charge of journalist visas , told reuters that trt world had only made a broad request to the ministry to film in yangon and the troubled western state of rakhine .
the letter they sent was not their schedule .
they didn t even mention in their letter about visiting naypyitaw , he said , adding that the letter did not mention a drone .
last week s arrests came amid tension between turkey and myanmar over treatment of the muslim rohingya minority in rakhine .
in early september , turkish president tayyip erdogan said security operations targeting the rohingya constituted genocide , a charge myanmar denies .
more than 600,000 rohingya muslims have fled majority-buddhist myanmar for neighboring bangladesh since security forces launched a counter-insurgency operation in response to rohingya militants attacks on aug. 25 .
the families of the two myanmar nationals and a lawyer hired on their behalf have not been allowed to visit them , family members and police said .
on friday about 25 police raided the yangon house of their interpreter aung naing soe , a freelance reporter , seizing his computer memory sticks and searching documents .
the new york-based committee to protect journalists ( cpj ) has called for the immediate and unconditional release of all four .
these arrests and the raid of aung naing soe s home speak to the continuing deterioration of conditions for the press in myanmar , shawn crispin , cpj s senior southeast asia representative , said in a statement on monday .