paris ( reuters ) - millions of euros of assets belonging to the son of equatorial guinea s president were ordered to be seized by a french court that found him guilty in absentia on friday of using money plundered from his country to buy property and luxury cars .
the paris court found teodorin obiang , 48 , guilty of embezzlement , and ordered the confiscation of more than 100 million euros worth of his french assets .
obiang denied the charges .
obiang , eldest son of president teodoro obiang and a vice president himself , was also handed a three-year suspended prison sentence and a suspended 30 million euros ( $ 34.78 million ) fine .
the court president cited the slow response from parts of the french banking system in contributing to those penalties being suspended and hence more lenient .
the case is the first of several to reach court in a broader judicial investigation into allegations of illicit acquisitions in france by long-time leaders and family relatives in several african countries including gabon and congo republic .
obiang s luxury residence on paris avenue foch - a grand , sweeping road near the arc de triomphe often favoured by wealthy african expatriates and politicians - was among the assets scrutinised during the trial .
the property , bought for 25 million euros in 2005 , had 101 rooms , a gym , hair-dressing studio and disco with cinema screen .
paris prosecutor jean-yves lourgouilloux said obiang s fraudulent spending amounted to more than 150 million euros .
the court was critical of societe generale , france s second biggest bank , and the bank of france , deeming them complacent towards obiang s finances and too slow to react .
the role of the two banks was taken into account to justify the suspended sentences for obiang , the court said .
the attitude of societe generale , similar to that of the bank of france , may have led ( obiang ) to think for a long period of time that there was , in france , some kind of tolerance for these practices , benedicte de perthuis , the most senior judge sitting in the case , told the court .
societe generale said it had not been a party in the trial and therefore we don t have any particular comment to make .
officials at the bank of france did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
obiang was first put on trial in january but the case , 10 years in the works , was postponed after his lawyers argued they had not had enough time to prepare his defence .
his father , president teodoro obiang nguema mbasogo , has ruled equatorial guinea - a former spanish colony - for more than three decades , making him one of africa s longest-serving leaders , and rights groups have labelled his administration as one of the world s most corrupt .