brussels ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may failed to secure a breakthrough in brexit talks on monday with european commission president jean-claude juncker .
here is a timeline of the coming 10 days that will determine whether britain avoids further costly delays in giving business assurances of a smooth exit from the european union and of free trade with its biggest market in the future : may wants the eu to open the second phase of brexit negotiations concerning relations after britain s withdrawal on march 30 , 2019 .
the eu will only do that if there is sufficient progress in agreeing divorce terms , notably on three key issues : a financial settlement , guaranteed rights for eu citizens in britain and a soft border with ireland .
a deal on money is effectively done , eu officials said last week .
there are indications of agreement on citizens rights .
but opposition from key allies in northern ireland to treating the province differently from the mainland in a bid to maintain on open eu land border with ireland scuppered a deal on monday .
as part of the choreography for a political deal , the eu set may an absolute deadline of monday to provide new offers in time for the other eu leaders to approve a move to phase 2 at a summit of the eu-27 on friday , dec. 15 .
now , however , that has been pushed back by a few days , eu officials have conceded .
may is pushing for a simultaneous , reciprocal guarantee from the eu of a soft transition and future trade deal , which she may use to show britons what her compromises have secured .
the eu wants to have firm british offers which the 27 can discuss before leaders commit .
the result is some complex dance steps : tuesday , dec. 5 eu summit chair donald tusk , having canceled a visit to jerusalem , had expected to call around eu leaders to discuss common guidelines for launching trade negotiations with britain .
this and a series of other steps are now on hold .
monday , dec. 11 eu-27 sherpas meet to prepare the summit .
tuesday , dec. 12 eu affairs ministers of eu-27 meet to prepare summit .
thursday , dec. 14 4 p.m. - may attends routine eu summit in brussels .
defence , social affairs , foreign affairs and migration are on the agenda .
friday , dec. 15 after may has left , eu-27 leaders hold brexit summit .
they could take one comprehensive decision on phase 2 or break it down into separate ones on the transition and future ties .
if may delays a divorce agreement until the summit , perhaps to show voters at home her resolve , this may delay opening trade talks .
january - outline of eu transition offer may be ready , under which britain retains all rights except voting in the bloc , and meets all its obligations until the end of 2020 .
february - after agreeing their negotiating terms , eu-27 may be ready to open talks with london on a free trade pact that brussels likens to one it has with canada .
the eu estimated at some 60 billion euros ( $ 71 billion ) what britain should pay to cover outstanding obligations on leaving .
eu officials say there is now agreement after britain offered to pay an agreed share of most of the items brussels wanted , especially for committed spending that will go on after 2020 .
both sides say there is no precise figure as much depends on future developments .
british newspaper reports that it would cost up to 55 billion euros sparked only muted criticism from may s hardline pro-brexit allies who once rejected big payments .
irish prime minister leo varadkar said on saturday that london would be paying the eu 60 billion euros on brexit .
barnier is still seeking a commitment that the rights of 3 million eu citizens who stay on in britain after brexit will be guaranteed by the european court of justice , not just by british judges .
may has said the ecj should play no more role in britain .
but the issue could be vital to ensure ratification of the withdrawal treaty by the european parliament .
eu diplomats say a compromise may let british courts refer cases on citizens rights to the luxembourg-based ecj on a voluntary basis .
irish premier leo varadkar said london agreed on monday that northern ireland would remain in regulatory alignment with the eu , and hence the irish republic , to ensure there was no hard border with police and customs checks that could disrupt peace .
however , a hostile reaction from may s pro-brexit and pro-london allies the democratic unionist party ( dup ) , on whom she depends for her slim parliamentary majority , caused may to hold off agreeing the package deal with juncker .
the dup and many in may s own party fear that means separating the province from the british mainland - or forcing eu rules onto the whole of the uk .
leaders of mainland regions scotland , wales and london leapt on the deal to demand similar freedom to perhaps remain in the eu customs union or single market , giving may a new headache .
varadkar said he is willing to see changes in the text but not that would change its actual meaning .