well , well , well elizabeth warren went on a twitter rant about what a capitalist pig donald trump is and now it turns out she also took advantage of the crash by flipping houses !
this is awesome !
she s being exposed as a huge hypocrite ! before the crash that she blamed on speculators , senator elizabeth warren made a bundle by flipping houses.nearly two years after veo vessels died , her daughter , 70-year-old mary frances hickman , decided to sell the home her mother had left to her .
a sprawling brick house in oklahoma city s historic highland park neighborhood , it was built in 1924 , just a year after mary s birth.decades later , one of vessels great-grandchildren fondly recalls the wood and tile floors , the fish pond , the butler s quarters , and the multi-car garage where children played house .
it was really , really nice , says hickman s granddaughter , andrea martin .
that s part of the reason she s so surprised her grandmother sold the home in 1993 for a mere $ 30,000 .
despite a debilitating stroke , martin says hickman remained sharp , and she had always been business-savvy .
as an avon saleswoman , she had at times ranked among the top ten in the country .
so i don t know why , martin says .
maybe she just wanted out from underneath it , but to sell it for such a low number i don t know .
maybe she got bad advice , maybe she was just tired .
the home s new owner : elizabeth warren , today a massachusetts senator who has built a political career on denouncing the sort of banking titans and financial sophisticates who make a buck off the little guy .
five months after purchasing veo vessels old home , warren flipped the property , selling it for $ 115,000 more than she d paid , according to oklahoma county property assessor records.warren rose to political prominence in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis as a crusader against big banks and a dispenser of common-sense economic advice .
she campaigned for the creation of the consumer financial protection bureau , intended to shield people from the predations of the mortgage and credit-card industries , among others .
in her 2006 book all your worth , co-authored with her daughter , amelia , warren lists as a top myth the idea that you can make big money buying houses and flipping them quickly .
she has made a career out of telling people how to behave in financially responsible ways , and out of creating laws that will make it illegal for them to do otherwise.five months after purchasing veo vessels old home , warren flipped the property , selling it for $ 115,000 more than she d paid .
but warren bought and sold at least five properties for profit at a different time in her life , before the cratering economy and a political career made her a star .
her life story has been the subject of much interest , and her 2014 memoir , a fighting chance , chronicled her rise from humble beginnings in small-town oklahoma and her struggle to make ends meet .
it didn t much mention , though , the early 1990s , years when her children were teenagers and she was once again happily married .
these are years when she wasn t yet the multimillionaire she is today , and , she has said , she was voting republican.read more : national review