washington ( reuters ) - u.s. senate democrats on wednesday narrowly blocked legislation that would slow the entry of refugees from syria and iraq to the united states in a contentious vote cloaked in presidential election-year politics .
the vote was 55-43 , with “ yes ” votes falling short of the 60 needed to advance the republican-backed measure in the 100-member senate .
no republicans voted against the bill , and only two democrats backed it .
among other things , the bill would halt the admission of refugees and require high-level u.s. officials to verify that each refugee from iraq and syria posed no security risk before being allowed into the united states .
republicans said the tighter screening was essential to ensure the safety of americans and prevent attacks within the country by islamic state and other militant groups .
“ this bipartisan bill would allow washington to step back , take a breath and ensure it has the correct policies and security screenings in place , ” republican majority leader mitch mcconnell said in the senate before the vote .
democrats called the legislation an attack on people who are fleeing war .
they accused republicans of holding the vote to allow their 2016 presidential candidates serving in the senate to back legislation touted as tough on security .
all three senate republican 2016 presidential hopefuls , ted cruz , rand paul and marco rubio , backed the bill .
democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders missed the vote .
democrats also sought to play politics .
they tried and failed to reach a deal with republicans to set up a vote on an amendment establishing a religious test for would-be immigrants .
that vote was planned to see if republicans would side against presidential candidate donald trump , who has advocated barring muslims from entering the united states .
the syria refugee bill passed the house by a large margin days after the nov. 13 islamic state attacks in paris .
the bill was supported by dozens of democrats who defied democratic president barack obama ’ s veto threat .
“ we need to talk about efforts to defeat isis , not creating more paperwork for cabinet secretaries , ” harry reid , the senate democratic leader , told reporters before the vote .
it currently takes 18-24 months for syrian refugees to be screened before they can move to the united states .
washington has offered refuge to far fewer of the millions fleeing war in syria and iraq than many of its closest allies in europe and the middle east .
obama announced last year that he would admit 10,000 syrians .