harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s new leader emmerson mnangagwa told a cheering crowd in harare on wednesday that the country was entering a new stage of democracy following robert mugabe s removal as president after nearly four decades in power .
mnangagwa returned to the country earlier in the day , having fled for his safety when the 93-year-old former leader sacked him as vice president two weeks ago to smooth a path to the succession for his much younger wife grace .
the people have spoken .
the voice of the people is the voice of god , mnangagwa told thousands of supporters gathered outside the ruling zanu-pf party s offices in the capital .
today we are witnessing the beginning of a new and unfolding democracy .
zimbabwe was once one of africa s most promising economies but suffered decades of decline as mugabe pursued policies that included the violent seizure of white-owned commercial farms and money-printing that led to hyperinflation .
most of its 16 million people remain poor and face currency shortages and sky-high unemployment , something mnangagwa promised to address .
we want to grow our economy , we want peace in our country , we want jobs , jobs , jobs , he told the crowd , adding : the will of the people will always , always succeed .
mnangagwa s dismissal was the trigger for the army and former political allies to move against mugabe , feted as an independence hero when zimbabwe broke with former colonial power britain in 1980 but later feared as a despot .
he resigned as president on tuesday as parliament began an impeachment process , after resisting pressure to do so for a week .
people danced in the streets following his downfall , some brandishing posters of mnangagwa and army chief general constantino chiwenga , who led the takeover .
parliamentary speaker jacob mudenda said on wednesday that mnangagwa would be sworn in as president on friday after being nominated by zanu-pf to fill the vacancy left by mugabe .
the demise of mugabe leaves zimbabwe in a different situation to a number of other african countries where veteran leaders have been toppled in popular uprisings or through elections .
the army appears to have engineered a trouble-free path to power for mnangagwa , who was for decades a faithful lieutenant of mugabe and member of his elite .
he was also in charge of internal security when rights groups say 20,000 civilians were killed in the 1980s .
mugabe has gone but i don t see mnangagwa doing anything different from that old man .
this is not the change i expected but let us give him time , said security guard edgar mapuranga , who sat by a bank cash machine that was out of money .
restoring the country s fortunes and international standing will be a challenge .
alleged human rights abuses and flawed elections prompted many western countries to impose sanctions in the early 2000s that further hurt the economy , even with chinese investment to soften the blow .
staging clean elections next year will be key to winning fresh funds .
although mnangagwa is almost certain to win any vote , german chancellor angela merkel s personal representative for africa , guenther nooke , said it would be a victory for zimbabwe s old elites with the help of china .
he will manage to get elected using fear or many tricks , and then we ll have a succession from one tyrant to the next , nooke told broadcaster swr2 .
china s foreign ministry said on wednesday it respected mugabe s decision to resign .
in london , prime minister theresa may said britain wanted zimbabwe to rejoin the international community now that mugabe has resigned .
mnangagwa met neighboring south africa s president jacob zuma before his return on wednesday .
mugabe is one of the last of a generation of african leaders who led their countries to independence and then ruled , among them ghana s kwame nkrumah , jomo kenyatta in kenya , felix houphouet-boigny in ivory coast and south africa s nelson mandela .
the african union said he would be remembered as a fearless pan-africanist liberation fighter and the father of the independent zimbabwean nation and that his decision to step down would enhance his legacy .
but he also stifled democracy en route to winning a series of elections .
his government is accused by the opposition and human rights groups of persecuting and killing opponents .
the forced takeover of white-owned farms from around 2000 aimed to bolster his popular support but crippled foreign exchange earnings from agriculture .
mnangagwa s human rights record also stirs hostility in many zimbabweans .
the dark past is not going to disappear .
they will be following him around like a piece of chewing gum on his shoe , international crisis group s southern africa senior consultant piers pigou said .
for him to really be seen to be doing the right thing , he s going to have to introduce policies that fundamentally undermine the power structures of zanu-pf , through a shift to genuine political pluralism and a decoupling of the party and state .