hillary s pawn in the 2016 election is a controversial muslim who chose to use his son s memory to bash donald trump .
it would be one thing if khizr khan really had a true reason to go after trump but he doesn t. donald trump has said he would like to take a look at our refugee program and see what the hell is going on .
trump couldn t be more right on this and is even backed up by our own fbi director who says it s a big risk to bring syrian refugees into america right now .
let s face it , no other religion is blowing people up or chopping heads off .
terrorism is much more likely to come our way if we import it ya think ?
the bottom line is that trump is putting americans first but mr. khan just can t seem to see that through the fog of political correctness .
it s now panic time for the globalists and double agents like paul ryan who thought the american people and new media would just accept khan for who he is on the surface no , the new media digs and we dig deep .
what s journalism without the truth ?
well , it appears that mr. khan decided to delete his law website that promotes muslim immigration khizr khan , the muslim gold star father that democrats and their allies media wide have been using to hammer gop presidential nominee donald j. trump , has deleted his law firm s website from the internet .
this development is significant , as his website proved as breitbart news and others have reported that he financially benefits from unfettered pay-to-play muslim migration into america.a snapshot of his now deleted website , as captured by the wayback machine which takes snapshots archiving various websites on the internet , shows that as a lawyer he engages in procurement of eb5 immigration visas and other related immigration services .
the website is completely removed from the internet , and instead directs visitors to the url at which it once was to a page parking the url run by godaddy.the eb5 program , which helps wealthy foreigners usually from the middle east essentially buy their way into america , is fraught with corruption .
u.s. senate judiciary committee chairman sen. chuck grassley ( r-ia ) has detailed such corruption over the past several months , and in february issued a blistering statement about it .
maybe it is only here on capitol hill on this island surrounded by reality that we can choose to plug our ears and refuse to listen to commonly accepted facts , grassley said in a statement earlier this year .
the government accountability office , the media , industry experts , members of congress , and federal agency officials , have concurred that the program is a serious problem with serious vulnerabilities .
allow me to mention a few of the flaws .
grassley s statement even noted that the program khan celebrated on his website has posed national security risks.please note : khan brought out a pocket constitution , claiming inaccurately that trump s plans were unconstitutional .
that s not true , as congress has already granted such power to the president under the immigration and nationality act of 1952 allowing the president to bar migration of any alien or class of aliens the president sees as a threat to the united states for any reason at any time .
such a class of aliens could be muslims , or it could be people from a specific region of the world , or any other class such as someone s race , weight , height , age , national origin , religion , or anything else.read more : breitbart