washington/tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - the united states on wednesday followed mexico in signaling that honduran president juan orlando hernandez had won a heavily disputed presidential election last month , lending weight to his legitimacy in spite of ongoing opposition protests .
the honduran electoral tribunal at the weekend declared u.s. ally hernandez the winner of the nov. 26 election in spite of widespread misgivings about the count , which turned in favor of the incumbent after suddenly halting with the opposition ahead .
violent protests have broken out in honduras over the vote , and the organization of american states ( oas ) urged the country to hold new elections to resolve the dispute .
that proposal has , however , been rejected by senior honduran officials .
hernandez s rival salvador nasralla traveled to washington this week to urge the united states not to recognize the vote , but a senior u.s. state department official said that his government had no evidence that would alter the results .
at this point ... we have not seen anything that alters the final result , the official told reporters , saying washington may wait to make a definitive judgment in case the opposition presents additional evidence of fraud in the election .
mexico on tuesday congratulated hernandez for being declared victor .
mexico s step , which followed the recognition of hernandez by colombia and guatemala , strengthened the incumbent s hand and could tilt other countries in his favor .
the mexican statement , and its review , indicates that a call for a new election is a pretty dramatic outcome in this case , said the official , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
washington may hold off on making a final judgment until the end of a five-day period when the opposition can produce further evidence to contest the results , the official added .
he said a u.s. deputy assistant secretary of state met with nasralla , who has accused hernandez of stealing the election .
he did not have any new ( allegations of ) fraud ( or ) evidence to present to us , and i think we are going to work through this quickly to get to a definitive u.s. statement , he added .
the mexican statement is going to have a strong influence on whether we think we can move forward sooner .
the mexicans seem pretty certain in their statement .
hernandez on wednesday named a new head of the armed forces , rene orlando ponce , who quickly indicated on local radio that solving the impasse would be for honduras alone .
we re not going to accept any interference beyond honduran law , he said .