berlin ( reuters ) - one of the top candidates for the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) party in this month s election walked out of a live television debate on tuesday night after being accused of failing to distance herself from right-wingers .
the right-wing afd has gained support by slamming chancellor angela merkel s 2015 decision to open the borders to refugees and is set to enter the national parliament for the first time after the sept. 24 election .
polls put it on 7-11 percent .
alice weidel , 38 , collected her papers and rushed out of public broadcaster zdf s studio during a debate with germany s six other major parties after andreas scheuer , a member of merkel s conservative bloc , said she should distance herself from far-right figures in the afd .
scheuer said alexander gauland , the afd s other top candidate , was a radical right-winger .
gauland has described bjoern hoecke , who in january called for a 180 degree turnaround in the way germany seeks to atone for nazi crimes , as part of the soul of the afd .
weidel , who styles herself as an economic expert and critic of the euro , has gradually shifted to the right since being chosen as one of the party s chancellor candidates in april .
she has called for hoecke to be expelled from the party .
in a statement published shortly after her exit , weidel accused zdf moderator marietta slomka of being biased and unprofessional : ms slomka shouldn t act out her personal animosities in the television show , she wrote .
the afd wants to abolish the license fees that finance germany s public broadcasters .
weidel s statement ended with the comment that slomka s behavior was another reason to refuse to pay the license fee .
it did not mention the dispute with scheuer or a preceding fiery discussion on immigration .
some media speculated that weidel s exit was set up , with stern magazine s editor in chief andreas petzold writing on twitter : alice weidel s dramatically staged exit was certainly not spontaneous .
this is how the afd cultivates its role as a victim .