washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama proposed a $ 4.1 trillion spending plan for fiscal year 2017 on tuesday in a final white house budget that met immediate republican resistance for its cost and reliance on tax hikes to fund domestic priorities .
obama , a democrat who leaves office next january , sought to outline his fiscal and political vision for the country with proposed investments in infrastructure , cyber security , education , and job growth .
it also includes more than $ 11 billion for the departments of defense and state to fight islamic state militants and stabilize syria - one measure that could draw bipartisan support .
but the plan is primarily a political document and is unlikely to be embraced by the republican-controlled congress .
paul ryan , the republican speaker of the house of representatives , called it a “ manual for growing the federal government at the expense of hardworking americans. ” the budget envisions a deficit of $ 503 billion in fiscal 2017 after a $ 616 billion budget gap in the current fiscal year ending on sept. 30 .
it seeks to cut deficits by $ 2.9 trillion over 10 years largely through smaller tax breaks for wealthy earners , new savings in medicare healthcare , and assumptions that adoption of its policies on immigration reform and other areas would boost economic growth .
“ the budget that we ’ re releasing today reflects my priorities and the priorities that i believe will help advance security and prosperity in america for many years to come , ” obama told reporters at the white house after a meeting with national security advisers on cyber security .
“ it drives down the deficit .
it includes smart savings on healthcare , immigration , tax reform , ” he said .
the budget seeks $ 19 billion for cyber security investments across the u.s. government .
white house officials sought to play down the portrayal of the budget as dead on arrival in congress .
they noted bipartisan support for increases in funds for cancer research , opioid addiction programs and anti-poverty measures such as an expansion of the earned income tax credit ( eitc ) , which helps low-income taxpayers .
other proposals were clear non-starters , though , including one to levy a $ 10.25 per barrel tax on imported and domestically produced oil to fund transportation infrastructure such as mass transit and high speed rail .
“ the president ’ s final budget continues his focus on new spending proposals instead of confronting our country ’ s massive overspending and skyrocketing $ 19 trillion in debt , ” said senate budget committee chairman mike enzi .
the budget forecasts that deficits would average 2.5 percent of u.s. economic output over 10 years compared to about 4.0 percent in the congressional budget office ’ s estimate , which is based on existing tax and spending laws .
it stayed within the bounds of an agreement reached between the white house and congress last year that lifted mandatory “ sequestration ” cuts on both defense and domestic spending .
the budget proposes lifting the limits entirely from 2018 .
obama and ryan agree on some anti-poverty policies , but the general differences between the two men and their parties are vast , particularly in a presidential election year .
underscoring that divide and the fact that the budget is obama ’ s last , republican lawmakers took the unusual step of not inviting obama ’ s budget director shaun donovan to brief about the proposal .
white house spokesman josh earnest , who has likened the snub to republican presidential front-runner donald trump ’ s decision to skip a debate with fellow candidates before the iowa nominating contest , challenged republicans to move on areas of compromise .
“ the question really for republicans at this point is , are they going to do anything ?
are they going to use their majority in congress to strengthen our cyber security , to fight opioid addiction , to cure cancer , or are they not ? ” he said .
congress can advance elements of the budget without endorsing the entire proposal .
republicans are especially resistant to the white house ’ s tax proposals .
the budget takes aim at tax breaks for the wealthy that have been perennial targets , including the “ carried interest ” loophole allowing investment fund managers to treat income as capital gains .
it would also increase the top tax rate on capital gains and impose the “ buffett rule ” to ensure that millionaires pay a tax rate of no less than 30 percent of their income after charitable contributions .
in addition , it proposes a new fee on the liabilities of the largest banks that would raise $ 111 billion over 10 years and discourage excessive leverage in the financial system .
the budget foresees $ 375 billion in new 10-year savings to federal healthcare programs , including several changes to the medicare program for seniors .
the budget calls for $ 152 billion in research and development , an increase of 4 percent over fiscal year 2016 .