jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesian authorities detained 22 people late on monday after a violent mob clashed with police at an anti-communist protest in the capital jakarta .
president joko widodo s government has tried to redress a bloody 1965 anti-communist purge , one of the darkest periods in the country s history , but tensions remain over the purge in which an estimated 500,000 people were killed .
the public can not take the law into their own hands , they must defer to law enforcement apparatus , widodo said in a statement issued after the clashes .
communism is banned in indonesia and any sympathizers are regarded with a deep suspicion and hostility , especially by nationalists and islamists .
five police were injured in the clashes when a mob of around 200 gathered outside the legal aid foundation in central jakarta , which had held a seminar on the 1965 killings at the weekend .
protesters threw rocks and water bottles and police fired water cannon and tear gas to disperse the crowd , according to media .
activists called for authorities to safeguard such events and for the public to look critically at history .
repressive attitudes and allowing anarchists to threaten people s rights will cripple our democracy , the national commission for women s rights said in a statement .
there are victims of 1965 and the stigma associated with ( communism ) that deserve truth , justice , and healing .
the anti-communist purge started in late 1965 after then-general suharto and the military took power following an abortive communist coup .
a million or more people were jailed , suspected of being communists .
successive governments have refused to accept the estimated death toll figure and have refrained from apologizing .
the military , which is accused by activists of gross human rights violations during the 1965 purge , has bristled at any reconciliation efforts .
military chief gatot nurmantyo this year ordered a suharto-era propaganda film to be screened for soldiers across the country to mark the anniversary of the abortive coup on sept 30 , 1965 , the night before the violence was unleashed .