he s a controversial , conservative artist and he s coming after the left .
he s an outspoken , brave , modern-day patriot , and he s not afraid to venture where conservatives have never gone .
sabo ( his pseudonym ) has shocked many liberals , and conservatives alike with his edgy artwork .
it would be an understatement to say that he is constantly pushing the envelope .
whether you agree or disagree with him , conservatives should be thanking sabo for utilizing his 1st amendment right , as he takes the fight against the left to the streets of cities across america.if you want to help sabo to create more of these important anti-left messages leading up to the next election and beyond , please consider donating to him here .
he s working to get an important message out to americans , and more specifically to the younger voter .
the only thing that pays for his supplies and his bill are donations from his supporters .
please consider helping him out .
here is his website : unsavoryagents.com and his storehere is an example of sabo s most recent work : here is one of our personal favorites : hillary s baggage when democrat candidates come to town for a fundraiser , sabo tries to have a surprise message waiting for them , like this great piece waiting for hillary in greenwich , ct : here s a great welcome sign waiting for hillary on the way to one of her fundraisers ( courtesy of sabo ) : and then there were the special mile markers created just for the los angeles marathon : the obama drone signs are some of our personal favorites .
if americans were smart , they d forgo a few hours of entertainment and stop funding these hollywood freaks who support the destruction of our nation : he s not afraid to call out race baiters like al sharpton : and cry-baby college students looking for safe spaces are not immune to his counter-message .
this poster mocks the # blacklivesmatter ( anti-white ) movement , and was plastered across the street from a college fraternity house : sabo used this great illustration to point out the entitlement mentality of the clinton crime syndicate who believes the throne ( our white house ) rightfully belongs to hillary : sabo makes no secret of his support for ted cruz .
he has been a loyal supporter for years .
this piece of art he created illustrates the kick ass , take-no-prisoners style of ted cruz that both the gop and left despise : here is an interview with glenn beck that explains what motivates sabo , and why he chose to use street art to get a conservative message out to americans : is it any wonder when sabo saw this message from obama s secret service hanging on his door , he wasn t too surprised ?
sabo called the agent listed on the door hanger and scheduled a meeting at his home for 10 a.m. on wednesday .
before the interview , sabo posted the above image and alerted his facebook friends and twitter followers about the pending visit .
shortly after the secret service visit , sabo posted a video that claims to cover most of the entire interview .
sabo told theblaze there was a little more to it , but i just wanted to get it out .
you can watch the video of the visit here : ( warning : the video has some objectionable images and the dialogue contains profanity ) here is one of the tweets that supposedly brought the secret service to sabo s door : a message to the secret service .
i have $ 10,000 in hand which i will use buy a month of columbian hookers for you to look the other way .
unsavoryagents ( @ unsavoryagents ) september 29 , 2014here is a video showing how sabo creates his street art : // < !
[ cdata [ ( function ( d , s , id ) { var js , fjs = d.getelementsbytagname ( s ) [ 0 ] ; if ( d.getelementbyid ( id ) ) return ; js = d.createelement ( s ) ; js.id = id ; js.src = `` //connect.facebook.net/en_us/sdk.js # xfbml=1 & # 038 ; version=v2.3 '' ; fjs.parentnode.insertbefore ( js , fjs ) ; } ( document , 'script ' , 'facebook-jssdk ' ) ) ; // ] ] > the bitch is backposted by unsavoryagents on sunday , october 23 , 2011from sabo s website unsavoryagents.com : bush the younger was elected president and the claws came out in hollywood .
i lost my friends along with a great deal of peace .
it was not a good time to be a republican in hollywood .
there was no place i could go where i wasn t punched in the face by some sort of art defining who i was for being a republican .
evil , bigotted , homophobic , out of touch , rich , greedy , on and on .
and then i snapped .
why was the left allowed to define me and where are the dissenting voices from the right setting the record straight ?
creatively speaking , no one .
i believe the right has a great message , sadly the only people telling it are those on the left and they do a damn fine job making us look like ass holes and what do republicans do about it , not a damn thing ! ! !
fuck it !
i guess it s just going to have to be me , i thought .
my aim as an artist is to be as dirty , ground level , and mean as any liberal artist out there , more so if i can .
use their tactics , their methods , appeal to their audience , the young , urban , street urchins with a message they never hear in a style they own .
my name is sabo , i m an unsavoryagent .