of course , our secretary of state has everything under control .
it is being reported , that john kerry has already apologized to iran .
obama s total avoidance of this issue during his sotu speech speaks volumes about how these jack-holes handle a military crisis with terror states it almost makes one wonder if this was obama s idea ?
congress has been standing in the way of his progress with iran for some time now ( even some in his own party ) .
and we all know by now , there is really nothing barack obama will stop at to get his way iran s army chief said on wednesday the seizure of two u.s. navy boats and their 10 sailors should be a lesson to members the u.s. congress trying to impose new sanctions on tehran .
this incident in the persian gulf , which probably will not be the american forces last mistake in the region , should be a lesson to troublemakers in the u.s. congress , major general hassan firouzabadi , head of iran s armed forces , was quoted as saying by tasnim news agency .
via : yahoo newsali fadavi , commander of the irgc navy , said that tehran had missiles locked on the united states at the time of the incident .
they were in sight of our missiles , fadavi said in persian , according to a statement carried by the irgc s official news outlet .
if this had happened , it would have led to their annihilation .
we had high preparedness with coast-to-sea missiles , rocket-firing fast boats , and various capabilities , he said .
we prevented their additional irresponsible movement with the statements we broadcasted internationally .
it was proven to them that the irgc navy has the first and final word .
the u.s. can not stand up to iran , according to fadavi .
the result of that battle is the annihilation and sinking of their battleships , he said .
this is while in those 40 minutes [ when the u.s. sailors were apprehended ] , it was clear that americans were under psychological pressure , to the extent that they did not behave in a manner expected from a professional and responsible force .
the obama administration denied that an apology was offered to iran .
vice president joe biden told cbs that there was no looking for any apology .
when you have a problem with the boat , [ do ] you apologize the boat had a problem ?
no , biden said .
and there was no looking for any apology .
this was just standard nautical practice .
iran realized [ the sailors ] were there in distress and said they would release them , and released them like ordinary nations would do , biden said.state department spokesman john kirby also issued a denial on twitter .