moscow ( reuters ) - twitter s ban on adverts from russian media was motivated by washington s deep prejudices against moscow and was setting a worrying precedent for the company to treat its clients unequally , the kremlin said on friday .
twitter inc on thursday accused russian media outlets russia today ( rt ) and sputnik of interfering in the 2016 u.s. election and banned them from buying ads on its network , after criticism in the united states that the social network had not done enough to deter international meddling .
we regret this .
we regret that , first and foremost , this company ( twitter ) is most probably falling victim to deep prejudices about our mass media , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov told a conference call with reporters .
we also regret that the company is actually creating a precedent of unequal treatment of its clients which ... is likely to alarm and worry other users of this network .
in april , reuters reported that rt and sputnik were part of a plan by russian president vladimir putin to swing the u.s. presidential election to donald trump and undermine voters faith in the american electoral system , according to three current and four former u.s. officials .
the kremlin has strongly denied u.s. accusations of meddling in the polls .
we still hope that in the end the company will deem it necessary to analyze this situation in detail and in the end will come to a conclusion that the work of free mass media , which rt and sputnik are certainly part of , should in no way be qualified as meddling in the electoral process of the u.s.a. or any other country , peskov said .
he also said that possible new u.s. sanctions against russia were a cause for concern and a reflection of washington s unfriendly and even hostile attitude towards our country .
the u.s. state department said on thursday it had belatedly begun informing congress and others about groups associated with the russian intelligence and defense sectors as required under a 2017 law tightening sanctions on russia .