21st century wire says trump supporters gathered at a rally in austin tx on a rainy march 4th to participate in the nationwide gathering of citizens in support of president trump , marching to state capitals to promote peaceful unity , as described by the call to the gathering : this is a nationwide event in states across the country ! let s support our president and stop the hate !
please join us in this effort to unite the citizens of this great country .
bring your signs and flags to support our president and his administration wear your trump gear !
we are also supporting our military , veterans and law enforcement .
please bring donations for homeless/veterans such as canned goods , clothing , blankets and hygiene products.disclaimer : this is a peaceful assembly .
please do not impede traffic , litter , vandalize , or do anything else illegal and unbefitting .
act worthy of yourselves .
any violators will be asked to leave and turned over to authorities when appropriate .
if your intentions are other than peaceful this event is not for you.we welcome your participation & sharing/inviting/spreading the word ! trump supporters of all creeds , colors and backgrounds showed up , in the rain , to be there for the event.trump supporters march on texas capitol , austin tx 3/4/17 .
we americans must learn not to be so quick to jump to conclusions about others !
pic.twitter.com/sqsys2ktke jeff deriso ( @ jeffderiso ) march 4 , 2017with all the talk of reactionary anti-trump demonstration being hyped on mainstream media , one would expected throngs of protesters at the event , but if the image below represents the size of the protest group .
despite the rain and high winds , they were greatly outnumbered by the march4trump rally.there was one brief scuffle between protesters and trump supporters when a masked protester tried to take the american flag from a rally goer , which you can see in the embedded highlights video below.videographer , jeff deriso , captured a highlights video of the event.read more trump news at : 21st century wire trump filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv