brasilia ( reuters ) - brazil s top prosecutor on friday charged six lawmakers from president michel temer s brazilian democracy movement party ( pmdb ) with forming a criminal organization , the latest in a barrage of charges in the country s sprawling corruption scandal .
those accused by prosecutor rodrigo janot in a filing with the supreme court include former senator and president jose sarney , the government s leader in the senate romero juca and four other current senators .
a corruption scandal involving cartels of companies bribing officials for public contracts has enveloped most of brazil s political elite with janot expected to issue another charge against temer in coming weeks .
temer defeated a first corruption charge from janot , when the lower house of congress voted not to allow it to proceed to trial .
separately on friday , the supreme court said it would consider next week requests from temer that would block janot from issuing further charges .
in the charges against the senators , janot alleges the group unduly received 864 million reais ( $ 279.84 million ) and generated related losses of 5.5 billion reais for state-controlled oil firm petrobras and 113 million reais for its subsidiary transpetro .
transpetro s former president , sergio machado , was also charged .
the pmdb said in a statement that the prosecutor lacked evidence and that it trusted the supreme court would set the charges aside .
juca said in a statement he believes the supreme court will seriously analyze the charges and he hopes for a speedy investigation .
a representative for machado said he continues to collaborate with authorities , providing evidence of crimes involving politicians and transpetro suppliers that resulted in several cases being filed .
janot s latest charges echo those against former presidents luiz inacio lula da silva , dilma rousseff and six other members of the workers party for criminal organization earlier this week .
lula and rousseff deny the charges .
( $ 1 = 3.0875 reais )