the global wussification of the male identifying as a feminist may be more and more commonplace if you re a millennial or taylor swift , but it s still pretty rare to see politicians describe themselves thus .
but canada s newly elected prime minister , 43-year-old justin trudeau , doesn t seem to have that problem.in an interview , co-sponsored by the toronto star , which aired on monday night before the election ( oct. 18 ) , trudeau was asked by journalist francine pelletier if he would describe himself as a feminist .
there seems to be a lot of anger , pelletier asked , not just at women , but at feminism and feminists .
would you describe yourself as a feminist ?
yes .
yes , i am a feminist , said trudeau .
i m proud to be a feminist .
he went on to tell pelletier that his mother raised him to be that way , and that his father , the popular two-time former prime minister pierre trudeau , was a different generation , but he raised me to respect and defend everyone s rights , and i deeply grounded my own identity in that .
via : quartzcanada s newly-elected liberal government is expected to pull the country out of its combat mission against isis and to welcome a further 25,000 syrian refugees after ending almost a decade of conservative rule.justin trudeau , the son of the late canadian premier pierre trudeau , led his father s liberal party back to power on monday with an unexpectedly decisive election victory .
prime minister stephen harper s conservatives , blamed for a stagnant economy and controversial policies on immigration and terrorism , were swept aside as the liberals captured a clear majority : 184 of the 338 seats in ottawa s house of commons.mr trudeau , a photogenic 43-year-old whose father was prime minister for more than 15 years between 1968 and 1984 , is a sometime actor and former schoolteacher .
he sprang on to the public stage when he delivered the eulogy at his father s funeral in 2000 , and has been an mp since 2008.addressing supporters in montreal as the results rolled in on monday night , mr trudeau said his party had defeated negative , divisive politics with a positive vision that brings canadians together , adding : it s time for a change in this country , my friends , a real change .
the liberals have vowed to end to canadian involvement in the us-led combat mission against isis in syria and iraq , with mr trudeau saying he would focus instead on humanitarian efforts .
he has also pledged to invest ca $ 250m ( 125m ) to process new refugees from the region , and to withdraw canada from the f-35 stealth fighter jet programme , an initiative by 12 countries including the us and uk.canada s progressive style of social democracy , long contrasted with the politics of the us , had taken a turn to the right under mr harper , a neoconservative who cut taxes and took a more aggressive approach to foreign policy than his predecessors .
his stimulus package helped canada to emerge relatively unscathed from the global financial crisis , but more recently the country s economy , closely tied to plummeting oil prices , has contracted.the government s ungenerous handling of the refugee crisis and the passage this year of a controversial anti-terrorism law which the liberals intend to amend proved unpopular with many canadians .
the conservatives were also accused of stoking anti-muslim sentiment in a row over whether women would be permitted to wear the niqab when they took the oath of citizenship.mr harper resigned as leader after seeing his party reduced from 159 to just 99 seats in monday s election .
we put it all on the line , we gave everything we have to give , and we have no regrets whatsoever , he said during a concession speech in his calgary constituency .
the people of canada have elected a liberal government , which we accept without hesitation .
the liberals , who held power for 80 of the 110 years between 1896 and 2006 , when mr harper was first elected , had shrunk at the last election to become the ottawa parliament s third largest party , behind the left-wing new democratic party ( ndp ) .read more