seoul ( reuters ) - traffic was halted , movie screenings interrupted and hundreds of thousands of people across south korea were directed to underground shelters on wednesday as part of a civil defense drill to practice in case of an attack by north korea .
but south koreans are familiar with such preparations , having seen many over the decades since the height of cold war tension with a neighbor it is still technically at war with , and many people have become inured to the danger .
this time , the government tried to inject some urgency and get more people taking part amid a surge of tension over north korea s weapons programs , and an exchange of dire warnings of nuclear war by both it and its sworn enemy , the united states .
we need to practice because we re still at war with north korea and people are insensitive to threats , said hwang jae-min , a 30-year-old prison guard who happened to be watching a movie at a seoul cinema complex when a siren heralded the beginning of the drill .
hwang was one of about 50 moviegoers led underground to take shelter from an imaginary north korean air raid .
the siren sounded around the country and government officials and police flagged down traffic and tried to shepherd pedestrians to the nearest shelters .
but skeptics doubted such an orchestrated exercise would be much use if and when it came to a real war .
i do strongly believe we need this drill but it doesn t seem to be working properly , said choi in-sook , a 45-year-old housewife strolling down a city street when the siren went off .
she did not run for cover .
it needs to be performed like it s a real war , she said .
the drill was part of an annual joint military exercise conducted by south korean and u.s. forces that began on monday and will run until aug. 31 , and which north korea denounced as a reckless step toward nuclear war .
north korea routinely denounces military exercises by u.s. and south korean forces that it regards as thinly disguised preparations to invade it .
south korea s state run television broadcast scenes from the 20-minute drill live for the first time in two years in the hope of drumming up some enthusiasm .
jung han-yol , director of the ministry of public affairs and safety s civil defense division , conceded that the fact that participation was voluntary meant the drill might lack some credibility .
cho won-cheol , emeritus professor of civil and environmental engineering of yonsei university in seoul , said there was always a problem with getting people involved in government preparations for a war few people believe will happen .
the reason why the drill is not working well is the country s civil defense drill has always been practiced mostly by the government or civil officials , not by the civilians , cho said .
south korea and is main ally the united states are technically still at war with the north because their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce , not a peace treaty .