beijing ( reuters ) - a former personal assistant to an exiled chinese-born billionaire , who has made claims of high-level communist party corruption , has filed a lawsuit in new york accusing him of raping her , court documents show .
in the civil complaint lodged with the new york supreme court on monday , the 28-year-old woman said she was lured by the businessman , guo wengui , to new york under the guise of a one-week business trip .
instead , she was held captive and ultimately subjected to repeated acts of mental cruelty and sexual violence , the suit says .
she is seeking $ 140 million in compensation .
guo , who lives in new york , denied the accusation , describing it as fake .
the complaint says the woman is a chinese national who was employed by one of guo s china-based companies .
she was told upon arrival in new york that she would work as one of the real estate tycoon s personal assistants , the complaint , reviewed by reuters , says .
it said guo , also known as miles kwok , forcibly took away the woman s passport , threatened her , monitored her internet usage and restricted access to her phone and laptop computer .
the woman said she was subjected to verbal and physical abuse , which soon escalated to sexual assault , before she managed to escape to the chinese embassy in london during a business trip with guo .
after her return to china , the woman provided a statement and evidence of her allegations to police in china , the lawsuit said , without detailing the evidence .
the associated press reported late last month that chinese police were investigating the woman s claims .
guo refuted the accusation .
of course it s fake , he told reuters .
he said the robbers of the country engineered the allegations to divert my attention , spread rumors and smear my reputation .
guo , who left china in 2014 , has named senior communist party officials in a deluge of graft accusations via twitter posts and video blogs , attracting a loyal online following .
he has provided little evidence for his claims .
china calls guo a criminal suspect , and articles in state media have accused him of crimes including bribery , fraud and embezzlement .
at china s request , interpol issued a global red notice for guo s repatriation in april .
guo lodged an application for political asylum in the united states last week .