baghdad/beirut ( reuters ) - iraqi armed forces on saturday dislodged islamic state from a natural gas-rich border area with syria , according to the military .
iranian-backed forces fighting with syrian president bashar al-assad s army simultaneously announced the start of an offensive to reach the same border area from the opposite side .
an iraqi military statement said akashat , a desert region located south of the euphrates river , was captured in an offensive which had been announced earlier in the day .
the attack on akashat is meant to pave the way for the recapture of urban centers in the euphrates valley , including the border post of al-qaim , it said .
iranian-backed shi ite paramilitary forces known as popular mobilization and sunni tribal fighters known as tribal mobilization took part in the offensive , it added .
the iraqi air force dropped thousands of leaflets overnight on akashat as well as on al-qaim and the towns of ana and rawa , alongside the euphrates , telling the militants to surrender or face death , the statement said .
two different campaigns are also advancing on islamic state positions on the syrian side of the border there - syrian government forces supported by russian air strikes and iran-backed militias , and a u.s.-backed alliance of kurdish and arab fighters known as syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) .
an alliance of shi ite militias fighting with the syrian army said it launched an assault to reach al-bukamal , the syrian border town on the euphrates , facing al-qaim .
securing al-bukamal is important for iran s allies as the two other main crossings into syria , to the north and to the south , are under the control of forces allied with the u.s .
securing a land corridor across iraq could make it easier for iran to ferry heavy weapons to syria should baghdad approve such transfers .
the shi ite-led iraqi government in baghdad has good relations with both tehran and washington .
the russian- and u.s.-backed campaigns against islamic state in syria have mostly stayed out of each other s way as the sides seek to avoid conflict , with the euphrates often acting as a dividing line between them .
but a senior assad aide this week said the syrian government was ready to fight the u.s.-backed sdf to recapture the entire country .
the cross-border caliphate declared by islamic state in 2014 in effect collapsed in july , when a u.s.-backed iraqi offensive captured mosul , the militants capital in iraq .
the towns in the border region with syria and hawija , a northern province close to the oil-rich city of kirkuk , are the only urban centers still under islamic state control in iraq .
the group overran about a third of iraq in 2014 in a sweeping offensive that allowed the militants to grab hundreds of millions of dollars worth of weaponry and vehicles left by the fleeing iraqi forces .