bayamon , puerto rico/new york , ( reuters ) - along a stretch of highway in suburban bayamon , puerto rico , construction workers tried desperately to make progress repairing a 100-foot-long sinkhole before the clouds rolled in .
previous rains had suspended work , as workers watched earth fall back into the hole .
it has not wanted to stop raining since hurricane maria , said carlos rivera , a 26-year-old contract worker at the site last month .
cars backed up for miles along puerto rico highway 2 on either side of the colossal construction site , which swallowed four of five lanes .
the 20-foot crater was among thousands of sites damaged by a storm that exposed an already fragile infrastructure in puerto rico , decimating water , power and roadways all at once .
fixing just this one sinkhole required maneuvering a set of vexing logistical and financial hurdles that reveal why rebuilding this isolated island will take so much more time and work than in any storm-ravaged region of the mainland united states .
the hole is only one of 3,500 reported incidents of hurricane damage to puerto rico-owned roadways , with repair costs estimated at $ 250 million .
a u.s. territory , puerto rico was already in trouble when maria hit on sept. 20 as the strongest storm to strike the island in nine decades .
its economy had been in recession for a decade , pushing the island into bankruptcy to restructure about $ 120 billion in bond and pension debt .
the task of rebuilding is made that much harder by the challenges and expense of bringing supplies and equipment to an island , which will depend heavily on u.s. aid and likely struggle to finance its expected share of the rebuilding .
the storm cut all power and cell service , felled trees , destroyed 230,000 homes and damaged another 400,000 .
one of the casualties was this stretch of highway 2 , the vital 143-mile artery between san juan and ponce .
running west from san juan before looping south , the road transports thousands of people a day between the san juan suburbs and the island s bustling capital .
hurricane maria s rains flooded the pipes under highway 2 until one burst .
water gushed out of the old pipe deep below the roadway , scouring out a hole into which the ground eventually collapsed .
officials could not ignore the sinkhole , which squeezed eastbound traffic into a single westbound lane and detoured westbound traffic .
tempers began to fray as residents endured a one-mile drive for nearly an hour .
the problem fell to puerto rico transportation and public works secretary carlos contreras aponte .
his department oversees the island s highway and transportation authority ( prhta ) , which manages a third of puerto rico s 9,300 miles of roadway .
the most pressing problem facing contreras was logistics : how to rebuild a road with no power , limited trucks , no electrical light , and no cell phones .
as of this week , less than half the island s power had been restored , according to the puerto rico electric power authority .
puerto rico s antiquated electric grid was decimated by the storm and now needs a complete rebuild .
electricity is required to run the machinery used for extracting rock and other raw materials to produce asphalt .
since the storm , contractors have had to bring in diesel-powered generators to power the machinery , a cumbersome and expensive task , contreras said .
that s something that s happening in every industry here , creating a shortage of generators , contreras said .
another scarce commodity : trucks .
with much of the population cut off from power and communication , the island was forced to divert hundreds of trucks and drivers to help bring supplies to needy citizens .
that left few vehicles behind to transport the equipment and materials needed to fix infrastructure , including highway 2 s sinkhole .
the truck drivers , many have been hired by other companies , the secretary said .
among those competing for trucks : puerto rico s own water and sewer authority , known as prasa .
prasa president eli diaz-atienza told reuters in an interview in october that his agency had just 125 trucks to service the island s 3.4 million residents .
he has requested trucks from fema , tapped the u.s. army national guard for vehicles , and contracted with private sector firms to repurpose vehicles such as milk trucks .
we ll never have enough trucks , diaz said .
replacements for damaged traffic signals at all of puerto rico s 1,200 intersections must be flown to the island from the states , a more expensive and complicated process than trucking them .
we don t have those supplies here in puerto rico because we never had to repair the equipment at all of the intersections at once , contreras said .
through it all , communications remain a problem .
with cell service iffy , the roads department has resorted to using runners who travel hours to areas of the island without phone service to relay reports of damage .
the travel time and word-of-mouth communication has led to incorrect , incomplete or confusing information and further delays , contreras said .
sometimes we get a description of a problem , and then when we send the technical people , it s a completely different story , he explained .
one problem this particular sinkhole managed to avoid was money .
because it lay on a major thoroughfare , contreras decided to prioritize it , funding repairs with an expected $ 1 million of the $ 42.5 million in emergency funds from the federal highway administration .
puerto rico officials could not be reached for comment on the final costs and time required to repair the roadway .
but a reuters witness who drove down highway 2 this week said the area had been paved over and traffic was moving easily .
the triage process that pits some rebuilding projects over others reflects the broader financial ruin in puerto rico .
initial u.s. aid packages won t be nearly enough , so agencies like prhta - and cities and towns , too - will rely heavily on the u.s. federal emergency management agency to finance rebuilding over the long term .
no municipality in puerto rico has the money to build the infrastructure that s needed , said angel perez , mayor of guaynabo , where damage to municipal property is estimated at $ 25 million to $ 30 million - a big hit for a san juan suburb whose total budget is about $ 130 million .
cash-strapped cities and towns here are also scrambling to pay up front costs of rebuilding projects .
in a major emergency , puerto rico is treated the same as a u.s. state , a fema spokesman said .
it is eligible for the same fema aid and other types of federal funds made available when a state suffers a catastrophe , he said .
rebuilding aid is typically conditioned on a cost-sharing agreement that would require puerto rico to match a quarter of expenses .
that share was reduced to 10 percent this month , the white house said .
still , puerto rico s financial crisis and the crippling blow of the storm mean the territory could still be hard-pressed to put up its share .
the longer projects take , the more costly they get , contreras said , as relentless caribbean rain continues to erode damaged stretches of highway , particularly those buried by mudslides .
at the highway 2 sinkhole , construction worker silvano monica , 62 , said the work was just a small start : there are roads and bridges with problems like this all over the island .