( reuters ) - myanmar has accused reuters reporters wa lone , 31 , and kyaw soe oo , 27 , of breaching the country s official secrets act , a little-used hangover from colonial rule .
sam zarifi , secretary general of the international commission of jurists ( icj ) , said the law can ensnare working journalists at any time .
the two reporters were arrested on tuesday evening after they were invited to meet police officers for dinner in the north of yangon .
the ministry of information said they had illegally acquired information with the intention to share it with foreign media , and published a photo of the pair in handcuffs standing behind a table with documents laid on it .
the law dates back to 1923 , when myanmar , then known as burma , was a province of british india .
at the time british administrators worried that rival powers could seek to exploit anti-colonial unrest in its south asian empire .
the act , which amended earlier anti-spying legislation , was controversial in india even at the time , according to a history published in 2009 by the united service institution of india , a new delhi-based think tank .
british military officers pushed for the stronger law over concerns about an increase in bolshevik activity , along with geopolitical threats including the possibility of racial war between japan and the usa affecting india , the history said .
the official secrets act covers trespassing in prohibited areas , handling documents deemed secret and communicating with foreign agents .
it carries a maximum penalty of 14 years in prison .
zarifi of the geneva-based icj - a human rights group made up of 60 senior international judges , lawyers and legal academics - said the definition of an official secret in the act is incredibly broad .
just about anyone in possession of unpublished government documents could find themselves facing prosecution and the harsh penalties a conviction may carry , zarifi said .
under this law many good journalists could be prosecuted at any time .
in india , where the same law also remains on the statute book , courts have ruled that it even applies to parliamentary papers such as budget proposals if they are leaked before they are presented in the legislature .
legal experts say prosecutions under the act have been rare in myanmar in recent decades .
the military junta that ruled until 2011 frequently used other laws or the penal code - also inherited from the colonial era - to lock up its critics alongside common criminals .
the sprawling code was drafted in 1860 , and gives magistrates more than 500 sections under which to charge alleged offenders .
in 1990 , a military court sentenced two leaders of the then opposition national league for democracy ( nld ) to 10 years in prison under the official secrets act after they passed an official letter to foreign embassies .
the prosecution was part of a broad crackdown following an election won by the nld that the junta ignored .
they were freed in 1992 , in an amnesty , according to a new york times report at the time .
reports of at least two other cases brought under the act are recorded in the online archives of the asian human rights commission in 2009 and 2010 .
the first case involved a man jailed for trespassing on military land and recording video footage to allegedly send abroad .
he had been helping a farmer file a land grab complaint against the military .
the second concerned a former army officer who was jailed in 2010 for allegedly having secret information on his laptop that he passed to foreign news agencies .
the most well-documented recent case involving the official secrets act came in january of 2014 , when the yangon-based weekly , unity journal , published a front page article it said exposed a secret chemical weapons factory run by the military in central myanmar .
police arrested the newspaper s ceo and four journalists involved in publishing the story , raided its offices , and attempted to seize all copies of the edition from newsstands .
a civilian court in pakkoku , near the alleged factory , sentenced them in july 2014 to 10 years in prison with hard labor - later reduced to seven years .
the case was widely seen by the domestic media as a warning that military affairs remained off-limits even though direct military rule had ended .
the unity five were released in an amnesty in april 2016 , soon after the nld , led by nobel laureate aung san suu kyi , had come to power following an election in 2015 .
the unity journal subsequently closed .
reuters was unable to reach government legal officials over the weekend and a monday public holiday to request details of any other past cases in which the official secrets act was used .
little is known of the allegations against the two reuters journalists , other than that police said they were arrested for possessing important and secret government documents related to rakhine state and security forces and are charged under section 3 of the official secrets act .
two policemen are also being investigated in the case , according to police .
section 3 covers entering prohibited places , taking images or handling secret official documents that might be or is intended to be , directly or indirectly , useful to an enemy .
human rights watch in 2016 said section 3 defines the offence of spying extremely broadly .
where a military establishment is involved , section 3 ( 2 ) of the statute effectively places the burden on the defendant to prove that they are not guilty , the group said .
in may 2016 , the month after suu kyi took power , the 1975 state protection act that had been used to keep her under house arrest for years was repealed .
the emergency provisions act , introduced in 1950 and frequently used against activists after the military seized power in a 1962 coup , was swept away in october the same year .
but the official secrets act and other laws , such as the 1908 unlawful associations act , that have been used to jail journalists and activists , remain in force .
reuters was unable to reach suu kyi s spokesman to seek comment from suu kyi on the use of the official secrets act to detain the two reuters journalists .