aden ( reuters ) - security forces in the southern yemeni city of aden arrested 10 members of an islamist partner in the internationally-recognized government , the islah party said on wednesday .
aden is dominated by local forces backed by the united arab emirates , a key member of the saudi-led coalition that intervened in yemen s civil war in 2015 to restore president abd-rabbu mansour hadi to power but is hostile toward islamists .
the arrests could raise tension within the coalition fighting the iran-aligned houthi movement and forces loyal to ex-president ali abdullah saleh who seized much of northern yemen , including the capital sanaa , and drove hadi into exile .
islah said security forces raided the home of its number two man in aden , mohammed abdel-malek , and arrested him , along with a member of the party s local shura council as well as a local militia commander .
security forces also closed down the party s office in the al-qaloua district of aden , islah said in a statement .
a security source in aden confirmed four people were arrested and said the move was related to the assassination of a salafist imam in aden on tuesday by a bomb planted in his car .
while both in the islamist camp , salafists and islah are at odds as some of the former back a secession of south yemen while the latter wants the arabian peninsula state to remain intact .
it was unclear if the arrested islah members had been formally charged .
( islah ) directs a call to public opinion , the government and the coalition demanding they shoulder their responsibility to swiftly release brother abdel-malek and his colleagues and to stop these arbitrary measures , islah s statement said .
with thousands of fighters deployed on battlefronts against the houthis , islah has been an important ally of hadi and the saudi-led coalition trying to reinstate his government .
but islah , seen as linked with the muslim brotherhood , has come under pressure since a rift erupted between qatar and some arab states , including the uae and saudi arabia , in june over allegations qatar backs islamist militants .
qatar denies this .
since the coalition intervened in yemen , islah has tried to distance itself from the brotherhood in an effort to ease gulf rulers anxiety about its islamist ideology .
the brotherhood denies accusations from conservative arab governments of involvement in terrorism , saying it seeks change only by peaceful means .