dubai ( reuters ) - a bahrain court sentenced three family members of a prominent activist to jail terms on weapons charges on monday , rights group the bahrain institute for rights and democracy ( bird ) said and accused authorities of using torture to extract confessions .
in a separate case , bahrain s public prosecutor announced on monday that it had sentenced 19 unnamed defendants to prison terms for contacts with a banned party it says is backed by iran and involved in militant attacks .
the cases underscore how authorities in the kingdom is cracking down on perceived threats nearly six years after pro-democracy protests inspired by the arab spring were quashed with help from gulf arab neighbors .
bahrain hosts the u.s. fifth fleet .
sayed ahmed alwadaei , bird s head of advocacy , said his relatives were convicted based on confessions gained by torture and said the court was persecuting the family for his activism .
alwadaei s mother-in-law hajer mansoor and brother-in-law sayed nizar alwadaei were each sentenced to three years in jail for planting a fake bomb , bird said , while his cousin mahmood marzooq was sentenced to a month and half for obtaining a knife .
representatives of the bahraini government did not immediately respond to a reuters request for comment .
alwadaei , who is based in britain , said he believed the case against his relatives was motivated by his human rights work and especially a protest last year in which he took part against the attendance of bahrain s king at a royal horse show in britain .
i was distraught to see my family suffer torture , persecution and interrogations about my activities ...
i will not rest until they are freed , alwadaei said in a statement .
bahrain , which has a shi ite muslim majority population and is ruled by a sunni royal family , denies clamping down on dissent .
the government , citing years of deadly bombing and shooting attacks against its security forces , says it faces a militant threat backed by arch-foe iran .
according to the prosecutor , a court sentenced eight defendants to life terms , nine to 15 years and two for ten years for conspiring with a foreign state and terrorist organisation working for its interests and receiving funds from it to carry out hostile acts and in order to harm national interests .
fifteen of the defendants had their citizenship revoked .
the group it cited was the islamic wafa movement , a political party that is banned in bahrain and which authorities accuse of receiving money and support from iran .
a leader in wafa , murtada al-sanadi , an exiled bahraini cleric who was named by the united states this year as a specially designated global terrorist and appears to be based in the iranian city of qom .