kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysian police arrested three people , including a teenager , suspected of planning to detonate a bomb at an annual beer festival in the capital , the police chief said on tuesday .
the two-day better beer festival was canceled last month following objections from an islamist party , which said the event could lead to rape and other crime and free sex .
a construction contractor , a former soldier and a 19-year-old student with links to the islamic state militant group were arrested in the northern state of kelantan last tuesday on suspicion of planning the attack , inspector-general of police mohamad fuzi harun told reporters .
the suspects had plans to attack the beer festival , houses of worship and entertainment outlets in kuala lumpur and surrounding areas , he said .
the former soldier , 34 , had provided funds to the student that were used to produce and test improvised explosive devices ( ieds ) for use in the attacks , mohamad fuzi said .
police had seized materials used for making three ieds with an estimated blast radius of 30 meters , he said .
it s a big area , he said .
it would have caused a lot of deaths if set off at the beer festival .
the contractor , a 25-year-old man , was suspected to be linked to a militant cell that had carried out a grenade attack on a bar on the outskirts of the capital last year , mohamad fuzi said .
the attack on the movida bar , which wounded eight people , was ordered by a syrian-based malaysian militant and is considered to be the first successful attack by the islamic state in the country .
police were still investigating whether the three suspects had received orders from other parties .
around 6,000 people had been expected to attend the better beer festival , showcasing craft beers from at least 11 countries , according to the event s organizers .
protests against events considered western and unislamic are common in muslim-majority malaysia and are usually led by the opposition pan-malaysian islamic party ( pas ) and conservative islamist ngos .
since january , malaysia has detained 78 people with suspected links to islamic state in its crackdown on militancy , mohamad fuzi said .
five malaysians are believed to have joined up with islamic state-linked groups in the southern philippines , while 53 others have joined the group in syria , he added .