san francisco ( reuters ) - democrats in california ’ s state senate announced on tuesday a series of infrastructure funding bills that would invest billions in roads , bridges , housing and water projects .
infrastructure investment has been at the forefront of political agendas this year , from president-elect donald trump ’ s promise to unveil a massive national infrastructure spending plan to voters ’ support of billions of dollars of infrastructure bonds in november ’ s election .
both trump and his rival , hillary clinton , campaigned promising infrastructure investment .
trump called for $ 1 trillion in infrastructure spending over 10 years , but it remains unclear how much would come from the federal budget .
democrats in the california senate proposed five bills on tuesday , including one that would use $ 6 billion a year over the next decade to repair roads and bridges and improve transit systems across the state .
according to the proposal , the bulk of the money is to be raised through a phased-in 12 cent per gallon gas tax increase , along with increases to the diesel excise tax and vehicle registration fees .
california ’ s freeway system faces a $ 59 billion maintenance shortfall over the next decade and local governments face another $ 78 billion shortfall for local highways and bridges .
the need for infrastructure funding is echoed across the country .
“ our transportation infrastructure is in dire condition .
the longer we wait to fix it , the more it will cost us , ” state senator jim beall of san jose and sponsor of the transportation bill , said in a statement .
two housing bills raise money for affordable housing , one of them through a $ 75 fee on real estate transaction documents .
california is home to 21 of the 30 most expensive rental housing markets in the country , and many parts of the state face serious housing shortages .
another bill proposes to issue a $ 3 billion general obligation bond aimed at addressing the housing stock shortage .
senator toni atkins of san diego , sponsor of one of the housing bills , said infrastructure was “ at the top of the list ” of challenges facing california , and tuesday ’ s package of bills would “ go a long way toward improving quality of life for californians and grow our state ’ s economy. ” another bill would fund state and local parks and water infrastructure through a $ 3 billion general obligation bond .
despite recent rains , california is in the fifth year of drought .
in 2014 , state voters passed a $ 7.5 billion bond to fund water infrastructure projects throughout california .
senate leader kevin de león of los angeles , sponsor of tuesday ’ s bill , noted that there is still “ a high unmet demand for new water and natural resource investment . ”