washington ( reuters ) - six u.s. air strikes on an islamic state desert camp in libya killed 17 militants and destroyed three vehicles , the u.s. military said on sunday , the first american strikes in libya since president donald trump took office in january .
u.s. africa command said in a statement that strikes on friday targeted a camp 150 miles ( 240 km ) southeast of sirte , a city that was once the islamic state stronghold in libya .
the camp was used to move fighters in and out of libya , plot attacks and store weapons , the statement said .
isis and al-qaeda have taken advantage of ungoverned spaces in libya to establish sanctuaries for plotting , inspiring and directing terror attacks , the statement said , using an acronym for islamic state .
a u.s. official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said the strikes were carried out by armed drones .
the last-known u.s. strike in libya was on jan. 19 , a day before trump s inauguration , when more than 80 islamic state militants , some believed to be plotting attacks in europe , died in u.s. air strikes on camps outside sirte .
that strike was led by two b-2 bombers , which dropped about 100 precision-guided munitions on the camps .
islamic state took over sirte in early 2015 , turning it into its most important base outside the middle east and attracting large numbers of foreign fighters to the city .
the group imposed its hard-line rule on residents and extended its control along about 155 miles ( 250 km ) of libya s mediterranean coastline .
but it struggled to keep a footing elsewhere in libya and was forced out of sirte by last december after a six-month campaign led by brigades from the western city of misrata and backed by u.s. air strikes .
islamic state militants have shifted to desert valleys and inland hills southeast of tripoli as they seek to exploit libya s political divisions after their defeat in sirte .
the statement said the strikes were carried out in coordination with libya s government of national accord .
the united nations launched a road map on wednesday for a renewed international effort to break a political stalemate in libya and end the turmoil that followed the country s 2011 uprising .
the u.n.-backed government of national accord established under a december 2015 deal never fully materialized in tripoli , leaving libya with three competing governments aligned with rival armed alliances .