trump s war on the media didn t end with his election .
on his planet , everything the media says about him that makes him look bad is just a vast conspiracy to undermine him and make him look bad .
this immature attitude is beginning to bleed over onto the white house press corps now , who may find themselves without access to the white house very soon , because trump and his team are seriously considering kicking them out of the white house press room.yes , really , that s what they re considering .
from esquire : another senior official , however , suggested a more pointed motivation for the move .
according to the official , the potential relocation reflected a view within the transition team that coverage of trump has been so hostile as to indicate that the press has abandoned its role as neutral observer .
they are the opposition party , a senior official says .
i want em out of the building .
we are taking back the press room .
they re the opposition party .
well , isn t that a nice way of saying they re the enemy .
they want sycophants in the press , not honest press .
we are taking back the press room .
really ?
who did it belong to before ?
their idea of taking back the press room reeks of taking back america .
or , to put it bluntly , they re remaking the white house and america into an image more to their liking .
it s one that doesn t include anyone who opposes trump.the press corps is , understandably , upset about this .
jeff mason , presidential correspondent for reuters and president of the white house correspondents association , issued this statement in rebuke : my whca statement on press access to the white house briefing room .
pic.twitter.com/kd9ts7ayt9 jeff mason ( @ jeffmason1 ) january 15 , 2017and then there s the rest of twitter : @ grynbaum @ maggienyt first item on the authoritarian agenda .
ray beck ( @ niteowl41 ) january 15 , 2017 @ henrykelley @ grynbaum yep , they need more room for breitbart and other news organizations liz sabado ( @ wenican ) january 15 , 2017 @ jayrosen_nyu @ adriennelaf the trump administration : a cross between nazi germany and high school .
amy mullen ( @ minnowsf ) january 15 , 2017 @ jayrosen_nyu @ adriennelaf @ esquire so here s the 1st thing good autocrats do , putin said .
evict the press .
they re the opposition party larry hanover ( @ larryhanover ) january 15 , 2017 @ jayrosen_nyu @ adriennelaf @ esquire herr drumpf has his own press corps ; his twitter account .
joshua aaron ( @ jaaronca ) january 15 , 2017 @ dailydot history will judge those who were complicit in a corrupt trump administration , that is if there is any history lilith ( @ lilith2u ) january 16 , 2017 @ cbsnews an informed populace is a real threat to dictators pic.twitter.com/ckvup7wrkz trump memes ( @ trump__memes ) january 15 , 2017of course , trump s pick for press secretary , sean spicer , is trying to spin this as a positive , we really do care deeply about the white house press corps , move : there s been so much interest in covering a president donald trump .
a question is : is a room that has forty-nine seats adequate ?
when we had that press conference the other day , we had thousands of requests , and we capped it at four hundred .
is there an opportunity to potentially allow more members of the media to be part of this ?
that s something we re discussing .
the white house press room is supposed to be a symbol of a free press , but neither trump nor anybody on his team believes in a free press .
a free press is critical .
a free press doesn t bow and scrape .
anytime they don t like what the press is reporting , they scream fake news !
and it should terrify all of us because it s the first real step they could take towards actually censoring the media.featured image by spencer platt via getty images