washington ( reuters ) - the united states lifted long-standing sanctions against sudan on friday , saying it had made progress fighting terrorism and easing humanitarian distress , and also secured khartoum s commitment not to pursue arms deals with north korea .
in a move that completes a process begun by former president barack obama and which was opposed by human rights groups , president donald trump removed a u.s. trade embargo and other penalties that had effectively cut sudan off from much of the global financial system .
the u.s. decision marked a major turnaround for the government of president omar hassan al-bashir , who once played host to osama bin laden and is wanted by the international criminal court on charges of orchestrating genocide in darfur .
however , sudan will stay on the u.s. list of state sponsors of terrorism - alongside iran and syria - which carries a ban on weapons sales and restrictions on u.s. aid , u.s. officials said .
sudanese officials also remain subject to united nations sanctions for human rights abuses during the darfur conflict , the officials said , speaking on condition of anonymity .
the lifting of sanctions reflects a u.s. assessment that sudan has made progress in meeting washington s demands , including cooperation on counter-terrorism , working to resolve internal conflicts and allowing more humanitarian aid into darfur and other rebellious border areas , the officials said .
state department spokeswoman heather nauert said the sanctions relief was in recognition of sudan s sustained positive actions but that more improvement was needed .
the trump administration also secured a commitment from sudan that it would not pursue arms deals with north korea , and washington will apply zero tolerance in ensuring khartoum s compliance , one of the officials said .
but they said khartoum s assurances on north korea were not a condition for lifting sanctions , some of which had been in place for 20 years and have hobbled the sudanese economy .
sudan has long been suspected of military ties with north korea , which is locked in a tense standoff with washington over its missiles and nuclear weapons programs .
but the official said khartoum was not believed to have diplomatic relations with pyongyang and that was not expected to change .
sudan also has recently distanced itself diplomatically from iran , another u.s. arch-foe .
u.s. officials have said that sanctions relief , which will unfreeze sudanese government assets , could benefit a range of businesses in sudan , including its key energy sector .
the economy has been reeling since south sudan , which holds three-quarters of former sudan s oil wells , seceded in 2011 .
sudan looks forward to building normal relations with the united states , the foreign ministry said in a statement .
however , this requires lifting sudan from the list of state sponsors of terrorism because it does not apply ( to sudan ) .
central bank governor hazem abdel kader said removing sanctions would allow sudan s banking system to reintegrate into the global economy , and agriculture minister abdul latif ajimi said it would bring exchange rate stability that would boost agricultural development , according to state news agency suna .
shortly before leaving office , former u.s. president barack obama temporarily eased penalties against the east african nation .
in july , the trump administration postponed for three months a decision on whether to remove the sanctions completely , setting up an oct. 12 deadline .
rights groups see the sanctions removal as premature .
it sends the wrong message to lift these sanctions permanently when sudan has made so little progress on human rights , said andrea prasow , deputy director of the washington office of human rights watch .
democratic u.s. representative jim mcgovern said the sanctions decision legitimizes the murderous actions of the sudanese government and warned that any back-sliding will likely result in congress reinstating sanctions .
the united states first imposed sanctions on sudan in 1997 , including a trade embargo and blocking government assets , for human rights violations and terrorism concerns .
washington layered on more sanctions in 2006 for what it said was complicity in the violence in sudan s darfur region .