abuja ( reuters ) - nigeria has convicted and jailed 45 boko haram suspects , the government said on friday , the first sentences it has handed down in a set of mass trials that have drawn criticism for being held behind closed doors .
the trials are the biggest to date in the eight-year-old militant islamist insurgency , which has left at least 20,000 people dead and driven 2 million from their homes in northeastern nigeria .
those convicted were sentenced to between three and 31 years in jail , lai mohammed , the information minister said in a statement .
he did not specify what they had been convicted of .
of the rest of the 575 suspects arraigned in the first trial the court discharged 468 suspects who had no case to answer , threw out 34 cases , and remanded 28 for trial in abuja or minna , he said .
the court ordered that the 468 discharged persons should undergo deradicalization and rehabilitation programs before they are handed over to their respective state governments , it said .
the other trials have been adjourned until january .
in all , about 1,670 suspects are due to appear in court , many of whom have been held for years in pre-detention in alleged violation of their rights .
the proceedings that began on monday were cautiously welcomed by rights groups and experts .
but both they and the united nations have criticized the trials for handling too many cases at once , and all behind closed doors with no media or public observers allowed .
we have serious concerns that the conduct of the proceedings may deny the defendants the right to a fair trial and an effective defense , said a un high commissioner for human rights spokesman on friday .
the lack of transparency regarding these trials is worrying , and we note that nigeria s national human rights commission is not allowed to attend and monitor proceedings , he said .
amnesty international also complained about the trials being held without scrutiny but said on wednesday : these trials should provide a much-needed opportunity to deliver justice for the many victims of human rights abuses and crimes allegedly committed by boko haram members .