bucharest ( reuters ) - romanian anti-corruption prosecutors have opened a criminal investigation against deputy prime minister sevil shhaideh for suspected abuse of office in a land transfer case , they said on friday .
the probe against shhaideh , 52 , is the first high-profile investigation faced by the nine-month old social democrat ( psd ) government in one of the european union s most graft-prone member states .
shhaideh , also a minister for regional development , is a close ally of psd leader liviu dragnea , who has received a suspended sentence for vote rigging and is currently on trial in a separate abuse of office case .
i was called here and i was informed ...
i am a suspect , i can not say more because the investigation is ongoing , shhaideh told reporters outside the prosecutors headquarters .
i will make use of all my rights so as to be able to analyze the documents with my lawyer .
prosecutors said in a statement that they suspected shhaideh , at the time a deputy regional development minister , of helping in 2013 to illegally transfer 324 hectares ( 800 acres ) of prime land near the danube river from the state to the county council of teleorman , which then leased it to private operators .
the transfer was done through government bills , which the prosecutors said contravened the constitution as well as legislation concerning state property and national waters .
dragnea served as head of the teleorman county council for more than a decade until 2012 and has had business ties to the region .
prosecutors are investigating four public servants in the case and have asked parliament to approve an investigation into rovana plumb , a lawmaker and currently minister in charge of european funds .
they said they suspected plumb , who was acting environment minister in 2013 , of complicity in abuse of office .
under romanian legislation , parliament must approve investigations against sitting lawmakers .
transparency international ranks romania among the european union s most corrupt states and brussels , which keeps its justice system under special monitoring , has praised magistrates for their efforts to curb graft .
in august , the european commission expressed concerns that a planned overhaul of the judiciary would undermine romania s progress .
[ nl8n1la6dlc ] the overhaul , which would give the politically appointed justice minister more control over the judiciary , comes half a year after government attempts to weaken the crackdown on high-level graft triggered romania s largest street protests in decades .
shhaideh , who comes from romania s small muslim community , was dragnea s first pick for prime minister after last december s parliamentary election , but the centrist president , klaus iohannis , rejected her nomination .
[ nl5n1em134 ]