ankara ( reuters ) - turkish president erdogan said on sunday that turkey would not succumb to blackmail by the united states in the trial of a turkish bank executive being charged with evading u.s. sanctions on iran .
already strained ties between nato allies ankara and washington have deteriorated as turkish-iranian gold trader reza zarrab , who is cooperating with u.s. prosecutors , detailed in court a scheme to evade u.s. sanctions .
erdogan said turkey s dealings were in line with the decisions of the united nations , adding that they were not against ankara s alliance with washington .
what have we done , for example ?
we bought natural gas from a country we have an agreement with so our citizens wouldn t be cold in the winter .
like other countries , only the un s decisions bind us , and turkey followed them to the dot , he told members of his ruling ak party in the eastern province of mus .
over three days of testimony , zarrab has implicated top turkish politicians , including erdogan .
zarrab said on thursday that when erdogan was prime minister he had authorized a transaction to help iran evade u.s. sanctions .
ankara has cast the testimony as an attempt to undermine turkey and its economy , and has previously said it was a clear plot by the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , who it alleges engineered last year s coup attempt .
this case is nothing more than the 17-25 december plot being carried across the ocean .
excuse us , but we will not succumb to this blackmail , erdogan said , referring to 2013 leaks about alleged government corruption which were blamed on his opponents .
although he has not yet responded to the courtroom claims , erdogan has dismissed the case as a politically motivated attempt to bring down the turkish government , led by gulen .
turkey has repeatedly requested gulen s extradition , but u.s. officials have said the courts require sufficient evidence before they can extradite the elderly cleric , who has denied any involvement in the coup .
gulen has lived in self-imposed exile in pennsylvania since 1999 .