donald trump seems to go out of his way to do exceedingly dumb things .
it s almost as if he is doing them on purpose .
on friday , trump s moronic action of the day was to break the law .
again .
this time , with his twitter account.trump just couldn t wait to jump onto his favorite social media platform and brag about his great jobs report not even for one measly hour to comply with the law .
a mere 15 minutes after the job report was released , trump was bragging about it on twitter : excellent jobs numbers just released and i have only just begun .
many job stifling regulations continue to fall .
movement back to usa !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 4 , 2017here s the problem .
according to a federal rule , executive branch officials have to wait one hour after this type of information is released before publicly commenting on it .
the specific rule , the office of management and budget s statistical policy directive no .
3 , has been in place since 1985 and states : except for members of the staff of the agency issuing the principal economic indicator who have been designated by the agency head to provide technical explanations of the data , employees of the executive branch shall not comment publicly on the data until at least one hour after the official release time .
well , okay .
trump s a dumbass .
we all know this .
you can tell from his vocabulary that he isn t the brightest crayon in the box .
so , maybe he just didn t know that he was supposed to keep his big mouth shut for a whopping 60 minutes ?
yeah , well , no .
he knew .
we know he knew because his administration has gotten themselves in trouble before for breaking this very same rule in the very same way.back in march , sean spicer was too excited to wait that hour when the february jobs report was released and couldn t stop himself from tweeting about it after only 22 minutes.great news for american workers : economy added 235,000 new jobs , unemployment rate drops to 4.7 % in first report for @ potus trump sarah sanders ( @ presssec ) march 10 , 2017and everybody cried foul when this happened five months ago , so it isn t like no one ever told them about this rule .
they knew .
trump knew .
he just didn t care because he is convinced that the rules don t apply to him.featured image via win mcnamee/getty images