berlin ( reuters ) - politicians from four german parties seeking to form a first-of-its-kind coalition government agreed on tuesday not to increase the country s debt load in order to fund sought-after tax cuts , subsidies and investments .
chancellor angela merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) , their christian social union ( csu ) allies , the liberal free democrats and the greens held a second round of talks after an election last month that saw the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) enter parliament for the first time .
the four parties are under pressure to find common ground on contentious issues such as the future of the euro zone and immigration policy , as well as fiscal policy .
a paper seen by reuters that outlines their initial agreement on state spending showed the potential coalition partners want to cut taxes for families with children as well as lower- and middle-income people .
they also want to abolish the solidarity tax , introduced after reunification to support poorer states in eastern germany , which is due to expire in 2019 .
the greens , who before the talks said they opposed sticking to a balanced budget at any cost , appear to have conceded in exchange for a common pledge for subsidies to home owners who make their domiciles more energy efficient .
merkel s cdu and their bavarian csu allies lost support in the election to the anti-immigrant afd , as the party stole many conservative voters angry at her 2015 decision to welcome more than one million migrants into germany .
weakened after the sept. 24 vote , merkel is now seeking to form a four-way coalition untested at the national level that will secure her a fourth term as chancellor .
we are very satisfied with the ( talks ) this evening , cdu general secretary peter tauber told reporters after the talks .
it was a very good evening .
his positive assessment of the second round of exploratory talks was shared by counterparts from the csu , fdp and greens .
a report by merkel s cdu last week found that germany s next government would have less fiscal room than expected .
it also determined that the next government would have only 30 billion euros ( $ 35.29 billion ) free for new projects over the next four years if there is no new debt taken on - as has been the case since 2014 .
the four parties demands amount to over 100 billion euros in additional spending .
the initial fiscal blueprint agreed on tuesday did not say how the parties will fund their projects .
it said they would explore fiscal flexibility measures at later rounds of talks .