why a recount only in states that trump won ? why a recount in michigan , which is all paper ballot ?
@ drjillstein ? https : //t.co/hxrrg75qpw pic.twitter.com/xepxfradoi paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) november 25 , 2016 this election , we are not only deciding what kind of world we will have , but whether we will have a world or not going forward , stein warned , explaining that clinton s trigger-happy militarism is a mushroom cloud waiting to happen .
stein blasted clinton s warmongering that almost singlehandedly brought us the turmoil in libya and could lead us into a nuclear war if clinton were elected president .
hillary brought us libya almost singlehandedly , stein explained in a thursday fox business interview .
she continued : and she has said that she will lead the charge with a no-fly zone in syria , and that basically amounts to a declaration of war against russia , who is there under international law , having been invited by the sitting government .
like it or not , russia has the sanction of international law to be there .
for us to go in and declare a no-fly zone means get ready for war with russia .
both of us have 2,000 nuclear weapons on hair trigger alert .
this is the most dangerous moment according to the former president of the soviet union , mikhail gorbachev , who , two weeks ago , said this is the most dangerous nuclear moment ever.stein elaborated on this view during a facebook live interview with progressive marc lamont hill , who has endorsed stein over clinton : in this election , we are not only deciding what kind of world we will have , but whether we will have a world or not going forward , stein said , adding : not only in regards to climate , not only in regards to these expanding wars where hillary has this proven track record of the most pro-conflict military policy as possible , and she s calling for a no-fly zone in syria , which means we re essentially declaring war on russia if hillary gets elected declaring war on russia at a time when we have 2,000 nuclear weapons between us and the russians on hair trigger alert .
this is a mushroom cloud waiting to happen .
so it s really important right now for us to stand up and start building a force to do the right thing.paul joseph watson asks another great question for americans .
why not count the states hillary won by a small margin ?
: why is there no recount in states that hillary won with smaller margins than trump won pa ?
# auditthevote pic.twitter.com/qylw7pk3dv paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) november 25 , 2016