brussels ( reuters ) - the european union s chief negotiator michel barnier said on monday he was concerned at the slow progress of brexit talks , while his british counterpart david davis called for imagination and flexibility to move on .
british officials arrived in brussels on monday hoping to push the eu toward talks about their post-brexit ties , which the bloc refuses to launch until there is agreement on london s exit bill and other pressing divorce matters , including the rights of eu citizens in britain after march 2019 .
to be honest , i am concerned .
time passes quickly , barnier told reporters as he welcomed davis back for a new round of talks .
the third formal session since the process began in june , it is due to wind up on thursday .
we must start negotiating seriously , barnier said .
the sooner we remove the ambiguity , the sooner we will be in a position to discuss the future relationship .
he welcomed a series of proposals london made over the summer break , but made clear they fell short of what eu leaders want to see before they will agree to open negotiations on the future free trade agreement the british government wants .
impatient with the structure of talks agreed among the 27 other states and now binding barnier s negotiators , the british position papers made frequent reference to a future relationship with the eu rather than just the immediate task of bringing legal clarity for people and business when britain leaves .
the uk government has published a large number of papers covering important issues related to our withdrawal and our vision for a deep and special partnership , davis said .
we want to lock in the points where we agree , unpick the areas where we disagree and make further progress on the whole range of issues , he added .
to do that would require flexibility and imagination from both sides , he said .
but the eu wants to settle the major separation issues of ensuring expatriate rights , agreeing a divorce bill and squaring the circle of the future irish border before jumping into talks about post-brexit ties with london .
the eu 27 and the european parliament are united .
they will not accept that separation issues are not addressed properly , barnier said .
i am ready to intensify negotiations over the coming weeks in order to advance .
british officials took a relaxed view of barnier s implied criticisms , noting it was a familiar line from the former french minister , and dismissed a suggestion talks were going badly .
the eu has already signaled that the slow progress so far has made talks about a new accord with britain less likely to start after an eu summit in october , as had been hoped .
the eu and britain seem far apart on agreeing how much london should pay the bloc on departure to account for previous commitments .
the irish issue is extremely delicate because of the history of political violence there , as well as the complex economic consequences of brexit .
dublin said on monday much of the future border arrangements between northern ireland and ireland could be solved before brexit talks enter the next phase .
neither side expects major breakthroughs this week in talks aimed at unraveling more than 40 years of union .
neither seems ready for major political concessions at this stage .
an eu official said it was clearly worrying that we have major differences of core issues ... with very little time to land all this , even if britain moves .
britain s opposition labour party on sunday offered an alternative to the policy pursued by conservative prime minister theresa may by saying it would stay in the european single market for a transitional period after brexit .
the british and german chambers of commerce together urged negotiators on monday to start talks about future trading relations , and particularly customs arrangements , swiftly .
writing in le monde in his native france , barnier said the eu and britain must remain allies for their common defense : the union of 27 and the united kingdom will have to join forces to stand up to common threats , he said .
the security of our citizens can not be haggled over .