mexico city ( reuters ) - hurricane irma s deadly tear through the caribbean will hobble the region s multi-billion dollar tourism industry for months , just as hotels , airlines , and cruises were gearing up for the region s peak winter season .
as one of the most powerful atlantic storms in a century , irma has killed 21 people , leaving hotels , airports and other buildings damaged or flattened across prime vacation islands such as st. martin and barbuda .
on friday , it hurtled north of cuba toward florida .
jack richards , president of u.s.-based tour operator pleasant holidays , said it may be well into next year before the local tourism industry begins to normalize , costing it billions in lost business .
the region s busiest travel season runs from mid-december to easter , when americans , canadians and europeans leave behind snow and cold for the warm , turquoise caribbean waters .
can this be repaired in time ?
the infrastructure to rebuild these countries simply isn t there , he said .
this is just massive .
just a few days after irma razed the first islands , richards said his bookings have already dropped for the caribbean , his company s second-most popular destination worldwide for u.s. tourists .
more than 26 million international tourists were expected this year in the caribbean , the world travel and tourism council ( wttc ) projected before irma hit .
in 2016 , foreign visitors spent $ 31 billion in the caribbean and were expected to spend an additional 5.3 percent in 2017 .
the wttc estimates that in 2016 , travel and tourism contributed $ 56 billion in gross domestic product .
any disruption in the tourism industry is a disruption of our livelihood , caribbean tourism organization ( cto ) spokesman hugh riley said .
officials across the islands have struggled to gauge the scope of destruction , after irma knocked out electricity and cell phone service , and forced airports to close .
the trouble may not yet be over for the caribbean , with hurricane jose forecast on saturday to pass as a powerful category 4 storm close to the same group of islands that were trashed by irma .
the hurricane season is set to run for several more weeks .
as of friday afternoon , the u.s. virgin islands department of tourism was urging visitors to stay away from st. thomas , where four people died in the storm and where the airport remains closed to comercial traffic .
the st. croix airport was slated to reopen on friday .
the 150-room windward passage , an upscale hotel overlooking the st. thomas harbor in the u.s. virgin islands , plans to close for six months , it reported to the department of tourism .
on the tiny island of barbuda alone , home to about 1,800 people and reef-lined beaches , preliminary damage estimates top $ 100 million , riley said .
some 95 percent of the island s buildings were destroyed .
cruise lines , tour operators and airlines have scrambled to accommodate tourists or postpone plans .
royal caribbean cruises , carnival cruise lines and norwegian cruise line each canceled several of their caribbean-bound cruises through the weekend and rerouted others to avoid sailing through the storms dangerous paths .
european tour operator tui said it had evacuated its florida customers to hotels in inland orlando , and brought vacationers in cuba to shelters .
german tour operator der touristik said it would bus tourists arriving by cruise ship in miami on friday directly to shelters , and that ships would leave the harbor again before the hurricane hits .
recovery efforts in hard-hit areas have so far proven difficult .
rolando brison , st. martin s director of tourism , said firefighters struggled to hose off sand dumped by the storm onto the airport runways , leaving nearly 3,000 tourists stranded .
the airport remained closed on friday .
tourism is the economy , he said .
it s how our people eat .
( this version of the story corrects paragraph 11 to show that st. thomas airport is closed , not st. john s )