if there s one thing that has become abundantly clear over the past year or so , it s that the trump family isn t all that bright especially when it comes to spelling .
they can manage to misspell even the simplest of words and seem to be completely oblivious to the fact that spell check is a thing.on tuesday , which was the fourth of july , donald trump jr. sent out a tweet asking what exactly are big govt , opprressive taxation , anti 2a left wing socialists celebrating today ?
out of curiosity , what exactly are big govt , opprressive taxation , anti 2a left wing socialists celebrating today ?
donald trump jr. ( @ donaldjtrumpjr ) july 4 , 2017former united states attorney preet bharara , who was fired while investigating trump after repeated assurances that his job was secure , responded to junior s misspelled tweet by hilariously trolling him for failing at grade school level spelling .
also we might celebrate the ability of immigrant spelling bee contestants to know that oppressive has only one r. build a wwallll , bharara tweeted back at trump s son.also we might celebrate the ability of immigrant spelling bee contestants to know that oppressive has only one r. build a wwallll .
https : //t.co/zaed69pxym preet bharara ( @ preetbharara ) july 5 , 2017bharara wasn t the only one to point out junior s error.i dunno , try literacy ?
# opprressive mike denison ( @ mikd33 ) july 4 , 2017people who can fucking spell .
gwen ihnat ( @ gwenemarie ) july 5 , 2017freedom of education and that includes spelling .
also the dream of civil rights , women s rights , and equality for all americans .
shannon stirone ( @ shannonmstirone ) july 5 , 2017public education for one .
your education failed you , junior .
heather whaley ( @ heatherwhaley ) july 5 , 2017not free health care and a world class education system that s for sure hanassholesolo ( @ komptonmusic ) july 4 , 2017oppressive * .
your phone literally has spellcheck .
joe port ? ?
( @ joeport ) july 4 , 2017 * oppressive they re probably figuring out a way to teach you english joey ayoub ?
( @ joeyayoub ) july 5 , 2017the freedom to spell oppressive correctly ?
chris lowell ( @ mrchrislowell ) july 5 , 2017you would think that since these people are supposed to be the first family , they would try a little harder to avoid making themselves look like complete morons .
alas , we are asking too much .
the trump s would be an embarrassment at a third-grade spelling bee , so is it any wonder that they humiliate the united states on a daily basis ? featured image via alex wong/getty images