bishoftu , ethiopia ( reuters ) - hundreds of people chanting anti-government slogans marched in the central ethiopian town of bishoftu on sunday at a religious festival where a stampede triggered by a police move to quell protests killed dozens of people last year .
the incident during the annual irreecha festival in bishoftu , which lies 40 km ( 25 miles ) south of the capital addis ababa , marked the bloodiest period in unrest that plagued the horn of africa country for months in 2015 and 2016 .
authorities at the time said 55 had died in the stampede , while dissidents put the toll at around 150 .
on sunday , thousands of people attended the thanksgiving event that marks the end of the rainy season , a majority clad in red , black and white attire - the oromiya region s flag .
although the lakeside event ended without any violence , anti-government slogans rang out soon after the ceremony began .
down , down eprdf !
dissidents chanted in small groups as they marched towards the town s centre , referring to ethiopia s ruling party .
earlier in the week , the regional government announced that police presence would be minimal and that those attending would not hold arms to prevent tensions .
the violence in 2015 and 2016 forced the government to impose a nine-month state of emergency that was only lifted in august .
the unrest was provoked by a development scheme for the capital addis ababa and turned into broader anti-government demonstrations over politics and human rights abuses .
it included attacks on businesses , many of them foreign-owned , including farms growing flowers for export .
in april , a government-sanctioned investigation said 669 people had been killed during one period in the violence and more than 29,000 people arrested .
the violence in oromiya , the largest and most populous region which surrounds addis ababa , and to a lesser extent in the amhara province north of the capital , cast a shadow over ethiopia , where a rapid industrialisation drive has created one of africa s fastest growing economies .