boston ( reuters ) - a u.s. judge on wednesday ordered the release of an illegal immigrant who is among 47 indonesians in new hampshire challenging the trump administration s order to deport them .
the man , terry rombot , had been allowed to remain under the terms of a 2010 deal with u.s. immigration and customs enforcement until this year , when president donald trump instructed ice that all people living in the united states illegally were subject to deportation .
rombot , part of a wave of indonesian christians who fled their country following deadly riots in 1998 , learned of the policy change when he appeared for an aug. 1 check-in with ice and was arrested .
he walks out of the courthouse right now , chief u.s. district judge patti saris said after concluding that rombot s detention violated his rights .
he walked out of the u.s. district court in boston in his blue jail scrubs , without a chance to change into street clothes .
rombot s lawyers said he was arrested despite a 2015 letter from ice saying he would have a chance to prepare for an orderly departure .
the judge cited that letter during wednesday s hearing in holding that rombot s detention despite ice s previous guidance violated his due process rights under the u.s. constitution .
this is what intent was , that he would be given the opportunity to leave under his own steam and not under shackles , she said .
outside the courtroom , rombot said : i just want to say thank you to my attorney , my pastor and all of my friends .
the u.s. attorney s office is considering an appeal , a spokeswoman said .
ice officials said the arrangement had always been a temporary one and that the agency always had discretion to deport the people covered by the arrangement .
the indonesians are part of an ethnic community of about 2,000 people clustered around the city of dover in new hampshire s seacoast region .
members of the group and advocates say they fear they could face discrimination or violence if forced to return to the world s largest muslim-majority country .
their cause has drawn the support of republican governor chris sununu and new hampshire s all-democratic congressional delegation , including u.s .
senator jeanne shaheen .
saris previously ordered a stay to the deportations .
she is currently weighing whether she can order a longer delay to give the affected people time to renew their efforts to gain legal status .