edinburgh ( reuters ) - top scottish nationalist alex salmond is under fire for agreeing to host a russia today talkshow , but the man who once sought to split scotland from the united kingdom rejects suggestions he is helping moscow or perceived kremlin mischief-making in europe .
asked whether he was supporting russian-led propaganda , salmond , who lost his seat as a scottish national party ( snp ) lawmaker in britain s june election , said the public could judge for itself .
if it turns out to be kremlin propaganda , then people can slate me .
but why don t they watch the show first and then decide ?
he told the bbc .
the news of his job drew a ticking off from salmond s successor at the head of scotland s devolved government , nicola sturgeon , amid concerns about alleged russian funding links to britain s campaign to leave the european union .
in the united states , a federal investigation is looking into reports of russian meddling in the u.s. election campaign .
moscow denies that it seeks to subvert western democracies .
sturgeon , also leader of the snp , said the show would make interesting viewing , but added she would have advised against the choice of media .
of course , alex is not currently an elected politician and is free to do as he wishes but had i been asked , i would have advised against rt and suggested he seek a different channel , she said , adding : neither myself nor the snp will shy away from criticizing russian policy when we believe it is merited .
scottish liberal democrat lawmaker alex cole-hamilton challenged salmond to interview opponents of president vladimir putin s government on his show and the leader of the scottish conservatives expressed sympathy for her political opponent .
it s not often i feel sorry for nicola sturgeon , but salmond taking the kremlin s rouble on russia today ?
ooft .... ruth davidson , leader of the scottish conservatives , said on twitter .
feelings for and against scottish independence are still key to politics north of the english border , although the drive to sever 300-year old trading and political bonds has stalled as britain negotiates its exit from the european union .
salmond , 63 , is still very influential in the independence movement and is never far from the spotlight with outspoken comments on u.s. president donald trump , brexit and the best way to manage the snp s drive for secession .
i appeared on rt programs when i was still a member of parliament .
it would be a bit strange if , now that i m no longer a member of parliament , i m refusing to make my own show with my own production company over which i have total editorial control , he said .
the russian media group says it covers stories overlooked by the mainstream media , provides alternative perspectives on current affairs , and acquaints international audiences with a russian viewpoint on major global events .