bogota ( reuters ) - colombia s disarmed farc rebels have their eye on forming a political coalition for the 2018 elections , ex-rebel leaders said on friday , as the group marked its transition to a political party with a concert in bogota s central square .
the former revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) , whose political party will be called the revolutionary alternative common force , ended its part in a decades-long war that has killed more than 220,000 people under a 2016 deal which granted amnesty to most of its fighters .
the decision by the group to preserve its famous farc spanish acronym raised eyebrows , given many colombians associate the word with decades of bloodshed .
whether the ex-rebels can convince colombians , many of whom revile them , to back the new party remains to be seen .
the farc will hold 10 automatic seats in congress through 2026 under the terms of the accord and may campaign for others .
both legislative and presidential elections are set for 2018 and the party plans to reach out to ideological allies to try to form a coalition , without abandoning its marxist commitments to land reform and social justice , the group said .
we are continuing , via an exclusively political path , our historic goal and aspiration for a new order of social justice and true democracy in our country , said secretariat member ivan marquez at a closing event for the group s six-day conference to inaugurate the new party .
we want our ideas to be available for a transitional government of reconciliation and peace for the elections in 2018 , whose foundation will be a great democratic coalition , marquez said .
the formal party launch , featuring musical performances and a planned speech by farc leader rodrigo londono , known by his nom de guerre timochenko , took place in bogota s colonial bolivar square on friday in front of a crowd of thousands .
long live peace !
shouted the crowd , as farc members on stage displayed banners reading welcome to political life .
we don t want one more drop of blood for political reasons , we don t want any mother to spill tears because her children suffer violence , londono said .
that s why we don t hesitate to extend our hands in a gesture of forgiveness and reconciliation .
we want a colombia without hate .
londono said the party would focus on fighting corruption and poverty , especially in rural areas , and that politics would not be easy .
our first step now is to present to colombia our political party , its strategic program , our proposal for political action , londono added .
the farc s often old-fashioned marxist rhetoric strikes many as a throwback to their 1964 founding , but concrete proposals for reforms to complicated property laws could get traction with rural voters who struggle as subsistence farmers .
farc leaders have repeatedly expressed fears that members could be targeted for assassinations in a repeat of the 1980s killings of some 5,000 members of the rebel-allied patriotic union party , which grew out of a failed peace process with the government .