jerusalem ( reuters ) - israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu voiced concern over anti-semitism on the left and right in a congratulatory phone call to german chancellor angela merkel on tuesday after an election that returned her to power but brought the far right into parliament .
merkel s conservative bloc remains the largest group in germany s lower house , but bled support in sunday s poll to the far right and may need to cobble together a hitherto untested coalition with environmentalist and liberal parties .
jewish groups in europe and the united states expressed alarm at the success of the nationalist alternative for germany ( afd ) in sunday s ballot and urged other parties not to form an alliance with it .
those parties have pledged to shun the afd .
the afd , which has surged in the two years since merkel opened germany s borders to more than 1 million migrants mainly fleeing middle east wars , says immigration jeopardizes germany s culture but denies it is racist or anti-semitic .
a statement issued by netanyahu s office did not mention the afd by name in calling on merkel s future government to strengthen forces in germany that accept historical responsibility for the nazi holocaust .
it quoted netanyahu as having congratulated merkel on her victory and voicing confidence the special relationship between germany and israel would deepen and prosper under her leadership .
merkel has been germany s chancellor since 2005 .
in the statement , a recap netanyahu gave his cabinet of his conversation with merkel , the conservative israeli leader pointed to anti-semitism as not being solely a threat from the right .
israel is concerned over the rise in anti-semitism in recent years among political elements on the right and the left and also among islamic elements , the statement said , without naming any parties .
last month , netanyahu s 26-year-old son , yair , drew public criticism in israel for suggesting on social media that hard-left organizations now pose more of a danger than neo-nazi groups .
yair netanyahu spoke after a protester was killed during a white nationalist rally in the u.s. state of virginia in august .
u.s. president donald trump stirred controversy at the time by insisting that left-wing protesters who showed up to counter the ultra-rightist rally were also to blame for violence .
the far-right has not been represented in the german parliament since the 1950s , a reflection of german efforts to distance themselves from the horrors of the holocaust .
germany , home today to about 200,000 jews , has built a reputation in recent decades as a tolerant , safe place for jews to live .
but data show anti-semitic crimes reported to german police rose 4 percent to 681 in the first eight months of 2017 from the same period last year .