new york ( reuters ) - hedge funds may have taken too big a bite of apple inc ( aapl.o ) .
shares of the iphone maker are one of the biggest bets among hedge funds , with 47 of them listing apple among their ten largest holdings as of the end of 2015 , according to a report from goldman sachs on march 18 .
at the same time , mutual funds are going the opposite direction : apple is their second-largest underweight holding , meaning the funds invest less of their portfolio in the company than its percentage weighting in the benchmark s & p 500 index .
the difference of opinion on apple , with shares flat year to date , is one reason hedge funds are again lagging .
the average hedge fund was down 3.3 percent through february , while the average large-cap core mutual fund fell just 0.8 percent , according to data from fund tracker morningstar .
mutual funds , meanwhile , have benefited from being overweight in facebook inc ( fb.o ) , cvs health corp ( cvs.n ) , and cisco systems inc ( csco.o ) , according to goldman .
mutual fund managers believe apple no longer enjoys the outsized prospects it had in the past .
“ we ’ ve done very well with this company for a long time but it ’ s so large now that it ’ s becoming impossible for it to move the needle meaningfully ” in terms of revenue growth or profits , said one fund manager from a well-known firm .
the manager , who did not want to be identified because he was not authorized to speak publicly , sold all of his shares in the company .
shares of apple fell 6.5 percent on jan. 27 , the day after the company reported its slowest-ever rise in iphone shipments and forecast quarterly sales declining for the first time in 13 years .
the stock dipped 0.7 percent to $ 105.32 on thursday .
with the higher concentration of hedge funds owning the stock , apple should brace for more activist calls to raise its dividend , offer more share buybacks , or acquire more companies to increase short-term returns , said todd rosenbluth , director of mutual fund research at s & p capital iq .
“ your typical mutual fund manager is going to have more patience than your typical hedge fund manager , who if they have a sizeable stake are going to push for structural or corporate changes to enhance shareholder value , ” he said .
hedge fund bridgewater associates increased its stake in apple by 19 percent during the fourth quarter of 2015 , while tiger global management initiated a position , buying 10.6 million shares in the same period , according to sec filings .
at the same time , well-known activists such as carl icahn and david einhorn have trimmed their positions ..
hedge fund manager morris mark , whose firm mark asset management oversees $ 500 million in assets , said he is maintaining a large position in apple , even as the shares flat line .
he sees the iphone as the gateway into new home-based products .
“ they ’ re going to come out with more services layered on top of this incredible franchise , and you are going to see their entire ecosystem grow , ” he said .