rome ( reuters ) - italian politicians denounced on monday a proposal by austria s new government to offer passports to german-speaking residents of the northern italian province of alto adige .
the idea was included in a 180-page coalition program signed on saturday after weeks of negotiations by austria s anti-immigration freedom party and the conservative people s party .
the accord risked tearing at fragile ethnic fault lines which run through the autonomous area of alto adige , also known as the south tyrol .
get your hands off italy , said giorgia meloni , the head of the right-wing brothers of italy party , which is part of former prime minister silvio berlusconi s center-right opposition bloc .
brothers of italy will raise the barricades in alto adige , in parliament and in every institution , and will ask president ( sergio ) mattarella to stop this undignified insult , she said in a statement .
alto adige was ceded to italy by austria after world war one .
despite moves by fascist dictator benito mussolini to settle thousands of ethnic italians there in the 1920s , german speakers still outnumber italians by around two to one .
italians and germans have their own schools and largely frequent different bars and restaurants .
but the region enjoys enormous autonomy and generous handouts from rome , which have helped dampen secessionist sentiments in the province .
the new austrian government portrayed its plan to offer citizenship to alto adige residents whose first language is german as a pro-european gesture to promote an ever-closer union of citizens of member states .
benedetto della vedova , a junior foreign minister in rome , dismissed this , saying the offer was couched in a velvet glove of europeanism but bore the scent of the ethno-nationalist iron fist .
italian foreign minister angelino alfano was more cautious , saying he would raise the matter at a later date .
it will be a conversation that requires enormous delicacy , he was quoted as saying by ansa agency during a visit to china .