nbc s chuck todd was no match for the astute hhs sec tom price in an interview today on the healthcare bill .
todd tried to get price to badmouth trump at the 6:45 point not gon na happen ! https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=liis3b-tmcuhealth & human services secretary tom price joined nbc s chuck todd today to discuss healthcare but todd tried to get price to bad-mouth the president.chuck todd started out being combative on the healthcare bill and then moved on to bashing president trump.chuck todd goes there : let me ask you about the tone of the president s tweets .
many republicans in the senate condemned the personal attack on mika brzezinski and attacking on her looks .
you have lindsey graham saying it was beneath the office .
ben sasse , this isn t normal .
jeff flake , beneath the dignity of the presidency .
susan collins begging , this has to stop .
lisa murkowski begging , this has to stop .
does his behavior bother you ?
hhs sec tom price wasn t about to go there and handled the uncomfortable situation beautifully : well , what i m concentrated on is the job that he s given me .
and that is to make certain that we fulfill the mission of the department of health and human services , which is to improve the health , safety , and well-being of the american people .
and there are a whole array of activities that we re undertaking .
one of them is this piece of legislation that s in the senate right now .
but my job is consumed by making certain that we fulfill the mission at the department .
todd follows up with this rude question : i m just asking you as a father .
if your son tweeted about a woman like that , what would you say to him ?
price fired back : chuck , you know , this is really remarkable .
you ve got incredible challenges across this nation , incredible challenges around the world .
the challenge that i ve been given is to address the health care issues .
and your program , a program with the incredible history of meet the press , and that s what you want to talk about ?
let me suggest to you that the american people want to talk about the challenges .
chuck todd then tried to twist and spin his way out of the corner he just painted himself into : mr. secretary , with all due respect , you re blaming me for what the president of the united states has spent his entire week focused on ?
haha !
chuck todd steps in it with that comment price buries him with this last comment : no , listen to me , with all due respect .
the american people are concerned about a health care system that is not providing choices , where premiums are going up , where insurance companies are vacating markets all across this land .
and that s what they want us to concentrate on .
and that s what they want us to fix .
and that s what i and the president are working on .
boom !