an anonymous post translated into english has touched a nerve in germany .
a 50-year old woman describes her life with the flood of refugees and how she can not trust her government anymore .
note the many similarities with america under obama .
( r sum of a german woman ) i am almost 50 years old , i have a university degree , and was out of love for nature always a trusted voter for the green party .
i never felt much interest for politics .
in germany everything seemed to always go its natural regular course .
i had trusted our parliamentary democracy , i thought our administration would hardly make mistakes , because it is controlled by the opposition .
never , absolutely never did i think that i would lose all my trust in the state .
it s unbearable that i am afraid of the future .
preferably i d just like to leave .
but i feel to old to leave europe.what country would even take me anymore ?
i am not a shameless african that just seats himself in a refugee boat .
i would properly apply to the respective immigration authority .
but my chances are close to zero .
i am like most europeans damned to impotence as i see this invasion happen.when , about ten years ago , a friend of mine emigrated to australia , i felt sorry for her .
how could one leave our beautiful europe ?
a continent with such wonderful nature and culture .
i would ve never even thought of this .
today i know : she did the right thing.i am becoming depressed in europe .
our defenselessness shocks me .
the failure to act by our politicians drowns my mind in a fog of powerlessness .
i have not read any of sarrazin s books , so as not to upset myself even more .
everything i read , in just our daily newspapers , is enough for me already.the euro is a complete nightmare .
the illegal immigration is a complete nightmare .
but the single largest outrage is the political correctness which disables us from criticizing these immense breaches of law.we , that is us adult and mature citizens , who are in this way disenfranchised .
when i went to school , i was taught critical thinking .
what good is that to me now ? meanwhile i hate the green party .
they are asinine and dopey , and they are shameless .
just like the spd and the cdu .
they expect that we get up at 6 am in the morning and encourage our children to succeed , just so that they will wear themselves out like us in order to be able to keep on financing this daily madness .
and soon until we re 73 years old .
[ translator : germany plans to raise retirement age to 73 ] .
but a state that provides no more stability , can no more expect of its citizens to function at full capacity .
with each pot hole i drive through , with each african that i see loitering around , my motivation tanks more.what does our politics even still have to offer to us ?
legalization of hemp probably so that we can withstand daily life in this insane country !
other than that there is nothing innovative on the program .
i have looked at it all .
because i am looking for a new party that i can vote for.i want the deutsche mark back and that the outer borders of the eu are being protected .
i don t want more than that .
is that too much to ask for ? also , a video below shows a trend of germans moving to hungary to escape the refugees .
note how the people who ve moved are made out to be the ones in the wrong for being fearful .
the leftist media does the same thing in america .
this despicable leftist media hit piece still shows , despite itself , how bad it is in germany if nice , hard working germans are ready to leave everything familiar and move to hungary.this is an important news piece for a couple of reasons.the obvious is that large numbers of established germans are moving from the comfort of their own culture , friends and family to hungary , which says a lot about the pressure they feel at home.the second is the german media s attempt to make them appear not as they are , victims of merkel s insane policies , but as somehow villains for making those policies look bad by leaving .