washington/seattle ( reuters ) - u.s. companies signed business deals with vietnam worth over $ 8 billion on wednesday , including power projects and jet engines from general electric co ( ge.n ) and diesel generator technology from caterpillar ( cat.n ) , the commerce department said .
the 13 deals were announced as vietnamese prime minister nguyen xuan phuc met with u.s. president donald trump as part of a three-day , trade-focused trip to the united states .
u.s. commerce secretary wilbur ross , who has pledged to shrink u.s. trade deficits , said the transactions would include $ 3.4 billion in u.s. produced content that would support 23,000 jobs .
but the trump administration still wants more work from vietnam to bring down a rapidly growing $ 32 billion trade surplus with the united states , said murray hiebert , a southeast asia expert at the center for strategic and international studies in washington .
“ i heard from u.s. officials ahead of the trip that just signing deals with u.s. companies was nice but not enough , ” hiebert said .
ge said on wednesday it had signed deals in vietnam worth about $ 5.58 billion for power generation , aircraft engines and services , its largest single combined sale with the country in ge ’ s history .
ge ’ s agreement with vietjet aviation jsc vjc.hm includes 20 jet engines made by cfm international , a joint venture of ge and safran sa ( saf.pa ) of france .
it also includes a 12-year engine service contract for 215 leap-1b engines on 100 boeing 737 max aircraft that vietjet has ordered , ge said .
ge ’ s power unit signed a memorandum of understanding to build two 750-megawatt gas fired turbine power plants in conjunction with state energy group petrovietnam , using the blue whale gas field .
ge also signed a joint development agreement to erect an 800-megawatt wind power facility .
partners in the agreement are phu cuong group and international mainstream renewable power , ge said .
honeywell ( hon.n ) also signed a $ 100 million deal to supply vietjet with 98 auxiliary power units for the airline ’ s new fleet of airbus ( air.pa ) a320 aircraft , including maintenance for 12 years .
caterpillar and its dealer in vietnam , phu thai cat , agreed to provide generator management technology for more than 100 generators in vietnam , the company said .
the technology would allow for remote function monitoring including fuel , temperature and pressure .
the value of the caterpillar deal was not disclosed .
hilton worldwide ( hlt.n ) signed a deal worth $ 650 million to manage a 610-room dual-branded hotel in vietnam , while port security firm passport systems inc signed a deal worth $ 1 billion , with $ 420 million in u.s. content , commerce said .