washington ( reuters ) - the chairman of the u.s. senate foreign relations committee said on wednesday he did not expect congress to lift the half-century-long embargo against cuba this year but it could happen under a new president , if there are changes in havana .
president barack obama has been moving quickly toward more normal relations with havana in the past 14 months but the crippling trade embargo is one of the remaining major obstacles .
“ it ’ s not going to happen this year but i think it ’ s something that could happen as we move into a new president ( ‘ s administration ) , ” republican senator bob corker told journalists at a breakfast sponsored by the christian science monitor .
“ if cuba were to evolve its behavior and people were able to see results from what ’ s happening with the executive order changes that are occurring , then i think it ’ s possible , ” he said .
obama and cuban president raul castro announced in december 2014 that they would normalize relations after decades of hostility .
those changes have been strongly opposed by many congressional republicans , who say cuba needs to do more to improve human rights before trade is eased .
obama , a democrat , has used his executive powers to ease restrictions on travel and trade .
his administration just announced that next month obama would become the first u.s. president to visit havana since 1928 .
but the u.s. trade embargo , imposed on the communist-ruled nation in 1960 , can not be lifted without congressional approval .
republicans control congress and although several agree with the overwhelming majority of democrats who want the embargo ended , the party ’ s congressional leaders are strongly opposed .
corker has not taken a position but has noted in the past that the embargo has not changed cuban policy .
the politics are more complicated because two cuban-american senators vying for the republican presidential nomination , marco rubio and ted cruz , are vocal opponents of obama ’ s policy and party leaders are unlikely to come out against them during the campaign .
corker said things are already changing , although havana still needs to change .
“ to me it appears that things are gradually moving along .
we have air flights that are now going in , and it seems to me that this is going to be a year where those things take hold , ” corker said .
“ obviously there ’ s still tremendous human rights abuses that are taking place in cuba , ” he said .