houston ( reuters ) - u.s. treasury secretary steven mnuchin on sunday challenged congress to raise the government ’ s debt limit in order to free up relief spending for hurricane harvey , a disaster that the governor of texas said had caused up to $ 180 billion in damage .
harvey , which came ashore on aug. 25 as the most powerful hurricane to hit texas in more than 50 years , has killed an estimated 50 people , displaced more than 1 million and damaged some 200,000 homes in a path of destruction stretching for more than 300 miles ( 480 km ) .
as the city of houston and the region ’ s critical energy infrastructure began to recover nine days after the storm hit , the debate over how to pay for the disaster played out in washington .
texas governor greg abbott estimated damage at $ 150 billion to $ 180 billion , calling it more costly than hurricanes katrina or sandy , which devastated new orleans in 2005 and new york in 2012 .
the administration of president donald trump has asked congress for an initial $ 7.85 billion for recovery efforts , a fraction of what will eventually be needed .
even that amount could be delayed unless congress quickly increases the government ’ s debt ceiling , mnuchin said , as the united states is on track to hit its mandated borrowing limit by the end of the month unless congress increases it .
“ without raising the debt limit , i am not comfortable that we will get money to texas this month to rebuild , ” mnuchin told fox news .
republican lawmakers , who control both houses of congress , have traditionally resisted raising the debt ceiling , but linking the issue to harvey aid could force their hand with people suffering and large areas of the fourth-largest u.s. city under water .
beyond the immediate funding , any massive aid package faces budget pressures at a time when trump is advocating for tax reform or tax cuts , leading some on capitol hill to suggest aid may be released in a series of appropriations .
katrina set the record by costing u.s. taxpayers more than $ 110 billion .
in advocating for funds to help rebuild his state , abbott said damage from harvey would exceed that .
houston mayor sylvester turner said the city expected most public services and businesses to be restored by tuesday , the first day after monday ’ s labor day holiday .
“ over 95 percent of the city is now dry .
and i ’ m encouraging people to get up and let ’ s get going , ” turner told nbc news .
even so , houston mandated the evacuation of thousands of people on the western side of town on sunday to accommodate the release of water from two reservoirs that otherwise might sustain damage .
the storm stalled over houston , dumping more than 50 inches ( 1.3 m ) on the region .
houston cut off power to homes on sunday to encourage evacuations .
the area was closed off on sunday and military vehicles were stationed on the periphery to take people out .
karen waltmon , 58 , who was returning to her home in one of the neighborhoods , said she wondered if parts of the city would have to be razed .
“ i feel a lot of houston is drying out , and i don ’ t want them to forget about us , ” she said .
about 37,000 refugees stayed overnight in 270 shelters in texas plus another 2,000 in seven louisiana shelters , the highest number reported by the american red cross .
some 84,700 homes and businesses were without power on sunday , down from a peak of around 300,000 , according to the region ’ s major electric companies .
in crosby , texas , an arkema ( ake.pa ) chemical plant that ran out of electricity needed to keep volatile organic peroxide refrigerated will burn the remaining containers as a “ proactive measure , ” company and harris county fire officials said in a statement .
officials last week evacuated residents and set up a 1.5-mile ( 2.4-km ) perimeter around the area .
energy disruptions pushed up gasoline futures to a two-year high ahead of the holiday weekend , but major refineries started to come back online on friday .
colonial pipeline , the biggest u.s. fuel system , expects to reopen a texas segment of its network on monday , when it will resume transporting distillates from houston to hebert , texas , the company said on sunday , adding that it would be ready to start moving gasoline on tuesday .
those repairs would restore to normal colonial ’ s entire pipeline from houston to linden , new jersey , relieving shortages between texas and the u.s. northeast .