caracas ( reuters ) - venezuela has arrested diego salazar , a relative of former oil czar rafael ramirez , as part of an investigation into a money laundering scandal in andorra , the south american country s state prosecutor said on friday night .
president nicolas maduro is overseeing what his administration calls a crusade against corruption in the member of the organization of the petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) .
some 65 oil executives have been detained in a deepening purge that could also see the leftist leader consolidate his grip over the energy sector and sideline rivals .
the salazar case appears to relate to what the united states in 2015 said were some $ 2 billion in laundered funds from venezuelan state oil company petr leos de venezuela , s.a. [ pdvsa.ul ] , known as pdvsa , at the private bank banca privada d andorra ( bpa ) .
saab did not specify salazar s role or details on the money laundering , except that it involved around 1.35 billion euros in 2011 and 2012 , but he said the case was bound to grow .
i want to highlight that this citizen will likely not be the only one detained and the only one investigated , saab said in a phone call to state television announcing the arrest .
the arrest is bound to cast the spotlight on ramirez , who was the powerful head of pdvsa and the oil ministry for a decade before maduro demoted him as a envoy to the united nations in 2014 .
a protracted rivalry between maduro and ramirez has increased in the recent weeks , sources close to the situation said this week , especially after ramirez wrote online opinion articles criticizing pdvsa s production slump and the government s handling of venezuela s crisis-hit economy .
maduro sacked ramirez , who was thought to have presidential ambitions , from his job this week and summoned him back to caracas from new york , the people with knowledge of the situation said .
ramirez and pdvsa did not respond to a request for comment on friday .
salazar could not immediately be reached for comment .