bill clinton has been accused of multiple rapes and sexual assaults against several women .
bill s only punishment to date , is being married to hillary .
no matter what he s done , or what he may still be doing , bill clinton continues to be a rock star in the democrat party.today , fox news has announced that bill o reilly has been fired : fox news is parting ways with bill o reilly , who for years stood as one of cable news most popular hosts .
the network s parent company , 21st century fox , announced the move wednesday in a statement .
after a thorough and careful review of the allegations , the company and bill o reilly have agreed that bill o reilly will not be returning to the fox news channel , the statement read.the host s top-rated program , the o reilly factor , had recently suffered an exodus of advertisers amid revelations that o reilly , fox news and 21st century fox quietly paid out roughly $ 13 million in settlements to five women who had accused him of sexual harassment .
nprhere is a statement from bill o reilly s attorney marc e kasowitz : that evidence will be put forth shortly and is irrefutable.last week bill o reilly announced that he d be taking a two week vacation .
he made it clear in his announcement that there was nothing unusual about his planned vacation .
that was last week .
this week , his lengthy reign as fox news top personality has come to an end .
was it the advertisers who removed their ads from his show after caving to pressure from the left , or was it rupert murdoch s liberal son james who influenced their decision ? it s interesting how conservatives in politics and in media are so willing to jump on the opposing team when it comes to destroying one of their own .
democrats , and those in the leftist media will literally lay down on the tracks when it comes to defending one of the key players on their team .
when nbc s brian williams was caught red-handed lying several times to viewers about his phony interactions with the news while he was reporting , he simply took a brief vacation then came back as a host on their sister station msnbc .
it was almost like nothing ever happened.when hillary clinton s husband , former president bill clinton was accused of raping and sexually assaulting several women throughout the course of his political career , democrats laughed at and mocked his accusers .
juanita broaddrick was especially vocal about bill clinton raping her during hillary s campaign .
thanks to donald trump , she was finally able to tell the media her story and how hillary enabled bill to continue to sexually assaulting women .
hillary s fans paid no attention to broaddrick , the media and the democrat party had already discredited her.with the exception of donald trump ( who wouldn t allow anyone to falsely malign him or his character ) , if a woman makes an accusation of sexual assault or advances against a high-profile conservative media personality or politician , one can pretty much be assured they ll be removed from their position with approval of their fellow conservatives in short-order.it s the age old question : why are conservatives so willing to eat their own ?
when will we learn to rally around our own and stop allowing the left to destroy anyone who s capable of harming them and their agenda ?
bill o reilly is the top-rated conservative personality on the top-rated conservative-leaning news organization .
where is the outrage from viewers ?
why are we assuming these allegations are true because the left tells us they are ?
as a woman , i am keenly aware that we have a lot of power when it comes to destroying a man s career in the hostile anti-male environment we re living in today .
i d actually like to see bill o reilly go to court over these allegations and not quietly settle them behind closed doors .
perhaps his conservative viewers should have given him the benefit of the doubt , and maybe fox news should have considered defending him to the leftists who wanted his hide james murdoch also pushed to fire roger ailes amid last summer s sex scandal , and sources think he could be successful in weeding out o reilly this time around .
the new york magazine reported earlier today that the murdoch family has decided to pull the o reilly factor off air amid allegations of sexual harassment against prime-time host bill o reilly , and will soon be officially announcing his departure , according to sources close to gabriel sherman in new york magazine.according to sherman , the decision was primarily driven by rupert murdoch s sons , james and lachlan , after the new york times reported earlier this month that $ 13 million has been paid out from either fox news or o reilly to five women to settle their sexual harassment claims against the host in lieu of litigation , despite o reilly s denying the veracity of their claims.fox news executives are reportedly meeting on wednesday to discuss how to contain any damage from an o reilly dismissal .
o reilly , who is currently on vacation , has hosted the network s most popular show the o reilly factor since the network s inception in 1996 and remains the country s highest-rated cable news host.sherman reports that the board of fox news parent company , 21st century fox , is scheduled to meet on thursday to discuss the matter .
decisions are now being made as to whether o reilly will be allowed a final show to bid farewell to his audience .
they are also discussing the terms of his release , with o reilly recently having signed a new long-term $ 20 million a year contract.executives within the company are also discussing who will fill o reilly s primetime 8 pm slot , with hosts such as eric bolling , dana perino , and tucker carlson currently under consideration .
breitbart news