barcelona ( reuters ) - catalonia s regional leader opened the door to a unilateral declaration of independence from spain on sunday after voters defied a violent police crackdown and , according to regional officials , voted 90 percent in favor of breaking away .
despite spanish police using batons and rubber bullets to disrupt the banned referendum , which was declared unconstitutional by madrid , the catalan government said 2.26 million people had cast ballots , a turnout of about 42 percent .
carles puigdemont s comments followed a television address by spanish prime minister mariano rajoy who ruled out independence and accused separatists of trying to blackmail ... the whole nation .
he offered all-party talks on the region s future .
catalan officials say more than 800 people were injured in clashes with spanish riot police during the referendum , which has pitched the country into its deepest constitutional crisis in decades and deepened a rift between madrid and barcelona .
on this day of hope and suffering , catalonia s citizens have earned the right to have an independent state in the form of a republic , puigdemont said in a televised address .
my government , in the next few days will send the results of today s vote to the catalan parliament , where the sovereignty of our people lies , so that it can act in accordance with the law of the referendum , he said .
the law of the referendum , deemed unconstitutional by madrid , foresees a unilateral declaration of independence by the catalan parliament if the majority votes to leave spain .
the law does not set a minimum turnout for the outcome to be valid .
the results announced early on monday were not a surprise , given that many unionists were not expected to turn out to vote .
earlier in the day , the streets of catalonia , an industrial and tourism powerhouse accounting for a fifth of spain s economy , erupted into violence as national police burst into polling stations with batons , dragging voters away .
the action drew criticism at home and abroad .
british foreign secretary boris johnson voiced worries over the violence while backing madrid s view that the vote was unconstitutional .
spain s deputy prime minister said force used by the police had been proportionate .
the absolute irresponsibility of the regional government has had to be met by the security forces of the state , said soraya saenz de santamaria .
the euro lost about a third of a u.s. cent after the violence-marred vote before steadying .
it touched a low of $ 1.1776 in thin asian trade but soon steadied at $ 1.1801 .
in the run-up to the referendum , puigdemont had said he would move to a declaration of independence within 48 hours of a yes vote .
but the fragmented nature of the polling , with many voting stations closed , could complicate any move to a formal declaration .
puigdemont called on europe to step in to make sure fundamental rights were fully respected .
in another sign tensions would endure beyond the vote , secessionist groups and trade unions in catalonia called a general strike for tuesday , la vanguardia newspaper said .
catalan officials said 844 people had been injured in the police crackdown and the spanish interior ministry said 12 police officers had been hurt .
i propose that all political parties with parliamentary representation meet and , together , reflect on the future we all face , rajoy said in his televised address .
opinion polls had shown around 40 percent of the northeastern region wanted independence from spain although a majority were in favor of a referendum on the issue .
national police sent in to catalonia for the referendum swept into polling stations , hitting people with batons , firing rubber bullets into crowds and forcibly removing would-be voters from polling stations , some dragged away by their hair .
regardless of views on independence , we should all condemn the scenes being witnessed and call on spain to change course before someone is seriously hurt , scotland s pro-independence leader , nicola sturgeon , said on twitter .
despite the national police action , some polling stations remained open , especially in areas supervised by the catalan police force which adopted much milder tactics .
i m so pleased because despite all the hurdles they ve put up , i ve managed to vote , said teresa , a 72-year-old pensioner in barcelona who had stood in line for six hours to vote .
the ballot will have no legal status as it has been blocked by spain s constitutional court which ruled it at odds with the 1978 constitution that effectively restored democracy in spain after the dictatorship of general francisco franco .