budapest ( reuters ) - the head of the united nations refugee agency praised the european union s refugee quota system for member states on tuesday and urged hungary to drop its resistance to taking in its fair share of migrants .
hungarian prime minister viktor orban is facing criticism over his continued refusal to change his anti-immigration stance despite a ruling by the european union s top court this month upholding the bloc s quota system .
my impression is there is a very clear intention to limit the number of people coming to hungary to seek protection , u.n. high commissioner for refugees filippo grandi said during a visit to budapest .
grandi said the eu s quota system , introduced at the height of the migrant crisis in europe in 2015 , provided a model for other countries worldwide .
this was an eu decision ... we agree with that decision , he said .
it was a very good example of sharing that responsibility .
it could be used globally ...
forced displacement is a global phenomenon like climate change .
you can only address it through global solutions and solidarity .
grandi , who earlier in the day visited a camp on the serbian border where migrants are detained while their asylum cases are pending , said razor wire fences and tough legal measures conveyed the wrong message that asylum was a crime .
german chancellor angela merkel , whose country took in the bulk of the migrants who entered the eu in 2015-16 , has also urged hungary to implement the eu court ruling .
grandi warned eu states in april not to send asylum seekers back to hungary until budapest amended a law that allows it to detain migrants at its border .
eu rules allow member states to return refugees to the first safe country they reached on entering the 28-nation bloc .
orban has branded migrants - most of whom are muslims from the middle east and north africa - a threat to europe s historic christian identity and a trojan horse for terrorism , and he has defended the asylum centers on hungary s border .
grandi said migrants held there were not being mistreated but added that limitations on their freedom of movement while their cases are pending , especially for minors , raised problems .
material conditions , food , medical care water , hygiene is acceptable , he said .
the problem is the detention aspect .
people are treated well but in a confined situation .