hanoi ( reuters ) - vietnam braced for typhoon khanun on monday after destructive floods battered the country s north and center last week , killing 72 people , the disaster prevention agency said .
last week s floods were the worst in years , the government and state-run vietnam television said , with thousands of homes submerged .
another 200 houses collapsed and several towns remain cut off by the floodwater .
the floods also damaged more than 22,000 hectares ( 54,300 acres ) of rice .
vietnam is the world s third-largest exporter of rice and the second-biggest producer of coffee , although the floods have not affected the southeast asian nation s coffee belt .
eighteen people from the hardest-hit province of hoa binh in the north were buried by a landslide , but only thirteen bodies have been found , vietnam s disaster agency said .
the government has said it is fixing dykes , dams and roads damaged by last week s flood and is preparing for typhoon khanun , which is expected to cause heavy rain in northern and central vietnam from monday .
it has also warned ships and boats to avoid the approaching typhoon .
vietnam is prone to destructive storms and flooding due to its long coastline .
a typhoon wreaked havoc across central provinces last month .
floods have also affected nine out of 77 provinces in thailand , vietnam s neighbor to the west .
three people had been killed in flooding since last tuesday , thailand s disaster agency said on monday .
the thai capital , bangkok , was hit by heavy rain at the weekend , with gridlocked traffic bringing parts of the city to a standstill .
bangkok has often been described as the venice of the east because of its many waterways .
however , the floods prompted criticism of bangkok s city government , with some social media users accusing authorities of not managing water levels in canals properly .
the city government defended itself , saying it was working closely with the irrigation department .
thailand suffered its worst flood in five decades in 2011 , with hundreds of people killed , industrial estates engulfed and key industries crippled .