reykjavik ( reuters ) - angry over a string of political scandals , icelanders may usher a long dominant center-right party out of the exit door in national elections on saturday , handing power to a charismatic center-left opposition leader .
katr n jakobsd ttir , 41 , of the left-green movement , has campaigned on a platform of restoring trust in government and leveraging an economic boom to increase public spending .
with hair slick down , red lipstick , black coat and heels , jakobsd ttir cast her vote in sunny reykjavik .
i m feeling very good about today , and i ll have to be optimistic , she told reuters after casting her vote .
accompanied by her husband and three sons , she cheerfully took time to mingle with voters , who headed to polls on a for iceland warm autumn day of about 7 celsius ( 45 fahrenheit ) .
in the second snap parliamentary election in a year , the latest opinion polls showed her trailing prime minister bjarni benediktsson s pro-business independence party by a small margin .
both parties have polled around 20 percent for most of october .
whichever wins will likely nominate a prime minister who will then be invited to form a coalition government .
i think this will be an exciting election night as there has been a lot of movement in the polls , jakobsd ttir said .
we ll be waiting until the morning hours , i won t go to bed until six in the morning .
the independence party has been part of every government since 1980 , except the coalition that served during the crisis years of 2009-2013 , which included the left-greens , with jakobsdottir as education minister .
in her favor this time is the fact that the left-leaning social democrats are likely to become the third-biggest party. , and that icelanders appear as primed for change as at any time in recent memory .
the nordic island of 340,000 people , one of the countries hit hardest by the 2008 global financial crisis , has staged a remarkable economic turnaround spurred by tourism .
but scandals , a growing sense of inequality and worries over immigration threaten stability in one of the world s most homogeneous nations .
benediktsson has been weakened by fallout from an attempt by his father to vouch for the character of a convicted pedophile .
the previous snap election took place late in 2016 , after the panama papers revelations showed several government figures involved in an offshore tax haven scandal .
that gave a boost to the anti-establishment pirate party but its support has since waned .
forming a government this time could take months , as polls show a further five parties winning more than the five percent of votes needed to enter parliament .
i just hope something changes , and there ll be more cooperation , said ingunn erlendsd ttir , 73 , a retired ministry employee .
we are only a small nation of just over 300,000 , and we need to stand together , said the pensioner , adding that she has traditionally voted for the right but this time cast her ballot for a left-wing party .
known for her even temper , jakobsdottir quickly became a popular figure in iceland after being elected to parliament in 2007 , and is one of the few high-profile politicians who have avoided scandal .
our campaign has been fun , and we ve taken it you could say back to the roots .
walking door to door , having meetings and meeting people in the real world , she said .
while most parties agree that investment is needed in areas like welfare , infrastructure and tourism , the debate is around how it will be financed .
the left-leaning parties , including jakobsd ttir s , want to finance spending by raising taxes on the wealthy , real estate and the powerful fishing industry .
having presided over the privatization of banks , financial sector liberalization and the economy s collapse and eventual economic recovery during its several stints in power , the independence party has said it wants to fund infrastructure spending by taking money out of the banking sector .