before we get too far into this story , it needs to be pointed out that the 18 year old teen who was just sentenced by a judge for having a homemade nazi tattoo , was only 15 years old at the time , and has since admitted he made a mistake .
the afghan rapefugee on the other hand , was 17 years old when he brutally raped a 72 year old woman .
so basically , we re comparing a 15 year old who was utilizing his freedom of expression ( whether we agree with him or not is irrelevant ) with a violent 17 year old rapist.an 18-year-old afghan refugee was sentenced to 20 months in prison for the anal rape of a 72-year-old woman .
now the austrian justice system has once again shown us its quality .
a 20-year-old , who was 15 at the time , the offence was committed , has just been sentenced to 19 months in prison for giving a home-made swastika tattoo.three young people have been found guilty of engaging in nazi activities after they drew nazi tattoos and posted photos of them online.a 20-year-old , who was found to have a german war flag used by the nazis and portraits of nazi socialists in his room , was sentenced by a youth court in salzburg to 19 months in prison , three months unconditional.he and a 19-year-old accomplice were found guilty of using a pin and eyeliner to tattoo a hand-sized swastika onto someone s chest and then posting the photos online.in addition to the tattooing , the 20-year-old was also accused of shouting nazi slogans out of his window and singing the song polaken-tango by the banned neo-nazi rock group landser in front of his brother and his brother s girlfriend.he was arrested after his brother called the police , who found him in his room wrapped in the war flag and surrounded by photos of prominent nazis.he told the court that he regretted his actions , which took place in august 2011 when he was 15-years-old , and that he had now changed.pleading guilty , he said : i now know that this is nonsense .
he was charged separately for his facebook account , where he also posted pictures of himself making nazi salutes , which he told judge bettina maxones-kurkowski he had done to show others that he belongs here .
via : the localon wednesday at the state court in vienna s neustadt an 18-year-old afghan was sentenced to 20 months in prison without parole for rape .
he also has to pay 5000 euros compensation to the 72-year-old woman , who has been very marked by the attack.the incident on 1 september last year created a sensation : the penioner was walking her old dog in the schwechat meadow near traiskirchen in lower austria , when she encountered two young asylum seekers swimming in the river .
according to an acquaintance of the victim in the witness stand , the boys were also very nice at first , they even helped the woman over an embankment .
but then one them fell upon her from behind .
however , dna traces confirmed that the pensioner was anally raped .
the then 17-year-old afghan was quickly caught .
he does not dispute the crime , but says he was drunk .
his friend says he wasn t aware of the rape.her daughter sylvia a committed refugee helper believes and hopes that her mother was unconscious during the crime .
what does christine f. feel for her tormentor ?
despite all of the torment , she even feels some sympathy .