beirut ( reuters ) - u.s.-backed militias in syria said they have formed a joint military center with the iraqi army to protect their common border region after ousting islamic state militants .
commanders of the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias , met with iraqi military leaders on sunday .
they discussed protecting the syrian-iraqi border in the region adjacent to deir al-zor province , and how to finally eradicate daesh mercenaries there , the sdf said in a statement .
daesh is an arabic acronym for islamic state .
the two sides decided to form a joint coordination center to guarantee the security of the border , it said .
last week , the sdf declared victory in its assault in syria s deir al-zor , which borders iraq .
the offensive focused on seizing territory east of the euphrates river that bisects the oil-rich province .
the kurdish-led sdf has been battling for months with the help of jets and special forces from the u.s.-led coalition against islamic state ( is ) .
on the other side , iraqi forces recaptured the last swathes of territory still under islamic state control along the frontier with syria on saturday and secured the western desert .
it marked the end of the war against is , three years after they overran about a third of iraq s territory .
iraqi forces who fought is came from the army , air force , police , elite counter-terrorism forces as well as shi ite and sunni paramilitaries and kurdish peshmerga fighters .
they received key air support from the u.s.-led global coalition .
syrian government forces and their allies , backed by russian air power , have taken most of the remaining areas of deir al-zor province .
they are mostly on the western side of the euphrates , while the sdf is on the eastern bank .
russia and the united states set up a communications channel to reduce the chance of fighting between the two rival campaigns against islamic state .
forces arrayed against islamic state in iraq and syria now anticipate a new phase of guerrilla warfare .
colonel ryan dillon , spokesman for the coalition , said iraqi security forces and the sdf had linked up at their shared stretch of the frontier on sunday .
secure international border protects iraqis ( and ) syrians from remnant daesh movement into ( and ) across the region as terrorist fighters/leaders attempt to flee the battlefield , he wrote on twitter .