dem .
candidate for georgia congressional seat @ ossoff : not an issue i don t live in district , can t vote for myself https : //t.co/rcx3mnqmtd new day ( @ newday ) april 18 , 2017democrats used the anger and fury of their progressive base , including hate-filled hollywood actor samuel l. jackson , to stir up emotions in voters as a way to encourage them to the show up at the polls in georgia yesterday .
they failed listen to disgusting hollywood actor/radical activist samuel l. jackson tell voters in a state where he doesn t even live to go vote vote for the democratic party .
stop donald trump , the man who encourages racial and religious discrimination and sexism .
remember what happened the last time people stayed home .
we got stuck with trump !
we have to channel the great vengeance and fury that we have for this administration into votes at the ballot box .
ossoff led an 18-candidate field of republicans , democrats and independents , the entire slate placed on a single ballot to choose a successor to republican tom price , who resigned to join trump s administration as health secretary.but ossoff fell just shy of the majority required to claim georgia s 6th congressional district outright , opening the door to handel , who finished a distant second but ahead of a gaggle of republican contenders.the investigative filmmaker and former congressional staffer received 48.1 per cent of the vote on tuesday he needed 50 per cent to avoid a runoff .
handel , meanwhile , received 19.8 per cent of the vote.the rest of the vote was split between several other democrats and republicans , as well as two independents.here s what president trump had to say on twitter about the democrats failed efforts to embarrass him : despite major outside money , fake media support and eleven republican candidates , big `` r '' win with runoff in georgia .
glad to be of help !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) april 19 , 2017dems failed in kansas and are now failing in georgia .
great job karen handel !
it is now hollywood vs. georgia on june 20th .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) april 19 , 2017in total , democrats received 49 per cent of the vote , republicans received 51 per cent of the vote .
daily mailif republicans are going to maintain their majority in the house and senate , perhaps they need to take a few pages from the democratic playbook .
the democrats are fighting for their lives this is no time for the republicans to sit back and take their majority for granted.republican resources were split between eleven republican contenders .
the most prolific fundraising candidate among them raised less than $ 500,000 , not even ten percent of the amount ossoff raised.the republican establishment , initially caught flat-footed , ended up spending over $ 5 million in advertising against ossoff in the last weeks of the campaign , but it never caught up in the all-important ground game , which typically consists of a positive voter engagement on behalf of a single specific candidate rather than a negative attack on a single candidate.in retrospect , republicans failed to recognize the unique opportunity the jungle primary provided democrats who focused all their support behind one candidate .
republican leadership could have made a similar choice from among their eleven candidates , but did not do so .
they did , in the end , get some help from the republican establishment in washington .
republicans in georgia sounded the alarm several weeks ago , prompting $ 2 million in spending from the nrcc to help boost republican turnout and counter democrats energy .
the congressional leadership fund , the super pac aligned with house leadership , also dumped in $ 3 million of its own money and dispatched on-the-ground staffers to the district , politico reported.speaker ryan , however , who has the responsibility to support republican candidates in the house , did not see the risk of a democratic victory in georgia until it was too late.in fact , he was not even in the united states on tuesday .
instead , he was in europe , leading a bi-partisan congressional delegation.for entire story : breitbart