new york ( reuters ) - republican frontrunner donald trump has upended the presidential primaries this year by relying heavily on free air time and twitter at the expense of local-ad buying , throwing into question estimates that the november presidential election could translate into $ 6 billion spent on tv advertising .
now , with no trump tv ads scheduled going into the 11-state super tuesday primaries , some investors and analysts are growing increasingly concerned that trump could continue with an advertising-light strategy built on bruising debate performances and large rallies - often shown on cable tv - even if he wins the republican party nomination .
“ for the broadcast industry , which has pinned its 2016 on local tv ad spend , you have to believe that someone who is pretty amazing at leveraging the power of social media would be a real problem for television , ” said media analyst rich greenfield with new york-based equity firm btig research .
“ i think trump elevates that to a whole new level. ” so far , some $ 10-million has been spent on advertising for donald trump , compared with $ 32 million for hillary clinton , $ 49 million for marco rubio , and almost $ 85 million for jeb bush , according to data from ad age .
bush dropped out of the republican contest earlier this month after trailing badly .
“ i would be worried if i was a broadcaster if trump won , ” said media industry analyst michael nathanson with moffettnathanson research .
trump ’ s decision to steer clear of political action committees and use most of his own money makes it hard to assume that he will act like a traditional candidate , he said .
the concern over trump ’ s impact comes at a time when shares of many broadcasters who were counting on a strong political advertising market are hurting .
so far this year , shares of nexstar broadcasting group inc are down 23.9 percent , gray television inc ’ s stock has fallen 29.2 percent , and shares of e.w .
scripps co , which wells fargo analyst marci ryvicker had previously pegged as one of the most likely to benefit from political spending , are down 9.2 percent .
wells cut its outlook for scripps on monday .
“ it ’ s just not looking like the kind of environment that we were counting on , ” said one prominent small-cap fund manager who says he has been selling shares of e.w .
scripps because of trump ’ s candidacy .
he did not want to give his name because his trades are not yet public .
broadcasters , like all media companies , have also been hurt by the growing trend of consumers canceling their cable subscriptions , a practice known as “ cord cutting , ” not to mention an economy that has been less than robust .
to be sure , some analysts caution that it is still relatively early in the election cycle , and that trump will likely pivot to a more advertising-heavy campaign should he become the republican nominee , especially as he is likely to face a battery of tv ad attacks from clinton , who is widely expected to be the democrat candidate .
any pullback in spending on trump ’ s part will likely be offset by spending to influence votes at state and local level on various measures that will be on the november ballot , as well as ad buys for other congressional elections , said tracy young , an analyst at evercore .
the death earlier this month of supreme court justice antonin scalia has made the key senate races more important as the next senate is likely to play a key role in who his successor will be .
if new york businessman michael bloomberg or another prominent figure decides to stand as an independent or third-party candidate it could also drive total political spending higher .
bloomberg , the billionaire former mayor of new york city , has told his aides to draw up plans for an independent campaign for the u.s. presidency and has indicated he would be willing to spend at least $ 1 billion of his own money , a source familiar with the situation said last month .
a total $ 3.8 billion was spent on all political tv advertising in 2012 , the last presidential election year , according to research firm kantar media cmag .
of that total , spending by the obama and romney campaigns and related advocacy groups was only $ 953 million .
“ we view the political season as a bonus we get every two years , ” said salvatore muoio , whose firm , new york-based s muoio & co llc , invests in a number of local broadcasters such as tegna , nextar and media general , and is still bullish on the sector .
companies , meanwhile , are telling investors that they are not worried .
a trump nomination would not be “ a negative effect because once it becomes a nationwide campaign post-convention , money will need to be spent to win , ” nexstar broadcasting , which expects to bring in $ 100 million from political spending this cycle , told analysts on its earnings call last wednesday .
the democrats and republicans both hold their conventions in late july .
nexstar owns , operates or provides programming to 104 television stations reaching 62 markets across the country , including florida , texas , california and west virginia .
steven marks , co-chief operating officer of sinclair broadcast group , which has 164 stations stretching from iowa to ohio and florida , told analysts thursday that “ i would suspect that if he ’ s the nominee , and this is just me thinking out loud , the rnc ( republican national committee ) is going to have no choice but to back him and the money will flow .
the prize is too big. ” still , little of that money will likely come from trump ’ s campaign itself , said steve passwaiter , business development lead at kantar media intelligence .
“ this guy is the king of earned media , ” passwaiter said .
“ when every tweet you send out is posted on 3 billion websites you don ’ t have to spend a whole heck of a lot of money. ” ( reporting by david randall and jessica toonkel .
ediitng by linda stern and martin howell ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .