beijing ( reuters ) - springer nature , which publishes science magazines nature and scientific american , said on wednesday it had pulled access to a small number of articles in china to comply with regulations , adding that it viewed the move as regrettable but necessary .
the decision comes after britain s cambridge university press ( cup ) said in august it had removed from its website in china about 300 papers and book reviews published in the china quarterly journal , after a request from the chinese government .
cup , the publishing arm of elite cambridge university , later reversed its decision and reposted the articles , following an outcry from academics , who attacked the decision as an affront to academic freedom .
in a statement , germany-based springer nature said that less than one percent of its content had been limited in mainland china .
this action is deeply regrettable , but has been taken to prevent a much greater impact on our customers and authors , it said .
this is not editorial censorship and does not affect the content we publish or make accessible elsewhere in the world .
it is a local content access decision in china done to comply with specific local regulations , it added .
the financial times said at least 1,000 springer nature articles had been blocked in china , containing sensitive key words like taiwan , tibet and cultural revolution .
under president xi jinping , beijing has stepped up censorship , tightened controls on the internet and various aspects of civil society , and strengthened communist party authority over academia and other institutions .
beijing said in september that chinese importers of foreign publications must verify the products were legal .
china s state council information office did not immediately respond to a faxed request for comment sent after office hours .
in not taking action we ran the very real risk of all of our content being blocked , springer nature said .
we do not believe that it is in the interests of our authors , customers , or the wider scientific and academic community , or to the advancement of research , for us to be banned from distributing our content in china .
cambridge university press had said it had blocked articles on topics including the 1989 tiananmen square democracy protests , the 1960s cultural revolution and tibet , in order to keep its other academic and educational materials available in the country .