cameras have been banned from white house press briefings , so cnn , and possibly other news outlets , have come up with a decidedly not 21st century solution .
they are sending a sketch artist to cover the briefings.bill hennessy , the network s regular sketch artist for supreme court proceedings , headed over to the white house on friday afternoon and drew press secretary sean spicer s afternoon briefing.he didn t have his usual easel , but he stood in the back of the briefing room to document the scene.source : cnntwitter had some fun ( and outrage ) with it : don t make me use the podium ! ! ! ! !
pic.twitter.com/5epxte95vu kate pugh ( @ katpooh ) june 23 , 2017pic.twitter.com/ypiumxbg4u evil mopac ( @ evilmopacatx ) june 23 , 2017well , it is a crime scene .
amber fraley ( @ amberbobamber ) june 23 , 2017ha !
just like a major trial !
trump the accused , spicer for the defense , media as witnesses and it should be we the jury donna mcgill ( @ cat_5_cane ) june 23 , 2017trump not allowing tv coverage of white house briefings is the equivalent of putting blindfolds on the american people .
and it s despicable .
jimandrews518 ( @ jimandrews518 ) june 23 , 2017this is a sick joke .
trump is not a dictator so quit acting like sheep and stand up for your freedom and rights .
tazzy quest ( @ tazzyquest ) june 23 , 2017sketch artists have long been common to courtrooms , but they are a novelty for the white house , at least for the last quarter of a century .
every presidential administration for the last 25 years has allowed cameras in the press briefings , but now that the heat is on in the russia investigation and now with an administration that lies more often than they tell the truth , news outlets have to get creative and good old analog sketch drawings it is .
hennessy isn t exclusive to cnn .
there s a chance other news outlets might do the same thing.alienating the media is perhaps one of the worst decisions in an administration full of nothing but bad decisions .
the bush administration got away with sending us into two illegal wars because they were nice to the media .
instead , the trump administration has nothing but hostility toward the mainstream media and as a result , for the first time since cameras were allowed in press briefings , the mainstream media is doing its job .
in other words , trump can credit the media near blackout for his low approval numbers and even for the aggressive approach to the russian investigation.featured image via win mcnamee/getty images