new york ( reuters ) - more republicans now think democrat hillary clinton , rather than donald trump , will win the presidency , as their party ’ s candidate struggles with difficulties including allegations of sexual misconduct and his suggestion he may not honor the outcome of the election .
a reuters/ipsos poll released on wednesday and conducted from oct. 20 to oct. 24 found that 41 percent of republicans expected clinton to win the nov. 8 election , versus 40 percent who picked trump .
that reflected a sharp decline in confidence from last month , when 58 percent of republicans said they thought their party ’ s nominee would win , versus 23 percent who expected clinton to prevail .
among trump ’ s supporters , 49 percent in the latest poll said they believed trump would win , down from 67 percent who felt that way at the beginning of the month .
“ there ’ s still hope , i guess .
i just don ’ t have a great deal of faith in a good portion of the american public , ” said bert horsley , 38 , of belgrade , montana , who said he planned to vote for trump even though he believed clinton would win .
horsley said he felt the country was leaning increasingly socialist and that voters were more inclined to focus on trump ’ s problems than on issues facing clinton , including allegations she mishandled classified emails while secretary of state .
“ the nation ’ s willing to overlook certain things in some people and not in others , ” he said .
despite the growing pessimism , trump , who trails clinton in national opinion polls , still enjoys overwhelming support from members of his party .
some 79 percent of likely republican voters said they would vote for him .
many said their support was rooted in an expectation he would promote a conservative agenda in congress and appoint conservative justices to the supreme court .
democrats appear to be strongly anticipating a clinton presidency .
some 83 percent of democrats said in the poll they thought she would win , while only 8 percent predicted trump would become president .
among clinton ’ s supporters , 92 percent expected her to win , up from 83 percent a month earlier .
clinton held a commanding lead in the race to win the electoral college and claim the presidency , according to results from the reuters/ipsos states of the nation project released on saturday .
trump , a businessman and former reality television star , has alarmed mainstream republicans throughout his campaign by routinely bashing the political establishment and making a series of provocative statements .
he aroused criticism for belittling the parents of a u.s. soldier killed in the iraq war , calling for a ban on admitting muslims to the country and accusing a judge of bias because of his hispanic heritage .
he has also asserted , without showing evidence , that the u.s. electoral system is rigged .
but republicans remained mostly confident in their candidate ’ s chances until this month , when a videotape from 2005 was released in which trump could be heard bragging in vulgar terms about kissing and groping women .
at least 10 women have since accused trump of making unwanted sexual advances , including groping or kissing , from the early 1980s to 2007 , according to reports in various news outlets .
trump has denied the women ’ s allegations , calling them “ totally and absolutely false ” and has promised to sue the women after the election .
trump has also deepened divisions within his party by refusing to promise to accept the outcome of the election .
“ i will keep you in suspense , ” he said when asked about the issue during an oct. 19 debate with clinton .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english with american adults in all 50 states .
the latest poll included 648 people who identified as republicans and 771 people who identified as democrats .
it had a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 4 percentage points .