kabul ( reuters ) - the international committee of the red cross will drastically cut back its operations in afghanistan following attacks that have killed seven of its staff this year , the aid group said on monday .
the announcement underlines the deteriorating security for aid groups in afghanistan , where the icrc has been operating for more than 30 years and has been running its fourth biggest humanitarian program .
exposure to risk has become our greatest challenge and concern , monica zanarelli , head of the icrc in afghanistan , told a news conference in the capital , kabul .
we have no choice but to drastically reduce our presence in afghanistan , she said , adding that the decision would particularly affect operations in the north , where facilities in kunduz , faryab , and balkh provinces would be closed or downsized .
red cross officials said the assessments are ongoing and could not say how many of its 1,800 staff would be affected .
the red cross had already warned of the threat to its operations following a series of attacks over the past year .
in february , the organization put all of its operations on hold after six of its staff were killed in an attack on an aid convoy in the far north .
operations gradually resumed over the summer , but last month , a spanish red cross physiotherapist working in the northern city of mazar-i-sharif was shot dead by one of her patients .
in addition , four of its staff have been abducted over the past year .
the spreading conflict has combined with an increase in criminality , making for more blurred lines between the various armed groups which complicate efforts to safely provide aid , zanarelli said .
i would say there are more gray areas than there were in the past , and this is certainly what is affecting our capacity to assess our security , she said .
according to u.s. military estimates , the government controls no more than 60 percent of the country , with the rest either controlled or contested by the taliban and other insurgent groups .