it s hard to read stories like this without wondering how a commander in chief can so easily desert those who sacrifice all for our nation , in favor of looking the other way when it comes to twisted islamic traditions .
de oppresso liber ( to liberate the oppressed ) ~~motto of the u.s. army special forcesa poignant afghan proverb declares , cowards cause harm to brave men .
this ancient pashtun adage reflects the shocking story of u.s. special forces sgt .
charles martland ; martland is the brave man , a soldier who saved the life of an afghan boy who was abducted , held , and abused as a sex slave by an afghan police chief , abdul rahman , the vicious , powerful , and arrogant coward .
the incomprehensible harm to martland resides in the inexplicable action taken by the u.s. army .
the army disciplined martland , relieved him from his duty post in afghanistan , and is now seeking to involuntarily discharge him from military service.what was the dreadful and dischargeable infraction by the highly decorated green beret charles martland ?
quinn was relieved of his special forces command after a fight with a u.s.-backed militia leader who had a boy as a sex slave chained to his bed .
credit kirsten luce for nytin 2011 , martland and his special forces captain dan quinn ( who has since resigned from the military ) physically assaulted abdul rahman , after learning that rahman had abducted a boy , chained him to a bed , repeatedly abused him as a sex slave and beat up the boy s mother when she sought to find and rescue her son .
the green berets intervened when they discovered that the boy was being raped and held as a sex slave .
according to the martland and quinn , the afghan villagers were pleading with them to do something about repeated sexual assaults against children by the afghan police.here is the dirty , not so little secret of afghanistan : the sexual abuse of children is widespread and embedded into the afghan pashtun culture .
there is scant prosecution of child sex exploitation in afghanistan .
american military have long been saddled with the knowledge of the afghan practice of bacha bazi , translated as dancing boys .
bacha bazi is the ancient and widespread practice of afghan men who abduct and lure poor boys into the grisly world of child sex slavery where they are raped and exploited by afghan men .
frontline exposed this lurid child sex trafficking trade.u.s .
military stationed in afghanistan experience the hideous reality that children are expendable in the feckless afghan criminal justice system .
cultural mores trump human rights among the tribesman of afghanistan.this wasn t the first time that martland and quinn experienced inaction from the afghan government for serious child sexual exploitation crimes committed by the afghan police force .
martland and quinn knew that two afghan commanders were not prosecuted nor punished for the rape of a 15 year old girl and the honor killing of an afghan commander s 12 year old daughter who kissed a boy .
martland who was fed up with the ongoing sexual exploitation of children by afghan officials said , i felt that morally we could no longer stand by and allow our afghan commanders to commit these atrocities .
since when is a highly decorated green beret who confronts a violent child sex predator and trafficker and woman beater , punished and involuntarily discharge from the military ? what happened to the greatest military and force for moral good on the face of the planet ?
isn t martland carrying out the very anti human trafficking policies promulgated by the obama administration ? obama s administration , including his pentagon , endlessly promotes and spends millions on sexual assault and human trafficking programs , policies and media messaging .
the very human rights violations perpetrated upon innocent afghan children are the ones which this administration is demanding action to enforce zero tolerance:1.u.s .
department of defense policy against human trafficking .
in the press release praising the ongoing military awareness training of human trafficking , the army media alert highlights the annual training and progress for dod s military as driving home the department s zero tolerance for slavery and human trafficking .
apparently , that dod zero tolerance policy doesn t apply to captain quinn and sgt .
martland .
is it simply awareness , but no action to stop human trafficking and sex slavery ?
zero tolerance means stopping the cultural and systemic abduction and sex slavery of young afghan boys .
is the dod training report mere lip service and media hype to convince americans that the u.s. military fights human trafficking and sex slavery ? the dod press release ends with the ironic caveat that military leadership also plays a critical awareness role in preventing such crimes .
sgt .
martland and captain dan quinn are military leaders who prevented further human trafficking crimes and are now paying for it with their military careers .
via : yore children