tashkent ( reuters ) - some mosques in uzbekistan are starting to broadcast the muslim call to prayer from loudspeakers for the first time in a decade as they take advantage of a more tolerant official attitude toward islam since president islam karimov died last year .
the imams are amplifying the adhan call to prayer without asking for government permission .
under karimov , an imam who took such a liberty would have faced losing his job or possible imprisonment .
the new boldness is a response to decisions by president shavkat mirziyoyev to liberalize the ex-soviet nation of 32 million people whose main religion is islam .
mirziyoyev has overseen the release of several prominent political prisoners , relaxed some security measures and this week he pardoned 2,700 convicts , saying that in the past many sentences had been unjust .
western countries and human rights groups accused the government of repression under karimov who ruled the central asian nation from 1989 until his death in september 2016 .
the leader cracked down on public displays of islamic practice including hijabs and beards because he feared the country was vulnerable to islamist militancy .
his government blamed militants for bombings in the capital in 1999 and unrest in the city of andijan in 2005 .
around 200 people died in all , according to official figures , and the incidents were the bloodiest since uzbekistan gained independence from the soviet union in 1991 .
after government troops clashed with armed protesters in andijan , uzbek mosques stopped using loudspeakers for the call to prayer though the practice was never formally banned .
over the last few months , however , some imams have begun to broadcast the adhan from mosques again .
a reuters reporter heard it at three mosques in tashkent , though it was only audible to people near the buildings .
the call is part of the soundscape in many muslim cities , blasting from speakers on minarets five times each day and extra loud on friday , which is the day of prayer .
worshippers in tashkent welcomed the change .
people should hear that it s prayer time .
that s what muslim life is about , said a young man outside one of the mosques .
he declined to give his identity .
a cleric at one of tashkent s main mosques said the matter was being discussed within the muslim board of uzbekistan , which is close to the government .
no ruling has been made .
some imams took the initiative and turned on their loudspeakers at their own risk once the talks with the board had started , said the cleric who declined to give his name because he was not authorized to comment publicly .
another source close to the clergy said some imams had argued that without a formal ban there was no need for formal permission to restart .
there have been no reports of clerics being prosecuted for breaking the informal ban .
the government declined to comment on the matter .
nurulloh muhammad raufkhon , an uzbek writer who recently returned to tashkent after living in exile for more than a year , said he saw the cautious return of adhan as a sign of a broader change in the state s attitude to religion under mirziyoyev .
( mirziyoyev s ) decree on developing and introducing halal standards was another important step , he said .
mirziyoyev ordered the government last month to develop standards for food products that adhere to islamic dietary laws , which prohibit the consumption of pork and alcohol among other things .
the move could boost uzbek sales of halal food both domestically and overseas .
previously , we were banned from using the word halal .
i know because i used to work at ... a religious magazine .... halal restaurants were closed down .
the word halal was removed from product labels , he said .
in another break with karimov-era policy , mirziyoyev said in september uzbekistan had removed about 16,000 people from a 17,000-strong security blacklist of potential muslim religious extremists and dissidents .
he said he wanted to bring them ( back ) into our society and educate them .
the issue of islamist militancy in uzbekistan has spread beyond the country s borders .
this year , at least 60 people have died in attacks abroad carried out by uzbek nationals or ethnic uzbeks .
the most deadly was a shooting in an istanbul nightclub in which 39 people died .
in the late 1990s , the government fought the islamic movement of uzbekistan , a militant group that sought to make uzbekistan an islamic state .
it later moved to afghanistan to join forces with the taliban .
hundreds of uzbeks have also joined islamic state in syria and iraq .
authorities fear radicalized youths may return home .
nowadays they are talking about driving the terrorists out of syria , mirziyoyev said in a public speech this month .
but the question is , where will they go now ?
we should think about it .
at the same time , he said many of uzbekistan s convicted prisoners had been sentenced unjustly and he vowed to crack down on abuses such as torture and fabricated evidence .