new york ( reuters ) - new york ’ s top democratic legislator drove home his budget priorities on friday , touching on the minimum wage , paid family leave and education ahead of the release of the state assembly ’ s spending plan scheduled for later that day .
assembly speaker carl heastie highlighted the proposals that have become a rallying point for democrats both in the state and nationally , saying that he was “ very optimistic ” an agreement could be reached over a state-wide $ 15 minimum wage with the republican controlled senate .
heastie , speaking at an event in new york city , stressed his support for paid family leave .
the assembly passed a bill in february that would allow workers to take up to 12 weeks of paid leave to care for a new child or a sick relative .
the initiative is supported by governor andrew cuomo , also a democrat .
the speaker highlighted $ 1.7 billion in higher education spending for the state and city public university systems , including funding a two-year tuition freeze , and a $ 2.1 bln increase in education funding for the state ’ s public schools .
the assembly ’ s school spending proposal is $ 1.2 billion over cuomo ’ s executive budget .
confidence in the state capital albany was shaken last year after the convictions on corruption charges of the speakers of both the senate and the assembly .
heastie became speaker after charges were brought against his predecessor sheldon silver .
heastie said he will release ethics proposals also on friday that seek to limit outside pay for legislators , and put conditions on roles legislators can take in the private sector .
the assembly ’ s budget will be released later on friday and passed by the assembly on monday , heastie ’ s spokesperson mike whyland said .
it follows the release of cuomo ’ s $ 145 billion executive budget in january .
the senate has also released parts of its one house budget , promising to cut middle class tax rates by 25 percent through 2025 , leading to a reduction in the tax burden of $ 3.5 billion .
the three budget plans need to be reconciled by the start of the state ’ s financial year on april 1 .
cuomo has made passing an on-time budget a barometer of good governance and has managed to pass all five of his previous budgets on time .