karma is a bitch and senate majority leader mitch mcconnell is learning that the hard way.for nearly a year , republicans viciously blocked president obama s nomination of merrick garland to the supreme court in a purely partisan refusal to do their jobs out of sheer hatred and contempt.donald trump is now set to take over the white house and now mcconnell is whining because democrats are about to demonstrate what turnabout is fair play means.senator chuck schumer and his democratic minority intend to block trump s supreme court picks , indefinitely if need be to make sure republicans do not get to fill the empty seat.so , mcconnell complained by talking about the non-existent biden rule , which republican used to justify they re refusal to confirm garland and then had the gall to claim that americans won t tolerate the blocking of trump s nominees .
i noticed my counterpart sen. schumer announced yesterday that their goal was apparently to never fill the supreme court vacancy .
that s kind of an expansion of biden rule .
you recall the biden rule in 1992 was the senate would not confirm a supreme court nominee in the middle of a presidential election year , which was my view last year .
sen. schumer said in the second bush administration that they would not confirm a supreme court nominee in the last eighteen months of president bush s forty-three s tenure .
apparently , there s yet a new standard now , which is to not confirm a supreme court nominee at all .
i think that s something that the american people simply will not tolerate , and we ll be looking forward to receiving a supreme court nomination and moving forward on it .
here s the video via twitter.mcconnell : the american people simply will not tolerate democrats blocking trump s scotus nominee https : //t.co/9b6sqfrqtm cnn politics ( @ cnnpolitics ) january 4 , 2017to the contrary , americans , who voted against trump by nearly 3 million in the popular vote ( millions more if you count the other candidates on the ballot ) very much disagree with mcconnell and blasted his hypocrisy .
@ senatemajldr fuck you and your hypocrisy jeremy m ( @ thismyshow ) january 5 , 2017 @ senatemajldr mitch , prepare to meet karma .
you chinless , treasonous hack .
fakelawn ( @ fakelawn ) january 4 , 2017 @ senatemajldr are you going to complain about obstruction ?
you love obstruction .
you said it s what you were most proud of .
you set example paige cuccaro ( @ paigecuccaro ) january 4 , 2017 .
@ senatemajldr reminder : the # senate sat on merrick garland s nomination for 293 days before the nomination expired .
jacquie ( @ after_words ) january 4 , 2017 @ senatemajldr the scotus only needs 8 justices .
you wouldn t allow the elected president to fill a vacancy .
i hope dems refuse to confirm .
nevermypresident ( @ doodlebug0 ) january 4 , 2017 @ senatemajldr reminder : you didn t even consider his last scotus nom , and said you d not consider any clinton scotus nom s # fakeoutrage chris russo ( @ chrislrusso ) january 4 , 2017 @ senatemajldr you blocked the president s moderate supreme court nominee for over a year and running .
biggest hypocrite ever eastcoastproud .
( @ eastcoastproud1 ) january 4 , 2017 @ senatemajldr then you went on strike for 8 long years , refusing to # doyourjob .
as you sew , so shall ye reap .
william durfey ( @ william_durfey ) january 4 , 2017 @ senatemajldr reminder : for nearly a year you denied a highly qualified scotus nominee .
you made the precedent , you made the precedent .
i ll ride with you ?
( @ mrshellwinger ) january 4 , 2017 @ senatemajldr reminder : you blocked a supreme court nomination and hobbled one branch of government for 11 months just to be a dick keith bergman ( @ keithbbergman ) january 4 , 2017 @ senatemajldr so ?
now it s the dems turn to obstruct .
it worked for your party .
this is not normal ( @ wrosen21 ) january 4 , 2017if mitch mcconnell seriously expects democrats to play nice , he is seriously delusional .
it s time for democrats to declare total war on senate republicans .
republicans obstructed president obama for eight years and refused to confirm his supreme court nominee in an unprecedented temper tantrum .
democrats have a duty to return the favor to defend america from trump s insanity.featured image via alex wong/getty images