new york ( reuters ) - two nephews of venezuela s first lady were sentenced to 18 years in prison on thursday following their convictions in new york on u.s. drug trafficking charges .
u.s. district judge paul crotty sentenced the two men , franqui francisco flores de freitas , 32 , and efrain antonio campo flores , 31 , at a hearing in federal court in manhattan .
the two are cousins , both nephews of cilia flores , venezuelan president nicolas maduro s wife .
lawyers for both defendants had asked for a shorter sentence of 10 years , while prosecutors had sought 30 .
crotty said 30 years would be excessive , noting that flores de freitas and campo flores had no previous criminal history .
what moves me is that mr. campo flores and mr. flores de freitas were perhaps not the most astute drug dealers who ever existed , he said .
they were in over their heads .
both cousins spoke briefly before being sentenced .
i know that i have made very serious mistakes in this case , campo flores said , going on to apologize to his wife and children .
i ve always been a good person , flores de freitas said .
even in jail i tried to help those who were in a worse psychological situation than i find myself in .
he asked that the judge allow him to return to venezuela soon to be near his son .
lawyers for the two men had no immediate comments after the sentencing .
flores de freitas and campo flores were arrested in haiti in november 2015 in a u.s. drug enforcement administration sting operation .
prosecutors said in a court filing they tried to make $ 20 million through drug trafficking to help keep their family in power .
campo flores and flores de freitas were convicted in november 2016 by a jury of conspiring to import cocaine into the united states .
lawyers for the two men said in a court filing earlier this year that prosecutors had proven only bungling discussions of a drug plot that could never actually have been executed .
days after the conviction , maduro blasted the case in a speech as an instance of u.s. imperialism .
maduro has frequently cast u.s. accusations of drug trafficking as a pretext for meddling in venezuela and trying to topple him .
under maduro , oil-producing venezuela has fallen into an economic and political crisis in which more than 120 people have died in four months of protests .
the united states announced new sanctions against maduro s government in july .