her husband s overseas in the military , and she s home working in a local salon .
she s the everyday american woman hillary claims to be the champion for .
there s only one problem she s doesn t believe that selfish auntie hillary should be anywhere the white house hopeless hillary clinton s own family has turned against her and endorsed donald trump for president !
in a bombshell world exclusive interview with radaronline.com , the only daughter of bill clinton s druggie brother , roger , revealed she s voting for hillary s republican rival instead of her selfish aunt ! hairstylist macy smit has never met hillary .
her father the former first lady s brother-in-law was a deadbeat dad who walked out on her mom when she was pregnant .
something tells me the clinton side of the family looks at me and my mother as not good enough , but we re hard-working !
macy , 25 , said from her home in tampa , fla .
i support donald trump 100 percent !
i have been a democrat my entire life , but trump is what we need right now somebody who is going to stand up for us .
i think at this point hillary just wants it for the history books to be the first woman president for selfish reasons .
macy works 10 to 12-hour days at a salon , while husband derrick smit , 25 , is a meteorologist with the u.s. air force .
he s on active duty in kuwait , where he helps coordinate air operations into iraq .
he was deployed in july and will return in january .
last year , pregnant macy suffered heartbreaking tragedy when she lost her baby .
at the time , her husband was deployed and she claims she was abandoned by the clintons.macy said , they re not as good as everyone thinks they are .
i went through some very personal things [ without their support ] .
the clintons are all talk !
macy s mother martha , 50 , told radar .
hillary says she s all about family , but she s got a niece she s never met and never acknowledged .
the clintons have never helped us out .
according to macy , she has a distant relationship with her father .
although they talk regularly , macy said roger , 60 , constantly makes promises he doesn t keep just like hillary !
radar online