how long will it take for obama s army to descend on mississippi ?
black lives matter is far from a spontaneous movement .
obama and his race hustler friends have been working towards this goal for decades .
it s really quite sad to see the racial divide in america today .
college kids are being indoctrinated into thinking white=bad and black=victim .
how can this possibly be a good thing for our nation ?
obama has made no secret about wanting to take america down a few notches , it doesn t take a brain surgeon to see that by dividing our nation by race , ethnicity , gender and income , we will never be able to come together when faced with a crisis .
make no mistake about it , with all of the un-vetted refugees ' we re bringing to america , all of the illegals we re allowing to flood across our borders , and all of the dangerous prisoners ( including gitmo ) obama is releasing from our prisons , we will be faced with a crisis before obama leaves office .
january 2017 can t come fast enough a house divided against itself can not stand -abraham lincolnupdate friday : bryant spokesman clay chandler tweeted an updated proclamations page , which now includes confederate heritage day , as well as vernon dahmer day , irish heritage month and ronald reagan day but no black history month.two weeks before the mississippi legislature allowed 19 state flag bills to die in committee , gov .
phil bryant took out a pen and signed an official governor s proclamation , declaring the month of april confederate heritage month , a routine occurrence in mississippi and several other southern states.the proclamation , which does not appear on the state of mississippi s website with other proclamations , such as about emergency inclement weather , is posted on the website of the sons of confederate veterans , which is ferociously against changing the mississippi flag to remove the confederate battle flag which supporters like to call the beauregard flag from its canton.on bryant s gubernatorial letterhead , the proclamation starts out by explaining that april is the appropriate month to honor confederate heritage because it is the month in which the confederate states began and ended a four-year struggle .
it adds that the state celebrates confederate memorial day on april 25 to recognize those who served in the confederacy .
it then explains that it is important for all americans to reflect upon our nation s past and to gain insight from our mistakes and successes , adding that we must earnestly strive to understand and appreciate our heritage and our opportunities which lie before us .
bryant refuses to take a position on changing the mississippi flag , saying it should be up to the voters , who decided in 2001 to leave the old flag in place , in a vote that fell largely along racial lines.for entire story : jackson free press