rafah , gaza strip ( reuters ) - hamas called on palestinian president mahmoud abbas on tuesday to respond to the disbanding of its shadow government in the gaza strip by ending his sanctions on the impoverished enclave .
following egyptian-mediated reconciliation talks with abbas s western-backed fatah faction , islamist hamas said on sunday it would dissolve its gaza administrative committee to enable the president s administration to retake control .
the announcement promised relief for gazans who , under a decade of hamas rule , have endured poverty , three wars with israel and cairo s cold shoulder .
yet implementation may hinge on power-sharing negotiations that stymied previous unity bids .
we have taken practical steps on the ground .
the administrative committee no longer functions in gaza and we are ready , starting now , to welcome the government of national consensus , hamas official ismail haniyeh told reporters .
speaking after crossing into gaza from egypt , haniyeh said he spoke with abbas by phone , telling him : our people expect you to suspend and cancel the measures and begin a dialogue .
aiming to pressure hamas to relinquish control of gaza , abbas in june cut payments to israel for the electricity it supplies to the enclave , leading to power being provided for less than four hours on some days , and never more than six hours a day .
abbas has also slashed by 30 percent the salaries of some 60,000 gazans employed by his palestinian authority .
abbas , who is at the u.n. general assembly , on sunday welcomed the hamas overture and said he would convene the palestinian leadership for further discussion on his return .
blacklisted as a terrorist group by israel and the west , hamas won 2006 legislative elections and , after an uneasy alliance with fatah , seized control of gaza in a brief civil war the following year .
the rival factions agreed in 2014 to form a national unity government but could not agree on the details .
mending fences with abbas would be another step in hamas diplomatic push to improve relations with its neighbor egypt , which has kept its frontier with gaza largely closed and accused the group in the past of aiding islamist militants in egypt s sinai desert , something hamas denies .
i can say that this visit ( to cairo ) has laid strategic foundations for the ties between egypt and hamas , haniyeh said .