president donald trump has overturned another obama-era legislation , this time the 2014 ban on trophy hunting permits , particularly those of elephants killed in zimbabwe and zambia , a us fish and wildlife service official has confirmed .
trump s sons , don jr. , and eric , love being trophy-hunting douchebags and this will allow them to be even more blatant about it.don jr. , has hunted elephants before , and elephants are listed as endangered under the endangered species act .
that exact act also contained a provision that allows for the granting of permits for the trophy-hunting of elephants if the hunters can prove that the demise of the singular animal in question helped benefit the conservation of the entire species .
it s unlikely the trump sons care about conservation , and only about their own glory and bragging rights.nevertheless , a spokesman for fish and wildlife said , legal , well-regulated sport hunting as part of a sound management program can benefit the conservation of certain species by providing incentives to local communities to conserve the species and by putting much-needed revenue back into conservation .
despite large-scale conservation efforts , the wild elephant population in africa plummeted 30 % overall between 2007 and 2014 and by as much as 75 % in some areas as a result of ivory poaching , but that is just the tip of the iceberg .
prior to european colonization in the early 20th century , it is estimated that the wild elephant population in africa was approximately 20 million , but dropped to 1.7 million by 1979 .
that number looks even more bleak when at last count in 2016 there were only just over 352,000 of the animals remaining on africa s savanna in a survey where namibia did not release any figures and surveys in south sudan and the central african republic were postponed due to armed conflict.last year , 182 countries signed an agreement to end the legal ivory trade in domestic markets , however , zimbabwe is one of few that has tried to have that ban lifted and soon they may be successful with the help of president trump .
this new change would only apply to zimbabwe and zambia , but with robert mugabe s recent removal and the military seizing control of zimbabwe , they have bigger issues to deal with at the moment.it makes you wonder why president trump would be so interested in elephant poaching .
is it another distraction , this time from the possibility of zimbabwe falling into a constitutional crisis ?
could it be because he just likes the look of ivory in trump tower ? or is it simply because trumps just miss slaughtering endangered wildlife for the sheer pleasure of it ? figures .
pic.twitter.com/7lrfjeqaiy snarkar ? ni ?
( @ snarkaroni ) november 16 , 2017he and his brother eric slaughter wildlife `` for fun . ''
pic.twitter.com/bb7kotjrtz snarkar ? ni ?
( @ snarkaroni ) november 16 , 2017featured image via phillip chin/getty images for trump international