beijing ( reuters ) - the government of the southwestern chinese city of chongqing renewed its attacks on two of its disgraced former leaders on monday , saying one had set up an independent kingdom while the other was a lazy deceiver .
chongqing , one of china s most important cities , is perhaps best known outside china for its association with its one-time party boss , bo xilai , once himself a contender for top leadership before being jailed for life in 2013 in a dramatic corruption scandal .
in july , another of its party chiefs , sun zhengcai , was sacked after he was accused of corruption .
sun , who has yet to face a court , had also been seen as a contender for promotion to the highest echelons of power in china .
chongqing is now run by chen miner , a close ally of president xi jinping , who has made fighting deeply ingrained corruption a cornerstone of his administration .
chen has vowed to root out graft in the city .
in a front page commentary , the official chongqing daily said there could be no excuses for ignoring party instructions , especially on party discipline issues .
bo xilai raised his own flag , started something new in order to be different , and set up an independent kingdom , the paper wrote , in apparent reference to his chongqing model policy of more equal growth and flashy infrastructure projects .
bo , a former commerce minister , turned the sprawling , haze-covered municipality into a showcase for his mix of populist policies and bold spending plans that won support from leftists yearning for a charismatic leader .
his campaign against crime was also crucial in making him the country s most prominent provincial-level leader , and a popular one at that .
but he was ousted after his wife murdered a british businessman and later jailed for a litany of crimes , including bribery , corruption and abuse of power .
sun , though , has yet to be formally charged .
the party has accused him of leaking secrets as well as bribery and abuse of power .
the chongqing daily did not reveal any other details of what sun is suspected of , only leveling further broad accusations against him .
sun zhengcai practiced lazy and indolent politics , bullied those below and hoodwinked those above , and was passively handled enforcement of decision from the party center , it added .
the actions of bo and sun seriously harmed the party and had a malign influence on chongqing , the paper said .
efforts need to redoubled to root out their residual poison , it wrote .