how did this man come to own this store ?
there is no information on much about this fraudster except that he stole from americans and is getting just a slap on the wrist .
it s no wonder these people are repeat offenders ! a hispanic store owner testified in court through a spanish translator ( why no english ? )
that he swindled the american tax payers out of millions via food stamp fraud .
eduardo leonardo plead guilty to stealing from the usda by illegally exchanging over a million dollars of food stamp benefits for cash for over two years .
i stole from the usda and the food and nutrition service , eduardo leonardo said slowly in spanish through a translator in brooklyn federal court .
it was an exchange of benefits for cash .
leonardo , 57 , admitted to committing food stamp fraud between oct. 2015 and march 2017 by giving customers cash in exchange for running their ebt cards for a higher amount , which the federal government would later reimburse.in one instance , an undercover witness from the usda went into super economic and picked up a jar of peanut butter and jelly and crackers , totaling $ 5.48 .
the witness then asked leonardo to exchange benefits for $ 200 cash and leonardo charged an undercover ebt card $ 287.89 and gave the witness $ 200 in cash , making a $ 82.41 profit.the usda lost a total of $ 1,116,924.27 in the transactions.the scammer has run his store , super economic one way supermarket out of 104-21 glenwood road in canarsie since dec. 2011 .
it became a registered snap business on may 25 , 2012 .
specifically i gave a discounted rate in cash in exchange for them [ customers ] allowing me to ring up the full amount , leonardo said to judge ann donnelly.remember ann donnelly ? supplemental nutrition assistance program ( snap ) previously called the food stamp program , uses federal tax dollars to aid low-income households in buying affordable and nutritious food .
ebt cards are used like debit cards , to swipe at special terminals in retail food stores to use the benefits in exchange for food.between nov. 2015 and jan. 2017 , super economic conducted more than 57,000 snap transactions totaling more than $ 1.5 million , according to court documents.about 8 transactions were made for $ 50 or more , an amount that usda officials say is high for a store that size , which would normally conduct $ 15 average transactions.leonardo is set to be sentenced on oct. 31 and could face a maximum five years in prison whaaaat ? ? ?
? this is why this keeps happening ! a man swindles more than a million dollars from americans yet he gets only 5 years in prison ?
the punishment does not fit the crime ! via : brooklyn eagle