washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. republican presidential debate scheduled for next week in utah has been canceled , host fox news said on wednesday , after party front-runner donald trump told the network he would not participate .
trump , who has clashed with fox news throughout his campaign , told the network in an interview on wednesday he would not appear at the event , scheduled for monday , because he thought the republicans had “ had enough debates. ” ohio governor john kasich said afterward he would also skip the debate unless trump changed his mind and decided to come .
u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , the third remaining republican candidate seeking the party ’ s nomination for the nov. 8 presidential election , criticized trump on twitter , calling him # duckingdonald and urging his supporters to tell trump to attend .
“ he ’ s scared to debate , ” cruz said in an interview on fox news .
“ he ’ s afraid of being challenged. ” fox news , part of the twenty-first century fox inc ( foxa.o ) broadcast media and entertainment company controlled by rupert murdoch , earlier this week announced the debate , to be held in salt lake city , its latest in the primary season .
utah holds its presidential primary next tuesday .
“ ted cruz has expressed a willingness to debate trump or kasich - or both .
but obviously , there needs to be more than one participant , ” fox news channel ’ s executive vice president of news , michael clemente , said in a statement .
“ so the salt lake city debate is canceled. ” after the cancellation , trump posted on twitter that he would make a “ big speech ” the night of the debate , “ but i wish everyone well. ” the brash new york billionaire skipped a fox news debate in iowa in january after complaining he had been mistreated by the network .
he has long clashed with anchor megyn kelly and revived criticism of her on tuesday , saying on twitter she was “ crazy ” and “ unwatchable. ” the iowa debate went on as scheduled , despite trump ’ s decision to host a rally at the same time .
but back in january , the republican field was much larger , with trump among eight contenders who qualified to participate in the iowa debate , and four others qualifying for an earlier “ undercard ” debate .
wednesday marked the first time either party has canceled a debate .
trump ’ s participation in the debates has helped networks draw record audiences .
two previous debates this election cycle hosted by fox news attracted the two largest u.s. audiences for non-sports cable tv programs in history .
some 24 million americans tuned in for the first republican presidential debate last august , while another in detroit earlier this month attracted 16.9 million viewers .
in february , cbs ( cbs.n ) chief executive les moonves spoke candidly about the advertising money the republican front-runner was bringing to the network .
“ the money ’ s rolling in and this is fun , ” moonves said at a telecommunications conference in san francisco , according to the hollywood reporter .
“ i ’ ve never seen anything like this , and this is going to be a very good year for us , ” moonves said .
“ sorry .
it ’ s a terrible thing to say .
but bring it on , donald .
keep going . ”