wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand s ruling national party regained a wide lead over the opposition labour party in an opinion poll on wednesday after party leaders went head-to-head in the final debate before saturday s election .
it was the second poll in recent weeks to show prime minister bill english s party , which has held power for a decade , holding a near double-digit lead .
the poll boosted the new zealand dollar to $ 0.7375 - its highest in over six weeks .
the one news-colmar brunton poll showed the national party jumped 6 points to 46 percent , while labour slumped by seven points to 37 percent .
but opinion polls have been very volatile and have largely indicated the race is still too close to call .
the new zealand first party , which could emerge as a possible kingmaker for the next government , saw support fall right to the threshold needed for a seat in parliament .
despite the fall in support for new zealand first , led by winston peters , the debate still centered around its potential deciding role to english s frustration .
i am suggesting to the voters that they cut the middle men , i don t like this view that mr peters has that he decides who the government of new zealand is , english said .
both english and rival labour leader jacinda ardern said their parties were neck and neck in the contest regardless of the latest opinion poll .
i remain an absolutely optimistic person when it comes to this campaign , ardern said during the debate .
having become leader in august the 37-year-old ardern has invigorated labour , and at times opinion polls have showed the party comfortably ahead .
during the debate , ardern at times appear to notch up points .
she criticized the government for not having taken any measures to avoid the kind of infrastructure failure that caused widespread disruption to air travel this week , when a burst pipeline led to a fuel shortage .
minor parties often have an outsize role in new zealand s proportional representation system , in which a party , or combination of parties , needs 61 of parliament s 120 members - usually about 48 percent of the vote - to form a government .
support for new zealand first dropped 1 point to 5 percent .
the green party , with which labour has a working agreement , rose 1 point to 8 percent .
together with the greens , voter support for labour was near that for national in the poll .
more than any election since 1996 , it s going to be the minor parties that ultimately decide which of labour or national end up governing , bryce edwards , analyst at wellington-based critical politics .
ardern reiterated her first call would be to the green party but that this did not necessarily mean a coalition with them .
we ve said we ll have a phone call , that doesn t mean it s a stitched up , done deal , she said .