the horrible result of socialized medicine may be seen in the plight of charlie gard .
the brain-damaged british baby whose parents recently lost a legal battle to keep him on life support has now tugged at heart strings as far away as the oval office.president trump tweeted out his willingness to lend a hand and in doing so exposed the debate over who should make life-and-death decisions for charlie to a massive audience .
if we can help little # charliegard , as per our friends in the u.k. and the pope , we would be delighted to do so , trump wrote.the tweet , which noted a similar call for compassion from pope francis on sunday night , comes just ahead of trump s second international trip later this week , during which he ll meet with world leaders at the g-20 summit it germany a conference at which trump could cross paths with british prime minister theresa may.trump s tweet also implicitly highlights perceived pitfalls in the british health care system a publicly funded system at a time the u.s. is undergoing yet another debate about medical coverage.gard s parents have fought the courts to keep their son on life support .
chris gard and connie yates want to bring charlie to the u.s. for experimental therapy .
but doctors at the great ormond street hospital for children in london , who have been caring for charlie , were granted permission by a court to turn off his life support .
though it was expected charlie could be removed from the essential devices as soon as friday , the hospital said in a statement it was putting together unspecified plans to give the 11 month old and his parents more time together as a family .
but wait a minute !
president trump and a us hospital are now saying they will help free of charge ! daily mail is reporting some great news ! members of the trump administration have spoken to the family in calls facilitated by the british government .
the president is just trying to be helpful if at all possible .
due to legal issues , we can not confirm the name of doctor or hospital where the baby could be treated in the united states .