21st century wire says four people , including a teacher and two students , have been shot at an elementary school in san bernardino , california .
the incident is believed to have been a murder-suicide , according to police .
the shooting stemmed from a domestic violence situation.the shooting occurred in a classroom at north park school .
along with the three victims , the suspect is believed to be down as well , according to san bernardino police chief jarrod burguan.we believe this to be a murder suicide .
happened in a class room .
two students have been transported to the hospital .
chief jarrod burguan ( @ sbpdchief ) april 10 , 2017two adults are deceased in a classroom , believed to be a murder suicide .
we believe the suspect is down and there 's no further threat .
chief jarrod burguan ( @ sbpdchief ) april 10 , 2017two adults a man and a woman are dead in the classroom , and police believe the suspect is down and there s no further threat , burguan said.the gunman checked in with the front office , where he was known to school staff , san bernardino police captain ron maass said.the two students were transported to the hospital , one via helicopter and the other in an ambulance , a police spokesman told reporters .
they are in critical condition .
the children we do not believe were targeted , the spokesman said.the fire department has set up a triage to assess and treat victims at the scene .
law enforcement was on the scene within seven minutes of the shooting.the san bernardino county sheriff s department is assisting in the investigation .
the school will be closed for at least the next two days , police said.north park , cajon and hillside elementary schools are on lockdown , while the san bernardino campus of california state university is under a shelter-in-place order.students were evacuated to cal state san bernardino , while parents were told to pick them up at cajon high school .
they must be listed on the students emergency contact forms and show photo id.this is the second mass shooting in the southern california city in since december 2015 .
in that incident , which was later categorized as an act of terrorism , a married couple opened fire on a holiday party for the husband s work , killing 14 and injuring 21.initially had a replay of the deeply disturbing feeling of terror and dread felt on dec2nd 15 when i turned scanner on today .
# ptsdawareness https : //t.co/ee0xzukcxb darren espiritu ( @ sbdarren ) april 10 , 2017 tragedy has struck us again , and we need to now work through that and be there for all of the involved parties , the san bernardino pd said.san bernardino experienced a surge in violence in 2016 , including a 41 percent increase in homicides over the previous year .
the 62 slayings made 2016 the city s deadliest year since 1995 , the los angeles times reported continue this report at rt read more us news at : 21st century wire us filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv