doha ( reuters ) - in a dusty industrial zone in the south of doha where the city s auto repair shops are clustered , one unlucky blue hyundai santa fe has been sitting with its front smashed in since june 5 , the day four arab nations announced a boycott of qatar .
the suv has fallen foul of the tiny state s dependence on jebel ali in neighboring dubai , the first port of call for car companies distributing spare parts across the region but no longer an option for doha since its neighbors severed ties .
the united arab emirates , egypt , bahrain and saudi arabia accused qatar of supporting terrorism , which it denies .
with its traditional land , sea and air trade routes cut off , doha has had to scramble to find new suppliers to replace everything from saudi arabian milk to emirati engine oil .
it also has had to quickly pull together complicated new logistics , involving a mix of new air and maritime routes and use of nearby ports in oman and kuwait for re-export .
in many ways it has been a success .
the boycott , which entered its sixth month this week , touches life on the streets only in minor ways , with turkish dairy and iranian vegetables taking the place of arab foodstuffs on store shelves .
items are generally available and prices only modestly higher .
one exception has been auto parts , residents say .
in car-obsessed qatar , where status symbol bentleys and bmws zip down the doha corniche at night , spare parts that once arrived in days from dubai can now take weeks or even months , leaving vehicles languishing in shops and drivers frustrated .
a manager at one american automobile dealership in the industrial area , who asked not to be named , described the situation as desperate .
you have customers coming in and screaming , saying my car has been here two to three months .
and you re just helpless .
what do you say ?
although most imports have recovered to near pre-crisis levels after dropping sharply on the boycott , auto imports in september were 40 percent lower than their year-earlier level .
the manager said attempts to re-route orders from jebel ali to oman and kuwait for re-export were abandoned because paying two sets of customs fees and additional shipping spiked costs 20 to 40 percent .
the situation has improved in recent weeks after the dealership moved to import directly by air from the united states , he said , but the process took months to set up .
until ten days ago we didn t have batteries or oil .
we were taking batteries out of the new cars .
some 58 percent of imports to qatar were either produced in or shipped from the four boycotting countries in 2016 , according to a ministry of development planning and statistics estimate .
how much of that is autos and auto parts was not possible to determine , but two parts businesses in doha said about 80 percent of their supplies previously came through jebel ali .
the boycott has driven a campaign to make the country less dependent on its gulf arab rivals even if the boycott ends .
hundreds of cows have been flown in to scale up dairy farms that traditionally competed with saudi arabia , trade ties have increased with turkey and iran , and a draft law was passed that would grant greater trade protection to local producers .
the legislation is still pending .
nobody will buy from dubai even if it opens up .
why would we let dubai take any profit from us ?
said a spare parts dealer whose goods are now sourced from vietnam and korea .
at a high-end garage where a cream porsche 911 turbo awaited repair , the general manager said his shop has in recent months established direct import links with european suppliers , cutting down average delivery time to about three weeks , about twice as long as before the boycott .
it s taught all of us how to import because we have to find new sources ... even if this story ends and the blockade is lifted , we won t go back to buying from dubai , he said .