osu will receive more than $ 212 million in federal funding in 2016 , they ll receive and additional $ 68 million in state funds.this winter , students at oregon state university will have the opportunity to take a new class that promises to teach them about how african americans have historically resisted the white supremacy .
the class , titled african american resistance in the era of donald trump , will be taught by dr. dwaine plaza , a professor of sociology and current chair of the sociology program in the school of public policy.plaza announced the new class last week in an email sent to some oregon state students and obtained by campus reform , explaining that the goal of the course is to give students an understanding for how racism is deeply embedded in social media , movies , television shows , music , art , literature , and sports .
in a statement to campus reform , plaza asserted that the class emerged after the november 8 election , because in my opinion we are about to step back into the 1960s when whiteness was currency and people of color needed to be in the shadows struggling for whatever trickles down to us .
according to a copy of the syllabus obtained by campus reform , the course will teach students about the evolution of modern racism from the post-emancipation period up to the election of donald trump.students will also learn about topics such as the black panther party , the harlem renaissance , and racism in oregon.the class will be held from january 9 through march 17 , according to the oregon state course catalogue , and up to 20 students will be able to take the course , 17 of whom are already enrolled .
two other professors , larry rodgers and marilyn stewart , will also help teach the course .
campus reformoregon is a hot-bed for radical trump haters .
it was one of only a handful of states hillary won with only 50 % of the vote to trump s 39.3 % .
on april 9 , 2016 anti-trump terrorists took over a portland state university pro-trump student meeting .
there is so much irony in people who behave like common thugs and terrorists carrying signs saying , love trumps hate , while screaming down and threatening anyone with opposing views .