bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand s military government on tuesday said it will not yet lift a ban on political activity , despite a general election scheduled for next year and growing pressure from political parties to lift it .
the ban on political party gatherings has been in place since the military seized power in a 2014 coup but there have been growing calls from all political groups to end the ban .
prime minister prayuth chan-ocha cited persistent political divisions and mud-slinging as reasons why the ban should stay .
we will not lift the ban today but don t be frustrated , prayuth told reporters after a cabinet meeting on tuesday .
today we are still speaking evil .
you must stop this so that everyone is at ease , prayuth said , urging all sides to put aside their differences .
earlier this month , prayuth said thailand would hold a general election in november 2018 - the news was largely welcomed by investors in southeast asia s second-biggest economy .
there has been little opposition to junta rule since 2014 , partly because authorities have arrested and jailed dozens of critics .
the government had said that parties needed to wait until after the funeral of thailand s late king bhumibol adulyadej , who was cremated last week , for a decision on when normal political life will resume .
tensions have been festering in thailand since 2006 when a coup removed then-prime minister thaksin shinawatra .
since then , the country has witnessed bouts of unrest including deadly street protests .
thailand is divided broadly between those who align themselves with thaksin and his sister , former prime minister yingluck shinawatra , whose government was removed in the 2014 coup , and the elite in the capital bangkok .
thaksin is credited by some as being the first thai prime minister to tap into the potential of the rural electorate .
but he made many enemies among the elite who accuse him of corruption - which he denies .
both thaksin and yingluck live abroad .
yingluck fled thailand in august ahead of a verdict against her in a negligence trial for which she was later found guilty and sentenced to five years in prison .
thaksin fled to avoid a 2008 jail corruption sentence .
politicians from major parties were upset about the decision not to lift the political activity ban on tuesday .
i want the junta to show some sincerity about the election by lifting the ban , sunisa lertpakawat , a member of thaksin s puea thai party , told reuters .
we haven t got much time .