rush limbaugh nails it in the transcript below but the most disturbing part of the roadblocking of trump is that the refugee resettlement program is to be funded/ expanded by congress for fiscal year 2018 and there is a desire for over 75,000 refugees from mostly muslim countries this year : republicans in congress funded the us refugee admissions program at a level for 75,000 refugees to be admitted by september 30th ( the last day of this fiscal year ) : u.s .
citizenship and immigration services has begun to expand its interview schedule in the 3rd quarter of the fiscal year , public affairs officer marilu cabrera told huffpost in a statement on friday .
the department of homeland security is working with the state department to plan for a further expansion through the end of fiscal year 2017 , she added.we ve immigrated mostly muslim refugees since 9/11 ! pew : more muslims than christians by 2100why are we continuing down this path when it s a better solution to keep them in safe zones in their own country ?
this solution was even proposed by president trump !
small towns across america are being forever changed by the huge influx of muslims .
please see our latest on this below the rush limbaugh transcript.rush limbaugh let it rip on the republicans yesterday with his concern that it s the republicans who are roadblocking the trump agenda : transcript : i don t understand how people don t get that it s not just the democrats in washington that are roadblocking trump .
i mentioned it earlier.mitch mcconnell says he can t see a way to getting 50 votes for the house obamacare repeal bill ?
now , stop and think here , folks .
back when the only element that we had was the house of representatives and republican voters were constantly saying , why aren t you doing more to stop obama ?
why aren t you trying to do something to stop obamacare ?
the answer was always , well , all we ve got is the house .
w-w-we can t get anything through the senate because the democrats own the senate .
obama s in the white house !
he ll veto anything if it did make it there .
so voters gave republicans the senate , and mitch mcconnell said , well , the first thing you have to know is it takes 60 votes to do anything in the senate , and we don t have 60 votes .
we only have 52 .
and then he would add , plus , as long as obama s still in the white house , all this is academic anyway .
he s gon na veto whatever we pass .
so we gave the republicans the white house and elected trump .
now the latest story there s a wall street journal story .
you know , i had this sort of cram last night after getting back from being away two days.i saw a wall street journal story about how the republicans in the house , they just can t !
it s just impossible .
they re pulling their hair out .
they don t know what to do .
they just can t find a way to cut any taxes .
because every time they cut a tax over here , they have to find a way to make the money up over there , and they just can t. they re looking at all these various tax cuts proposals and they said , i i i don t know how we re gon na pay for all this .
so the republican party , which is ostensibly the party of the president and they owe their majority to him , particularly the senate are roadblocking donald trump more than the democrats are , because the democrats can not .
the democrats don t have the votes in the house to stop trump .
the democrats don t have the votes in the senate to stop trump , although there is the 60-vote cloture requirement .
it s not the democrats standing up and saying , we are not gon na help .
we re gon na stand in the way of any foolish tax cut you propose .
it s the republicans standing up and saying , i just don t see how we re there s no room here .
i don t know how we re gon na lower rates when you have this exemption over here and you have this exemption there .
and i just read this stuff and i shake my head .
they don t want to cut taxes .
either they don t want to cut taxes institutionally , they don t want to cut taxes economically , or they just don t want to do the heavy lifting .
i don t know what it is .
my guess is they don t want to help trump.now , you would think trump figures this out , but he doesn t give any evidence of it .
like he tweeted something : u.s. senate should switch to 51 votes immediately and get health care and tax cuts approved fast and easy .
democrats would do it no doubt .
he s talking about getting rid of the 60-vote requirement to shut off debate and just go to simple majority on every bill .
does he know that it s the republicans that are the roadblock here ?
he has to know , and certainly if he s got people around him who know.now , i could understand if he doesn t want to go public and start an internecine battle between the white house and the republicans on capitol hill , you know , keep that for back channels and behind the scenes .
the wall street journal had a picture of the chairman of ways and means committee and paul ryan standing there and all these guys and the headline : republicans find yet another way to cut taxes on the rich .
they just don t see how they can do it .
it s incredible .
it really is incredible .
because , of course , there s a way .
they just don t want to do it .
i think it s all establishment , all the time anti-trump , throw the media in there as well .
but even in the middle of this i can tell you almost assuredly that trump is not off his game .
he s not despondent .
he s not sitting there worried about why all these people hate him .
he s not worried about all that .
he s just head down and moving ahead full speed as he can , not reacting or responding to all this stuff in the media , except when he tweets.refugee resettlement continues !
congress approved funding for the refugee resettlement program !
this is not good news and is shocking to see that they are keeping the pipeline going on bringing mostly muslim refugees to america .
you have to ask why they continue to ignore this failed boondoggle that the american taxpayers fund each year : it is because most of them work for their big business donors and the chamber of commerce to guarantee a steady supply of cheap immigrant labor !
adding insult to injury , your tax dollars support refugee families through the welfare system because wages are too low !
you pay for the importation of the labor and for the laborers support once here ! it is really quite a difficult obstacle for us ( who wish to see the usrap reformed ) to overcome big businesses and global corporations pushing cheap labor in conjunction with so-called religious charities ( paid by taxpayers ! )
claiming this is all about humanitarianism while essentially acting as head hunters for big business.here s huffpo s latest on the pipeline flowing : the united states appears to be resuming its longstanding efforts to resettle refugees after the program was derailed and almost completely upended abroad for several months.u.s .
citizenship and immigration services has begun to expand its interview schedule in the 3rd quarter of the fiscal year , public affairs officer marilu cabrera told huffpost in a statement on friday .
the department of homeland security is working with the state department to plan for a further expansion through the end of fiscal year 2017 , she added .