barcelona ( reuters ) - brazilian felipe massa completed two and a half race distances and put his williams team on top of the timesheets as formula one ’ s final pre-season test got underway in barcelona on tuesday .
massa , brought back in january after his former team mate valtteri bottas moved to mercedes as replacement for retired world champion nico rosberg , completed 168 laps of the circuit de catalunya .
his eye-catching tally was matched only by ferrari ’ s sebastian vettel , who ended up third fastest ( 1:19.906 ) behind red bull ’ s daniel ricciardo ( 1:19.900 ) .
“ i don ’ t remember before doing a day with 168 laps in my career , ” said the 35-year-old massa , whose fastest was one minute 19.726 seconds .
“ it was a lot of laps and i can feel it a bit on my body , but i am good .
i feel in good shape for the new season , ” he added .
triple world champion lewis hamilton , the bookmakers ’ favorite for a fourth title this year , was fourth fastest with a total of 49 laps .
bottas , who took over the car in the afternoon , did 86 and was fifth .
“ i think ferrari are possibly the favorites , ” said hamilton , whose running was cut short after the champions discovered damage to the floor of the car .
“ we can ’ t take our eyes off them because they have been doing such a great job at the moment .
“ red bull look like they have gone quite quick today as well .
we ’ ll see over the next days and , most importantly , over the next weeks , but it ’ s going to be close in the first race , that ’ s for sure. ” the season starts in australia on march 26 .
ferrari failed to win a race last season , when they finished third overall , and have not been constructors ’ champions since 2008 .
mclaren ’ s woes continued , with an electrical issue on the power unit of belgian rookie stoffel vandoorne ’ s car forcing honda to replace it , costing the team more track time after a difficult first week .
“ based on this testing we can expect to have a few engine changes , but they ( honda ) will have addressed this before the start of the season or at least quickly into the season , ” said mclaren racing director eric boullier .
vandoorne completed 80 laps but was more than two seconds off the pace .
renault ’ s jolyon palmer managed only 15 laps due to a power unit problem but he handed over to team mate nico hulkenberg who completed 58 in the afternoon .