budapest ( reuters ) - hungary s right-wing prime minister viktor orban accepted his ruling fidesz party s endorsement on sunday to lead it into an election next year , saying he needed another four year term in power to make his transformation of the country irreversible .
orban , who has steered hungary into confrontation with the european union by campaigning against immigration , asserting control over the media and courts , and criticizing efforts to deepen european integration , received a unanimous 1,358 votes at a party congress to remain fidesz leader for two more years .
with an election five months away , he leads all contenders and looks likely to secure a third consecutive landslide .
there is no mood for a change of government in hungary , so much as a mood for a change of opposition , orban said to laughter and applause , referring to disarray within the center-left .
[ nl8n1md2v9 ] polls show the center-left likely to be overtaken at the next election by the far-right jobbik party , seen as leaning even further towards ethnic nationalism than orban s fidesz .
we need to work for four more years to strengthen our achievements to the point that they are irreversible , orban said .
the 54-year-old premier has been widely criticized by western allies for eroding democratic freedoms , which he and fidesz deny .
he has become unassailably popular at home , especially since 2015 , when hungary became the main land route into the eu for around a million middle eastern migrants who crossed the balkans on their way to germany and other rich countries further north .
orban and fidesz say hostility towards them is being whipped up as part of a conspiracy by george soros , a hungarian-american financier who has long contributed to open society causes around the world , including in his native eastern europe .
in his speech accepting his party s endorsement , orban said he was fighting against globalist views that threaten the eu s christian nations and their moral foundations , for which he blamed soros .
some countries in europe decided to transcend christianity and their own national character , he said .
they want to step into a post-christian , post-national era .
to execute soros s plan they want to root out governments which represent national interests around europe , and that includes us , he said .
they act like soviet agitprop agents once did .
we old war-horses know them by their smell .