this woman is an icon in the conservative movement .
she spoke out on behalf of conservatives when it was unheard of for women to take such a bold stance .
today , she is looking at a coup by her own daughter and other cruz supporters over her endorsement for trump .
call me crazy , but i believe she has earned the right to endorse any candidate she sees fit to take on the job of president of the united states .
and this is a perfect example my friends , of why republicans don t win elections in the latest development of 91-year-old phyllis schlafly s ongoing fight against sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) supporters within her organization , schlafly will appear in court on tuesday to fight to retain control of her legacy and the organization she founded over 40 years ago.on tuesday at 1:30pm central time , the grassroots heroine and conservative icon will appear in madison county , illinois to defend her organization , eagle forum , against those inside her organization who are attempting a coup.as breitbart news has previously reported , the internal strife within eagle forum is connected to schlafly s decision to endorse gop frontrunner donald trump over texas senator ted cruz .
when explaining her support for trump , schlafly cited trump s strong positions on promoting pro-america trade policies , curbing immigration , and defending national sovereignty issues which are very important to schlafly.the suit was filed by schlafly s own daughter , anne schlafly cori , and four other cruz supporters within schlafly s organization : eunie smith , cathie adams , carolyn mclarty , and rosina kovar .
shirley curry , the only other member of the so-called gang of six who is a plaintiff in this case , has not taken a public position on the presidential race.the defendants in the case are schlafly s son , john schlafly ; schlafly s handpicked successor , ed martin ; and eagle forum itself , the organization of which mrs. schlafly is the chairman .
the gang of 6 just served notice today , ed martin told breitbart .
they have filed suit in madison county , il court in their effort to takeover phyllis schlafly s eagle forum .
these cruz people are dragging phyllis schlafly into a southern illinois court where a judge is going to decide whether to strip phyllis of control of one of her organizations .
their law firm is spencer fane , lawyer for planned parenthood .
in the plaintiffs complaint , the court summons accuses ed martin of having : used his position to proceed with his own personal agendas , unchecked by the articles or bylaws of the eagle forum 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) and the eagle forum 501 ( c ) ( 3 ) , or other principles of proper corporate governance .
the draconian approach to leadership evidenced by martin has spurned eagle forum employees and state presidents , many of whom have served as citizen-volunteers with eagle forum entities since the 1970s , towards uproar and threatened resignation .
furthermore , with martin as president , the eagle forum 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) leadership in the national pro-family movement has diminished.in response , martin said : the suit is not a suit by the eagle forum board of directors .
it is a suit by 6 individuals the 6 plaintiffs make claims that are much more about phyllis and her operations than about my employment .
they seek to control of the bank accounts , remove board members , and impact operations .
since the board meeting they attempted to convene was not proper , all of their purported activity during that meeting was outside the law .
more specifically , eagle forum is in the midst of an election to replace one of the 6 board members .
ballots are being cast as we speak and the results will be known soon .
the 6 members rush to sue phyllis and eagle forum appears to be timed to block that election because one of the plaintiffs is term limited and will be off the board .
this effort to block a private association s election is improper and not legally supported.martin said that the plaintiffs effort to control the bank accounts is a direct attack on mrs. schlafly s authority : phyllis has control of eagle forum s bank accounts , not me .
practically , day-to-day , phyllis is in charge .
she did not give me the authority to sign checks or to do our budgets .
that s phyllis power .
i was hired as her successor , meaning i work for her .
they are attacking phyllis control over her organization , not mine .
that s why this lawsuit is so strange .
anne cori knows that i never sign checks nor control the bank account .
it s a kind of ageism to suggest that phyllis is not in charge.as breitbart news has previously reported : several cruz supporters inside eagle forum are unhappy with phyllis schlafly s trump endorsement , and have been working behind the scenes against her for months .
they have leaked emails , engaged in personal attacks , and even advanced an argument questioning whether the 91-year-old scholarly is still competent enough to run the organization.via : breitbart news