vienna ( reuters ) - austrian conservative leader sebastian kurz will hold coalition talks with the far-right freedom party ( fpo ) , both sides said on tuesday , bringing the anti-immigration party a step closer to power , which it last held more than a decade ago .
having won last week s parliamentary election with 31.5 percent of the vote , kurz s party is far short of a majority , needing a partner to gain control of parliament and form a stable government .
only two parties have enough seats to do that with the social democrats ( spo ) and the fpo .
kurz , 31 , took a hard line on immigration in the campaign that left little space between him and the fpo , and both parties capitalized on a widespread feeling that the country had been overrun during europe s migration crisis in 2015 and 2016 .
he called for an end to the current coalition with the spo when he took over as leader of the people s party ( ovp ) in may , arguing in favor of a break with austria s tradition of often deadlocked centrist coalitions .
that left the fpo , a party founded by former nazis in the 1950s , a more willing partner .
i have therefore decided to invite ( fpo leader ) heinz-christian strache and the fpo today to take part in coalition talks , kurz told a news conference .
strache soon accepted , saying teams from both parties would meet on wednesday but adding that the fpo would not strike a deal at any cost .
being part of the government is not an end in itself and only makes sense if we can implement our correct and important policies , strache told a news conference .
therefore no one should think that we will make it easy for the ovp .
some european leaders have expressed concern about the possible return to power of the fpo , which first became a major force in the 1990s under the late joerg haider , who praised hitler s employment policies .
the party has steadily increased its mainstream appeal in recent years .
it says it has turned its back on its nazi past , though it still frequently has to expel members for anti-semitic statements .
it has also dropped calls for austria to leave the european union as most austrians back membership .
kurz has sought to allay such concerns and repeated on tuesday that any government must have a clear pro-european orientation , though he also wants a streamlined eu that focuses on core tasks like trade and protecting external borders .
strache said he backed that view of europe , the fourth of five scenarios for the future of the bloc laid out by european commission president jean-claude juncker in march , which strache called less but better .
strache and kurz on tuesday both emphasized the importance of cutting taxes .
both believe in restricting benefits for foreigners and making the state more efficient , but the fpo also wants to increase some benefits like the minimum state pension .
in terms of content there are some things that unite us and others that divide us , kurz said in a typically vague answer on his expectations of a deal .
he hopes to have an agreement by christmas .
the fpo has made control of the interior ministry a condition for any deal , but it did not mention that on tuesday .
the ovp and fpo went into government together in 2000 , which prompted the rest of the eu to impose short-lived sanctions on austria over the fpo s accession to power .
given the more guarded response to austria s election in the aftermath of the migration crisis and the rise of other right-wing parties like france s national front and the alliance for germany , a new tie-up between them is unlikely to provoke the same outrage .