london ( reuters ) - brexit could be reversed if economic pain prompts a change in public opinion that brings a new generation of political leaders to power in britain , former conservative minister michael heseltine said .
heseltine , who helped topple margaret thatcher in 1990 but ultimately failed to win the top job , said that britain could face another election in just two years and that prime minister theresa may would not lead the party into that election .
a supporter of eu membership , heseltine said he saw a scenario in which britain would not leave the european union as scheduled in late march 2019 .
there is now a possibility that brexit will not happen , but it will need a change in public opinion , heseltine , 84 , told reuters in an interview .
there may be indications but there is no really substantive evidence of public opinion moving but i think that it will happen .
my guess is that public opinion will move , he said .
heseltine said the shift in brexit policy by the opposition labour party - including staying in the european single market and customs union for a transitional period - indicated labour had sensed the wind of a change in public opinion .
may , who quietly opposed brexit ahead of the referendum , has formally notified the bloc of britain s intention to leave and divorce talks are under way .
some european leaders have suggested britain could change its mind , while former conservative prime minister john major has said there is a credible case for giving britons a second vote on the brexit deal .
his successor , labour s tony blair , has said repeatedly that brexit can and should be stopped .
in the june 2016 referendum voters in the united kingdom backed leaving the eu by a margin of 51.9 percent to 48.1 percent .
the world s fifth-biggest economy initially withstood the shock of the brexit vote , but growth began to slow sharply this year as inflation rose on the falling value of the pound and hit households .
may , who has insisted that britain will leave the european union , said last month that she wanted to fight the next parliamentary election , not due until 2022 .
heseltine , though , said that seemed unlikely given her botched gamble on a snap election in june which lost her party its majority in the lower house of parliament .
i don t think she will fight the next election , but there is no agreement on her successor .
all the people indicated as possibles are singing the same song , and in my view the song is unattractive and will become less attractive , he said .
ousted is a specific word , but there are many ways in which the tory party operates - what it will quite look like i am not going to say .
but i think there will be a change to a new leader before the next election .
they have two years before the next election .
heseltine said he was waiting for a politician to emerge with the courage to challenge the brexit consensus of british politics and explain to voters the full import of the divorce .
within a relatively short period of time , the brexit negotiations will sour even more than they already have , and the tories will be left holding the baby .
everybody else will have moved away from brexit , heseltine said .
brexit , he said , was a monumental mistake that would make britain a spectator of 21st century history , bleed its wealth and relegate it from the league of leading global powers .
the idea that we are not european is just to spit in the wind : anyone who has read shakespeare knows just how european we are , said heseltine , who the sunday times says has a fortune of 300 million pounds ( $ 390 million ) .
he said brexit was far more significant than the 1956 suez crisis , when british forces were forced by the united states to withdraw troops from egypt in a blunt illustration of britain s lost imperial power .
heseltine said the eu was unlikely to give britain the beneficial divorce deal it wanted because to do so would risk unraveling the eu itself .
it is difficult to see how the brexit negotiations can be anything other than discordant .
the issues are huge and they come down to a very simple question : can the europeans agree to someone leaving the club on the cake and eat it basis ?
i don t think they can .
and they have made it clear they don t intend to .
if they were to change their mind so that we have our cake and eat it , well of course i will be wrong .
but i don t think they are going to do that .