vienna ( reuters ) - austria s far-right freedom party said coalition talks with conservative leader sebastian kurz made a very , very good start on wednesday , mapping out a process that could end its decade in opposition .
foreign minister kurz , who is just 31 , and his people s party won last week s parliamentary election with 31.5 percent of the vote but they need a partner to form a stable government .
kurz s hard line on immigration and his decision to force the collapse of the current coalition with the social democrats , who came second , made the anti-immigration freedom party ( fpo ) - founded by ex-nazis in the 1950s - a more willing partner .
it was today a very , very good start to negotiations ... a positive mutual gauging by the negotiating teams , fpo leader heinz-christian strache told a joint news conference with kurz after the first round of talks at an ornate palace in vienna .
coalition talks in austria last roughly two months on average , and kurz has said he wants a deal by christmas .
both men had negotiating teams of four party officials and agreed on five headings for their talks , ranging from future , for issues such as science and the environment , to a more self-explanatory security , order and protecting the homeland .
the two sides have much common ground on immigration , an issue that dominated the election after europe s migration crisis left many voters feeling austria was overrun .
but after wednesday s talks they said they would start with another issue both have focused on : reducing inefficiencies in state spending .
kurz and strache said they would examine finance ministry data with a view to deciding where savings could be achieved .
our aim is to find the losses through friction in the system and then of course to deal with where there is the potential to increase efficiency , kurz said .
that as a first round should build the foundation for the subsequent negotiations on content .
the rise of far-right parties like france s national front and the alternative for germany since the migration crisis started in 2015 makes it less likely the fpo s accession to power would provoke the same outcry as in 2000 , when the european union imposed short-lived sanctions on austria .
but some european leaders have expressed concern at its strong showing and president alexander van der bellen , who has the power to appoint and dismiss governments , has said any coalition must be guided by fundamental european values .
what that means for the fpo and the talks is unclear .
as part of a push to make itself more acceptable to the mainstream , it has stopped calling for austria to leave the bloc and says it is now pro-european while saying brussels should hand back more powers to member states .
that overlaps with kurz s view that the eu should be slimmed down and focus on tasks like trade and securing external borders .
europe is of course an issue , kurz said when asked why it wasn t in one of the five broad headings for talks , adding that it would come under the heading state and society .
from my point of view the atmosphere was a very , very positive one , he added .