just another upstanding citizen who s been invited to the white house by our community organizer in chief birds of a feather who can forget when obama s speech about child safety was interrupted by a rapper who was wearing an ankle bracelet for kidnapping went off ? and then there was the rapper tef poe , who met with obama in our white house to strategize , who tweeted this threat : dear white people if trump wins young niggas such as myself are fully hell bent on inciting riots everywhere we go a black lives matter activist who operates a social justice charity was arrested last month on charges of sex trafficking a 17-year-old girl.charles wade co-founded operation help or hush in the aftermath of the august 2014 police shooting of michael brown in ferguson , mo .
the group claims it helps raise funds for the needy and provide food and shelter for activists.but according to a police report obtained by thedc , the 33-year-old wade was raising money in more explicit ways.he was arrested on april 25 at a motel where he resided in college park , md .
police say he was using the motel room to pimp a 17-year-old girl.he s charged with seven counts , including felonies for human trafficking .
the charges carry sentences of up to 25 years in prison and a $ 15,000 fine .
wade posted $ 25,000 bond and left jail on april 27.wade denied the allegations in an email to the daily caller .
formerly a stylist for solange knowles , the sister of beyonce , wade has been featured in numerous news articles about the black lives matter movement .
he was also invited by the white house earlier this week to a movie screening with other black lives matter activists .
wade says he did not attend the function , which was on tuesday.last year , a team of washington post reporters , including pulitzer prize-winner wesley lowery , included wade in a profile of black lives matter activists who protested after the august 2014 shooting of michael brown by ferguson , mo .
police officer darren wilson .
according to the police report , an undercover officer with the vice intelligence unit responded to an ad on backpage.com , a website frequently used by sex traffickers and prostitutes .
holla at me .
quick stay specials tonight and tomorrow .
independent .
fun and sexy .
text me to set up an appointment ? ? ? ? ? ? ?
reads the ad , which listed the age of the poster as 23.the undercover detective contacted the poster to set up a meeting .
the respondent informed him that the cost of services would be $ 100 for a half-hour and provided an address , which turned out to be a howard johnson inn in college park .
a room number was also provided.when the undercover john arrived , a white female wearing only a towel answered the door and let him inside the room .
after she attempted to initiate contact with the detective he informed her he was a police officer , and she ran out of the room .
members of the vice intelligence unit described a male that was watching the undercover detective as he entered [ room 412 ] , the report reads.investigators reported that the teenager , who gave her age as 17 , said that wade was her manager .
she called him cj .
wade , who used a passport to rent the howard johnson inn room , was arrested and charged with sex trafficking .
police recovered three cell phones from him.the alleged victim told investigators that wade knew she was a minor .
she said that he told her he was not concerned about her age because you only have 5 months left until you re 18 so i m not worried .
she also told investigators that she provided all the money she was paid to wade.in response to thedc s request for comment , wade claimed that a tenant at a temporary housing facility he was running as part of his charity was involved in activities that he did not know about .
as this is a legal matter , i m not going into serious detail with you , he said.he did claim , however , that he was unfairly arrested because he was too trusting .
despite those claims , the police report suggests that there is evidence that wade was the person who communicated with the undercover detective by text message.wade issued a statement on twitter after being contacted by thedc in which he blamed conservative trolls for focusing on the case .
he also said i am confident that i will be cleared of the charges i am currently facing .
i was forced to make this statement before i was ready to because of ongoing efforts by twitter trolls to stop my work and the work of my organization , he wrote .
for the past two to three days , trolls have been actively baiting conservative news outlets to report on my arrest , amongst other vindictive things that they are actively working on .
wade also stated that the recent arrest is the second time he has been arrested after helping someone else .
he did not provide details of the case , but a review of criminal databases shows he was charged with 3rd degree grand theft in miami in january .
wade says he was not convicted in the case nor did he take a plea deal .
records show that the case was closed in february.wade was also arrested in august 2014 in travis county , tex .
and charged with making false statements.for entire story : daily caller