while the media will have you believe donald trump is on the cusp of overtaking clinton , the polls speak for themselves .
after cnn got caught cooking the polls to benefit trump , the washington post/abc news came back with a dose of truth : hillary clinton is still trouncing trump.their most recent poll , released september 11 , shows clinton with a 10 point lead ( 45-35 ) over trump among registered voters , and a five point lead ( 46-41 ) among likely voters .
according to the poll , 7 in 10 voters have already made up their minds about who to vote for , while 3 in 10 say they are undecided or could change their mind in the coming months.however , clinton should be worried when it comes to her supporters determination to voting in november : trump s supporters report greater interest in the campaign and voting , which could factor into turnout .
more than 6 in 10 registered voters who support trump say they are following the campaign very closely , and 93 percent say they are absolutely certain to vote .
by contrast , 45 percent of clinton backers are paying close attention to the race , and 80 percent are certain to vote , while one-fifth say they will probably or are less likely to cast a ballot.not all is bad news for clinton .
trump is currently doing worse than romney did in 2012 among white voters while clinton is seeing a historic gain for democrats amongst white college-educated women , a demographic that typically votes republican .
clinton leads that category by 20 points.clinton has also collected more support with independent voters than trump ( 39-37 percent ) .
earlier last month , clinton was behind trump with independents.while clinton will have to work harder to coalesce her supporters to vote ( she has the numbers for an outright win ) she does have another advantage : president obama s extreme popularity.president obama s approval rating has hit seven year high of 58 percent .
not since july 2009 has he enjoyed that much support.here s why that helps clinton : an incumbent president s approval rating is one factor that directly corresponds with how a candidate ( of the same party ) performs with voters , with other factors including economic standing , polls , etc.don t believe he hub that trump is closing in on hillary clinton .
the only thing in the way of clinton winning in a landslide is the 20 percent of democratic voters that are apathetic .
this is why democrats need to get out and vote , not get cocky or complacent.featured image via joe readle/getty images