alex roubian , head of the new jersey 2nd amendment society goes undercover to expose the truth about how the state of new jersey makes it almost impossible to obtain a gun permit .
here , he explains to new jersey 101.5 radio host why he made the video and what he found : here is the actual undercover footage : the group s president , alexander p. roubian , said on the new jersey 101.5 radio show tuesday morning he s distributing an undercover video each day this week exposing how difficult it is to apply for a gun permit .
the latest video is the raw , uncut footage that shows not only the sexism which has been occurring , but also the discrimination against the disabled , discrimination against the young , discrimination against the old , where a police officer arbitrarily states that he wants to deny people and he is denying people because of his feelings .
not because of anything else except for his feelings , roubian said.he gave the example of chris garey , detective sergeant not wanting to give a petite woman a gun because he thinks she might not be able to handle it .
this has been going on for years , roubian said .
this is no secret .
what we re doing is documenting it .
according to roubian , the discrimination is allowed to happen because it s done by the government , but if ordinary citizens were to discriminate like this , there would be consequences .
he s asking people to watch the videos and to hold gov .
chris christie and new jersey s police departments accountable by asking them whether they condone or condemn this type of conduct.roubian also called criticisms of private , home gun shops fear-mongering at its best .
he noted that in 45 other states police have no interaction with people applying for gun permits .
instead , your background check is executed by a gun store .
this isn t about being pro-cop/anti-cop .
it s about the system , roubian said.roubian and i stand as supporters of home gun shops , and agreed that they should be allowed to exist .
after all , there isn t any documented case of an issue with these federally permitted stores.interestingly enough , near the end of the video , the police officer featured in this video admits he believes we should all have guns .
so , if he really believes that , why does he work so hard to discourage people who come to him from obtaining gun permits ?