dakar ( reuters ) - togo must go the way of other west african nations and swiftly limit presidential terms to two if it wants to prevent protests escalating into a political crisis , the united nations envoy to the region said on saturday .
thousands of people have taken to the streets in the past three days to demand that president faure gnassingbe step aside , in the most serious challenge to his family s 50-year ruling dynasty since the death of his father in 2005 .
police have responded with tear gas , although avoiding the bloodshed that has tarnished previous demonstrations , and internet and phone calls have been restricted .
there were no further reports of protests on saturday , and they seemed to have died down , but the opposition said they would continue until gnassingbe steps aside .
it has become unavoidable for togo to join the rest of west africa in having term limitations , u.n. special representative for west africa and the sahel mohamed ibn chambas told reuters in a telephone interview .
since gambia s yahya jammeh was forced out after losing an election last december , all west african countries except togo have accepted two-term limits on presidential office bucking a regressive trend across africa to remove them and re-enable presidents for life .
our main perspective is to advise the togolese to take those actions to prevent an escalation , he added .
we are in a region where the security challenges are real and menacing and so we don t want to see any deep political crisis .
he said a move by gnassingbe s government this week to propose a draft bill to reform the constitution and reintroduce a two-term limit was welcome .
the opposition has rejected it because it says it would enable him to stay in power until 2030 .
i suspect the devil is in the detail .
we have to wait to see the formulation of the draft , chambas said .
an official in gnassingbe s cabinet did not immediately respond to a request for comment , but chambas said he had received assurances during his meeting with the president on friday that he had heard the people .
the president s father gnassingbe eyadema seized power in a 1967 coup and ruled for 38 years before his death .
he brought in a two-term limit in 1992 , in response to protests , then scrapped it a decade later when he decided he wanted to run again .
when he died in 2005 , the military installed his son instead of the national assembly head , as was constitutionally mandated , stoking protests in which at least 500 people were killed .
faure gnassingbe has since sought to remodel togo as a shipping , banking and airline hub modeled on dubai or singapore , with some limited success in port upgrades , regional airline operator asky and pan-african bank ecobank .
chambas urged the government to move swiftly with changes .
my biggest fear for it to go to the national assembly and there be a total blockage .
i hope there will be a clear time line ... not a perception that this is a delaying tactic , he said .
that will go a long way toward building confidence .