seoul/beijing ( reuters ) - south korea will never tolerate north korea as a nuclear state , nor will seoul have nuclear weapons , president moon jae-in said on wednesday , as china pledged to work on denuclearization after setting aside a dispute with seoul over an anti-missile system .
the north korea nuclear crisis will take center stage when u.s. president donald trump begins a trip to asia at the end of the week and diplomacy has being ramping up ahead of that visit .
a series of weapons tests by pyongyang and a string of increasingly bellicose exchanges between trump and north korean leader kim jong un in recent months has raised fears about an armed conflict .
speaking to parliament , moon said there can be no military action on the korean peninsula without the south s consent , adding the government will continue working for peace on the peninsula .
according to the joint denuclearization declaration made by north and south korea , we can not tolerate or recognize north korea as a nuclear state .
we too , will not develop nuclear ( weapons ) or own them , he said .
our government was launched in the most serious of times in terms of security .
the government is making efforts to stably manage the situation it faces as well as to bring about peace on the korean peninsula .
china s foreign ministry said beijing and seoul will continue to use diplomatic means to address the korean peninsula issue , after a meeting in beijing between lee do-hoon , south korea s representatives of stalled six-party nuclear talks , and his chinese counterpart , kong xuanyou .
moon s remarks and china s statement came a day after china and south korea agreed to normalize relations to end a year-long standoff over the deployment of the u.s. terminal high altitude area defense ( thaad ) system .
the installation of thaad had angered china , which feared its powerful radar could see deep into china .
south korea s tourism , cosmetics and entertainment industries bore the brunt of a chinese backlash , although beijing has never specifically linked that to the thaad deployment .
north korea s state media had no comment on the shift in ties between south korea and china as of midday on wednesday .
it has not engaged in missile tests since mid-september or any nuclear tests since its biggest one early that month .
a senior blue house official had said warmer bilateral ties had seemed to come about from better trust in seoul by beijing , which has expressed concerns regarding possible additional deployments of a u.s. anti-missile defense system and military cooperation among south korea , the united states and japan .
earlier this week , south korea s foreign minister kang kyung-hwa had said south korea has no intention to join a u.s. missile-defense system in the region and would not host additional thaad batteries .
south korea would not enter any trilateral military alliance with the united states and japan , kang added .
the united states is deciding whether three aircraft carriers currently in the asia pacific will carry out an exercise to coincide with trump s trip to the region , two u.s. officials said .
japan s navy is considering sending one or more ships to the exercise if it is held , a japanese government source said .
trump s trip includes tokyo , seoul and beijing but he will not go to the heavily fortified demilitarized zone ( dmz ) on the border of north korea and south korea , a senior white house official said .
china s top newspaper , the communist party s official people s daily , wrote in a commentary on wednesday that china expected south korea to take seriously its responsibility to protect regional peace now that they had set relations back on the correct track .
the appropriate handling of the thaad issue by china and south korea can provide an opportunity for both countries to increase cooperation and communication on the peninsula issue , it said .
but influential state-run tabloid the global times warned there would not be an immediate improvement in cultural and business ties , with south korean firms having to make an effort to win back chinese customers .
whether or not chinese consumers buy south korean products is not totally up the chinese government , it said in an editorial .
the rapprochement meant both countries were able to walk away with gains , said john delury , professor at seoul s yonsei university .
it is arguably moon s first foreign policy breakthrough , giving south korea s economy a boost and enhancing his geopolitical leverage by strengthening the relationship with china , said delury .
but xi can also claim a victory - he made his point that seoul needs to factor china s interests more seriously into its security posture , at least when it comes to things like missile defense that can alter the regional balance of power .