simi valley , calif. ( reuters ) - first lady michelle obama and representatives from nine former presidential families led a bipartisan gathering of politicians and celebrities in paying memorial tribute to nancy reagan , whose love for her late husband , ronald reagan , was hailed as a romance “ for the ages. ” in an invitation-only funeral for about 1,000 guests to her husband ’ s presidential library in southern california , the onetime hollywood actress turned first lady was remembered for the fierce devotion she accorded her spouse during their white house years and his long struggle with alzheimer ’ s disease .
“ theirs was a love story for the ages , ” former canadian prime minister brian mulroney said of the couple , during a service that organizers say nancy reagan herself helped plan in advance .
“ they had style , they had grace and they had class. ” former white house chief of staff james baker called nancy reagan the “ consummate political wife and first lady , ” and a figure whose support , encouragement and political savvy were indispensable to her husband ’ s political success .
after her husband ’ s death at age 93 in 2004 , she “ dedicated herself to his memory and his place in history , ” baker said .
the funeral brought together prominent republicans and democrats alike in salute of a woman especially admired by political conservatives at a time when deep partisan rancor has reverberated through washington and the 2016 presidential campaign .
the list of vips attending the memorial was headed by president barack obama ’ s wife , who sat beside former president george w. bush and his spouse , laura , and two fellow former first ladies - jimmy carter ’ s wife , rosalynn , and the democratic front-runner in the 2016 presidential race , hillary clinton .
seated nearby were the reagans ’ daughter patti davis and son ron jr. , - both of whom eulogized their mother - along with caroline kennedy , daughter of the late president john kennedy , and children of his three immediate successors - lyndon johnson , richard nixon and gerald ford .
davis described her mother and father as “ two halves of a circle , closed tight ” while her brother , ron , said that “ as a couple , they were more than the sum of their parts. ” she was to the president , baker recalled , “ absolutely without a doubt his closest advisor , ” adding she was particularly adept at knowing who was truly loyal to her spouse and who was not .
he credited nancy reagan with prodding her husband to open a dialogue with then-soviet leader mikhail gorbachev , a relationship that helped ease cold war tensions .
she could be “ tough as a marine drill sergeant ... when things weren ’ t going well , ” baker said , recounting he only saw nancy reagan lose her cool once - the day in march 1980 when her husband was wounded by gunfire from a would-be assassin .
“ she was devastated , and in fact , she fell apart , ” he said , adding that she returned with her husband to the white house after his discharge from the hospital “ with a fierce determination to protect him in every way she possibly could. ” rain began to fall over the ronald reagan presidential library in simi valley , north of los angeles , as the service ended and a military honor guard carried the flower-bedecked mahogany casket from the memorial gathering beneath a large white tent to a nearby grave site on the grounds .
nancy reagan , who died on sunday of congestive heart failure at age 94 [ nl1n16e06k ] , was to be buried beside her husband later on friday , though no family members planned to attend , having already “ said their goodbyes , ” according to library spokeswoman melissa giller .
others dignitaries among the funeral guests were broadcast journalists diane sawyer and tom brokaw , california governor jerry brown , former governor arnold schwarzenegger , u.s. house democratic leader nancy pelosi , former republican house speaker newt gingrich , as well as such showbiz figures as oscar-winning actress anjelica huston and singer wayne newton .
even the actor known as mr. t , a well-known supporter of nancy reagan ’ s “ just say no ” anti-drug campaign , was in attendance , wearing an american flag bandanna on his head .