21st century wire says the scandal emerged after it was revealed that flynn had a conversation with a russian ambassador , sergey i. kislak , during the transition period before trump took office , supposedly over the issue of us sanctions against russia .
it is believed that flynn had misled vice president mike pence by not disclosing the full nature of these conversations.flynn stated in a letter : in the course of my duties as the incoming national security advisor , i held numerous phone calls with foreign counterparts , ministers , and ambassadors , flynn wrote .
these calls were to facilitate a smooth transition and begin to build the necessary relationships between the president , his advisors and foreign leaders .
such calls are standard practice in any transition of this magnitude .
unfortunately , because of the fast pace of events , i inadvertently briefed the vice president elect and others with the incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the russian ambassador .
i have sincerely apologized to the president and the vice president , and they have accepted my apology .
this indiscretion was seen by many as an extreme beach of protocol and a risk to national security .
however , according to rt , russian president putin s spokesperson dmitry peskov stated on monday that flynn and kislyak did not discuss lifting sanctions.in addition to the potential of a protracted scandal on the white house side of this issue , there is also another potentially more important issue about the fact that agents working the obama administration were tapping flynn s telephone and also that agencies leaked related information which formed the press narrative of this scandal .
if so , this would amount to a covert attack on the white house from inside the us government.flynn s departure could interrupt positive headway made on the bilateral start nuclear treaty with russia which flynn had been working on up until this week.in the interim , trump has named a retired lt. general , joseph keith kellogg jr , as acting national security advisor , although it is believed that vice adm. robert harward , a former deputy commander at us centcom in tampa , fl is trump s likely choice to replace flynn.another name in play is also general david petraeus , although it s not certain that his record will be able to endure the aggressive media pressure that is certain to follow if appointed.the following a copy of flynn s resignation lette r : breaking : text of flynn 's resignation letter pic.twitter.com/kgue1cjfzl zeke miller ( @ zekejmiller ) february 14 , 2017read more trump news at : 21st century wire trump files