despite the media s best attempts to keep the truth hidden from the public , poor haitian activists and a few honest journalists have managed to expose the truth about how the clinton s and their foundation raped the poor island of haiti .
the clinton s took billions from people around the world who trusted them to help the poorest of the poor , following a devastating hurricane in 2010 .
here is what haitians have to say about the help they got from the clinton foundation : thanks to the media , who has largely hidden this story , bill clinton is able to once again make a shameless pitch the world , asking them to donate to the clinton foundation , so they can help the haitians .
there has never been a more shameless and selfish couple in public office in america .
here s bill s pitch : in the wake of the devastating destruction to haiti caused by hurricane matthew , president bill clinton took to twitter and urged his six million-plus followers to go to the embattled clinton foundation to assist in relief efforts.praying for everyone impacted by # hurricanematthew .
here 's how you can help in haiti : https : //t.co/ox77as2bt6 bill clinton ( @ billclinton ) october 4 , 2016 praying for everyone impacted by # hurricanematthew .
here s how you can help in haiti , clinton said his tweet , which linked to a medium article , entitled , members of the clinton foundation community respond to hurricane matthew ; ways to support .
the last time tragedy struct the tiny caribbean country , bill and then-secretary of state hillary clinton according to scores of enraged haitians used their billion dollar charity and leveraged their global connections to enrich themselves and their monied cronies.following the devastating earthquake in haiti in 2010 while 316,000 lifeless bodies lay buried under rubble , and while 300,000 haitians suffered from injuries , with another 1.3 million displaced the clintons saw an opportunity to cash in.watch here to see how the clinton foundation ripped off haiti : https : //youtu.be/nls4simqfv8hillary clinton s brother , tony rodham , landed a lucrative and historically rare haitian gold exploitation permit , while clinton foundation donors , including digicel mobile phone company founder denis o brien , were winning multi-million dollar contracts that would siphon massive profits from the poorest country in the western hemisphere.while then-secretary of state hillary clinton s state department was funneling billions in relief funds to rebuild haiti , the clinton foundation was leveraging its influence to guide high-dollar contracts to longtime clinton cronies who would go on to reap millions off the catastrophe that had claimed so many lives on the devastated island .
i deal through the clinton foundation , tony rodham said according to a transcript of his testimony during court proceedings , obtained by the new york times .
that gets me in touch with the haitian officials .
i hound my brother-in-law [ bill clinton ] , because it s his fund that we re going to get our money from .
and he can t do it until the haitian government does it .
the anger at the clintons from the haitian people is no secret.indeed , dozens of haitian protesters gathered outside the democrat national convention in july and railed against the clintons and the clinton foundation for their long-reported history of using their global connections to exploit the resources and the poor people of haiti .
the main message is that hillary clinton belongs in jail , one protester said at the time when asked what the overall message of the protest was .
we believe that the world should know about the crimes the clinton family has committed against the country of haiti the money they have stolen from the earthquake victims .
and we believe that were this to be anyone else , they d be in jail right now .
she s not in jail because she s being protected by the obama administration , the justice department , state department , the protester said .
via : breitbart