washington ( reuters ) - pakistan s foreign minister on thursday described as hollow allegations comments by senior u.s. officials and lawmakers during his visit to washington this week that questioned islamabad s resolve in fighting militancy .
president donald trump s administration is seeking to implement its regional strategy .
while u.s. officials have long been critical of the role pakistan has played in afghanistan , senior officials have been more pointed in recent days about islamabad s alleged support for militant groups .
earlier this week , u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said the united states would try one more time to work with pakistan in afghanistan before trump would take whatever steps are necessary to change pakistan s behavior .
on tuesday , the top u.s. military officer said he believed pakistan s main spy agency , the inter-services intelligence ( isi ) directorate , had ties to the militant group .
you want us to sniff them out , we will do that .
you want us to take action against them , whatever action you propose , we will do that ... ( but ) these hollow allegations are not acceptable , pakistan s foreign minister khawaja asif told a group of reporters .
in august , trump outlined a new strategy for the war in afghanistan , chastising pakistan over its alleged support for afghan militants .
reuters first reported that possible trump administration responses being discussed include expanding u.s. drone strikes and perhaps eventually downgrading pakistan s status as a major non-nato ally .
asif singled out senator john mccain , chairman of the senate armed service committee , saying the senator was playing to his constituents when he criticized pakistan .
we are not saying we are saints .
perhaps in the past , we made some mistakes .
but since the last three , four years , we are wholeheartedly , single mindedly , we are targeting these terrorists , asif said .
asif said that pakistan had less influence over the taliban than in previous years , which could impact any efforts for peace talks to bring an end to the war in afghanistan .
he added that u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson would be visiting pakistan later this month .