tashkent ( reuters ) - uzbekistan has abruptly recalled thousands of school teachers , college students and healthcare workers from cotton fields , halting a practice condemned abroad as forced labor , government officials and other sources told reuters on friday .
the central asian nation is one of the world s leading cotton exporters and for years it has mobilized the students as well as staff at schools and clinics to pick the autumn harvest .
it phased out using minors in 2015 under international pressure that included boycott campaigns .
officially , the work is voluntary and paid at about $ 0.005 per kilogram .
in reality those who refuse risk expulsion or the sack unless they bribe an official or hire someone to work in their place , sources said .
the harvest started this month but late on thursday the tashkent government ordered the cotton pickers home , said a district official who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to comment .
the government declined to comment .
a central government official who also asked not to be named said an order barring the use of such workers had in fact been issued in august .
on thursday tashkent warned regional governors they would be sacked if they fail to comply with it .
the district official said regional governments have been ordered to hire unemployed locals for cotton picking instead .
several students and a school director , who all requested anonymity , said they had been ordered to return to class or had their trips to the field canceled at the last moment .
despite ending the use of child labor , uzbekistan ranked among the top five worst offenders in the global slavery index compiled last year by activist group walk free foundation .
the group estimated that almost 4 percent of uzbekistan s population - then 31 million - lived in modern slavery , putting it second only to north korea by that metric .
the move to end the practice follows reforms by president shavkat mirziyoyev who took over the former soviet republic after the death of strongman leader islam karimov last september .
mirziyoyev has moved to liberalize foreign exchange and travel regulations and had about 16,000 people struck off a blacklist of potential extremists , reforms that may help him rebuild ties with the west and attract foreign investment .