new york ( reuters ) - orders for a bernie sanders action figure , complete with the u.s. democratic presidential hopeful ’ s signature slouch , open mouth and accusatory pointed finger , were flooding in from fans on thursday , months ahead of the toy ’ s delivery date in july .
brooklyn product design company fctry created a prototype for the 6-inch ( 15-cm ) tall plastic version of the vermont senator and started a kickstarter campaign with a goal of raising $ 15,000 to fund production .
within 24 hours of the campaign ’ s debut on wednesday , fctry had raised about $ 40,000 from fans snapping up various deals , including a sold-out $ 20 offer for a single bernie sanders action figure called “ the early bern special # 1. ” the company has also sold 20,000 hillary clinton action figures depicting the former secretary of state and democratic presidential hopeful in a sky blue pant suit .
it previously sold 200,000 president barack obama action figures , said fctry chief executive jason feinberg .
“ if you buy one of our action figures , whether it ’ s hillary or now bernie , we ’ ll donate $ 1 from that sale online to their actual campaign , ” feinberg said .
“ the idea is to have a way where regular people can sort of easily participate in campaign donations through a small business. ” a prototype of the bernie sanders action figure was created by seattle pop-artist mike leavitt and will be mass produced overseas , feinberg said .
the figures are expected to be ready in july , the same month as the 2016 democratic national convention , when clinton and sanders face off as the party chooses its nominee for u.s. president and vice president for the november national election .
the company has no plans to turn new york real estate developer donald trump , senator ted cruz of texas , senator marco rubio of florida or any of the other republican white house contenders into toys .
“ in 2008 , we were sort of compelled to make a ( senator john ) mccain and it ’ s something i ’ ve always regretted so there were no republicans this time , ” feinberg said .
among the pre-order deals available online is “ the full ticket , ” which includes a single bernie sanders action figure plus a single hillary clinton action figure .
“ we ’ re just sayin .
crazier things have happened , ” the kickstarter site notes .
a sanders spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
( this version of the story was refiled to add dropped letter to company name , fctry , in paragraph three . )