paris ( reuters ) - a french court ruled on tuesday that celebrity magazine closer invaded the privacy of britain s prince william s wife kate , the duchess of cambridge , when it published topless photos of her in 2012 .
the court handed the maximum fine of 45,000 euros ( $ 53,500 ) to both laurence pieau , an editor of closer s french edition , and ernesto mauri , chief executive of italian publisher mondadori ( moed.mi ) , the magazine s owner .
william and kate , who announced on monday that they were expecting a third child , said they were pleased with the court ruling and the matter was now closed .
closer magazine , a weekly round-up of gossip about the rich and famous , published a series of topless photos of kate , the wife of the second-in-line to the british throne , while on holiday in southern france .
two photographers from a paris agency , who denied taking the photographs , were ordered to pay smaller fines after also being convicted under french privacy laws .
the damages ordered by the court were well short of the 1.5 million euros sought by the royal couple , a subject of fascination for many in britain and other parts of the world , who filed the suit for what they called at the time a grotesque breach of privacy .
this incident was a serious breach of privacy , and their royal highnesses felt it essential to pursue all legal remedies , a spokeswoman for the couple said .
they wished to make the point strongly that this kind of unjustified intrusion should not happen .
the photos were taken as the royal couple relaxed on a balcony of a chateau in the picturesque luberon region of southeastern france .
the pictures rekindled memories for some in britain of the media pursuit of william s mother , princess diana , who died in a car crash in paris in 1997 while being chased by paparazzi .
closer magazine s lawyers had sought to justify publication of the photos on public interest grounds , saying they disproved rumors circulating at the time that kate might be anorexic .
jean veil , a prominent french lawyer hired by the duchess of cambridge , said during the trial the article that accompanied the photos was only a pretext for publishing the pictures .