and we wonder why violence like today s shooting happened the left started with the violence during the 2016 and continued to escalate it once they lost .
we have key democrats calling for violent resistance in the streets sick ! can anyone imagine a sitting republican senator calling for violence or fighting in the streets in opposition to a newly elected democratic president ?
speaking of p * ssies on tuesday democratic senator time kaine told the morning joe in an interview that democrats need to fight the trump administration including online and on the streets in addition to the at the ballot box.partial transcript : mika brzezinski , co-host morning joe : so , broad question about the future of the democratic party , especially given your firsthand experience with what we ve all been through .
there s so much going on here that we clearly see , you know , places where you we can criticize what the administration is doing , but how does the party rebuild ?
how do you prevent overreach in a situation like this ?
how do you prevent a continuation of the bubble in a situation like this , and how does the party reclaim its reach across the country while fighting these battles ?
sen. tim kaine ( d-va ) : so , the way we get outside the bubble is we take advantage of this tremendous public outcry against the administration .
what we ve got to do is fight in congress , fight in the courts , fight in the streets , fight online , fight at the ballot box , and now there s the momentum to be able to do this .
and we re not afraid of the popular outcry , we re energized by it and that s going to help us do our job and do it better .
-gplisten to faux man tim kaine call for fighting on the streets here .
pay special attention to his comment about the women s march that was organized under a grassroots label . '
it sounds like kaine s admitting that it was organized under a grassroots label but that it wasn t really grassroots at all .
why didn t he just come out and admit that it was organized by soros , obama and planned parenthood ? obama s former ag loretta lynch released a video that s a call to action for democrats .
these people who have been stripped of power after being so close to achieving their goals of fundamentally transforming america into something most americans wouldn t recognize , are serious about starting a civil war in our nation .
if you don t believe me , listen to the words of obama s former ag , who compares the fight against president trump and his supporters to that of the civil war : i know that this is a time of great fear and uncertainty for so many people .
i know it s a time of concern for people , who see our rights being assailed , being trampled on and even being rolled back .
i know that this is difficult , but i remind you that this has never been easy .
we have always had to work to move this country forward to achieve the great ideals of our founding fathers .
( lynch s statement about the founding fathers is quite ironic , considering that she worked hand-in-hand with former president barack obama to destroy the very fabric of our constitution . )
it has been people , individuals who have banded together , ordinary people who simply saw what needed to be done and came together and supported those ideals who have made the difference .
they ve marched , they ve bled and yes , some of them died .
this is hard .
every good thing is .
we have done this before .
we can do this again .
we could also add the dnc s california chair : in a sign of the vigor of the party s distaste for the president , outgoing party chair john burton , a longtime democratic lawmaker and powerbroker known for his blunt and profane manner , extended two middle fingers in the air as the crowd cheered and joined him .
f donald trump , he said : outgoing @ ca_dem chair @ johnburton gets standing o w final words to his party , finger upraised : f @ ck donald trump !
pic.twitter.com/viqnqlhdjc carla marinucci ( @ cmarinucci ) may 20 , 2017and we thought tom perez was bad : tom perez must not have taken the class about winning friends and influencing people .
how can you win over voters with such bitterness and anger ?
the democrat party has sunk to a new low with this classless thug .
who goes out there and speaks like this ?
we reported ( see below ) on the last speech perez gave and he said the same nasty things .
what gives ?
are the deems so desperate that they re now resorting to profanity-filled speeches that make false claims about republicans and president trump ?
we think it s a losing strategy !