stockholm/washington ( reuters ) - sweden will start negotiations on a $ 1.2 billion raytheon co patriot air defense missile system , as interest in missile defense systems strengthens amid heightened regional tensions and ballistic missile technology improves globally .
the swedish government said on tuesday negotiations with the u.s. company will target delivery beginning in 2020 , and for the system to be operational by 2025 at the latest .
iran , north korea and russia , among others , have made advancements in their missile technology .
raytheon said , sweden s announcement brings them closer to joining the growing group of european nations depending on the combat-proven patriot to defend against ballistic and cruise missiles , and advanced aircraft and drones .
the swedish government said , based on this tender and the decision of the riksdag ( the swedish parliament ) on the proposal to acquire a new medium-range air defense system in the 2018 budget bill , the government will make a final decision on the acquisition during 2018 .
lockheed martin corp , the pentagon s no .
1 weapons supplier , said in august its customers want to defend themselves against possible incoming missile attacks and are increasingly asking about missile defense systems .
raytheon has built more than 220 patriot fire units and delivered them to customers in 13 nations including the netherlands and germany .
the swedish defense materiel administration ( fmv ) has been authorized to send a l\letter of request to the united states , and to enter into negotiations for procurement of the patriot system .
the contract value is estimated to exceed 10 billion swedish crowns ( $ 1.2 billion ) , fmv said in a statement .
u.s. soldiers and german airmen fired the first of dozens of live patriot and stinger missiles on monday as part of an exercise at a nato base in crete aimed at strengthening the response to possible attacks from russia or other countries .
the exercise , which continues through thursday on the greek island , will include a series of emerging real world threats such as the use of drones , electronic warfare and electromagnetic pulses , u.s. army colonel david shank , commander of the 10th army air and missile defense command , told reuters .
the exercises come amid a big push by the united states , germany and other nato members to rebuild short-range air defense systems after the shock of russia s annexation of the crimea region of ukraine and its support of separatists in the donbass region of ukraine .