geneva ( reuters ) - human rights activists called on china on wednesday to stop detaining lawyers and critics , voicing concern for their health and fate in custody after the death of jailed nobel laureate liu xiaobo attracted international attention in july .
china said the concerns had no basis in fact .
the activists highlighted the case of jiang tianyong , a prominent human rights lawyer disbarred in 2009 , who disappeared last november and was held incommunicado for six months .
jiang s verdict is pending on charges of subversion , to which he confessed at a trial last month , saying he had been inspired to overthrow china s political system by workshops he attended overseas .
the trial can be reasonably called neither fair nor impartial .
in just the most obvious violation of due process , mr jiang was shown in a televised confession on state media in march 2017 , sarah brooks of international service for human rights told the united nations human rights council .
jiang s physical and psychological health are a subject of great concern , given the real risks of abuse in places of detention , she said .
a chinese diplomat told the council that china firmly objected to the accusations about its legal handling of jiang s and other cases , and said the ngos should respect chinese law and give up outrageous tactics .
jiang tianyong is suspected of provoking trouble illegally , holding state secret documents , inciting subversion of the state and other criminal activities .
he pleaded guilty , the diplomat said .
china s treatment of dissidents stirred an outcry this year when liu xiaobo , serving an 11-year sentence for citing subversion of state power , died after being denied permission to leave the country for treatment for late-stage liver cancer .
his wife , liu xia , has been under house arrest for six years and her whereabouts and condition since his death are unknown , brooks said .
ms liu xia currently has personal freedom , the chinese diplomat told the council , adding that china had picked the most qualified medical experts to treat liu xiaobo and given him medical parole .
brooks also highlighted the case of ilham tohti , declared a case of arbitrary detention by a u.n. panel in 2014 , who is serving a life sentence for separatism .
the chinese diplomat said ilham s crime was clear .
ilham s case has nothing to do with human rights .
he was trying to justify the acts of terror , divide the country and incite hatred , which no country could tolerate , she said .
zhang qing , the wife of activist guo feixiong , told an ngo event in geneva on monday that he has suffered after being sentenced to six years in prison in late 2015 .
he conducted a 101-day hunger strike in 2016 to protest conditions .
guo has encountered a wide range of brutal and evil torture in jail , such as 13 days and nights of sleep deprivation , high-voltage taser to his private parts to extract a confession , she said .
guo was a veteran political prisoner whose voice had been silenced for demanding reforms , said zhang , who lives in the united states .
human rights watch said this week that beijing is waging a campaign of harassment against chinese activists who seek to testify at the u.n. about repression , which it called the worst since the tiananmen square democracy movement was crushed .
china s foreign ministry dismissed the accusations .
u.n. high commissioner for human rights zeid ra ad al-hussein , addressing the geneva forum on monday , said that china was drafting its first national law on detention centres , with the aim of improving treatment , oversight and accountability .
zeid urged the government to ensure that the law grants access to independent legal counsel and family members , as well as addressing the ill-treatment in detention and deaths in custody .