eric trump , in his first interview since his father donald trump was elected president , said on sunday the trump organization plans to stop development of real estate projects overseas .
in light of politics , we ve said hey , listen , we re not going to expand anymore internationally .
we re not going to do any new international projects .
and that was a big piece of what we did , trump , who is executive vice president of the organization , told maria bartiromo in an exclusive sitdown on sunday morning futures .
eric , along with older siblings don jr. and ivanka , all have or have held positions within the family business prior to their father winning the presidential election .
once president trump took office , he pledged to separate private interests from public policy .
one way the president did this was by putting his holdings in a trust , managed by his sons and another executive from the company.though no longer growing internationally for the time being , trump explained how he finds the next growth spot in the real estate market , saying part of it is gut and intuition .
you see places that are reducing taxes , they re trying to incentivize businesses to come in .
those are always the places that do immensely well , trump said , citing florida as a key example .
`` it 's the right thing to do . ''
-eric trump announces trump organization will stop expanding overseas pic.twitter.com/bnn2tjytro fox & friends ( @ foxandfriends ) march 20 , 2017 they have low taxes , they ve got an incredible quality of life .
real estate prices weren t astronomical , meaning you could move from a state like new york into florida you could get a much bigger bang for the buck , trump said , adding i think you re seeing that right now in a lot of markets in texas .
you certainly saw that in north carolina , south carolina and other states that really grew massively .
additionally , trump explained how his father s pro-american business agenda has impacted the company , which has properties and deals all over the world .
i don t think one and two are contrary to one another , trump said .
but i think when people abuse the system , they can be .
i think the difference with us is we might do a project globally , but all the money comes back to the united states .
-fox business