please note the overwhelming information regarding the inability to vet the refugees : dear mr president : listen to your own fbi director and homeland security tell us we can not properly screen the syrian refugees [ video ] top security officials concerns on refugee vettinghouse homeland security chairman michael mccaul stated yesterday during a pen and pad on h.r .
4038 , it is the administration s own officials that were warning us about this program .
it s not me making this up .
this came from testimony that came from both f.b.i .
and homeland security officials in briefings and in public testimony .
i would argue that [ the president ] can spin it politically anyway he wants to but the fact of the matter is : the threat is real .
isis has said in their own words that they want to exploit it to infiltrate the west.in a private 2013 speech , hillary clinton worried about the risk of jihadists entering jordan with legitimate refugees because they can t possibly vet all those refugees .
clinton today wants to increase the amount of syrian refugees the united states takes in by 55,000 annually .
she believes that the u.s. refugee screening process is comprehensive enough to catch potential jihadists trying to enter the country , though fbi director james comey has said that the vetting process is severely limited by a lack of available data .
so i think you re right to have gone to the places that you visited because there s a discussion going on now across the region to try to see where there might be common ground to deal with the threat posed by extremism , and particularly with syria , which has everyone quite worried , jordan because it s on their border and they have hundreds of thousands of refugees and they can t possibly vet all those refugees , clinton said before the jewish united fund of metropolitan chicago during an october 2013 lunch.she added , so they don t know if , you know , jihadists are coming in along with legitimate refugees .
turkey for the same reason .
read more : daily caller