warsaw ( reuters ) - plans to overhaul poland s judiciary would end the country s status as a democratic state based on the rule of law and should be scrapped , more than two dozen rights groups and non-governmental organizations said in a petition on wednesday .
the petition , backed by amnesty international and the helsinki foundation for human rights among others , came as parliament started debating amendments agreed by president andrzej duda and the ruling law and justice party ( pis ) .
the proposals give the parliament a virtually free hand in deciding the composition of the supreme court and how judges are selected and are in gross conflict with the constitution , the signatories said in their petition .
the introduction of these amendments will mean that poland will definitely cease to be a democratic state of law , it said .
we request the immediate stoppage of parliamentary work on ( the bills ) and demand the start of extensive public consultations on this .
the nationalist , eurosceptic pis , which has a parliamentary majority , says reform of the judicial system is needed because the courts are slow , inefficient and steeped in a communist-era mentality .
duda had raised hopes among critics of the plans that they could be halted when he vetoed the original pis proposals in july , following nationwide protests and warnings from the european union .
the president , an ally of pis , said then that the proposals gave too much power to one party and to the justice minister .
but subsequent work on the amendments has been conducted in secrecy , spurring criticism from the united nations and the european commission that they could further damage poland s judicial system .
jaroslaw kaczynski , the leader of pis and poland s paramount politician , has met privately with duda several times for talks .
details of those meetings have not been made public and it is not known what consensus has been reached .
the president gave us some hope that the constitution would not be so continually abused , said irena kaminska , a judge and a member of the themis association of judges .
for a moment i had hoped there would be a breakthrough , but that has not happened .
stanislaw piotrowicz , head of parliament s justice committee , told the pap state news agency that lawmakers could complete work on the bills at the next session , planned for dec. 6-8 .
if the bills pass they could potentially allow pis to tighten its control of the political system , its critics said .
marcin matczak of the batory foundation in warsaw , one of the ngo signatories to the petition , said pis would be able to change the electoral system to its own advantage because the judges would no longer challenge them .
after the ( court ) laws are implemented the government will be able to rule eternally , he said .
there will be no one to defend us .
the eu is pressing a legal case against poland over its judicial reform plans and has suggested the country could forfeit some development funds if it refuses to change course .
pis says it has a democratic mandate for its reforms .