san cristobal de las casas , mexico ( reuters ) - a trip to mexico s indigenous maya heartland showed me how a vibrant muslim community had sprung up in this predominantly roman catholic country .
in the southern state of chiapas , home to a lush mountainous landscape , i photographed members of a small muslim community made up of hundreds of mostly indigenous tzotzil men and women , many of whom converted to islam from catholic or other christian denominations .
the muslim men here are distinguished by their prayer caps , or kufis , and the women by their hijabs which take the form of traditional maya shawls .
locals say the conversions to islam here began in the late 1980s , around the same time mexico s zapatista movement was gaining traction in chiapas , as institutions including christianity and capitalism came under increasing criticism .
according to the last census , some 83 percent of mexicans are catholic .
and although muslims make up less than 1 percent of mexico s 120 million population , a disproportionate number are indigenous clustered in and around san cristobal de las casas , a highland city in chiapas that mixes both maya and spanish identity .
people gave us a weird look when we converted , they thought we were terrorists and were scared of us , said mustafa , a member of the nearby ahmadia community .
but with the passage of time and our own actions , that opinion has changed , he added .
umar , an indigenous former evangelical pastor , converted to islam in the late 1990s and now serves as a bridge between local christians and muslims .
ours is a monotheistic religion , he said .
but we don t worship saints .
i later met 55-year-old mohamed amin who invited me to his home , offering me cookies and tea .
he showed me where he prays five times a day and introduced me to his family .
he asked me if i believed in god and i said no .
that did not appear to bother him .
he went on to explain the main reason behind his conversion to islam .
i like to be clean and change my clothes , he said .
this is a clean religion and that s what originally drew me to it .
for a related photo essay , see : reut.rs/2izhpmh