seoul ( reuters ) - protesters clashed with thousands of police at a south korean village on thursday as seoul deployed the four remaining launchers of the u.s. anti-missile thaad system designed to protect against mounting threats from north korea .
the south s defense ministry confirmed on wednesday the launchers would be installed on a former golf course near seongju city some 217 km ( 135 miles ) south of seoul .
two launchers and a powerful radar are already in place at the site as part of the u.s. terminal high altitude area defence ( thaad ) system .
early on monday , around 8,000 south korean police gathered in the village of soseong-ri , along the only road that leads up to the golf course , to break up a blockade of around 300 villagers and civic groups opposed to thaad .
some 38 protesters were wounded in tussles with police , with 21 sent to hospital , according to a seongju fire station official .
none of the injuries were life-threatening , said kim jin-hoon .
the soseong-ri residents say they do not have a political motive but are against the deployment of thaad as their lives have been disrupted by the dozens of military helicopters , buses , trucks that travel through the small melon-farming town of 80 residents .
the decision to deploy thaad , designed to shoot down short- to medium-range missiles mid-flight , has drawn strong objections from china .
it believes the system s radar could be used to look deeply into its territory and will upset the regional security balance .
south korea s defense ministry has said the deployment is necessary due to the imminent threat from north korea , which has launched numerous missiles since south korean president moon jae-in took office in early may .
pyongyang also conducted its sixth nuclear test on sunday , prompting vehement reprimands from neighboring japan and the united states .
according to a united nations draft resolution seen by reuters on wednesday , the united states wants the united nations to impose an oil embargo on north korea , ban the country s exports of textiles and the hiring of north korean laborers as part of new sanctions on the north .