washington ( reuters ) - u.s. supreme court justice antonin scalia ’ s memorial service on saturday provided a brief respite for official washington from the fierce battle over his succession , with political and legal leaders and many others in attendance .
at the blue-domed basilica of the national shrine of the immaculate conception , the nation ’ s largest catholic church , dozens of priests took part in the funeral mass , led by one of the justice ’ s nine children , reverend paul scalia .
more than 3,000 people looked on , including other family members , the court ’ s remaining eight justices , lawmakers , vice president joseph biden and former vice president dick cheney .
“ god blessed dad with a deep catholic faith , ” the younger scalia told the gathering inside the cathedral .
“ he loved the clarity and coherence of the church ’ s teachings. ” he fondly remembered an outburst one day after his father realized he was waiting for confession at church in a line that would have led him to his son .
the justice jumped out of the line .
“ ‘ like heck if i ’ m confessing to you , ’ ” the father said later to the son , who remarked : “ the feeling was mutual. ” a staunch conservative and the court ’ s longest-serving member , justice scalia died last saturday at age 79 at a texas hunting resort , sparking a political struggle that promises to reshape the 2016 election campaigns .
presidential candidate ted cruz , a republican senator from texas , was among those at the service .
like other republicans , he has said that president barack obama , a democrat , should not choose scalia ’ s replacement .
rather , republicans are saying no one should be named until after the presidential election in november , hoping that one of their own will be elected and get to choose the next justice .
under law , the u.s. president is responsible for nominating supreme court justices to their lifetime appointments , subject to senate review and confirmation .
appointing a justice to the court is one of the biggest decisions a u.s. president can make .
obama has vowed to select a successor to scalia .
if he does so , senate republicans have threatened to block any nominee put forward by obama , a stance likely to become an issue in the presidential race and in election year contests for seats in the senate and the house of representatives .
according to a recent reuters/ipsos poll , a majority of americans believe it should be up to obama to nominate the next justice , with opinion divided along ideological party lines .
this year the normally nine-justice court is set to decide its first major abortion case in nearly a decade , as well as cases on voting rights , affirmative action and immigration .
the new justice ’ s politics could tilt the court ’ s balance .
after scalia ’ s death , it has four conservative and four liberal members .
appointed by republican president ronald reagan in 1986 , scalia became known as a brilliant jurist in an era of conservative court dominance .
he opposed abortion and same-sex marriage and supported the death penalty and gun rights .