the people have spoken and it s clear that americans are 100 % fed up !
with the sanctuary city policy and illegal immigration .
embattled san francisco sheriff ross mirkarimi convincingly lost his bid for re-election tuesday after spending months in the national spotlight as the face of his city s controversial sanctuary city policy on illegal immigration .
the murder of kate steinle brought to the forefront the sanctuary city policy in san francisco .
the refusal to acknowledge the illegality of this policy and the treatment of the steinle family couldn t be more shameful .
our hope is that this landslide sends a message to those who have been ignoring the rule of law .
our thoughts and prayers go out to the steinle family who ve suffered so much.mirkarimi , 54 , was defeated by vicki hennessy , a former sheriff s official who had the endorsement of san francisco mayor ed lee and the sheriff deputies association .
with 42 percent of precincts reporting , henessy had received 63 percent of the vote to 31 percent for mirkarimi.mirkarimi and his office received heavy criticism after mexican illegal immigrant francisco sanchez allegedly shot and killed 32-year-old kate steinle on san francisco s waterfront july 1 .
sanchez had been released from mirkarimi s jail in march even though federal immigration officials had requested that he be detained for possible deportation.san francisco declared itself a sanctuary city in 1989 , passing an ordinance that bans city officials from enforcing immigration laws or asking about immigration status unless required by law or court order .
a follow-up ordinance in 2013 allows detention only under a court order targeting violent felons .
last month , san francisco s board of supervisors unanimously approved a resolution to maintain the city s sanctuary status.san francisco and other cities and counties have routinely ignored requests from immigration and customs enforcement officals to keep people in custody .
the jurisdictions say they can t hold arrestees beyond their scheduled release dates without probable cause.hennessy has previously said the sheriff s order barring the san francisco jail from cooperating with immigration officials is misguided .
there are cases , she said , when federal immigration officials should be notified that the jail is about to release an inmate who is in the country illegally.read more : fox news