manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte s son on thursday told a senate inquiry he had no links to a seized shipment of $ 125 million worth of narcotics from china , dismissing as baseless the allegations of his involvement in the drugs trade .
opponents of the president , who has instigated a fierce crackdown on a trade he says is destroying the country , say they believe his son paolo may have helped ease the entry of the drug shipment at the port in manila , the capital .
on tuesday duterte said he had told paolo to attend the senate investigation if he had nothing to hide , besides advising him not to answer questions and invoke his right to keep silent .
i can not answer allegations based on hearsay , paolo duterte , the vice mayor of the southern city of davao , told the senate .
my presence here is for the filipino people and for my fellow davaoe os whom i serve , he added , referring to the people of davao , where his father served as mayor for more than two decades before being elected president in 2016 .
the philippine leader has repeatedly said he would resign if critics could prove any members of his family were involved in corruption .
senator antonio trillanes , a staunch critic of the president , displayed to the senate panel photographs of paolo duterte beside a businessman who was behind the shipment in which the alleged drugs were found .
the president s son-in-law , manases carpio , who has also been accused of links to the may drug shipment from china , told the hearing he had no involvement .
duterte unleashed his bloody campaign the day he took office on june 30 last year , after promising filipinos he would use deadly force to wipe out crime and drugs .
police records show more than 3,800 people have died in police operations since july last year , and more than 2,100 other reported murders are linked to drugs .
police reject activists allegations that they are executing suspected drug users and dealers and say officers shoot only in self-defense .
trillanes said he had intelligence information from an undisclosed foreign country that paolo duterte was a member of a criminal syndicate , citing as proof a dragon-like tattoo with secret digits on his back .
asked about the tattoo , duterte said he had one , but declined to describe it , invoking his right to privacy .
asked by trillanes if he would allow a photograph to be taken of the tattoo and sent to the u.s drug enforcement agency to decode secret digits , duterte said : no way .
he refused to respond to questions about his bank accounts , calling them irrelevant .
presidential spokesman ernesto abella said the attendance of duterte and carpio demonstrates that both gentlemen are willing and ready to face malicious allegations intended to impugn their character and credibility .
( $ 1=51.0290 philippine pesos )