caracas ( reuters ) - prominent venezuelan lawmaker freddy guevara has sought refuge in the chilean ambassador s residence in caracas amid fears he could be jailed , a development that leaves the ailing opposition with even fewer leaders to take on leftist president nicolas maduro .
authorities had sought to remove guevara s congressional immunity so that he could be tried for instigating violence .
the opposition and local media said that sebin intelligence agents had surrounded guevara s house over the weekend .
guevara , a 31-year-old who runs the hardline popular will party and is also the deputy leader of congress , entered the residence on saturday and requested protection , the chilean government said in a statement .
guevara could become the highest-profile venezuelan politician to seek exile in recent years .
a majority of opposition leaders are now unable to challenge unpopular maduro , a 54-year-old former bus driver and foreign minister whom they blame for the oil-rich nation s economic downfall .
anti-maduro politicians have been barred from holding office , like two-time presidential candidate henrique capriles ; arrested or placed under house arrest , like opposition leader leopoldo lopez ; or threatened with trial , like congress leader julio borges who could face treason charges for lobbying against venezuela s government in global financial circles .
the opposition coalition condemned the threats against guevara as another sign that maduro has turned the opec member into a dictatorship .
this is an arbitrary and political decision that seeks to weaken a congress that has the full support of the people .
venezuela is hungry for food , but also freedom , justice and dignity , said borges at a news conference on sunday .
freddy guevara has taken a personal decision .
in my case i have to keep doing what i have to do , added borges , who did not offer details on guevara s arrival at the residence .
authorities on sunday mocked guevara , a fiery former student leader , for taking refuge at the embassy .
some people are very brave when it comes to calling for and provoking violence , destruction , and death .
but when justice is done , they flee with embarrassing cowardice , tweeted foreign minister jorge arreaza .
guevara was often on the front lines of sometimes violent protests earlier this year to demand early elections , humanitarian aid to alleviate hunger , freedom for jailed dissidents , and respect for the opposition-led congress .
the government says counters demonstrations were in fact a u.s.-backed armed insurrection designed to oust maduro .
authorities say opposition politicians are responsible for the around 125 deaths during four months of unrest , and as such should face trial .
amid the political crackdown , the chilean residence in caracas has played a significant role , taking in five magistrates named by the opposition-run congress after they were threatened with jail time , as well as another opposition politician from party copei .
the magistrates fled over the border to colombia last month before flying to santiago to be received by leftist michelle bachelet s government , which has joined a chorus of major latin american nations in denouncing maduro .
in the 1970s , several thousand chileans , including novelist isabel allende , who fled augusto pinochet s dictatorship found exile in then-booming venezuela .