beijing/taipei ( reuters ) - a beijing court on thursday handed down jail sentences of up to 15 years to 85 people deported from kenya for telecoms fraud , including 44 from self-ruled taiwan , an island beijing claims as its own which said vital evidence had been ignored .
over the past two years , countries including kenya , spain , vietnam and cambodia have deported hundreds of people from taiwan to china for telecoms fraud , sparking accusations from taipei that beijing was effectively kidnapping its citizens .
china has defended the deportations , saying the crimes were committed against people in china and that as taiwan is a part of china .
the beijing court said in a statement that one of the taiwanese , chang kai-min , had been jailed for 15 years for helping scam 185 people out of more than 29 million yuan ( $ 4.4 million ) .
taiwan s china policy-making mainland affairs council said taiwan and china had initially agreed to cooperate in investigating the kenya case , but china had gone back on its word .
the outside world could only believe justice had been done if the case had fully considered all the evidence and gone through proper legal procedure , the council added .
in this case , we obtained intelligence on the criminal suspects behind the scenes , it said .
we again call on the mainland china side to cooperate with our public security organs , investigate the origins and not allow the masterminds behind the scenes to get away with it .
on at least two occasions last year , kenya deported groups of taiwanese to china .
in one case , a kenyan magistrate said the taiwanese should be repatriated to their place of origin , taiwan , but the kenyan government sent them to china .
kenya , like most countries , only has diplomatic relations with china .
beijing considers democratic taiwan a wayward province , ineligible for formal ties with other nations .
chinese authorities have sought to contain an explosion of telecom crime it says has led to huge financial losses , with callers often impersonating officials or authority figures and preying on the elderly , students or the unemployed .
the fraud has spread overseas , with chinese speakers recruited in neighboring taiwan increasingly setting up operations in east africa or southeast asia .
the deportations have come as relations between beijing and taipei have deteriorated , with china suspecting taiwan president tsai ing-wen of pushing for the island s formal independence .
she says she wants to maintain peace with china but will defend taiwan s security and democracy .