new york ( reuters ) - democrat hillary clinton led republican donald trump by more than 5 percentage points in the reuters/ipsos tracking poll released on friday , little changed in weeks as the u.s. presidential campaign wobbles into the heart of summer .
since july 28 , clinton ’ s daily support among likely voters in the poll has hovered between a low of 41 and a high of 44 percentage points .
she was at 41 percentage points on thursday , down slightly this week .
trump ’ s support has moved slightly more , ranging from a low of 33 percentage points to a high of 39 points .
he was at 36 points on thursday , up slightly this week .
among registered voters , clinton was ahead by 9 points on thursday , 42 to 33 .
at this point in the 2012 election , both president barack obama and republican nominee mitt romney had solidified their support , and romney held a 45 percent to 41 percent lead , with only 14 percent of likely voters not picking one of the two candidates .
trump , a new york businessman seeking his first elected office , has been mired in controversies in recent days , and many establishment republicans have begun to distance themselves from his campaign .
he drew heavy criticism for suggesting gun rights activists could take action against clinton , a statement he later said was meant to rally votes against her .
on thursday he repeatedly accused clinton and obama of being co-founders of the islamic state militant group .
on friday he said the remarks were meant to be sarcasm .
on thursday , the number of likely voters who were not picking either clinton or trump in the nov. 8 presidential election was 22 percent .
that number has remained stubbornly in the 20- to 25-point range for weeks .
despite that , neither of the alternative candidates is gaining traction .
in a four-way race , libertarian gary johnson saw his support dip slightly to 7 percentage points on thursday , down from a high of nearly 9 points earlier this week .
green party nominee jill stein was at about 3 points on thursday , largely unchanged .
the results on thursday were taken from a sample of 1,446 registered voters and 1,116 likely voters surveyed between aug. 7 and aug. 11 .
the results have a credibility interval of plus or minus 3 percentage points .