valletta ( reuters ) - daphne caruana galizia posted two items last monday on her popular blog , one ridiculing malta s opposition leader for having rounded shoulders , the other denouncing a senior government official as a crook .
a typical morning s work done , she set off in her white peugeot 108 to run an errand , but barely made it past her front gate before a bomb tore through the car , throwing it into an adjacent field and killing her instantly .
her death shocked malta , the smallest nation in the european union , which has been engulfed by a wave of graft scandals , including accusations of money laundering and influence peddling in government all of which have been denied .
caruana galizia exposed many of these cases and was loved by her readers as a fearless , anti-corruption crusader .
critics saw her as a muck-raking fantasist .
prime minister joseph muscat , her main target , promised everything would be done to find her killers , but friends and family have low expectations that anyone will be brought to justice , seeing murky powers behind a very professional hit .
she had to be done away with because she couldn t be bought off , said manuel delia , a blogger who described the 53-year-old caruana galizia as his mentor .
she was a polemicist , a provocateur and a critic .
she was unique in malta .
a trail-blazing journalist , caruana galizia was one of malta s first political columnists in the 1990s at a time when its newspapers were staid and male-dominated .
the confines of established media frustrated her and in 2008 she set up her blog running commentary a one-woman operation which drew up to 400,000 page views a day , matching the volumes recorded on the websites of the largest dailies .
she sometimes posted more than 30 items a day , mixing caustic commentary with tabloid gossip and detailed graft allegations , supplied by what she called her network of spies .
the blog allowed her to express herself exactly as she wanted and expose abuse wherever she saw it , said petra caruana dingli , a friend of the slain writer .
much of the criticism was leveled against muscat and his leftist labour party , which won power in 2013 after a nearly quarter of a century of uninterrupted rule by the conservative nationalist party , itself tainted by corruption scandals .
malta , a rocky archipelago 100 km ( 60 miles ) south of sicily with a population of 430,000 , has no major soccer clubs or religious divisions .
instead , people define themselves by their politics , and caruana galizia was seen in the nationalist camp .
she denied being in anyone s camp , but said labour was turning malta into a mafia state something the party rejects .
she was a fierce labour critic , but definitely not a fair critic , said glenn bedingfield , a labour parliamentarian .
she made very personal attacks over the way we looked , the way we dressed .
she used to ridicule anyone associated with the labour party camp .
she was not kind .
she hurt a lot of people .
she could also shake the party to its core .
last year , in the so-called panama papers , she found muscat s chief of staff and one of his ministers had panama-registered companies .
she said they created the firms to hide bribes .
they denied wrongdoing .
this year , she said she had proof muscat s wife also owned a panama-based company that allegedly received $ 1 million from azerbaijan , which has growing commercial ties with malta .
she denied the accusations , as did muscat , who instigated an investigation .
magistrates heard evidence from caruana galizia , but have yet to release their findings .
muscat called snap elections for june , saying he wanted a fresh mandate to prevent political uncertainty from damaging the economy , the strongest performer in the european union .
critics such as caruana galizia say the economic success is fueled by schemes such as selling maltese passports to foreigners , or handing out licences that have turned malta into the online gambling capital of europe .
the government says these initiatives are legitimate , and voters returned muscat to office with a stable majority .
stunned by his victory , caruana galizia halted work on her blog for a month to spend time with her three sons and take care of her much loved house and garden .
she returned in the summer with a surprise new target adrian delia who was looking to become leader of the nationalist party ( np ) .
some np supporters saw it as a betrayal and vilified her in social media .
people called her a hag , a slut , a witch , said her friend caruana dingli .
it took its toll , but she carried on regardless .
going where newspapers feared to tread , caruana galizia accused delia of drawing money from a london-based prostitution racket .
he denied this and filed five libel suits .
caruana galizia received 36 libel suits in the past nine months alone , including 19 from a property developer , while the economy minister persuaded the courts to freeze her bank account to ensure she could pay up if she lost a case against him .
the libel suits were part of a wider strategy to shut her up , said corinne vella , one of caruana galizia s three sisters .
they seemed to be designed to eat up her time and money .
caruana galizia came from a well-to-do family and her husband was a successful lawyer .
besides her blog , she also edited a glossy magazine and wrote newspaper columns .
she was confident she would win the malta libel suits , where , in any case , maximum damages total 11,647 euros ( $ 13,728 ) .
four days after her killing , police say they have made no arrests and predict it will take weeks to accumulate all the evidence .
i think people silence journalists not because of what they have written , but because of what they are planning to write , muscat told reuters in his office in valletta .
caruana galizia s friends and family say they were not aware she had uncovered any explosive new stories .
i asked her if she had any more .
she told me : isn t what i have got enough ?
said blogger manuel delia .