baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi kurdish political parties opposed to regional leader masoud barzani reported attacks on their offices in several cities overnight , hours after barzani announced his resignation , brought low by a failed push for independence .
the patriotic union of kurdistan ( puk ) , the movement for change and gorran said in separate statements several of their offices in the duhok region , north of the kurdish capital erbil , were looted or burnt overnight .
no casualties were reported .
the semi-autonomous kurdistan regional government ( krg ) in northern iraq said it had ordered the local police forces , known as asayish , to stop the attacks .
barzani , 71 , said on sunday he would give up his position as president on nov. 1 after an independence referendum he championed in northern iraq backfired and triggered military and economic retaliation by the iraqi government .
the veteran guerrilla leader has run iraq s kurdish autonomous region since 2005 , presiding with a firm hand as the region prospered while the rest of iraq struggled in civil war .
but he but has been brought low in recent weeks by his decision to push the independence vote , and his downfall has exposed deep fractures among the kurds .
armed protesters supporting barzani stormed parliament as it met on sunday to approve his resignation .
opposition lawmakers who had been barricaded inside managed to leave later , according to their parties .
the puk , which has been the main rival of barzani s kurdish democratic party ( kdp ) for decades , supported his decision to hold the independence referendum , but half-heartedly .
the reformist gorran party opposed the vote , arguing that the timing was poor .
in a televised speech announcing his plan to step down , barzani said followers of his longterm rival , puk founder jalal talabani who died in early october , had been guilty of high treason for handing over the oil city of kirkuk to iraqi forces without a fight two weeks ago .
kurdish fighters known as peshmerga had held kirkuk , one of iraq s main oil centres , since 2014 when they seized it after government troops fled in the face of an advance by islamic state .
although kirkuk is outside the borders of the kurdish autonomous region , kurds consider it the heart of their homeland .
this month , prime minister haidar al-abadi ordered his forces to recapture it and all other disputed territory in retaliation after barzani staged the independence referendum , which baghdad considers illegal .
the iraqi body in charge of supervising media in baghdad issued on sunday a ban on two major kurdish tv channels close to barzani s kdp : rudaw and kurdistan 24 .
the baghdad-based communication and media commission accused the two networks of inciting violence and hatred .
this is an assault on freedom of press and expression , replied erbil-based kurdistan 24 s management in a letter to the international federation of journalists .
rudaw accused iranian-backed iraqi paramilitaries who are operating alongside government forces on monday of killing a kurdish journalist , arkan sharif , in the region of kirkuk .
while the iraqi kurds have mostly shown outward unity since the fall of saddam hussein in 2003 , they have a deep history of conflict between barzani s kdp and talabani s puk , which fought each other in a civil war in the 1990s .
the kdp is based mostly around erbil , the regional capital , while the puk draws its support mostly from suleimaniya , the other main city in the region .
the two political parties run separate units of peshmerga , their former underground guerrilla armies that have since become the official security forces of the kurdish autonomous region .
after saddam s fall , barzani ran the kurdish autonomous region while his rival talabani served as ceremonial president of all of iraq in baghdad from 2005-2014 .