so now if you enter a contest , you need to worry about your political affiliation if you re a republican ?
the left continues to show that they are the most intolerant of anyone who s across the aisle from them .
it s getting uglier and uglier out there .
what happened to the accepting leftists who claim they re ok with all people ?
we have a suggestion : please message gypsy on twitter or instagram it might also be a good idea to contact kat von d beauty .
light up social media ! the wichita eagle reported that gypsy freeman was declared the winner of a national art contest sponsored by kat von d beauty and was set to receive a prize package worth about $ 2,100 .
that is , until an instagram user found a post on her page supporting donald trump .
once that was made known to the company , freeman reportedly received a message from kat von d s instagram account informing her that she was disqualified.please send a message of encouragement to gypsy freeman via twitteraccording to the eagle : when freeman was announced as the winner , curious instagrammers went to her page and found a pro-trump post from election day last year.that evening , she received a direct message from kat von d s personal instagram account , telling her the celebrity had drawn a personal line in the sand between myself and anyone who supports that man , according to screenshots of the conversation .
my launch party [ and my brand ] celebrates many things that trump is against , the celebrity went on to say , according to the screenshots .
and i just need you to know that i personally have a hard time with inviting anyone who would support such an anti-feminist , anti-homosexual/lgbt , anti-immigrant , and anti-climate change fascist such as trump .
according to the screenshots , freeman replied : i won t be upset with you if you can t have us there for these reasons , and i wish you the best .
we would love to be there , of course , but i sincerely do understand if you decide to replace us with someone who supports the candidate you support .
this woman is so talented !
it should be about the work and not about politics .
this is a shame but gypsy will get much more publicity from this than she would have otherwise .
her website is amazing !
the winning image is below :