beirut ( reuters ) - lebanese security forces fired tear gas and water canons at protesters near the u.s. embassy in lebanon on sunday during a demonstration against president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel .
protesters , some of them waving palestinian flags , set fires in the street and threw projectiles toward security forces that had barricaded the main road to the u.s. embassy in the awkar area north of beirut .
security personnel used force to disperse most of the protesters and detained some , witnesses said .
addressing the protesters , the head of the lebanese communist party hanna gharib declared the united states the enemy of palestine and the u.s. embassy a symbol of imperialist aggression that must be closed .
protesters burned u.s. and israeli flags .
we came to say to the u.s. embassy that it is an embassy of aggression and that jerusalem is arab and will stay arab , said ahmad mustafa , an official in the leftist democratic front for the liberation of palestine , who was among the demonstrators .
trump s recognition of jerusalem has infuriated the arab world and upset western allies , who say it is a blow to peace efforts and risks causing further unrest in the middle east .
late on saturday arab foreign ministers meeting in cairo urged the united states to abandon its decision and said the move would spur violence throughout the region .
israel says that all of jerusalem is its capital .
palestinians want east jerusalem as the capital of a future independent state .
most countries consider east jerusalem , which israel annexed after capturing it in a 1967 war , to be occupied territory and say the status of the city should be left to be decided at future israeli-palestinian talks .
the government of lebanon , which hosts about 450,000 palestinian refugees , has condemned trump s decision .
lebanese president michel aoun last week called the move a threat to regional stability .
the powerful iran-backed lebanese shi ite group hezbollah on thursday said it backed calls for a new palestinian uprising against israel in response to the u.s. decision .
hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah also called for a protest against the decision in the hezbollah-controlled southern suburbs of beirut on monday .