every day , the nfl gives fans another reason to stop supporting them .
although the nfl agreed to refund a small portion of the money our defense department ( us taxpayers ) have paid them to show support for our military , it s the idea that americans have been duped into believing it was something they did out of honor or reverence for our military .
the nfl has reached a new low with their acceptance of players who are disrespecting our flag to promote obama s race war , while disallowing the dallas cowboys to honor the 5 police officers slain in their hometown by a black lives matter terrorist .
don t forget , they also looked away when cleveland brown s player , isaiah crowell posted an instagram picture of a cop with his neck being slit open .
the nfl never said a word .
they never even acknowledged what some considered to be a terrorist type threat to our law enforcement .
in may , 2016 , the nfl announced that they would return more than $ 700,000 of taxpayers money that was paid to teams for sponsored military tributes.after being criticized for paid patriotism , in which money came out of the armed forces budget for various measures of public recognition during games , nfl commissioner roger goodell said that the league would pay that money back.in a letter written to senators jeff flake and john mccain on wednesday , and disclosed on thursday , goodell said that following an audited review of 100 marketing agreements from 2012 to 2015 by accounting firm deloitte & touche teams were deemed to have received $ 723,734 for acts of sponsored patriotism .
given the immense sacrifices made by our service members , it seems more appropriate that any organization with a genuine interest in honoring them , and deriving public credit as a result , should do so at its own expense and not at that of the american taxpayer , the report said .
americans deserve the ability to assume that tributes for our men and women in military uniform are genuine displays of national pride , which many are , rather than taxpayer-funded dod marketing gimmicks .
pglast year , flake and mccain disclosed that the u.s. department of defense had spent $ 5.4 million in contracts with 14 nfl teams from 2011 to 2014 .
some of those contracts disclosed that payment was for on-field flag ceremonies and tributes to welcome home veterans .
one team , the atlanta falcons , had made more than $ 1 million from the department over those four seasons.the national guard spent $ 6.7 million on contracts with nfl teams from 2013 to 2015 .
via : espnthere has never been a better time to boycott the nfl , their merchandise and any of their sponsors .