london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may said on wednesday she would permit a delay to britain s departure from the european union in exceptional circumstances , bowing to criticism from her own party over the government s plan to fix the exit date in law .
the decision is a compromise with conservative lawmakers who last week rebelled in parliament and inflicted an embarrassing defeat on may during a debate on the legislation that will end britain s eu membership .
the legislation , formally titled the european union ( withdrawal ) bill , later won approval to move to the next stage of the parliamentary process , although it still faces weeks of further scrutiny before becoming law .
may headed off a second rebellion by agreeing that her government s plan to define the date of britain s eu exit as march 29 , 2019 , should be tempered by inserting a proviso allowing that date to be changed if necessary .
if that power were to be used , it would be only in extremely exceptional circumstances and for the shortest possible time , may told lawmakers .
parliament will have to approve any new date .
junior brexit minister steve baker added that he could not envisage the date being brought forward .
the passage of the bill to the next stage was overshadowed by the resignation of may s most senior ally in government , damian green , at may s request after an internal investigation found he had breached the government s code of conduct .
the destabilising resignation adds to the political difficulties may faces as she tries to deliver brexit against a backdrop of a divided parliament and electorate , and questions about her ability to meet an already tight timetable .
she wants to negotiate a transition deal with brussels by march to reassure businesses and then seal a long-term trade deal by october .
brussels has said a detailed trade deal is likely to take much longer , and that britain s transition period must end by 2020 .
in addition , may s government has to undertake the huge legislative task of transferring the existing body of eu law into british law before it leaves in order to provide legal certainty for businesses .