riyadh/amman ( reuters ) - syria s main opposition group selected a new chief negotiator on friday ahead of a new round of u.n.-backed peace negotiations with the damascus government set to kick off next week .
nasr hariri said the opposition was going to geneva on nov. 28 to hold direct talks and was ready to discuss everything on the negotiating table .
the announcement came at a summit in riyadh where , a day before , the opposition stuck by its demand that president bashar al-assad play no role in an interim period , despite speculation that it could soften its stance because of assad s battlefield strength .
the opposition groups met to seek a unified position ahead of geneva after two years of russian military intervention that has helped assad s government reverse major territorial losses incurred since the beginning of the war .
hariri replaces hardliner riyad hijab , who led the higher negotiations committee at previous negotiations but abruptly quit this week , hinting that the hnc under him had faced pressures to make concessions that favored assad .
u.n. peace talks mediator staffan de mistura , preparing for the next round of geneva talks , met on friday with russian foreign minister sergey lavrov , who said moscow was working with riyadh to unify the syrian opposition .
for many years , western and arab countries backed the opposition demand that assad leave office .
but since russia joined the war on behalf of assad s government it has become increasingly clear that assad s opponents have no path to victory on the battlefield .
russian president vladimir putin has called for a congress of the syrian government and opposition to draw up a framework for the future structure of the syrian state , adopt a new constitution and hold elections under u.n. supervision .
but he has also said that any political settlement in syria would be finalised within the geneva peace talks process overseen by the united nations .
the opposition has long been suspicious of the parallel diplomatic track pushed by russia , which before the proposed sochi congress included talks in kazakhstan , and has insisted that political dialogue should only take place in geneva .
hariri said sochi did not serve the political process and called on the international community , including russia , to concentrate all our efforts to serve the political process according to international resolutions in geneva under un auspices .
alaa arafat , who represents the moscow platform political grouping , though , said he would attend sochi and urged others to go too , reflecting lingering tensions within the diverse opposition .
saudi foreign minister adel jubeir , who opened the summit on wednesday pledging his country s support for unifying the opposition , praised the creation of one negotiating team that represents everyone .
asked if there was any change in position towards assad s future , he told reporters that riyadh continued to support a settlement based on the u.n.-backed process at geneva .
we support the positions of the syrian opposition .
we have from the beginning and we will continue to do so , he said .
syria s six-year-old civil war has killed hundreds of thousands of people and forced millions to flee in the worst refugee crisis since world war two .