oslo ( reuters ) - erna solberg seeks to accomplish something no conservative norwegian prime minister has managed for more than three decades : winning a second term .
if norwegians are sufficiently happy with solberg s last four years in power , they will re-elect her on sept. 11 ; if not she will lose to labour party leader jonas gahr stoere .
opinion polls show the race is too close to call .
solberg hopes to emulate a european center-right leader with an enviable track record of winning : angela merkel , herself seeking a fourth term as germany s chancellor .
she is absolutely the most important politician in europe , solberg said after taking office in 2013 as she prepared for her first foreign trip as prime minister , to berlin .
portraying herself as a steady figure who steered western europe s top oil and gas producer through a two-year slump in energy prices , solberg has warned voters her defeat would mean a red-green chaos of socialists and environmentalists bent on raising taxes .
once known as iron erna for her tough stance on immigration , solberg softened her image and broadened her appeal with a 2011 book emphasizing people s needs over the conservative party s traditional focus on fiscal prudence .
conservatives hope to capitalize on an easy-going personality that has made solberg popular beyond her party , as seen in a sept. 6 poll where 46.3 percent believed her best suited to be prime minister , against stoere s 39.1 percent .
( for a graphic on norway 's parliamentary elections click tmsnrt.rs/2ugjcjo ) there is an enormous focus on her as a person , which has given the party a real boost during the election campaign , said associate professor tore bang at bi norwegian business school , an expert in public relations and political communication .
the hype around her is atypical for a leader of the conservative party .
she is seen as a much more folksy politician and has a much broader appeal than gahr stoere .
born on feb. 24 , 1961 , in her late teens solberg was diagnosed with dyslexia .
graduating in political science she was elected to parliament aged 28 , becoming deputy party leader in 2002 before taking the top job in 2004 .
she is norway s second female prime minister after labour s gro harlem brundtland , who led three governments in the 80s and early 90s and became known as the mother of the nation .
as prime minister , solberg has really strengthened her position as an uncontested party leader .
she personifies the party brand and the association between her and the party is comparable to what gro harlem brundtland had in the labour party , said bang of the bi norwegian business school .
while the opposition was long favored to win , opinion polls show solberg and her allies have closed the gap in recent months , taking advantage of an economic rebound .
it s quite apparent that the conservative party has looked to germany and found inspiration in the position merkel has taken there , said johannes bergh , head researcher of the university of oslo s national election studies program .
it s a comparison that the party really likes .
merkel is very good at winning elections and offers a lot of the same things as solberg .
the economic upturn , and concerns it could falter , will play well for the prime minister , bergh said .
the backdrop of this election is that the norwegian economy is doing well again .
there is no real sense of crisis anymore but people are still weary , so offering a stable and predictable merkel-like leadership is a strategy that seems to have worked well .
if she wins , she plans to continue a policy of cutting taxes on companies and individuals , but her room for maneuver will be tighter as norway s near-trillion dollar sovereign wealth fund is not expected to grow as the same pace as before .
in norway s fragmented parliament however , where nine parties are expected to win seats , re-election will not guarantee a solberg government survives another four years .
kaare willoch , the last conservative prime minister to win back-to-back elections , in 1981 and 1985 , was booted out of office just months into his second term in a disagreement over petrol taxes .
in fact , if she were to serve two full terms , solberg would easily become the longest-serving conservative prime minister since the introduction of the parliamentary system in the late 19th century .