fbi agents are coming forward now to voice their frustrations and concerns about fbi director james comey s inept policing of the fbi .
specifically , the clinton email investigation was held up by comey standing in the way .
one of the specifics of the investigation that hindered it was that the clinton house was never searched .
the fbi always does a search of a household in an investigation .
the new york fbi agents working the case were livid at the stonewalling in the clinton case .
fbi agents are now lawyering up and speaking up to tell what they know this is a textbook case where a grand jury should have convened but was not .
that is appalling , an fbi special agent who has worked public corruption and criminal cases said of the decision .
we talk about it in the office and don t know how comey can keep going .
did anyone else think this exact same thing : the agent was also surprised that the bureau did not bother to search clinton s house during the investigation .
we didn t search their house .
we always search the house .
the search should not just have been for private electronics , which contained classified material , but even for printouts of such material , he said .
there should have been a complete search of their residence , the agent pointed out .
that the fbi did not seize devices is unbelievable .
the fbi even seizes devices that have been set on fire .
another special agent for the bureau that worked counter-terrorism and criminal cases said he is offended by comey s saying : we and i ve been an investigator .
the idea that the clinton/e-mail case didn t go to a grand jury is ridiculous .
according to washington d.c. attorney joe digenova , more fbi agents will be talking about the problems at bureau and specifically the handling of the clinton case by comey when congress comes back into session and decides to force them to testify by subpoena .
people are starting to talk .
they re calling their former friends outside the bureau asking for help .
we were asked to day to provide legal representation to people inside the bureau and agreed to do so and to former agents who want to come forward and talk .
comey thought this was going to go away .
the most important thing of all is that the agents have decided that they are going to talk .
read more : daily caller