brigitte gabriel is an intelligent and important voice of reason when it comes to the subject of muslim refugees who are migrating west .
she is the founder and president of act for america .
she is one of the leading national security experts in the world -providing information and analysis on the rise of islamic terrorism .
ms. gabriel lectures nationally and internationally about national security and current affairs .
her expertise is sought after by world and business leaders.gabriel is a christian born who was born and raised in lebanon .
her story is very compelling , and serves as a warning to americans who are fighting to keep the flow of unvetted refugees coming into the united states : i lost my country of birth to radical islam i do not want to lose my adopted country , america .
gabriel declared.muslims started coming to lebanon so their children could study at the country s universities .
they also stayed to work in their economy .
we built refugee camps for them in lebanon , we took them in because we wanted to take care of them , but these people turned against us , and they destroyed our country , gabriel recalled , bitterly .
she said the tipping point was when muslims became the majority population .
lebanon went from being the eden of the middle east to being the terrorist pit of the middle east , she declared .
the country is run by a terrorist organization , and has no rule of law .
currently , there is not even a president in lebanon , as none has been elected .
they are drowning in their own garbage , the government is falling apart .
this is what happens when you import people into your country that do not share your values that do not share your idea of freedom or democracy , your idea of tolerance , gabriel explained.gabriel did not deny the charitable impulse of helping people in need .
we can still do humanitarian work , but we need to make sure we are protected first , she declared .
we know isis infiltrated them , they were coming here under the disguise of refugees , but they are actually isis recruiters and isis sympathizers , gabriel told pj media in an interview at the values voter summit on saturday .
she added that the refugees are making up names they can tell us anything , and there is nothing we can do to check it .
these people don t have passports .
we don t even know if the name they give is their real name , gabriel explained .
the refugees also are not just coming from embattled countries like syria and iraq , she argued .
they also come from tunisia , libya , eritrea , djibouti and afghanistan migrants fleeing poor countries to go to rich countries.gabriel argued that the refugees must have a reason for going further west , as opposed to other countries in the middle east .
these refugees can go to any country in the region , where they speak the arabic language , where their children can assimilate and continue in their schooling with arabic schools .
why are they coming to europe ?
one reason , she alleged , is that the word got out that if you want a freebie , this is the opportunity to come to europe and live off the government .
perhaps more importantly , however , many middle eastern countries would turn the migrants away .
saudi arabia is a very wealthy country and a very big country they have a lot of space , gabriel noted .
she explained that saudi arabia , dubai , the united arab emirates , abu dhabi and kuwait are refusing to accept these refugees because they are a national security threat .
when arabic countries suspect terror activity from the refugees , why should we overlook it ?
if saudi arabia is refusing to accept them because they are a national security threat , why are we accepting them ?
gabriel asked .
are we that dumb ?
watch gabriel as she exposes the truth about the refugees we are bringing to america : it is not difficult to see how the tens of thousands of refugees who have entered europe and other western countries recently are having a devastating impact in their host nations .
areas holding these refugees have seen an increase in rape , theft , gang activity , intimidation , and organized crime .
media in europe have reported that thousands of the refugees have disappeared and are unaccounted for .
terror groups such as the islamic state publicly announce how they are using refugees as cover to infiltrate the west.an egyptian-american made this interesting comment under the video .
he gives us an idea of what it s like to be a christian in a muslim dominated nation : ms. gabriel has addressed the united nations , the australian prime minister , members of the british parliament/house of commons , members of the united states congress , the pentagon , the joint forces staff college , the u.s. special operations command , the u.s. asymmetric warfare group , the fbi , and many others.she speaks arabic , french , english and hebrew .