rawalpindi , pakistan ( reuters ) - pakistan on friday blocked off roads into islamabad , the capital , as an islamist party that backs strict blasphemy laws staged a sit-in on a key highway , demanding the resignation of a minister it blames for changes to an electoral oath .
dozens of pakistanis are on death row , convicted of having insulted islam s prophet , a charge that carries a mandatory death sentence , although no executions have been carried out .
more than 500 supporters of the tehrik-e-labaik pakistan party , or movement of the prophet s followers , chanted slogans as speakers addressed them from atop a cargo truck , pledging their lives to protect pakistan s blasphemy laws .
the protesters demanded the resignation of law minister zahid hamid , whom they hold responsible for the law change , and denounced him as a blasphemer .
immediately appear before us and beg for forgiveness , said one speaker .
two high court lawyers who joined the sit-in said they would work to advance labaik s agenda in the courts .
he ( hamid ) has insulted the blasphemy laws , the punishment for which is death , said one of the lawyers .
pakistan s interior ministry did not immediately answer telephone calls from reuters to seek comment .
the ruling pakistani muslim league-nawaz ( pml-n ) unexpectedly set off a firestorm last month after voting through the alteration of the oath , among seemingly small changes to the nation s electoral law .
the changes prompted accusations of blasphemy from religious parties and the government retreated , apologizing in parliament for what it called a clerical mistake .
but the apology did not satisfy tehreek-e-labaik , triggering the sit-in , as the culmination of a march of nearly 400 km ( 249 miles ) from the eastern city of lahore .
the party rose to prominence in september , after placing third in a by-election in lahore , edging out a major opposition party to pick up 6 percent of the vote .
last month , it gained nearly 8 percent in a by-election in the northwestern city of peshawar .
while tehrik-e-labaik is unlikely to break out of single digits in coming votes , its rapid rise could present a challenge for the pml-n. on a bridge overlooking the highway demonstration site , drivers of trucks halted by blockades erected by city authorities complained about cargo delivery delays .
one commuter unable to take public transport to work told reuters his business had suffered .
i run a tailoring shop and can t go to work today , said mohammad altaf .
i have lost a day s earnings .