geneva ( reuters ) - u.n. human rights experts urged hong kong to uphold the fundamental freedoms of expression and assembly on tuesday when a court hears a final appeal of three prominent pro-democracy activists convicted of unlawful assembly in 2014 mass protests .
hong kong s highest court granted bail to two of the three activists , joshua wong and nathan law , on oct 24 pending their appeal scheduled for tuesday against their respective jail sentences of six months and eight months .
hong kong s appeals court jailed wong , 21 , law , 24 and alex chow , 27 , leaders of the chinese-ruled city s democracy movement , in august .
chow did not apply for bail .
their sentencing came as a blow to the youth-led push for universal suffrage and prompted accusations of political interference .
we urge the hong kong court of final appeal to consider the cases of wong , law and chow in accordance with hong kong s obligations under international human rights law , david kaye , u.n. special rapporteur on the right to freedom of opinion and expression , and michel forst , u.n. special rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders , said in a joint statement issued on monday in geneva .
we fear that if their sentences are upheld , this will have the effect of stifling the expression of dissenting opinions , the right to protest and the overall work of human rights defenders .
the right to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly protects people , especially those sharing dissenting opinions , they said .
the trio of activists helped lead the largely peaceful umbrella movement that blocked major roads for 79 days in 2014 , demanding beijing grant hong kong full democracy .
the independent u.n. experts also raised concerns that the hong kong secretary of justice had previously intervened in the case , to apply for a change and review of the men s original lighter sentences .
we call on the hong kong authorities to respect the independence of judicial powers and the rule of law , they said .
hong kong is a former british colony that returned to chinese rule in 1997 under a so-called one country , two systems formula that promises the city a high degree of autonomy , including an independent judiciary .
on saturday , china s largely rubber-stamp parliament formally extended a law banning disrespect of the national anthem to cover hong kong , a move that critics have said undermined the chinese-ruled city s autonomy and freedoms .