it s a pity the millennials who support bernie sanders have never had to stand in a bread line .
they ve never had to watch everything their parents have worked so hard for , be taken away by their government .
they don t make the connection that there s more to life than a free college .
the huge deductions these millennials see on their paychecks usually takes care of the naive attitude of the immature , idealistic crybabies .
people who escaped the former soviet union and came to america are not feeling the bern .
perhaps because they know exactly what it s like to live in the socialist utopia bernie sanders wants for america.the atlantic reports : why soviet refugees aren t buying sanders s socialismsan francisco janna sundeyeva still remembers life in the soviet union , where stores in remote regions would lack meat for months at a time and toilet paper had to be snatched up quickly on the rare occasions it appeared.but the minor indignities paled in comparison to what happened to her grandfather : he had the chance to come to america in 1929 , but he opted to stay , sensing an economic thaw .
seven years later , sundeyeva says , he was arrested and never heard from again.sundeyeva immigrated to san francisco from moldova in 1994 , and now she and her husband run a russian-language newspaper here called kstati .
her soviet experience colors how she sees u.s. politics to this day .
i don t like big government , sundeyeva said .
she made two circles with her thumbs and forefingers and pressed them against each other so they touched , like binoculars .
this venn diagram represents the interests of people and government , she said .
they don t have very much in common .
today , she s not a registered republican , but like many of the readers of her newspaper , she said she s starting to lean toward supporting donald trump for president .
the other self-styled outsider in the race , though , holds no appeal for her .
the only bern she and many other russians here are feeling is the one in the banya.to sundeyeva , left-wingers seem to yearn for a workers revolution .
i would ask them : have you ever lived under a revolution ?
she said .
do you know what it s like ?
when someone comes and takes your family member in the night ?
interviews with more than a dozen immigrants from the former soviet union in the bay area suggest that some in the community are recoiling from bernie sanders and his leftist ideals .
one hundred years after the bolshevik revolution swept communists into power , some russians in america say they can t believe a serious candidate in the united states is calling himself a socialist.many of us can t believe it either , folks.bernie s support among young people can be chalked up to ignorance .
millennials have no memory of the soviet union or the horrors people endured under socialism .
they ve grown up in the most free country in the world and have never wanted for anything .
via : progressives today