juba , south sudan/kitchanga , democratic republic of congo ( reuters ) - in a mountainous camp for displaced congolese , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley wrapped her arm around an inconsolable woman who recounted being raped twice .
it only makes me more passionate , it makes me more determined , haley told a small group of reporters traveling with her during her first trip to africa .
i ll carry the voices of the women that i met and things that they said .
dispatched by president donald trump to ethiopia , south sudan and democratic republic of congo , haley s trip was one of the first tangible signs of interest in africa by the nine-month old administration .
her challenge : how to show the united states is actively engaged in africa , where humanitarian and political crises are often overshadowed by more urgent conflicts elsewhere and at the same time honor trump s avowed america first policy which puts u.s. economic and national interests ahead of international commitments .
as africa struggles to win trump s interest , u.s. policy is more likely to be increasingly focused on countering militant threats .
washington also has a financial interest at stake as it tries to cut u.n. peacekeeping costs , for which it pays more than a quarter .
trump has made a point of saying he would not impose u.s. values on others , raising concerns among activists that human rights issues could take a backseat .
nowhere is that more in focus than in niger where a deadly ambush killed four u.s. troops who were there to assist local nigerian forces fighting a local islamic state affiliate this month .
at the same time , washington has mostly turned a blind eye to the increasingly authoritarian moves of niger s former opposition leader , now president mahamadou issoufou , as it tries to stop the militant threat from expanding .
haley , a former governor of the u.s. state of south carolina , was the most senior member of trump s administration to travel to the three sub-saharan states in a trip that showed how she balances her political skills with her nascent foreign policy and diplomacy experience .
she was moved to tears after visiting displaced congolese in kitchanga in the conflict-ravaged east of the country .
in ethiopia s gambella region , she kicked off her shoes and sat down on the floor to play with south sudanese toddlers .
those kids will be 18 one day , haley told a small group of reporters during her trip .
they will be an uneducated adult with no social skills that will have resented the fact that they were put in that situation and that s dangerous for the united states and that s dangerous for the world .
with u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson shying away from the spotlight , haley has carved out a high-profile role for herself .
amid speculation about tillerson s future haley said that if she was offered the job : i would say no .
known for taking a blunt approach that has raised eyebrows among diplomats at the united nations , haley took her direct style to lengthy one-on-one conversations with the south sudanese and congolese leaders .
i think bluntness is important , but i also expected it back and i got candid conversations back from them , she said .
that was very much appreciated because we didn t want to have to sit there and deal with the political talk , we wanted to get to the realities of the situation .
it s not clear yet if south sudanese and congolese leaders will heed her message .
in kinshasa she spoke privately with president joseph kabila for 90 minutes .
she had said kinshasa must hold a long-delayed election to replace kabila by the end of next year or the vote will lose international support .
but the congolese opposition was critical of her statement there because it conceded there would be no election this year , in violation of a deal kabila s camp signed with the opposition last december , without extracting any concessions in return .
calling for kabila to stay in power beyond dec. 31 , 2017 is the equivalent , pure and simple , of making oneself complicit with the evil genius !
opposition leader olivier kamitatu wrote on twitter above a photo of haley from her visit .
in juba , haley met with president salva kiir for 45 minutes , showing him photos of refugees from her visit to gambella .
south sudan spiraled into a civil war in 2013 , just two years after gaining independence from sudan , sparked by a feud between kiir , an ethnic dinka , and his former deputy riek machar , a nuer .
the u.s. invested heavily in the process that led to south sudan s independence .
the trump administration has been far less engaged , let alone influential , in trying to end the war that erupted .
haley plans to meet with trump , vice president mike pence and national security adviser h.r .
mcmaster this week to discuss her trip .
i ll give options and then if asked i ll give the recommendation , haley said .
( trump ) very much wants to know how everybody else feels , he very much takes all that into consideration and then he makes his decision .