boehner s hightailing it out of dc just in time to push funding through for planned butcherhood without having to suffer any repercussions .
boehner also manages to avoid the embarrassment of being pushed out by fellow republicans in the recent move by conservative rep. mark meadows of nc who filed a motion to vacate the chair , which could have forced a no-confidence vote by the full chamber and un-seat the unpopular speaker of the house speaker john boehner , who rose from bartender s son to the most powerful man in congress , will retire at the end of october , ending a tumultuous five-year tenure atop the house of representatives .
boehner , 65 , planned to leave congress at the end of 2014 , one of his aides said friday morning , but returned because of the unexpected defeat of eric cantor .
the speaker believes putting members through prolonged leadership turmoil would do irreparable damage to the institution , the boehner aide said .
he is proud of what this majority has accomplished , and his speakership , but for the good of the republican conference and the institution , he will resign the speakership and his seat in congress , effective october 30 .
on thursday evening as he left the capitol , boehner ( r-ohio ) told two reporters one from politico and another from the washington post that he had nothing left to accomplish after he brought pope francis to the capitol .
when asked if he was resigning , boehner laughed before exiting into an awaiting suv with his capitol police detail.boehner came into power on the momentum of the 2010 tea party wave , but it was that movement that gave him the most problems .
boehner s tenure will be remembered for his internal political battles , but also his complicated relationship with president barack obama .
he and obama tried but repeatedly failed to cut a deal on a massive fiscal agreement .
but boehner has had some significant victories , including the free-trade deal that congress passed this year , and changes to entitlement systems.now that he doesn t have internal political considerations to weigh , boehner is certain to push through a government-funding bill next week that funds planned parenthood , and keeps the government open.boehner s decision , relayed in a closed republican meeting friday morning , will set off one of the most intense leadership scrambles in modern congressional gop politics .
second in line is house majority leader kevin mccarthy ( r-calif. ) , who is widely expected to serve as the next speaker .
but there is serious unrest in the house republican ranks , as a small clutch of conservatives have continuously clashed with more establishment republican types .
but it is unclear if any of these figures can win a leadership election .
via : politico