a new poll released from the washington post and surveymonkey has people scratching their heads .
for the first time in four months , donald trump is leading hillary clinton , 46 to 44 percent , while simultaneously losing all swing states and the red states of texas and arizona.the poll , which was done from august 9 to september 1 , and had close to 75,000 respondents , shows trump losing wisconsin , florida , colorado , michigan and arizona by two points to clinton , with all of them being within 2 points of each other , 46-44 percent .
texas , the reddest of all red states in the union , was nabbed by clinton with 1 point over trump.how is that ?
people really , really hate donald trump : a comparison of the current survey with the 2008 texas exit poll ( there was no exit poll there in 2012 ) points to reasons the race appears close right now .
trump is performing worse than 2008 gop nominee john mccain among both whites and hispanics , while clinton is doing slightly better than obama.so in a national poll , clinton is losing overall .
but in all the states that matter ( swing ) and states never thought possible ( texas ) , she s winning.although trump is leading , the post ( which says the poll actually shows why clinton has a clear advantage over trump ) has clinton solidifying 244 electoral votes to trump s 126 with 168 being tossups .
of those tossups , which includes 10 states , clinton leads in six , ties with trump in two , and trump leads in two.while trump supporters may be giddy and clinton supporters worried , the post actually contends that trump is the one who should be worried : overall , the results reflect trump s strategy of maximizing support in older , whiter midwestern states where his anti-free-trade message and appeals to national identity generally find more fertile ground .
but his struggles elsewhere , including places that have long supported republicans , illustrate the challenges of that strategy in more diverse states where his stances on immigration and some other positions have turned off democrats , independents and many republicans. > to win the election , trump must quickly consolidate the republican vote .
with prominent republicans declaring they will not support trump and some even announcing they will back clinton , this represents a major challenge for the gop nominee .
in the post-surveymonkey poll , clinton is winning 90 percent or more of the democratic vote in 32 states , while trump is at or above that level in just 13.it s not hispanic , latino , black , or even female voters that are hurting trump s chances it s republicans .
the obama coalition , which delivered two victories to president obama in 2008 and 2012 , have coalesced around clinton in larger numbers .
but now this election has offered something unique : republicans are starting to come around to clinton.with trump losing the traditional coalition and now with republicans , chances of him overtaking her are slim.featured image via justin sullivan/getty images