tokyo ( reuters ) - the timing of emperor akihito s abdication , japan s first in nearly two centuries , is to be discussed by a special panel that will meet from dec. 1 , the top government spokesman said on wednesday .
akihito , who turns 84 on dec. 23 and has had heart surgery and treatment for prostate cancer , said in rare remarks last year that he feared age might make it hard to fulfill his duties .
a law adopted in june that allows him to step down and be succeeded by crown prince naruhito , 57 , left details , such as timing , to be worked out .
news the imperial household council - whose 10 members include prime minister shinzo abe and the chief justice of the supreme court along with two royals - would convene grabbed domestic headlines after abe called on akihito on tuesday , apparently to inform the emperor of the meeting .
once considered divine , japan s emperor is defined in the post-war constitution as a symbol of the state and of the unity of the people , and he has no political power .
but akihito , who has spent much of his time on the throne seeking to soothe the wounds of a war fought in his father hirohito s name , and consoling people suffering from disasters or other woes , is widely respected by many average japanese .
at a special news conference to announce the meeting , chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga did not comment on media reports that two options were being considered - march 31 , 2019 , or april 30 that year .
after hearing ( the panel s ) opinion , based on that , we would like to decide the date promptly , he said .
the government had proposed the emperor retire at the end of 2018 but imperial household agency officials demurred , media have said , citing a cluster of rituals and other events around that time .
some in government , however , now worry an alternate proposal of march 31 , 2019 , would be complicated by nationwide local elections set for that spring , media said .
once akihito steps down , a new imperial era will begin , replacing the current heisei , or achieving peace period , which began on jan. 8 , 1989 , the day he took the throne .
japan uses the western-style gregorian calendar but has also preserved the ancient custom in which the reign of a new emperor ushers in a new era .