hungary s populist prime minister on friday lashed out against billionaire financier george soros , claiming he and groups backed by him want to secretly influence the country s politics.in his annual state of the nation speech , viktor orban said groups partly funded by soros , who was born in hungary , needed to be made transparent and identifiable .
large-bodied predators are swimming here in the waters .
this is the trans-border empire of george soros , with tons of money and international heavy artillery , said orban , who received a soros-funded scholarship as hungary was transitioning from communism to democracy in the late 1980s .
it is causing trouble that they are trying secretly and with foreign money to influence hungarian politics , orban said.he did not cite evidence backing his claims , and did not identify the groups he mentioned .
government officials had earlier taken aim at corruption watchdog transparency international and rights groups like the hungarian helsinki committee and the hungarian civil liberties union.the open society foundations is bigger than you think .
in fact , it may be the largest philanthropic organization ever built , with branches in 37 countries .
while the gates foundation spends more money , osf has a larger footprint worldwide thanks to its many local offices , including throughout africa .
osf s budget will be around $ 930 million this year which is substantially more than ford s total grantmaking.that budget is set annually by george soros , who s given away nearly $ 12 billion since he got into philanthropy decades ago .
nevertheless , thanks to his skills in financial markets , soros who recently turned 85 is now richer than ever , with a net worth estimated at $ 26 billion .
the bulk of that fortune is slated to go one day to osf , creating a massively endowed foundation that , in recent years , has been redesigned to exist in perpetuity.watch this video that explains a leaked memo from george soros s open society foundation , outlining a proposed strategy for successfully influencing immigration policy : in 2014 , orban ordered a crackdown on civic groups supported in part by norway , but extensive investigations and audits did not uncover any financial irregularities of note.in an email to the associated press , a soros representative said they were proud to support hungarians who insist on having a voice in their democracy .
orban also claimed that soros organizations were still working on bringing hundreds of thousands of migrants into europe , contrary to the wishes of hungarians and their government .
orban has been outspoken about his strong opposition to taking in refugees and migrants , and in 2015 ordered fences built on hungary s southern borders with serbia and croatia to stop the migrant flow.on friday , he reiterated a government plan to keep migrants in border camps built from shipping containers while their asylum applications are being processed.orban also painted a bleak picture of western europe , saying its future is casting a long and dark shadow on its present .
he joked that hungary was ready to take in western europeans , whom he said are suffering from globalization s effects .
naturally , we will take in the real refugees , orban said to laughter and loud applause .
the panicked german , dutch , french and italian politicians and journalists , christians forced to leave their countries who want to find here the europe they lost at home .
fox news