susan rice will not visit capitol hill today for a meeting with the house committee probing allegations she unmasked president trump associates in russian meddling probes.hmmm if democrats really wanted to get to the bottom of their trump-russia collusion witch-hunt , it would certainly make sense that rice would be jumping at the opportunity to testify at the house hearings.rice had been expected to face tough questions on her role in the matter while serving as then-president barack obama s national security adviser .
trump alleges rice may have committed a crime by asking government analysts to disclose the names of his associates documented in intelligence reports.fox news was initially told rice would be giving closed-door testimony tuesday before the republican-led house permanent select committee on intelligence.but that session has apparently been postponed.the panel is leading one of several investigations into russian meddling in the 2016 white house race , which have engulfed the trump administration and evolved to include questions about whether anybody on trump s campaign team colluded with the kremlin to defeat democratic nominee hillary clinton.ohio gop rep. jim jordan last week told fox news that he wants rice to answer the basic question : did you unmask the names and if so why ?
he also argued that americans indeed deserve to know the truth about the trump associates but they also want answers from high-ranking obama administration officials who may have misled americans on critical matters including rice , as u.s. ambassador to the u.n. , saying the fatal 2012 benghazi terror attacks were largely sparked by an anti-muslim video .
the american people want to get the truth on all of these issues , said jordan .
he also raised concerns about how obama attorney general loretta lynch handled the clinton email investigation and whether james comey exposed classified information in an apparent effort to retaliate against trump firing him as fbi director.rice has denied that she did anything inappropriate , saying she was authorized as obama s national security adviser to seek the identities of people whose names were redacted from intelligence reports.and she has suggested that her race and gender may be playing a role in the controversy , in a recent new york magazine interview .
fox newsit would be more shocking to the american people if rice didn t use her race and gender as an excuse for committing heinous crimes against american citizens .
it s the only card left in the deck for a cheating , lying and deceitful administration with their backs firmly against the wall fox news legal anchor gregg jarrett said rice is lying .
jarrett goes on to explain exactly how rice potentially committed 3 felonies : so this is why susan rice refuses to testify : she knows she committed three different felonies for obama !
# lockherup pic.twitter.com/fg37cijzpu newt-trump fan club ( @ newttrump ) july 18 , 2017senator rand paul ( r-ky ) told obama sycophant and trump-hater mika brzezinski on msnbc s the morning joe that he believes susan rice abused the system and she did it for political purposes .
rand told brzezinski that susan rice needs to be brought in and questioned under oath .
of course , mika defended rice , and then quickly qualified her obviously biased defense of obama s former nsa director by saying she wasn t defending her.rand paul : drag susan rice in make her testify under oath !
`` ask her whether obama ordered this or knew about it . ''
https : //t.co/rtjtt7jnbx newt-trump fan club ( @ newttrump ) july 18 , 2017fox news contributor newt gingrich rips former nsa director susan rice over her spying on candidate trump and the unmasking of his transition team .
gingrich likened susan rice and barack obama spying scandal on trump to some third-world dictatorship and called it an extraordinarily dangerous situation .
gingrich went on to explain how much more serious the spying activities of obama and susan rice were in comparison to watergate : you have the power of the federal government looking into what the opposition is doing , in a way , in which i pointe out earlier .
all of watergate involved one physical break-in , one time .
this apparently involves electronic break-ins over months .
newt : susan rice spying on trump `` was like some third-world dictatorship way bigger than watergate .
`` lock her up !
pic.twitter.com/oy9haxnm7p newt-trump fan club ( @ newttrump ) july 18 , 2017