washington ( reuters ) - the head of the cia said on thursday a u.s.-canadian couple kidnapped by islamist militants in afghanistan were held inside neighboring pakistan for five years before being freed .
we had a great outcome last week when we were able to get back four u.s. citizens who had been held for five years inside of pakistan , cia director mike pompeo told the foundation for defense of democracies think tank in washington .
pompeo s remarks appeared to be the first time a u.s. official has publicly stated that the couple and their children spent their captivity in pakistan , contrary to accounts from pakistani officials .
pakistan s military and government have indicated u.s. citizen caitlan coleman , her canadian husband joshua boyle and their children were rescued shortly after entering pakistan from afghanistan .
the couple were kidnapped in 2012 while backpacking in afghanistan and their children were born in captivity .
u.s. officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , have previously said there was no indication the hostages had been in afghanistan in the days before they were freed .
the officials said the united states believed the hostages were probably held by the haqqani militant group in or near its headquarters in northwestern pakistan the entire time .
regarded as the most fearsome and effective taliban ally , the haqqani network gets support from elements of the inter-services intelligence , pakistan s powerful military-run intelligence agency , u.s. officials say .
pakistan denies it .
a senior pakistani security source said last friday that pakistani troops and intelligence agents , acting on a u.s. intelligence tip , zeroed in on a vehicle carrying the family as they were being moved into the kurram tribal region near the town of kohat , some 60 km ( 37 miles ) inside pakistan .
pakistani officials bristle at u.s. claims islamabad is not doing enough to tackle islamist militants , particularly the haqqanis .
after the release of the family , pakistani officials emphasized the importance of co-operation and intelligence sharing by washington , which has threatened to cut military aid and take other punitive measures against pakistan .
however , two taliban sources with knowledge of the family s captivity said they had been kept in pakistan in recent years .
the haqqani network operates on both sides of the porous afghan-pakistani border but senior militants have acknowledged they moved a major base of operations to the kurram region .
as part of a strategy unveiled in august to end the war in afghanistan , the trump administration is demanding pakistan cease providing what u.s. officials say is safe haven to militants , or face repercussions .
those measures could include further cuts in u.s. assistance and sanctions targeted at pakistani officials with links to militant organizations .
pompeo s remarks came ahead of a visit to pakistan next week by u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson , who said on wednesday the united states expected pakistan to take decisive action against terrorist groups .
a senior trump administration official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said on thursday the united states considers the family s rescue a template for more cooperation by pakistan .
we see this as a first step and we hope that we can build on it , said the official , adding that washington is very frustrated that taliban and haqqani militants continue to find sanctuary in pakistan .
it s freedom of movement , it s the ability to transport weapons and materiel , the ability to raise funds .
this is what makes a sanctuary , the official added .
pompeo said the united states would do everything if could to bring the taliban to the negotiating table in afghanistan , but added it could not be achieved if the militants had safe havens .