after months of speculation about hillary s poor health , she appeared to have a pretty serious episode after leaving the 9-11 memorial service in nyc .
fortunately , someone was able to capture her on video in a press-free zone , as she appeared to be having convulsions and collapsing , forcing the secret service to physically lift her into her vehicle .
many in the media are saying the democrat party is scrambling to figure out what to do if hillary is forced to drop out of the race .
of course hillary wouldn t leave the race on her own for the good of the country or for the good of her party .
this is her final shot at the highest office in our nation , and she has already proven there is nothing that will get in her way from her lifelong goal of becoming our first female president .
no lie is too big and no scandal will take her down .
it s her turn .
but in the event that she ends up incapacitated by her illness which , according to many prominent physicians looks more like parkinson s disease , here s what would happen if she was forced to drop out : it s never happened before , but if hillary clinton has to drop out before election day , the democratic national committee would pick a successor and it wouldn t have to be runningmate tim kaine.if donald trump faced the same situation , the republican national committee would select a gop replacement , perhaps by reconvening 2,472 delegates.clinton s near collapse over the weekend , coupled with the ages of the two major candidates , have brought the far-flung scenarios into the realm of possibility.there s 55 days until the election as of tuesday and military and overseas ballots are mailed 45 days before the polls open.thirty-seven states have some sort of early voting , with north carolina being the first by mail on sept. 9.what would really complicate matters is if a nominee had to drop out when ballots have already been cast .
it would be an unprecedented , complicated mess , one election lawyer said.the electoral college would then select the next president.if the electors couldn t agree , the house of representatives would make the selection .
nyp