moscow ( reuters ) - russia on thursday set out why it disputed u.n. and western allegations that the syrian government had been behind a deadly chemical attack on the opposition-held town of khan sheikhoun in april that killed dozens .
a report sent to the united nations security council last week concluded that syrian president bashar al-assad s government was responsible for the attack , which prompted a u.s. missile strike against a syrian air base .
russia , whose air force and special forces have been supporting the syrian army , said at the time there was no evidence to show damascus was responsible and the chemicals that killed civilians belonged to rebels , not assad s government .
on thursday , with the aid of maps , satellite footage and charts , moscow set out why it believed the syrian government had been unfairly maligned .
a russian defence ministry official told a media briefing that the syrian su-22 jet accused of dropping the chemical bomb was not physically close enough to the attack site to have been involved .
thus , i believe the information provided can not confirm the use of chemical weapons in khan sheikhoun in the form of an aviation bomb dropped from a syrian air force su-22 jet , the ria news agency quoted the official , whom it did not name , as saying .
mikhail ulyanov , head of the russian foreign ministry s department for non-proliferation and arms control , told the same briefing that u.s. accusations that russia had encouraged the use of chemical weapons in syria were ungrounded , ria reported .
it was hysteria and a completely open attempt to discredit russia with rather primitive dirty means , ulyanov was quoted as saying .
the white house on wednesday admonished russia after it vetoed a united nations plan to continue its ongoing investigation into the use of chemical weapons in syria .
syria agreed to destroy its chemical weapons in 2013 under a deal brokered by russia and the united states .
the syrian government has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons during the country s more than six-year civil war .