kiev/novoluhanske , ukraine ( reuters ) - fighting in eastern ukraine has escalated to the worst level in months , officials monitoring the conflict said on tuesday , after the shelling of a frontline village wounded eight civilians and destroyed or damaged dozens of homes .
a russia-backed insurgency erupted in 2014 and the bloodshed has continued despite a ceasefire deal that was meant to end a conflict in which more than 10,000 people have been killed , with casualties reported on a near-daily basis .
the organisation for security and co-operation in europe , which monitors the implementation of the peace agreement , said it had recorded 16,000 ceasefire violations between dec. 11 and dec. 17 , a 35 percent increase on the week before .
we note with concern a sharp deterioration in the security situation with ceasefire violations reaching levels not recorded since february this year , chief monitor ertugrul apakan said in a statement .
in february , a surge of violence around the government-held industrial town of avdiivka cut off power and water to thousands of civilians on the front line .
apakan said the latest escalation reflected an established trend in which a recommitment to the ceasefire by the sides was followed by a steady increase in the level of violence , culminating in fierce fighting .
apakan s comments followed warnings from aid agencies over the humanitarian situation in the eastern donbass region , particularly given monday s attack on the government-controlled village of novoluhanske .
the united nations ocha humanitarian arm said on twitter heavy shelling near novoluhanske was affecting 2,000 residents .
people are fleeing the area in blizzard conditions , it said .
eight civilians were wounded and more than 50 buildings were damaged in the shelling , which also temporarily cut power supplies , the regional kiev-controlled donetsk administration said .
a reuters witness saw residents picking their way through the rubble of destroyed homes and surveying fire-blackened buildings .
the u.s. state department said the humanitarian situation was dire because of the shelling , which it blamed on russian-led forces firing grad multiple-launch rockets .
the ukrainian military on tuesday accused pro-russian separatists of deliberately firing more than 40 times from multiple-launch rocket systems at novoluhanske .
meanwhile , the rebel command said attacks from the ukrainian side had almost doubled in the past 24 hours , according to separatist news website dan .
rebels deny attacking novoluhanske and say the ukrainian military fired at the village to justify their attacks on separatist-held civilian areas , according to dan .
the u.s. state department also voiced concern about fighting around the donetsk water filtration station , which has a system of pipes that carry chlorine gas .
if those were to go off in this area , which is close to where people live , it could be potentially devastating , state department spokeswoman heather nauert told a briefing .
she said civilian water workers were trapped in the station s bomb shelter and could not get out because of fighting .
in an effort to end the deadlock , the international community , including the united states , has in recent months been advocating for the deployment of u.n. peacekeepers in the donbass .
both kiev and moscow backed the idea but disagree on whether the troops should be positioned on the rebel-controlled part of the ukraine-russia border , so no decision was made .
russia denies accusations from ukraine and nato that it supports the rebels with troops and weapons .