hillary clinton s new e-mail release exposes her relationship to some very anti-israel people .
sydney blumenthal is a very close friend of the clintons and exchanges quite a few e-mails with clinton that are disturbing .
did he have much influence of foreign policy and the inner workings of the state department .
while clinton claims blumenthal was a minor character , the e-mails reveal a different story entirely : as hillary clinton s email scandals goes nuclear with more and more classified material coming to light ( including some described as explosive ) , one disturbing trend is coming to light : hillary s deep contempt for the state of israel in general , and prime minister netanyahu in particular.when the state department released more than 5000 pages of clinton s emails from her private server on new year s eve , it included correspondence with her one-time advisor sidney blumenthal .
the communications revealed an exchange regarding israel , and blumenthal cited the work of his son , journalist max blumenthal , a self-described anti-zionist known for his radical anti-israel views.according to the times of israel , in march 2010 , blumenthal plugged his son s work this time , playing up links between evangelical pastor john hagee and netanyahu in the context of an article ( written by a different writer ) discussing a controversial pentagon briefing on u.s. relations with israel and the arab world .
the briefing had dealt with the lack of progress in resolving the israeli-palestinian conflict , and american concerns over a growing perception among arab leaders that the us was incapable of standing up to israel .
the senior blumenthal sent several articles written by his son and referenced the younger man s plans to move to israel for several months to write a book .
he tracks a lot of things that do not appear in the mainstream press , he wrote to hillary.just in time for the 2016 election , hear hillary clinton say she would not run for president , in hillary unhinged by thomas kuiperhillary then took the articles in question and instructed a staffer to print five copies without the heading from sid .
she noted the articles came from max blumenthal s book goliath : life and loathing in greater israel , a widely criticized and rabidly anti-semitic volume that castigated israeli policies .
the nation s media editor eric alterman referred to it as the i hate israel handbook and wrote blumenthal s case against the jewish state is so carelessly constructed , it will likely alienate anyone but the most fanatical anti-zionist extremists , and hence do nothing to advance the interests of the occupation s victims .
according to the times of israel , blumenthal also sent clinton a piece by leftist israeli uri avnery , who also analyzed the pentagon briefing by leveling a damning critique against netanyahu .
clinton asked blumenthal , in response , how she should use this material in an upcoming talk she was supposed to have with the american israel public affairs committee ( aipac ) .
blumenthal speculated on netanyahu s psychological makeup by suggesting his actions were motivated by a desperate attempt to live up to his father s expectations.in an email sent immediately after the may 2010 israeli raid on the gaza-bound turkish ship mavi maramara in which nine activists were killed , blumenthal referred to the operation as bibi s entebbe in reverse .
noting that netanyahu s brother yoni was heroically killed in the 1976 hostage rescue mission , he said the brothers father benzion adored yoni , while the younger benjamin has always lived in his brother s shadow .
bibi desperately seeks his father s approbation and can never equal his dead brother ( he ) has never measured up , blumenthal suggested.the senior blumenthal continued to push his son s anti-israel views on hillary .
as noted by the times of israel , in 2012 , blumenthal sent his son s article in al-akhbar , the bibi connection , to clinton , who then relayed it onward .
the article emphasized netanyahu s intent to campaign against obama s reelection in 2012 , arguing that netanyahu s shadow campaign is intended to be a factor in defeating obama and electing a republican in his place .
the article reflected upon netanyahu s ties to prominent republicans such as newt gingrich , as well as the prime minister s right-wing pedigree .
it noted that when his father , benzion netanyahu , returned to israel to launch a political career , the elder netanyahu was rejected by menachem begin , the ( then- ) likud party leader , who , as right wing as he was , considered him dangerously extreme .
hillary offered a terse response on some of sidney blumenthal s policy suggestions regarding israel , upon which he backed off .
however , blumenthal could not keep netanyahu out of his semi-retraction , hinting at missed peace opportunities by the israeli leader : of course , if bibi were to have engaged syria in negotiations taking its previous gestures seriously he wrote , before changing the subject without concluding the hypothetical .
the email dump revealed blumenthal was not the only one commenting on middle east policy .
foreign-policy analyst anne-marie slaughter , formerly the state department s director of policy planning , wrote to clinton the time was right for the u.s. to recognize palestine during the emerging of the arab spring .
it would allow you and potus to have accomplished the goal potus laid out at unga last year and would make it much harder for syrians , iranians , even saudis to use this issue to divert domestic opposition , strengthening the seismic shift across the region to create fault-lines around reform/no reform instead of arabs/us-israel , wrote slaughter.the times of israel notes , the emails also indicate the existence of a lengthy correspondence over attempts to reconcile israel and turkey following the events of the 2010 gaza flotilla , but the emails are so heavily redacted as to expunge any clue as to what was actually discussed .
another series details attempts in 2010 to broker direct negotiations between israel and the palestinian authority , with significant input from the parties involved in the arab peace initiative .
learn more about the hillary clinton investigative justice project , conceived by two veteran investigative journalists who plan to take their findings to state attorneys general in jurisdictions in which the nonprofit , tax-exempt clinton family foundation does businessclinton s hostility toward israel is well documented.read more : wnd