on march 31 , 2015 sergeant andrew tahmooressi was driving with his friends to go to a mexican restaurant and accidentally missed the last exit before the mexican border .
without the ability to turn around before he crossed the border , he proceeded to the mexican customs post , where he explained that he missed the exit before the crossing , and volunteered that he had three us legal guns in the vehicle .
after that , sergeant andrew tahmooressi was arrested and charged with gun smuggling into mexico.while we all understand the problem of illicit arms and drug smuggling between mexico and the us , it is clear that sergeant andrew tahmooressi was not part of it .
he made an honest mistake , admitted it to the mexican border agents , and was arrested anyway .
his admission and cooperation with the mexican authorities strongly attest to his innocent intent.tahmooressi was released in november when a mexican judge was finally convinced to do so on humanitarian grounds .
his lengthy prison stay became a farce and a failure under the obama administration , culminating in a september congressional hearing that was highly critical of obama administration efforts to secure his release and mexico s refusal to let him go .
with the swipe of a pen on wednesday , president trump green lighted the construction of a border wall along the u.s.-mexico border and vastly increased the presence of border agents .
mexican president enrique pe a nieto soon expressed regret over the new u.s. leader s actions and pledged to protect mexicans already in the states .
where there is a mexican migrant at risk that requires our support , your country should be there , pe a nieto said in a brief address to his nation , which he said was a response to trump s actions earlier in the day .
our communities are not alone , pe a nieto said .
the mexican government will provide them with the legal advice , which guarantees the protection they require.the 50 mexican consulates in the u.s. will be advocating on behalf of mexicans , nieto explained .
he added ( again ) that he does not intend to pay for trump s border wall .
mexico offers and demands respect as the fully sovereign nation we are , he insisted.breaking : mexican president enrique pena nieto says he has informed the white house he has canceled trip to washington .
the associated press ( @ ap ) january 26 , 2017nieto is apparently so distressed by trump s executive actions that he is considering canceling their scheduled meeting for next week , where they were due to discuss not only immigration , but trade.trump said that if nieto is not willing to pay for the wall , he can go ahead and cancel .
townhall