bozanovici , bosnia ( reuters ) - the sign nailed to a tree marking one of the few paved roads bears the name of the village s favorite son : general mladic street .
in a garage that serves as the makeshift tavern , his portrait looks down on the men who spend the day sharing a bottle of brandy .
ratko mladic , the former bosnian serb military commander who will hear his verdict on charges of war crimes , genocide and crimes against humanity next week in the hague , is one of the highest profile war crimes suspects in europe since nuremberg .
in the international court where his trial began more than five years ago , he is accused of ordering the killing of 8,000 unarmed muslim men and boys after the capture of the town of srebrenica , and raining artillery on civilians during the siege of the bosnian capital sarajevo .
but here in his home village , where barely two dozen people mostly his blood relatives still remain in the hardscrabble countryside of the bosnian hills , mladic is , as the slogan on his portrait above the drinkers declares , a hero .
he did not do such things .
others did it .
the general is a colossus , a great and good man , said zoran mladic , one of several villagers who identify themselves as cousins of the ex-general .
mladic , who was captured in 2011 after a decade and a half on the run , is still revered in the serb sector of bosnia as a hero and defender of the nation during the 1992-1995 war that killed more than 100,000 people .
in his native village of crumbling cabins scattered across the slopes , every home has his portrait .
villagers pay him the ultimate compliment : he was a good worker , who often came back to visit , and a useful hand bringing in the harvest as a reaper in the fields .
he did not kill people .
during the war he gathered our muslim neighbors from a nearby village and warned them in time to leave , said dusko mladic , another cousin , sitting in the tavern , who said he was a childhood playmate of the general .
i still often go to that village , work with muslims and don t have any problems , he said .
the villagers are mainly farmers who keep cattle and sell produce in sarajevo , which mladic s forces kept under a 43-month siege , bombing its citizens daily and depriving them of water , power and food .
today , as in much of the countryside , the younger generation has largely abandoned the village to go to sarajevo in search of jobs .
those left behind barely survive on small pensions and the sale of milk and meat , disappointed at the lack of support by the bosnian serb authorities .
they fear mladic will be convicted and remembered as a war criminal .
i would be happiest if he died before the judgment , said another cousin , mile mladic .
that was the fate of slobodan milosevic , the former leader of serbia , who died four years into his own genocide trial , ending it without a verdict .
we would then raise a large monument for him in the village and write the truth .
all this that is happening is not the truth .
it is a lie .
the general is not guilty .