warsaw ( reuters ) - poland should lower its surprising level of state control over the economy , particularly in the banking and energy sectors , and speed up privatizations , the european bank for reconstruction and development s president said on tuesday .
the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party , which won the 2015 parliamentary election , has called a halt to privatizations and questioned the rationale and pricing of the previous centrist government s sales .
instead , state-run financial firms and utilities have taken over some smaller rivals from foreign investors , helping the government increase the share of domestic capital in the banking and energy sectors .
it s quite surprising , given poland s leadership in the whole transition race , that so much of the economy is still in state hands , suma chakrabarti told reuters during a visit to warsaw .
since poland overthrew communism in 1989 and started its transition to a market economy , the number of companies controlled by the state has shrunk to several hundred from more than 8,000 .
but chakrabarti said the pis government , which argues the state can better serve poland s economic interests than foreign corporations , should do more .
poland has pockets of poverty and it s important for the state to act , he said .
but , what i m not in general a supporter ( of ) ... is when states become ... the prime economic actor in major sectors .
there is at least one state-owned enterprise in 39 out of 43 sectors in poland , and 12 of the 20 biggest listed companies are controlled by the state , representing 77 percent of ( blue chip index ) wig20 .
that s quite high , he said .
since pis came to power , polish insurer pzu and a state-fund pfr bought a 33-percent stake in bank pekao from italy s unicredit , while poland s biggest power firm pge has offered to buy power assets owned by france s edf .
the process of transition toward a more market economy is actually not as fast as it was in early days , in the 90s .
that has slowed down .
we would love to see more privatizations in poland , chakrabarti said .
the ebrd has invested 8.6 billion euro ( $ 10.28 billion ) in poland , mostly in the private sector , since the early 1990s .
the ebrd head also warned that poland s overhaul of the judiciary and the rule of law , which raised concerns in the european commission , are an issue for investors .
[ nl5n1kk08q ] [ nl8n1lh28p ] every time one talks about the eu , brexit is one thing people always mention but the other is obviously the issues about poland , chakrabarti said .
poland is still not achieving its ... potential .
and policies matter ...
i think poland could achieve a higher level of private sector investment and foreign direct investment with the right policies , he said .
the ebrd sees its investment in poland falling to about 600-650 million euros this year from 776 million in 2016 .
the bank will likely invest similar amounts in the coming years as the economy is growing , chakrabarti said , but will narrow the financing to fewer areas .
rather than invest in renewable sources of energy , which are subject to a number of unexpected legal changes , it would help private companies tap foreign markets , the president said .
for many investors the more boring a country , the better .
poland is not boring and that is the problem , chakrabarti said .