the word nothing-burger has been tossed around so much lately but it s best used in referring to what the paris accord would do to change the climate .
it would do nearly nothing !
if you heard president trump s speech yesterday then you know this was one of the huge points within his remarks .
the cost/benefit was so out of line and so unfair for america !
it s safe to say that how much the accord would change climate is a nothing burger but the total loss to america would be huge ! here s a list from breitbart news of the things you can say goodbye to now that our awesome president has removed us from the paris accord : goodbye to american last .
the paris agreement was basically an attempt to halt climate change on the honor system .
its only legal requirements were for signatories to announce goals and report progress , with no international enforcement mechanism .
as a result , it was likely that the united states and wealthy european nations would have adopted and implemented severe climate change rules while many of the world s governments would avoid doing anything that would slow their own economies .
the agreement basically made the u.s. economy and europe s strongest economies sacrificial lambs to the cause of climate change.industrial carnage .
the regulations necessary to implement the paris agreement would have cost the u.s. industrial sector 1.1 million jobs , according to a study commissioned by the u.s. chamber of commerce .
these job losses would center in cement , iron and steel , and petroleum refining .
industrial output would decline sharply.hollowing out michigan , missouri , pennsylvania , and ohio .
the industrial carnage would have been concentrated on four states , according to the chamber of commerce study .
michigan s gdp would shrink by 0.8 percent and employment would contract by 74,000 jobs .
missouri s gdp would shrink by 1 percent .
ohio s gdp would contract 1.2 percent .
pennsylvania s gdp would decline by 1.8 percent and the state would lose 140,000 jobs.smashing small businesses , helping big business .
big businesses in america strongly backed the paris climate deal .
in fact , the backers of the climate deal reads like a who s who of big american businesses : apple , general electric , intel , facebook , google , microsoft , morgan stanley , general mills , walmart , dupont , unilever , and johnson & johnson .
these business giants can more easily cope with costly regulations than their smaller competitors and many would , in fact , find business opportunities from the changes required .
but smaller businesses and traditional start-ups would likely be hurt by the increased costs of compliance and rising energy costs.making america poorer again .
a heritage foundation study found that the paris agreement would have increased the electricity costs of an american family of four by between 13 percent and 20 percent annually .
it forecast a loss of income of $ 20,000 by 2035 .
in other words , american families would be paying more while making less.much poorer .
the overall effect of the agreement would have been to reduce u.s. gdp by over $ 2.5 trillion and eliminate 400,000 jobs by 2035 , according to heritage s study .
this would exacerbate problems with government funding and deficits , make social security solvency more challenging , and increase reliance on government s spending to support households .