rome ( reuters ) - the brother of the man who killed two women with a knife outside marseille train station last week was probably a foreign fighter in syria and iraq , italian investigators said on monday .
italian police arrested 25-year-old tunisian anis hannachi in northern italy on saturday evening .
he had been in italy since oct. 4 or earlier , police said .
his older brother , the 29-year-old ahmed , was shot dead by a french soldier after killing the two women on oct. 1 .
ahmed lived south of rome with his italian wife from 2008 to 2014 , and was known to police only for petty crimes , italy s chief anti-terrorism prosecutor franco roberti told reporters .
ahmed never showed any signs of radicalization in italy , roberti said .
the investigative hypothesis we re working on is that the younger brother radicalized the older one .
the militant islamic state group claimed responsibility for the marseille attack , but did not name ahmed as the assailant .
anis has refused to talk to italian investigators , roberti said .
he was arrested on an international arrest warrant issued by the french , who are investigating the marseille attack as a probable terrorist action .
it is likely that anis will be extradited to france in a matter of days , roberti added .
anis was flagged as a dangerous individual who probably had been a foreign fighter in iraq and syria , claudio galzerano , director of an italian anti-terrorism police squad , told reporters .
anis was arrested on suspicion of complicity in his brother s attack and membership of a terrorist group .
he had been fingerprinted and photographed by police in 2014 , when he reached italy by boat and was immediately sent back home .
however , that previous identification meant police were sure they had arrested the right man when they tracked him down on saturday evening riding a bicycle in the center of ferrara , in northern italy .
he had no identification on him , gave police a false name , and told them he was algerian , galzerano said .
police are now investigating anis s possible contacts in italy .
the marseille attacker s estranged wife told italy s corriere della sera newspaper on sunday that she did not believe ahmed had become a radical islamist .
he didn t care about religion , ramona cargnelutti told corriere in an interview .
i ve never seen him enter a mosque .
while admitting she had not seen him for more than two years , she said the murder of the two women was more likely a robbery gone wrong because he was a drug user and always in need of cash .
roberti said italian prosecutors will be talking to cargnelutti in the coming days as part of their investigation .