jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia s constitutional court on thursday narrowly rejected a petition by a conservative group to make extramarital sex illegal , but rights activists braced for a renewal of the battle in parliament and other state institutions .
five of nine judges voted for the case to be thrown out , in a slim victory for rights activists who had feared the petition would spur moral policing and further discrimination against the gay community in the world s largest muslim-majority country .
most indonesians adhere to a moderate form of islam under an officially secular system , but there has been rise of a hardline , politicized islam in recent years , which until recently had stayed on the fringe of the nation s politics .
constitutional court chief justice arief hidayat said existing laws on adultery did not conflict with the constitution and it was not the court s authority to create new policies .
the judge said the question could be put to parliament , which is currently deliberating revisions to the national criminal code .
the plaintiff should submit their petition to lawmakers , and there it should be an important input in the ongoing revision of the national criminal code , hidayat said , as he read a summary of the 600-page ruling .
based on that view , the constitutional court is of the opinion that the petition is not legally sound .
rights activists were comforted by the court s decision , while expecting more challenges to come .
the decision is a relief because it shows it s possible to challenge the creeping conservatism in society , said dede oetomo , a prominent gay rights activist .
but it s not over .
there s parliament , there are other state institutions , they can turn to education , social organisations , he added .
the family love alliance ( aila ) , a group of conservative academics and activists which put forward the petition , said it would not give up its fight .
aside from legal avenues , we can also go through government policy and programs so that sexual deviance is minimised and is an agenda for all of us , euis sunarti , a member of aila , told reporters after the ruling .
aila s petition had called for the definition of adultery to apply not just to married couples but to anyone in a marriage or outside it - effectively making all sex outside of marriage a crime .
in their complaint , aila said certain articles in the national criminal code threaten the resilience of families and therefore of indonesia itself .
some rights activists said the petition was partly aimed at criminalizing gay sex , which is currently not regulated by the law except in the ultra-conservative province of aceh and in cases of child abuse .
activists say such changes to the law would make it vulnerable to abuse , like the country s draconian anti-pornography laws , to target the lgbt community .
islamic parties pushed the anti-pornography laws in parliament soon after indonesia ushered in its democratic era in 1998 and actively push an anti-lgbt agenda today .