comedian dave chappelle has been prepping for his november 12 hosting slot on saturday night live with a series of surprise shows at the cutting room in new york .
on friday night , he shocked the crowd with a 60-minute set largely devoted to slamming hillary clinton.he was particularly agitated about what he believes was clinton s role in leaking a surreptitiously recorded conversation between republican nominee donald j. trump and tv personality billy bush .
what i heard on that tape was gross , chappelle said .
but the way i got to hear it was even more gross .
you know that came directly from hillary .
he stated this had put him off a candidate he had already known was not right .
he likened voting for her to a hypothetical situation of actress halle berry breaking wind in his face during sexual relations .
i m still going to go for it , he said .
but i wish she hadn t done that thing .
chappelle further shocked the new york crowd by defending trump .
he took issue with the media stating as fact that trump had admitted committing sexual assault in the recorded conversation .
sexual assault ?
it wasn t. he said , and when you re a star , they let you do it .
that phrase implies consent .
i just don t like the way the media twisted that whole thing .
nobody questioned it .
the comedian stated that trump s resilience in the face of the leak had impressed him .
comparing trump to the terminator , chappelle said , that would have devastated anybody else .
chappelle added that trump s handling of the debate immediately following the controversy had won him over .
referring to anderson cooper and martha raddatz s hostile questioning , he said , something about this was backward .
a gay white man and a white woman asking a multi-billionaire how he knows the system is rigged and insisting it s not .
does that sound right to you ?
it didn t seem right to me .
and here s how you know trump is the most gangsta candidate ever .
they asked him how he knows the system is rigged and he said , because i take advantage of it .
he may as well have flashed his membership card for the illuminati right then .
noting that he voted early in rural yellow springs , ohio before heading to new york , chappelle said he didn t feel good about voting for clinton .
she s going to be on a coin someday .
and her behavior has not been coin-worthy , he said .
she s not right and we all know she s not right .
chappelle noted that he d been present at a late october going-away party at the white house , sponsored by bet .
everyone there was black everyone except bradley cooper , he said .
chappelle listed attendees including supreme court justice sonia sotomayer , singer usher , dnc chairwoman donna brazile , and dj d-nice , who performed at the hush-hush soiree .
he claimed that , at the end of the night , he grabbed the mic and waxed lyrical about frederick douglass , concluding that even though the current election has been gross , he still loves the united states of america.the comedian wasn t feeling so much love for women s rights , gay rights , and transgender rights activists , saying , they should not be having that conversation in front of black people .
you go ahead and feel something about your rights .
but if you re putting sexism and homophobia and transphobia in front of racism , you should be ashamed of yourself .
chappelle still slammed north carolina legislation stating that transgender people must use the public restroom that aligns with the sex stated on their respective birth certificates .
if you need to show your birth certificate to take a dump at a wal-mart in north carolina , that s insane .
chappelle noted he would rather not have a woman with a dick stand next to him at a urinal .
he also said he wasn t happy about rumors that caitlyn jenner would pose nude for sports illustrated .
sometimes i just want to read some stats .
chappelle is slated to host snl on november 12 , but said , you know there s a pool going on whether or not i show up .
i got $ 100,000 that says i won t. observer