london ( reuters ) - richard branson , billionaire founder of the virgin group , has revealed he was targeted by a fraudster posing as britain s defense minister who tried to get him to contribute $ 5 million to a supposed secret ransom payment .
appealing for information to help identify the conman , branson said he suspected the same person had later impersonated him to steal $ 2 million from a friend of his by pretending to raise funds for people affected by hurricane irma .
this story sounds like it has come straight out of a john le carre book or a james bond film , but it is sadly all true , branson wrote in a blog .
instantly recognizable with his wavy blond hair and beard , branson is one of britain s best-known businessmen .
the virgin brand is licensed for use by a range of businesses from airlines to train companies to telecoms and gyms .
branson wrote that six months ago , after an elaborate set-up involving a note on fake government notepaper , he spoke on the phone to someone purporting to be defence secretary michael fallon .
the man told branson that a british diplomat had been kidnapped and was being held for ransom by terrorists .
he said that while the government did not pay ransoms , there was a particularly sensitive reason why the diplomat had to be saved , and the government was confidentially asking a syndicate of british business people to step in .
i was asked to contribute $ 5 million of the ransom money , which he assured me the british government would find a way of paying back , branson wrote .
feeling suspicious , branson checked with the government and was told that fallon had not spoken to him .
the matter was reported to the police .
six months on , branson learnt that a friend , whom he described as a very successful businessman in the united states , had been called by a conman posing as him .
when the call happened , the conman did an extremely accurate impression of me and spun a big lie about urgently needing a loan while i was trying to mobilize aid in the bvi ( british virgin islands ) , he wrote .
branson owns a small island in the bvi archipelago which , as was well publicized , was devastated by hurricane irma .
the caller took advantage of that context .
they claimed i couldn t get hold of my bank in the uk because i didn t have any communications going to europe and i d only just managed to make a satellite call to the businessman in america , branson wrote .
the business person , incredibly graciously , gave $ 2 million , which promptly disappeared .
a spokesman for fallon said he was aware of two attempts , one not involving branson , to impersonate the minister for illicit gain , and fallon s office were assisting the police in their efforts to try to catch those responsible .