beijing ( reuters ) - a buzz fills the sky above a flight base in northern beijing , as pilots practise take-offs and landings ahead of tests to qualify for a license - to fly drones .
drone enthusiasts in china , the world s top maker of consumer unmanned aerial vehicles ( uavs ) , are scrambling for licenses after the government adopted strict rules this year to tackle incidents of drones straying into aircraft flight paths .
a drone is not a toy , said yang nuo , the principal of the drone training school in the chinese capital , who expects more students to sign up in a drive to boost flying skills .
it involves complicated aerial theoretical knowledge .
gao huiqiang , 32 , said his construction company told him to seek a license .
since the laws on drones are tightening and a legal framework is being built , they told me to come and get the license first , he added .
in june , china set an end-august deadline for owners of civilian drones to register crafts up to a certain weight under their real names .
last week , a test-flight base opened in the commercial hub of shanghai , which requires civilian drones to fly below 150 m ( 492 ft ) , the official news agency s xinhuanet website said .
others have balked at the idea of spending around 10,000 yuan ( $ 1,534 ) for an official qualification , particularly as uncertainty surrounds future regulations .
they don t know when the next regulation will be introduced , said hao jiale , the manager at a dji drone store .
some people want to wait and see .
privately-held sz dji technology co ltd , based in the southeastern city of shenzen , had a roughly 70 percent share of the global commercial and consumer drone market , according to a 2016 estimate by goldman sachs and oppenheimer analysts .
despite the curbs , prospects for growth look bright .
china s camera drone market will see a compound annual growth rate of 68 percent in five years , with shipments reaching 3 million units by 2019 , up from 40,000 in the third quarter of 2015 , tech research firm idc said last year .
more than 120,000 drones have been registered in china , xinhuanet said , compared to just 77,000 registered users in the united states .