berlin ( reuters ) - china s growing military strength and a resurgent russia will pose growing challenges to the trans-atlantic alliance in coming years , and nato s moves to bolster its capabilities could trigger a new cold war-style arms race , a nato report said .
the report , completed once every four years , identifies 20 global trends that are likely to affect the alliance through 2035 , ranging from artificial intelligence and accelerating technology development to climate change and growing inequality .
general denis mercier , nato supreme allied commander transformation , told reuters the report showed a higher risk of major interstate war than in the 2013 report .
we see a considerable increase in the risk of a major interstate conflict , mercier said in an interview on the sidelines of the berlin security conference .
his command will release a companion report that maps out what nato should do to respond to these trends in the spring , with both documents to inform the 2019 nato political guidance .
having a global awareness is more necessary than before .
we have to be ready for any kind of scenario , mercier said , noting that globalization meant nato had to weigh factors outside its region , including military expansion by china and india .
easy access to technology and the global nature of cyberspace would make it easier for terrorist networks to expand , challenging the current near-monopoly that state actors have on high-tech weapons , the report said .
environmental factors would also play a bigger role , from higher rates of natural disasters to the increased opening of the arctic , the report said , as well as a growth in global debt and erosion of trust in financial institutions .
the report said defense spending had begun increasing after russia s annexation of the crimea region of ukraine in 2014 , and projections called for further increases through 2045 .
but it warned that the increases might create a security dilemma and start an arms race , as was the case during the cold war .
it said competing budget priorities and fiscal constraints in member states could hamper their ability to meet nato alliance requirement in the future .
mercier said nato was already working to expand its capabilities in the cyber domain , and to ensure cyber protections were baked into every weapons system and network from the outset .
in nato , we are under permanent attack in cyber , he said , noting that the alliance had proven quite good at protecting itself thus far , but needed to remain vigilant .