yangon ( reuters ) - a group of myanmar journalists said they would begin wearing black t-shirts on saturday in protest at the detention of two reuters reporters accused of violating the country s official secrets act , as pressure builds on myanmar to release the pair .
the protection committee for myanmar journalists , a group of local reporters who have demonstrated against past prosecutions of journalists , decried the unfair arrests that affect media freedom .
in a statement on facebook , the committee said its members would don black t-shirts to signify the dark age of media freedom in myanmar .
they demanded the unconditional and immediate release of the two reporters , wa lone , 31 , and kyaw soe oo , 27 .
journalists all over the country are urged to take part in the black campaign , the group said .
it said it also planned to stage official protests and prayers .
the group has staged several protests on behalf of arrested reporters from other media this year , including one in june in which around 100 journalists took part .
it was not immediately clear how many journalists have joined the black t-shirt protest .
the protection committee for myanmar journalists was formed in response to the arrest in june of a newspaper editor over the publication of a cartoon that made fun of the military , said video journalist a hla lay thu zar - one of the group s 21-member executive committee .
a reporter must have the right to get information and write news ethically , said a hla lay thu zar in reference to the case of the two reuters journalists .
myo nyunt , deputy director for myanmar s ministry of information , told reuters the case had nothing to do with press freedom .
it s related to the official secrets act , he said .
journalists should be able to tell what is secret and what is not ... we already have press freedom .
there s freedom to write and speak ...
there s press freedom if you follow the rules .
asked about the local reporters black campaign , he said : everyone can express his feelings .
the journalists were arrested on tuesday evening after they were invited to dine with police officers on the outskirts of myanmar s largest city , yangon .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson , u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres , the president of the european parliament antonio tajani , and government officials from canada , britain , sweden , and bangladesh , have all called for their release .
the two reporters had worked on reuters coverage of a crisis that has seen an estimated 655,000 rohingya muslims flee from a fierce military crackdown on militants in western rakhine state .
the ministry of information said the journalists had illegally acquired information with the intention to share it with foreign media , and released a photo of the pair in handcuffs .
it said they were being investigated under the 1923 official secrets act , which carries a maximum prison sentence of 14 years .
human rights advocates say press freedom is under attack in myanmar , where the young civilian-led government of nobel laureate aung san suu kyi shares power with the military that ran the country for decades .
at least 11 journalists have been detained in 2017 , although some have since been released .
police told wa lone s wife on thursday that the reporters were taken from htaunt kyant police station in north yangon by an investigation team to an undisclosed location shortly after their arrest .
they added the reporters would be brought back to the station in two to three days at most .
it is now four days since they were detained .
separately , police lieutenant colonel myint htwe of the yangon police division told reuters on thursday the reporters location would not be disclosed until the investigation was complete .
since then , the authorities have not provided any further information on their whereabouts .