manchester , n.h./washington ( reuters ) - jeb bush brought out his famous family four days before the crucial u.s. presidential primary in new hampshire , tapping his mother on friday to scold republican front-runner donald trump over his use of profanity and treatment of women .
in a last ditch attempt to make a mark on a republican primary campaign he was supposed to own , bush lashed out at both trump and u.s .
senator marco rubio , the one-time protege who has eclipsed bush as the party ’ s establishment candidate in the 2016 white house race .
new opinion polls following monday ’ s iowa caucuses showed trump maintaining a wide lead in new hampshire ’ s primary next tuesday with rubio rising into second place in the state as republicans battle for the nomination in november ’ s presidential election .
bush , the former governor of florida , leaned on his well-known family for support .
while former president george w. bush appeared in a new ad praising his brother as having “ a good heart and a strong backbone , ” jeb bush sat with his mother for an interview with cbs show “ this morning. ” the two attacked trump as misogynistic and vulgar after he used a four-letter word in a recent campaign appearance .
“ i don ’ t think a president would have ever shouted profanities in a speech in front of thousands of people with kids in the crowd , ” jeb bush said .
“ he does it all the time. ” his mother lambasted trump for criticizing fox news anchor megyn kelly after she quizzed him at a republican debate in august .
trump made comments widely interpreted as referring to her menstrual cycle .
“ i don ’ t know how women can vote for someone who said what he said about megyn kelly , ” mrs. bush said .
“ it ’ s terrible .
and we knew what he meant , too. ” much loved by today ’ s republicans , the former first lady herself raised eyebrows in 1984 when she reportedly made a derogatory reference to democratic vice presidential candidate geraldine ferraro , the first woman on a major party ticket , saying , “ i can ’ t say it , but it rhymes with rich. ” trump has dismissed jeb bush as a “ low-energy ” loser .
the son and brother of u.s. presidents who was expected to glide to the republican nomination , bush trails in the single digits in many national polls .
mrs. bush , who was campaigning for her younger son in new hampshire , said “ america needs ” jeb and drew an implicit contrast to the brash swagger of trump .
“ he ’ s got the same values that america seems to have lost .
he ’ s almost too polite. ” while rivals took aim at him , trump was forced to miss a rally on friday in londonderry , new hampshire because of a snow storm and was stuck in new york , a spokesman said .
trump has eschewed much of the one-on-one retail politicking of typical campaigns in favor of large rallies .
but in new hampshire , where voters are used to having candidates ’ close attention , the strategy could hurt .
jeb bush seized the opportunity to make fun of trump on twitter , pointing out that even his mother was able make it out despite the weather .
“ my 90 year old mother made it out to campaign , ” he wrote in response to trump ’ s tweet that he was moving a campaign event to monday due to a “ big storm. ” the bushes chatted with people at a diner in derry , new hampshire , according to a pool report sent to news outlets .
“ vote for my boy , ” barbara bush told one table .
“ i haven ’ t seen snow in 1,000 years , ” she said .
the snow did not stop ohio governor john kasich either .
his campaign sent reporters a video of the candidate in a snowball fight after a town hall .
jeb bush also stepped up attacks on rubio as lacking in experience and accomplishments , saying on msnbc the first-term florida lawmaker had done “ nothing ” in the u.s. senate .
he was not the only one piling on rubio .
new jersey governor chris christie released satirical videos slamming the floridian as “ scripted ” for repeating himself in interviews and speeches .
and the new hampshire union leader newspaper ’ s publisher criticized rubio in an editorial for presenting himself as a washington outsider , saying rubio “ must think new hampshire a bunch of rubes. ” on the positive side for rubio , he picked up the endorsement of former louisiana governor bobby jindal , who dropped out of the republican race in november .
“ i think he ’ s a principled conservative .
i think he ’ s the right guy to lead us forward , ” jindal said on fox news .
a suffolk university/boston globe poll released on friday found that about one-third of likely republican voters said they could still change their minds .
the poll showed rubio with 19 percent , behind trump ’ s 29 percent .
kasich came in third with 13 percent , followed by bush and u.s .
senator ted cruz .
for the democrats , opinion polls show u.s .
senator bernie sanders from vermont with a double-digit lead in new hampshire over rival hillary clinton .
clinton went on the attack against sanders on thursday in their most contentious debate yet .
( additional reporting by emily stephenson in new hampshire , amy tennery in new york , mohammad zargham and eric beech in washington ; editing by bill trott , alistair bell and bernard orr ; for more on the 2016 presidential race , see the reuters blog , “ tales from the trail ” ; here ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .