washington ( reuters ) - a battle over implementation of the iran nuclear deal erupted on the u.s. senate floor on wednesday as democrats maneuvered to block a republican amendment stopping the obama administration from buying heavy water from tehran ’ s nuclear program .
by a vote of 50-46 , democrats and four republicans banded together to stop a fiscal 2017 energy spending bill , in order to keep republican senator tom cotton from offering his amendment to the measure .
the legislation had needed 60 ‘ yes ’ votes to move ahead .
president barack obama ’ s administration had warned congress that it strongly opposed any move to prevent the planned purchase of $ 8.6 million worth of heavy water , which is non-radioactive and used in nuclear reactors and for making nuclear weapons .
under last year ’ s nuclear deal between iran , the united states and five other world powers , tehran is responsible for reducing its stock of the substance , which it can sell , dilute or dispose of , under certain conditions .
the dust-up put a crimp in senate majority leader mitch mcconnell ’ s plans to spend the next several weeks advancing bipartisan appropriations bills to keep the federal government functioning beyond sept. 30 , the end of the fiscal year .
before the vote , senator chuck schumer , the no .
2 senate democrat , told reporters that if democrats allowed the bill to proceed , potentially clearing the way for a vote on the cotton amendment , republicans would be emboldened “ again and again and again ” to attach to spending bills “ poison pill ” amendments the white house opposes .
white house spokesman josh earnest said cotton ’ s focus was on undermining the implementation of the nuclear deal with iran , and that the administration was “ gratified ” cotton ’ s amendment did not advance in the senate .
“ i ’ m confident that ( cotton ) couldn ’ t differentiate heavy water from sparkling water , ” earnest said.cotton said he wanted to “ insure that the united states taxpayer is not subsidizing a critical component of iran ’ s nuclear industry , which i would add we are not required to do under the nuclear agreement with iran. ” every republican in congress opposed the nuclear agreement announced in july , joined by several of obama ’ s fellow democrats .
not trusting tehran to keep its promise to curtail its nuclear program , some lawmakers have tried repeatedly to pass legislation the administration says would undermine it .
mcconnell said he would try again to pass the spending bill , accusing democrats of finding new ways “ to blow up ” the appropriations process .