no one should be surprised about this , but it was recently discovered that donald trump was displaying fake time magazines featuring himself as the cover star in his golf clubs .
these fake magazine covers , dated march 1 , 2009 , were discovered in at least four of his golf clubs , painting the picture of a very , very mentally ill man.in response to this cringeworthy news , time magazine has asked the trump organization to remove the magazine covers which are framed from its golf clubs.update : @ time has asked the @ realdonaldtrump s businesses to remove the phony magazine covers from their walls .
https : //t.co/bejxotrevb david fahrenthold ( @ fahrenthold ) june 27 , 2017the fake cover s headline reads , trump is hitting on all fronts even tv !
which is exactly what you would expect from trump .
this is how the fake magazines covers are being displayed : photo via screen capturerevealing that the real time magazine for march 2009 had featured actress kate winslet , a spokesperson for time magazine said of trump s version : i can confirm that this is not a real time cover .
as you can imagine , the internet erupted once trump s weird ego-stroking tactic made its rounds .
even politicians , such as democrat gerald edward connolly , got in on mocking trump .
connolly even came up with his own fake magazine cover : wow , my first cover of time .
asked my staff to frame this and hang it in all four of my offices .
@ realdonaldtrump https : //t.co/hx57zjexr8 pic.twitter.com/y1hcitb5g1 gerry connolly ( @ gerryconnolly ) june 27 , 2017and many other twitter users tore trump to shreds with more fake covers , like these hilarious responses : mine is totes real , tho pic.twitter.com/k1nixkuxwj lardofdorkness ( @ lardfdorkness ) june 27 , 2017the real one has been found !
pic.twitter.com/ng0ovvjtcx carol at the nc ( @ carol_nc66 ) june 28 , 2017clearly , trump is going to regret that those fake covers ever saw the light of day .
trump has only been featured on time magazine s cover once , and it was in 1989 , way before he entered politics .
thanks to this fiasco , trump can pretty much be sure that he will never appear in a favorable light on the cover again ! featured image via pool / getty images