new york ( reuters ) - palestinian president mahmoud abbas expressed optimism on wednesday about reaching a peace agreement with israel this year and said u.s. president donald trump s commitment to the issue would help create the deal of the century in the region .
abbas met trump on the sidelines of the u.n. general assembly gathering of world leaders in new york and thanked him for his support .
if this is any proof to anything ... it attests to the seriousness of your excellency , mr. president , to achieve the deal of the century in the middle east during this year or in the coming months , god willing , abbas said through an interpreter .
trump said his team of advisers was working very hard on the issue , as were israel , saudi arabia and other nations .
i think we have a very , very good chance , and i certainly will devote everything within my heart and within my soul to get that deal made , trump said .
we re at a very important juncture , there s a small period of time , and we re going to see what we can do .
there can be no promises , obviously , he said .
abbas noted that the palestinians had met with trump s team more than 20 times since the u.s. president entered office in january , and he said the fact that jews and muslims were celebrating a new year was a positive sign .
this is a very sweet coincidence that we can celebrate the new year together within a 24-hour period , and if this is an indication to anything , it means that we can coexist peacefully together , abbas said .
later at the u.n. gathering , abbas urged the 193-nation body to end the israeli occupation of the state of palestine within a set timetable .
he also borrowed a campaign line of trump s , using the phrase draining the swamp as an argument for addressing the conflict between palestinians and israelis .
trump used a similar phrase as a presidential candidate to criticize politicians and policy making in washington .
beyond any doubt , draining the swamp of colonial occupation of our land and ending its unjust , oppressive and illegal practices against our people would greatly affect the fight against terrorism , depriving terrorist groups of one of the key rallying cries they exploit to promote their repugnant ideas , abbas said in his prepared remarks .
trump met with israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu earlier in the week .
the israeli and palestinian leaders both went out of their way to praise the u.s. president .
the white house played down both meetings in terms of their significance toward peace talks on one of the world s most intractable conflicts that has defied the peacemaking efforts of several u.s. administrations going back decades .
the palestinians seek to establish an independent state in the israeli occupied west bank , territory captured in the 1967 middle east war and the gaza strip , with east jerusalem as its capital .
the palestinian authority s ambassador to the united states , husam zomlot , said the meeting was forward-looking , and the conversation was deep and frank between the two allies .
the palestinian authority said in a statement abbas told trump that peace can be achieved through implementing the two-state solution based on the 1967 borders .
abbas also said the illegal israeli settlements policy poses an immediate threat to that .
for at least two decades , the goal of u.s.-led diplomacy has been a two-state solution , meaning an independent palestinian state living side-by-side and at peace with israel .
but neither trump nor his aides have publicly recommitted to a two-state solution , instead saying it is up to the two parties to work out in peace talks .
abbas insistence on a return to 1967 pre-war borders is something israel has repeatedly rejected .