london ( reuters ) - a british parliamentary committee has written to facebook s mark zuckerberg asking for information on any paid-for activity by russian-linked facebook accounts around the 2016 eu referendum and the 2017 uk election .
the request was made by damian collins , chair of parliament s digital , media and sport committee as part of its effort to gather evidence for an inquiry it is conducting into fake news .
part of this inquiry will focus on the role of foreign actors abusing platforms such as yours to interfere in the political discourse of other nations , collins wrote in a letter to zuckerberg circulated to media by the committee .
he asked facebook to provide examples of all adverts bought by russian-linked accounts , of all pages set up by russian-linked accounts , information on the targeting of such adverts and pages and how many times they were viewed .
i believe that the information i have requested is in line with that already supplied to facebook to several united states senate committees , including the senate intelligence committee , in relation to the 2016 u.s. presidential election , wrote collins .
the committee of british lawmakers launched its inquiry into fake news in january but it was suspended when a general election was called for june .
the closing date for submitting evidence is nov. 7 .
the inquiry aims to shed light on issues such as the impact of fake news on public understanding of the world and response to traditional journalism , the responsibilities of social media platforms and how people can be educated to assess news sources .
the issue of whether and how much russia intervened in the 2016 u.s. presidential election is a huge issue in washington , where it is the subject of multiple investigations .
facebook said on oct. 2 that some 10 million people in the united states saw politically divisive ads on its network that were purchased in russia in the months before and after the presidential election .
in britain , interest in whether russia also played a part in domestic political processes such as the june 2016 referendum on withdrawing from the european union and the june 2017 general election has been increasing in recent weeks .
last week , another member of parliament , ben bradshaw , called on the government to get to the bottom of reports of opaque funding sources for some elements of the pro-brexit campaign , citing widespread concern over foreign and particularly russian interference .
russia has denied interfering in the internal affairs of other countries .