soros paid protesters who blocked streets and created mass chaos in big cities cashed in before the election of president trump .
for the most part , when protesters blocked miles of traffic in large cities , law enforcement officers , who were also their target ( thanks to another soros-obama effort ) protected them from being unintentionally struck by vehicles on roads and highways they were blocking .
stories of people rushing to the hospital or trying to make it to work on time were circulating all over social media .
of course the mainstream media and leftist news sources were in collusion with democrats in their efforts to threaten and shame americans who dared to support trump .
they foolishly believed their violent and unlawful behavior would sway voters .
in addition to putting people s lives in danger , in the end , obama and george soros thugs turned a lot of people away from the polls , as many democrat and independent voters didn t want to be tied to a party they no longer recognized.watch protesters yell , whose streets ?
our streets !
: just before the midnight curfew in # clt the crowd is at the square chanting .
doesn t look like they want to go home .
# keithscotta post shared by david boraks ( @ davidboraks ) on sep 23 , 2016 at 8:56pm pdtwatch anti-trump antifa terrorists take over major streets in dc chanting our streets !
nc lawmakers are taking action to protect innocent drivers who encounter protesters who think jumping in front of traffic is a great way to protest .
and oh yeah they re not your streets the streets belong to all americans.wfae stop me if you ve heard this one before .
the north carolina house has passed a bill that is sure to bring controversy.this measure shields drivers who hit protesters from lawsuits.last year , in the wake of the killing of keith lamont scott , protesters took over charlotte city streets , even marching down sections of i-277 and i-85.the often chanted who s street ?
our street !
all this caught the attention of republican representative justin burr of montgomery county .
as we ve seen , time and time again , as folks run out in the middle of the streets and the interstates in charlotte and attempt to block traffic , burr said as he introduced the bill .
he wants to ensure drivers don t have to fear driving through charlotte or anywhere in north carolina .
now there are many ways this could be done.but burr decided to go in a controversial direction with house bill 330.he explains the bill this way , provides that a person driving an automobile while exercising due care is immune for civil liability for any injury to another if the injured person was participating in a demonstration or protest and blocking traffic .
translation : a driver who hits , or even runs over , a protester on a street could be shielded from lawsuits by the person they injure.but burr wanted to be clear on one point .
now this bill does not allow for a driver of a vehicle to target protesters intentionally .
that obviously is not the intention .
watch what happens here when protesters block a car that is on its way to st. jude s children s hospital with a sick child : in other words , if you were trying to get from point a to point b and you just happen to hit a protester , or more , while driving through a demonstration , you would be protected from civil lawsuits .
we all know this is being done to try to make a point about protests , said democrat greg meyer .
he s just one of the lawmakers who saw a problem with this bill .
it is just going to embarrass us .
there is no good reason to pass this bill .
the bill has passed the north carolina house .
it now heads to the senate .