washington ( reuters ) - the senate voted overwhelmingly on wednesday to confirm dr. robert califf as head of the food and drug administration , an agency that regulates everything from food and drugs to tobacco , cosmetics and dietary supplements .
califf , 64 , a well-regarded cardiologist and researcher , takes the helm at the fda when lawmakers are pressuring it to speed the approval process for drugs and medical devices and to finalize a proposed rule giving it authority to regulate e-cigarettes .
he said one of his first priorities is to strengthen the workforce by reaching out to academic and other centers to attract new talent and create professional “ homes ” for scientists who work at the fda .
for example , he said in an interview , “ we ’ ve been working to create a coordinated effort to have all our statisticians have an identity and support services that they need. ” “ for docs like me , ” he added , that might mean help with administrative matters such as keeping medical licenses up to date .
another priority for califf is improving surveillance systems to monitor for safety .
“ we ’ re not proposing to do away with the adverse event reporting system that currently exists , ” he said , “ but we are acutely aware that it is not enough. ” tools to monitor the safety of medical devices also need to be modernized , he said , and though it will not happen overnight , “ we have to do the hard work of making it happen. ” he said he thinks medical professions also need to “ step up ” and be part of the process .
and he said getting the authority to regulate e-cigarettes is also a priority .
the fda is also attempting to implement sweeping new regulations to improve food safety and has begun to tackle the approval process for biosimilars , which are cheaper versions of biologic drugs .
the u.s. house of representatives recently passed the 21st century cures act , which would require the fda to consider more flexible forms of clinical trials .
the senate is considering similar legislation .
the rate of new drug approvals at the fda is higher than it has been in decades .
last year it approved 45 new drugs , the most since 1996 .
from 2006 through 2014 it has averaged about 28 new drug approvals per year .
lawmakers and patient groups want the agency to move even faster .
califf has worked on many high-profile clinical studies , and has said he is eager to make the clinical trial process more efficient .
four senators , including democrat edward markey of massachusetts and joe manchin of west virginia , opposed califf ’ s nomination .
they took the opportunity leading up to the vote to lambaste the fda for what they said was a lax approach to approving potentially addictive opioid painkillers .
democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders was also among the senators who opposed the nomination , saying califf ’ s ties to the pharmaceutical industry made him unfit to regulate it impartially .
califf joined the fda as a deputy commissioner a year ago .
previously he held senior positions at duke university , where he founded a large academic research center that received more than half its funding from the drug industry .
he has said the funding never compromised his research .
califf ’ s confirmation was widely expected .
he fills the position left by dr. margaret hamburg , who stepped down after six years as commissioner .
dr. stephen ostroff has filled the post on an interim basis .