hello megyn kelly !
time for a little karma !
word on the street is that megyn kelly will not be welcomed back at fox news even if she comes crawling back from nbc.she s had a rocky start at nbc with her putin interview and now with the much-hyped alex jones interview .
you d think the controversy surrounding her contentious interview with jones would pump up the ratings but it didn t. perhaps it s because she s become so unlikeable on camera with her snarky questioning and cold as ice demeanor.even if she comes calling at fox , it s a no go according to breitbart news : after kelly s controversial and much-hyped interview with alex jones tanked by again failing to beat out reruns of 60 minutes and america s funniest home videos , new york radio host mark simone tweeted on monday that nbc is trying to unload kelly and convince fox news to take her back.but a high-ranking fox news source told breitbart news that there is no way kelly could come back to the network .
quite simply , the source told breitbart news , kelly would not be welcomed back .
simone also suggested that if kelly becomes more toxic and her ratings tank even more , nbc will have to take her off the network , and if they are stuck with her , they ll give her an msnbc show .
before she bolted to nbc , kelly anchored the kelly file on fox news .
during the 2016 election cycle , kelly won praise from mainstream media journalists when she tried to undercut donald trump during the first republican presidential debate in august of 2015 in cleveland , ohio .
she also gave never trumpers a forum on her primetime show to constantly slam trump throughout the election cycle.and as the daily beast s lloyd grove noted , kelly also hastened roger ailes forced resignation last july with her fateful decision to recount his misconduct to a team of lawyers hired by 21st century fox to investigate allegations made in the sexual harassment and retaliation lawsuit filed by fox news anchor gretchen carlson .
new york magazine s gabriel sherman reported that kelly told investigators that ailes made unwanted sexual advances toward her about ten years ago when she was a young correspondent at fox .
as grove pointed out , kelly , in her book , said there was some poetic justice in the role she played in helping boot ailes out of fox news .
i worked my tail off i established myself as a serious person , kelly wrote .
i built my own power .
and when the allegations against roger hit , i used it .
perhaps there is some poetic justice in that .
nbc reportedly invested nearly $ 20 million a year to bring kelly to the network , and nbc s investment has not paid any dividends at all .
after her interview with russian president vladimir putin , kelly was mocked for being way out of her league .
and when huffpost obtained the full unedited interview in which a nervous kelly lobbed putin softballs , kelly was subjected to another round of criticism.her interview with jones did not have any news value and may have damaged nbc s and her reputation more than it helped.you know what they say about karma it s a b * tch ! read more : breitbart news