president-elect donald trump told a critical biographer and guest of billionaire david koch to leave his west palm beach golf course on new year s eve , forcing koch to leave with him.trump s gesture was another slight against the pro-amnesty , pro- free trade billionaire brothers charles and david koch , who opposed trump during the republican primary season and refused to help him during the general election .
it also signals trump will not necessarily play nice with the gop political establishment and beltway right.the kochs swooped in during the tea party revolt in 2010 , training amateur political activists and trying to channel populist energy against the obama administration into supporting the progressive-business alliance that wanted more cheap labor and lesser sentences for drug traffickers , under the umbrella term of smaller government .
but the grassroots army was not controllable , as one former koch staffer lamented , and the kochs appeared curiously unwilling to make any concessions to americans who wanted populist , nationalist policies , and relief from the relentlessly eroding forces of mass immigration and globalization .
a majority of voters some of whom saw more demographic change take place in their communities than many countries saw in a millennia want immigration slashed in half or reduced to zero .
trump captured that energy and it propelled him to the white house , much to the kochs and their network s chagrin.the kochs wanted candidates amenable to their will , and trump didn t fit the bill .
they considered him a distraction before he rocketed to first in the polls , and even toyed with the idea of spending tens of millions of dollars to attack him.trump mocked the kochs while on the campaign trail , calling their preferred candidates puppets enacting their donors agenda : i turned down a meeting with charles and david koch .
much better for them to meet with the puppets of politics , they will do much better !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 30 , 2016koch s guest : harry hurt iii , who authored the 1993 book , lost tycoon : the many lives of donald j. trump , which stated ivana trump accused her ex-husband of raping her in a sworn deposition during their divorce.accusing trump of raping his ex wife , ivana trump , was a false media accusation arising early in the republican primaries and a weapon the democratic party planned to use in the general election after fox news megyn kelly and the daily beast rushed it on air and into print , using hurt s book , before bothering to check with ivana about its truth.it backfired spectacularly when ivana slammed the allegations and endorsed her ex-husband for president .
i have recently read some comments attributed to me from nearly 30 years ago at a time of very high tension during my divorce from donald .
the story is totally without merit , she said in a july 2015 statement .
donald and i are the best of friends and together have raised three children that we love and are very proud of .
i have nothing but fondness for donald and wish him the best of luck on his campaign .
incidentally , i think he would make an incredible president .
breitbarthere s an interview with charles koch where he won t say if he will or will not vote for hillary : https : //twitter.com/auditthemedia/status/759545802326888452