manila ( reuters ) - philippine troops rescued a catholic priest held hostage for almost four months by islamic state-linked rebels after an offensive that captured a stronghold of the militants in southern marawi city , defense officials said on monday .
marawi s vicar-general father teresito chito soganub was kidnapped along with other christians as militants rampaged through the city on may 23 , burning churches and schools , releasing prisoners and seizing arms in a well-planned assault .
soganub , flanked by defence secretary delfin lorenzana and military chief general eduardo ano , appeared to be in good health and high spirits when he was presented to the media in manila .
he expressed his thanks but gave no statement .
our troops gained the upper hand , the terrorists were forced to withdraw to nearby structures on the periphery of the mosque , lorenzana told a media briefing in manila , referring to the bato mosque held by the rebels for 117 days .
troops had opportunity to snatch father chito ...
the appearance of soganub is some rare good news for a military that has suffered a string of setbacks in marawi , from deadly accidents during a controversial campaign of air strikes to repeatedly missing deadlines on when the battle would be won .
the siege of the city by an alliance of rebels from the island of mindanao , and numerous foreign fighters , has been the biggest internal security crisis in years for the philippines , a country used to separatist and communist rebellions .
soganub made an appearance under duress in a militant propaganda video about a week after his capture , urging the government to stop the military operation in marawi in exchange for sparing lives of hostages .
the priest was among scores held by militants at the bato mosque , one of marawi s largest , which troops captured on saturday afternoon .
he was rescued along with another hostage , lordvin ocopio .
the rebels who laid siege to marawi are from an extremist faction of the abu sayyaf group , led by isnilon hapilon , the so-called emir of southeast asia , and members of the militant maute family , which has deep clan connections in the lakeside town and surrounding areas .
military chief ano said about 10 foreigners were still in the battle among some 50-60 rebels , who were holding 45-50 hostages .
hapilon was among those still fighting but several of the maute brothers were likely dead , ano added , citing information provided by civilians who escaped and some captured rebels .
as of monday , 149 members of government forces had died in combat , along with 47 civilians .
more than 670 militants have been killed , according to a military estimate of bodies recovered and targets hit .