beirut ( reuters ) - saudi arabia has opened a new front in its regional proxy war with iran , threatening tehran s powerful ally hezbollah and its home country lebanon to try to regain the upper hand .
with iranian power winning out in iraq and syria , and riyadh bogged down in a war with iran-allied groups in yemen , the new saudi approach could bring lasting political and economic turmoil to a country where tehran had appeared ascendant .
the resignation on saturday of the saudi-allied lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri , announced from riyadh and blamed on iran and hezbollah , is seen by many as the first step in an unprecedented saudi intervention in lebanese politics .
the saudis appear to have decided that the best way to confront iran is to start in lebanon , a european diplomat said .
riyadh is blaming hezbollah for the resignation of lebanon s preeminent sunni politician , accusing it of hijacking lebanese politics .
but saudi arabia is also widening blame to lebanon as a whole , saying it too has declared war on the kingdom .
a saudi minister has made the near impossible demand that lebanese act against a group that is a major part of lebanon s political fabric and far more powerful than the weak state , with a guerrilla army that out guns the national military .
coinciding with a major anti-corruption purge of top saudis , hariri s shock announcement has given rise to suggestions from hezbollah and others that his saudi business interests had embroiled him in the probe and he was forced to resigning .
saudi arabia and hariri s allies deny that , and assertions that hariri is under house arrest .
they say his hand was forced by hezbollah interventions in arab countries in service of iran .
saudi foreign minister adel jubeir said hezbollah had been calling the shots in the hariri government , which included two hezbollah ministers and was formed last year in a political deal that made michel aoun , a hezbollah ally , head of state .
hezbollah and its allies will struggle to form a government without hariri or his blessing , leaving lebanon in a protracted crisis that could eventually stir sunni-shi ite tensions , though there is no sign of this yet as all sides urge calm .
announcing his resignation , hariri cited an assassination plot against him and slammed iran and hezbollah for sowing strife and trying to kidnap lebanon away from the arab world .
the declaration came as a surprise even to hariri s aides .
it is not clear what comes next : saudi-backed efforts to weaken hezbollah in lebanon failed badly a decade ago , ending with a bout of sunni-shi ite fighting on the streets of beirut that only underlined hezbollah s military dominance .
the regional struggle moved elsewhere in recent years , notably neighboring syria where years of saudi investment in rebel groups fighting president bashar al-assad failed to withstand direct military intervention by iran and hezbollah .
in iraq , tehran-backed militias and iranian commanders have often seemed as powerful as the u.s.-backed iraqi military , most recently in an operation to retake kirkuk from kurdish forces .
so emboldened was iran that top iranian official ali akbar velayati trumpeted his regional alliance s success from beirut last friday , declaring victories in iraq , syria and lebanon .
his statement to the media after a meeting with hariri was seen as a major provocation to regional sunni powerhouse saudi arabia .
hariri left for saudi arabia immediately afterwards , cancelling previously scheduled engagements and catching even his closest advisors off guard the next day with a declaration first broadcast by saudi-owned media .
the regional standoff flared in the gulf hours later , with iran-allied groups firing a ballistic missile at riyadh from yemen .
saudi arabia says it was launched by hezbollah .
hezbollah has not responded to the accusation .
neither hezbollah nor the lebanese government responded on tuesday to the saudi accusation , voiced by gulf affairs minister thamer al-sabhan , a top aide to crown prince mohammed bin salman , that both lebanon and hezbollah had declared war .
the lebanese government will be dealt with as a government declaring war on saudi arabia , and all lebanese must realize these dangers and work to resolve the issues before we reach the point of no return , he said in an interview with al-arabiya tv .
crown prince mohammed told reuters last month the war in yemen would continue to prevent the iran-allied houthi movement from becoming another hezbollah at saudi s border .
hezbollah was established by iran s revolutionary guards in 1982 to fight israeli troops in lebanon .
its last major war with israel was in 2006 , since when hezbollah has grown stronger .
while sabhan vowed that hezbollah would be forced back into its caves in southern lebanon , any saudi military action in lebanon - such as air strikes - would come as a major surprise .
political paralysis and tension is however a big threat to an already stagnant economy , and could derail next year s parliamentary elections - lebanon s first since 2009 .
policymakers have scrambled to calm concern over the financial stability of the heavily indebted state .
they say the lebanese pound - pegged against the dollar at the same rate for 20 years - is stable .
hariri was spearheading efforts to garner international aid to help lebanon deal with the strain of hosting 1.5 million syrian refugees , or a quarter of the population .
leaders on all sides say there should be no further escalation .
both hezbollah and hariri s future movement have worked to contain sunni-shi ite tensions during the war in neighboring syria .
hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah has called for calm and patience in the face of hariri s resignation .
okab sakr , a member of hariri s future movement , noted that protests in solidarity with hariri had been canceled to avoid trouble .
sabhan , the saudi minister , has called for real sanctions and alliances to find a fundamental solution to this cancerous disease , saying hezbollah should be disarmed and kept out of government .
hariri , who was thrust into politics by the 2005 assassination of his father , rafik al-hariri , led years of political struggle with hezbollah in lebanon .
but his saudi-backed march 14 coalition failed to make any progress toward hezbollah s disarmament as demanded by u.n. resolutions .
echoing the saudi position , the united states has also taken new measures targeting hezbollah in recent weeks , as president donald trump takes a tougher stance toward iran .
it has offered a bounty for two hezbollah officials , and the house of representatives has backed new sanctions targeting entities found to support it .