the people who are angry about her wearing this hat should also be angry at the hate america indoctrination our children are getting at school , and from our community organizer in chief who s made it cool to hate america and it s racist , homophobic , greedy citizens the decision by home depot cashier to wear a white baseball cap carrying the slogan america was never great has caused a social media storm.a photo of staten island home depot employee krystal lake wearing the anti-trump hat went viral sunday .
the reaction from facebook and twitter users skewed negative , with some promising to never shop at home depot again.according to this black @ homedepot employee , `` america was never great '' pic.twitter.com/ao9p39tjck dr. white ( @ realdoctorwhite ) may 18 , 2016hey @ homedepot you are ok with this ?
what an insult to # vets and all americans # vets4trump # trump2016 pic.twitter.com/bjm835m4rh district fcriminals ( @ distofcriminals ) may 18 , 2016to be sure , lake , 22 , admits that wearing the america was never great hat was her way of making a broader statement about u.s. history .
the point of the hat was to say america needs changing and improvement , lake told the staten island advance .
i don t think it s a positive message to say , let s look to the past .
the lifelong new yorker said she was surprised when she awoke wednesday morning to see a tsunami of calls and texts messages from friends and co-workers asking if she had noticed the firestorm her hat had created .
everyone kept asking me if i was on facebook or twitter , which i hadn t been , she said , and then i saw how many people were sharing [ the picture ] and that it was going viral .
i was honestly shocked i didn t expect any of this to happen , lake added.interestingly , republican presidential candidate and new york real estate mogul donald trump won the april 19 primary contest in a landslide , securing over 80 % support in staten island.for its part , home depot didn t waste time responding to critics on twitter and facebook .
the atlanta georgia-based home improvement retailer called lake s hat inappropriate.it is against home depot policy for employees to wear apparel that reflects political statements , company spokesman stephen holmes said.via : breitbart news