beijing ( reuters ) - china s cabinet on thursday passed new rules to regulate religion to bolster national security , fight extremism and restrict faith practiced outside organizations approved by the state .
the document passed by premier li keqiang updates a version of rules put into place in 2005 to allow the regulation of religion to better reflect profound changes in china and the world , the official xinhua news agency reported .
the rules released by xinhua use strong and specific language about the need to protect china s national security against threats from religious groups .
religious affairs maintenance should persist in a principle of maintaining legality , curbing illegality , blocking extremism , resisting infiltration and attacking crime , the regulations say .
any group or individual must not create conflict or contention between different religions , with a single religion or between religious individuals and non-religious individuals , they say .
president xi jinping has emphasized the need to guard against foreign infiltration through religion and the need to prevent the spread to extremist ideology , while also being tolerant of traditional faiths that he sees as a salve to social ills .
the officially atheist ruling communist party says it protects freedom of religion , but it keeps a tight rein on religious activities and allows only officially recognized religious institutions to operate .
the rules , which come into effect on feb 2 , 2018 , also place new oversight on online discussion of religious matters , on religious gatherings , the financing of religious groups and the construction of religious buildings , among others .
they increase existing restrictions on unregistered religious groups to include explicit bans on teaching about religion or going abroad to take part in training or meetings .
much of china s religious practice , which has seen a revival in recent decades despite being effectively banned in the 1960s during the cultural revolution , takes place in informal settings not recognized , though often tolerated , by the authorities .
religious education is also further brought under the umbrella of the state in the regulations , with explicit provisions on the establishment and registration of religious colleges .
new provisions are included on the use and raising of religious funds and on taxation .
donations from foreign groups or individuals , for example , are banned , while donations over 100,000 yuan ( $ 15,420 ) need to be reported to authorities .
fines for breaking the rules have also been increased in the new version and the organizers of unapproved events can now be subject to fines from 100,000 to 300,000 yuan , rather than the previous 1 to 3 times the amount spent on the event .