london ( reuters ) - russian twitter accounts posted almost 45,000 messages about brexit in the 48 hours around last year s referendum in an attempt to sow discord during the vote on whether to leave the european union , the times newspaper reported on wednesday .
the times cited research from an upcoming paper by data scientists at swansea university and the university of california , berkeley , which it said showed accounts based in russia had tweeted about brexit in the days leading up to the june 23 vote .
the times said most of the tweets seen by the newspaper encouraged people to vote for brexit , although a number advocated remaining in the eu .
it quoted tho pham , one of the paper s authors , as saying the main conclusion is that bots were used on purpose and had influence .
the research tracked 156,252 russian accounts that mentioned # brexit , including one , svetal1972 which posted 92 tweets between june 20 and 24 , including one calling for britain to make june the 23rd our independence day .
it said many of the messages appear to have come from automated accounts known as bots or from cyborg accounts which are heavily automated but have some human involvement .
in the june 23 , 2016 referendum , 17.4 million votes , or 51.9 percent of votes cast , backed leaving the eu while 16.1 million votes , or 48.1 percent of votes cast , backed staying .
russia has repeatedly denied meddling in brexit .
russian officials say the west is whipping up anti-russian hysteria around moscow s alleged involvement in both the u.s. presidential election and brexit .
in britain , a parliamentary committee has written to facebook s mark zuckerberg asking for information on any paid-for activity by russian-linked facebook accounts around the eu referendum and the 2017 national election .
british prime minister theresa may on monday accused russia of meddling in elections and said the government would maintain its commitment to protecting europe after brexit .
we will take the necessary actions to counter russian activity , she said .