new york ( reuters ) - imposing a temporary travel ban on citizens from seven muslim countries , president donald trump said the move would help protect the united states from terrorism .
but less than one-third of americans believe the move makes them “ more safe , ” according to a reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on tuesday .
the jan. 30-31 poll found roughly one in two americans backed the ban , which also suspends admission of all refugees for 120 days , although there were sharp divisions along party lines .
trump has pushed back against critics who say the travel ban targets muslims .
he says the “ extreme vetting ” is necessary to protect the country and its borders .
“ this is not about religion , ” trump said in a statement after announcing the travel ban on friday .
“ this is about terror and keeping our country safe. ” in the reuters/ipsos poll some 31 percent of people said the ban made them feel “ more safe , ” while 26 percent said it made them feel “ less safe. ” another 33 percent said it would not make any difference and the rest said they don ’ t know .
trump ’ s executive order blocked citizens from iran , iraq , libya , somalia , sudan , syria and yemen and placed an indefinite ban on syrian refugees .
some republican lawmakers criticized trump ’ s order and said it could backfire by giving terrorist organizations a new recruitment message .
“ this executive order sends a signal , intended or not , that america does not want muslims coming into our country , ” senators john mccain of arizona and lindsey graham of south carolina said in a joint statement .
the reuters/ipsos poll found that 49 percent of americans agreed with the order and 41 percent disagreed .
some 53 percent of democrats said they “ strongly disagree ” with trump ’ s action while 51 percent of republicans said they “ strongly agree. ” democrats were more than three times as likely as republicans to say that the “ u.s .
should continue to take in immigrants and refugees , ” and republicans were more than three times as likely as democrats to agree that “ banning people from muslim countries is necessary to prevent terrorism. ” cheryl hoffman , 46 , of sumerduck , virginia said she was thrilled that trump ordered the ban .
“ i understand that the country was founded on immigrants , ” said hoffman , who participated in the poll .
“ please , i get that .
but i ’ m worried that refugees are coming in and being supported by my tax dollars. ” another poll respondent , veronica buetel , 57 , of green , ohio felt just the opposite : “ yes , we do live in scary times , but there are other , better ways to root out terrorism. ” westy egmont , director of the immigrant integration lab at boston college , said americans have grown increasingly hostile toward refugees and immigrants as the influx has shifted from eastern europeans to people from countries like iraq , somalia and afghanistan .
“ the rise of those numbers , as relatively small as they are , have gathered just enough attention to set off a small reaction from people who are genuinely uncomfortable with the diversity around them , ” egmont said .
most americans , however , don ’ t think the country should show a preference for christian refugees , as trump has suggested .
some 56 percent , including 72 percent of democrats and 45 percent of republicans , disagreed that the country should “ welcome christian refugees , but not muslim ones. ” on tuesday , the trump administration sought to clarify that citizens of u.s. ally israel who were born in arab countries would be allowed into the united states .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english in all 50 states .
it gathered poll responses from 1,201 people including 453 democrats and 478 republicans .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points for the entire sample and 5 percentage points for the democrats and the republicans .