cox s bazar ( reuters ) - dawn hues of pink and purple reveal a dusty valley in bangladesh s southern hills quilted with a dense settlement of red tents home to more than 230 women and children grieving for lost husbands and fathers .
they are among more than 625,000 rohingya muslims who have fled to bangladesh since late august , following a crackdown by the myanmar military in response to attacks on security forces by rohingya militants .
roshid jan , who walked for 10 days with her five children to bangladesh after soldiers burned their village , wept when she spoke about her missing husband .
he was accused of being a member of the rohingya militants and arrested with four other villagers 11 months ago , she said .
she had not seen him or heard about his fate since then .
aisha begum , a 19-year-old widow , said her husband was killed by myanmar soldiers as their band of refugees headed for bangladesh .
i was sitting there by his body and just crying , crying , crying , she said .
he was caught and killed with knives .
i found his body by the road .
it was in three pieces , she cried , recounting the events that brought her to the camp .
( click reut.rs/2bhppax for a photo essay ) most rohingya are stateless and seen as illegal immigrants by buddhist-majority myanmar .
the united nations and united states have described the military s actions as ethnic cleansing , and rights groups have accused the security forces of atrocities , including rape , arson and killings .
myanmar s government has denied most of the claims , and the army has said its own probe found no evidence of wrongdoing by troops .
there are 50 tents and no men in the camp for widows and orphans , the biggest of three sites built with donor funds from muslim-majority pakistan in the refugee settlement of balukhali not far from bangladesh s resort town of cox s bazar .
two makeshift kitchens provide space for cooking in small holes in the ground , a new well is being dug to supplement a water pump , and a big tent serves for prayers .
for those who can t pray , we have learning sessions on monday and friday in a special room , said 20-year-old suwa leha , who serves as the camp s unofficial leader .
praying and reading the muslim holy book , the koran , was one of two conditions for admittance set by religious and group leaders , suwa said .
the other was that widows and orphans be selected from among the most vulnerable and needy .
the camp is marooned amid ponds and streams of dirty water left by the washing of clothes and dishes .
behind are thousands of dwellings in a vast refugee camp that sprang up during the crisis .
still , the women are relieved to have their own space .
for those with no protection , a camp like this is much safer , said 22-year-old rabiya khatun , who lives there with her son .
no man can enter that easily .
also , the rooms are bigger and we have more chances of receiving some aid .
women and girls number about 51 percent of the distressed and traumatized rohingya population in the cox s bazar camps , the u.n. women agency said in october .
women and children are also at heightened risk of becoming victims of human trafficking , sexual abuse or child and forced marriage , it added .
women and adolescent girls aged between 13 and 20 arriving from myanmar typically had two to four children each , it said , with some of them pregnant .
no relief agencies officially run the camp for the widows and orphans but aid groups and individuals help out .
rihana begum lives with her five children in a room that is bare except for a few tomatoes , some religious books and clothes .
on a thin mat lies her daughter , ill with fever , but fear of missing food handouts keeps them away from the doctor .
i m afraid to miss aid distribution .
i can t afford to miss it , she said on the day ration cards from the world food program were distributed in the camp .
this week , myanmar said it was finalizing terms for a joint working group with bangladesh to launch the process of safe and voluntary return of the rohingya refugees within two months .
that may not be enough to allay rihana begum s fears .
i m so afraid that i will never go back to myanmar , she said .
i would rather die here .