beijing ( reuters ) - china s legislature on monday released the first public draft of a law giving a nascent super-ministry powers to detain , investigate and punish public servants , widening president xi jinping s signature war on graft .
a national supervision commission that combines several anti-graft bodies , set to be launched next year , will spearhead xi s campaign and expand its scope beyond the ruling communist party to any civil servant .
at last month s five-yearly party congress , xi pledged to continue the campaign to root out deep-seated corruption in the party , which has ensnared more than 1.3 million officials .
the public has a deadline of dec. 5 to comment on the draft , but the largely rubber-stamp legislature did not say when the final law would be implemented .
the new commission will be empowered to investigate , interrogate and detain government workers , besides freezing their assets and seizing property , the draft released by the parliament , the national people s congress , shows .
the new law would further centralize the power of anti-graft investigations and apply to bureaucrats , including teachers at government schools and managers at state-owned enterprises .
the draft gave new details of a detention system to replace a controversial practice of questioning suspects at undisclosed sites without legal representation , known as shuanggui , which rights activists say carries the threat of torture and abuse .
the new measures can be used when the case is major or sensitive , when a subject is at risk of fleeing or suicide , when there is danger of collusion or evidence tampering or other forms of obstruction to the investigation , the draft said .
detained suspects must sign off on all confessions and their family or work unit should be notified within 24 hours , it added , with a three-month limit on the interrogation that can be doubled in special circumstances , which it did not specify .
the draft includes measures to monitor the finances of those suspected of graft , to avoid their fleeing overseas .
separately , the party s official people s daily on monday provided frontpage details of trial commissions launched in january in the capital , beijing , and the eastern province of zhejiang and northern shanxi .
in zhejiang , the commission handled than 24,000 cases from january to august , more than double the number handled by the authorities during the year-ago period , xinhua said .
in shanxi , the total number of people overseen by anti-graft authorities jumped to 530,000 from 131,500 , it said .