( reuters ) - low gas prices and president barack obama ’ s high approval ratings are key factors that favor democrat hillary clinton winning the white house in next week ’ s election , according to a model from moody ’ s analytics that has accurately predicted the last nine u.s. presidential contests .
clinton is forecast to pick up 332 electoral college votes against 206 for republican donald trump , moody ’ s analytics predicted on tuesday in the final update of its model before election day on nov. 8 .
that would match obama ’ s margin of victory over republican challenger mitt romney in 2012 .
the reuters-ipsos states of the nation project also predicts a clinton win , with a 95 percent probability of her winning at least 278 electoral votes .
a candidate needs to win at least 270 electoral votes to be elected president .
the moody ’ s analytics model is based on a combination of state-level economic conditions and political history , and has correctly called the outcome of each presidential election since republican ronald reagan unseated democrat jimmy carter in 1980 .
rather than focus on the individual candidates in a race , the model instead centers on whether current economic and political conditions favor the incumbent party in the white house .
this year those factors point to clinton becoming the 45th u.s. president .
the economic factors moody ’ s measures include the two-year percentage changes in real personal income per household , as well as house and gasoline prices .
among the political factors weighed , moody ’ s said the most important is the share of the vote in any one state that went to the incumbent party in the previous election .
it also takes into account voter fatigue and the incumbent president ’ s approval ratings .
this year , with obama enjoying some of his highest job approval ratings since his first year in office in 2009 and gasoline prices holding steady at well-below-average levels , the model suggests the democrats will win their third straight presidential election , moody ’ s said .
that would mark the first time since the 1988 election of republican george h.w .
bush that one party has won three consecutive presidential contests .
moody ’ s warns , however , that its model does not take into account any individual characteristics of specific candidates .
“ given the unusual nature of the 2016 election cycle to date , it is very possible that voters will react to changing economic and political conditions differently than they have in past election cycles , placing some risk in the model outcome , particularly state-by-state projections , ” moody ’ s analytics economist dan white wrote in the report .