beijing ( reuters ) - foreign leaders can t think they can get away with meeting exiled tibetan spiritual leader the dalai lama just because they are doing it in a personal capacity , as they still represent their government , a senior chinese official said on saturday .
china considers the dalai lama , who fled into exile in india in 1959 after a failed uprising against chinese rule , to be a dangerous separatist .
the nobel peace prize winning monk says he simply seeks genuine autonomy for his himalayan homeland .
visits by the dalai lama to foreign countries infuriate china , and fewer and fewer national leaders are willing to meet him , fearing the consequences of chinese anger , though some have tried to placate beijing by saying they are meeting him in a personal not official capacity .
zhang yijiong , who heads the communist party s tibet working group , told reporters on the sidelines of a party congress that there could be no excuses to meeting the dalai lama .
although some people say , the dalai is a religious figure , our government didn t put in an appearance , it was just individual officials , this is incorrect , said zhang , who is also a vice minister at the united front work department , which has led failed talks with the dalai lama s representatives .
officials , in their capacity as officials , attending all foreign-related activities represent their governments .
so i hope governments around the world speak and act with caution and give full consideration their friendship with china and their respect for china s sovereignty , he added .
china took control of tibet in 1950 in what it calls a peaceful liberation and has piled pressure on foreign governments to shun the dalai lama , using economic means to punish those who allow him in .
china strongly denies accusations of rights abuses in tibet , saying its rule has brought prosperity to what was a remote and backward region , and that it fully respects the religious and cultural rights of the tibetan people .
china also insists that tibet in an integral part of its territory and has been for centuries .
zhang , who worked in tibet from 2006-2010 as a deputy communist party boss , said that tibetan buddhism was a special religion born in our ancient china .
it s a chinese religion .
it didn t come in from the outside , he said .