the justice department on thursday dropped the legal challenge to the the washington redskins name , the associated press reported.according to the ap , the trump administration dropped the challenge in a letter to the supreme court in response to last week s ruling in matal v. tam , in which an asian-american rock band won the right to copyright the name the slants , despite the name s offensive connotation.in the thursday letter , the justice department argues that the matal v. tam decision means that the court would decide in favor of the washington redskins if the case went before the justices.last week , redskins owner dan snyder drew the same conclusion , and said he was thrilled by the court s decision in the copyright case his lawyer , lisa blatt , issued a statement saying that the court s decision resolved the dispute over the nfl team s name.washington post nine in 10 native americans say they are not offended by the washington redskins name , according to a new washington post poll that shows how few ordinary indians have been persuaded by a national movement to change the football team s moniker.among the native americans reached over a five-month period ending in april , more than 7 in 10 said they did not feel the word redskin was disrespectful to indians .
an even higher number 8 in 10 said they would not be offended if a non-native called them that name .
the washington redskins team , our fans and community have always believed our name represents honor , respect and pride , the owner said in a statement .
today s washington post polling shows native americans agree .
we are gratified by this overwhelming support from the native american community , and the team will proudly carry the redskins name .
watch : snyder and his wife have a close relationship with president trump and his administration .
in january , snyder attended an exclusive inauguration celebration with trump s cabinet members , and snyder s wife donated to trump s campaign in 2015.weeks after snyder s wife made the donation , trump spoke out about the team name controversy , suggesting it should remain the redskins .
i know indians that are extremely proud of that name , trump said in october of 2015 .
honestly , i don t think they should change the name , unless the owner wanted to .
the hill