washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. power sector ’ s shift toward burning less coal and using more natural gas and renewable energy will not be derailed by the supreme court ruling against the obama administration ’ s limits on carbon emissions , state regulators and utilities said on wednesday .
the u.s. supreme court decided 5-4 on tuesday to block the environmental protection agency ’ s carbon emissions crackdown on coal plants until a legal challenge is resolved .
some states may now slow work on compliance with the epa ’ s clean power plan .
but some experts said they were confident the rule will survive the legal challenge when the d.c. circuit court makes a decision this summer .
“ in a way we are really just postponing the inevitable , ” said vicki arroyo , executive director of the georgetown climate center .
even in some of the 27 states that sued to block the rule , officials had been working on compliance plans .
most states said they will continue to decarbonize their energy supply .
utilities across the country have already begun a major shift away from coal-fired electricity toward cleaner burning and cheaper natural gas and renewables like wind and solar .
“ we fully expect that many of these states will continue their efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions under their own legal authorities , ” said bill becker , director of the national association of clean air agencies .
states like california , colorado and new york criticized the high court ’ s decision and vowed to pursue their plans to shift to cleaner energy regardless of the delay in the epa rule .
meanwhile , states like montana and north dakota that joined in the lawsuit against the epa welcomed the “ breathing room ” the stay provides .
but even these opponents of the rule said they will keep diversifying their power supply .
colorado ’ s democratic governor john hickenlooper said the state will keep working on compliance so it “ is not left at a disadvantage if the courts uphold all or part of the clean power plan. ” colorado challenged the epa plan even though the governor supports it .
the state ’ s republican attorney general disagrees about the legality of the rule and its economic impact .
montana governor steve bullock , a democrat , opposed the epa rule .
he said the state would put on hold the work of a group to devise compliance options , but added that it still needs “ to address climate change and embrace montana ’ s energy future. ” he said : “ i am committed to ensuring we do so on our own terms. ” for coal-producing north dakota , which had one of the highest emission reduction targets to meet under the rule , regulators and utilities will keep working on ways to lower power plant emissions , said state health department chief dave glatt .
he said the epa plan did not give the state “ a sufficient amount of time to have reasonable solutions. ” he pledged to “ look at reasonable steps forward. ” for most states , coal-fired electricity has been in decline .
in 2015 , generators shut over 15,000 megawatts of coal-fired power plants , the most in any year , as low gas prices drove down power costs .
it became uneconomical to overhaul older coal plants even to meet existing federal clean air rules .
ohio regulators said wednesday they were not sure how the state will respond to the court decision , but the state ’ s major utilities are already shifting away from coal .
american electric power co inc ( aep.n ) will continue generating more power with natural gas and renewable energy since prices for those have dropped significantly , said spokeswoman melissa mchenry .
she added that the five-year extension of federal renewable energy tax credits has given aep an incentive to bring more renewable energy into the mix .
“ it makes sense that we are sticking to our current plans , and will be positioned to respond to the courts ’ ultimate decision on the future of the clean power plan , ” she said .
another ohio utility , firstenergy corp ( fe.n ) , said it already retired a number of older coal plants in 2012 .
the court decision will have little impact .
“ the supreme court decision does not change the path we are on , ” said spokeswoman jennifer young .
“ we think it is the right thing to do – this is a complicated issue and this decision will give the states the appropriate amount of time to develop their compliance plans . ”