washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama ’ s state of the union pledge to better manage fossil fuel development will face a test within days , when federal officials rule on whether to open public lands containing more than 600 million tons of coal to more mining .
interior department officials are due to decide jan. 27 on whether to lease two mine sites on federal land in wyoming ’ s coal-rich powder river basin , where the black rock runs in 10-story seams .
environmentalists strongly oppose more coal mining on federal land , saying burning all that coal would exacerbate climate change .
reforming government controls on federal lands is one of the few actions still available to obama in his final year in office .
developing the two wyoming sites would make more than 640 million tons of coal available to mining companies , according to the interior department .
each ton of burned coal creates 1.66 metric tons of carbon dioxide , according to government data .
that means burning all the coal at the lease sites would add more than a billion metric tons of carbon dioxide to the atmosphere .
the energy information administration says roughly 41 percent of u.s. coal production occurs on federal land , and environmentalists have argued strongly against permitting more mining there .
the interior department must assess the environmental impact of each energy lease under a law enacted during the 1970s under president richard nixon , decades before climate change became a concern to policymakers .
conservationists say those environmental studies should account for the wider climate impact .
in his state of the union address on tuesday , obama vowed to “ change the way we manage our oil and coal resources , so that they better reflect the costs they impose on taxpayers and our planet. ” in obama ’ s first term , the interior department mulled but balked at raising royalty rates on companies that tap federal land .
since then , environmentalists have urged the white house to undertake a sweeping review of fossil fuel extraction .
in the meantime , they have called on the administration to refrain from awarding further leases , including the two in wyoming .
“ until the administration steps back and considers all the impacts , we need a moratorium , ” said jeremy nichols of wildearth guardians which joined several other conservation groups in a letter on wednesday urging obama to freeze coal leases .
the two leases under consideration are west antelope iii and decker south , which abut existing mines .
the administration has not indicated its position on those two leases , and the interior department on wednesday declined to comment .
interior secretary sally jewell visited western states last summer , calling for “ an honest and open conversation about modernizing the federal government ’ s coal program. ” last year , obama used his authority to help secure a global climate agreement between nearly 200 countries .
he also denied a permit to build the keystone xl oil pipeline and issued new rules to crack down on carbon pollution from u.s. power plants .
in coming weeks , the interior department ’ s bureau of land management is also expected to release a plan to curb emissions from oil and gas production on federal land .
“ this is the obvious low-hanging fruit on climate change that he hasn ’ t touched yet , ” said a congressional aide who tracks the administration ’ s coal policies .