nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya lurched deeper into political confusion on wednesday as a court ruling and a parliamentary vote appeared to ease uhuru kenyatta s path to a second term as president , a day after his chief rival quit an election they were to contest .
kenyatta and raila odinga were due to face off in a repeat election on oct. 26 , after the supreme court annulled their august ballot - in which the president was declared the winner .
but odinga pulled out of the re-run on tuesday , fuelling doubts about whether it would be contested at all .
wednesday s interventions by the judiciary and legislature added to the uncertainty .
as police used teargas to disperse opposition protesters demanding electoral reform , the high court approved a petition by ekuru aukot , who polled less than 1 percent in the august vote , to contest the second ballot .
the election board later issued a statement saying that all eight candidates who competed in august would be on the ballot .
it also said although odinga had notified them of his withdrawal by letter , he had not yet submitted the official form to do so .
the developments suggested that the second election would go ahead , with kenyatta the likely winner against a plethora of weaker candidates .
no challenger except odinga polled more than 1 percent .
further muddying the political waters , parliament passed an election law amendment stating that if one candidate withdrew from the re-run vote , the remaining one would automatically win .
the vote was boycotted by opposition lawmakers .
the law aimed to ensure kenyatta could be declared president if he faced no challengers .
the events stoked confusion among voters and fears that politically-driven violence might escalate .
months of political uncertainty have already blunted growth in east africa s richest nation , a long-time ally of the west .
there s a real atmosphere of confusion and uncertainty .
there seems to be dozens of opinions of what should come next , said murithi mutiga , a senior horn of africa analyst for the global thinktank international crisis group .
justifying his pullout on tuesday , odinga said the election would not be free and fair and renewed calls for the electoral board ( iebc ) , which he blamed for the procedural irregularities identified in the first ballot , to be replaced .
opposition supporters on wednesday renewed their protests for electoral reform .
demonstrators lit bonfires in kisumu , an odinga stronghold in the country s west , while more than a thousand supporters marched through the central business district in the capital nairobi .
police used teargas to disperse them in both cities , witnesses said .
juliana otieno , the chief executive of the oginga odinga hospital in the city , said 17 people had been admitted with injuries suffered during the protests .
a reuters witness counted at least five of them with bullet wounds .
kisumu s police commander , titus yoma , said he had no information on the bullet wounds and his officers were still quelling the protests , which were centered around two slums in the lakeside city .
at least 37 people were killed in protests immediately following the august vote , almost all of them by police , a kenyan rights group said on monday .
ethnic clashes killed 1,200 people following a disputed presidential poll in 2007 .
we want a reformed iebc , said elisha odhiambo , an opposition legislator , referring to the electoral board , which has frequently relied on riot police dispersing protests outside its offices in recent weeks .
mombasa governor ali hassan joho , a key opposition player , told protesters in uhuru park : our voices must be heard .
we have no war with anyone but we will not allow anyone to stifle us .
after the high court ruling in his favor , aukot told reporters that he still had concerns about the board and would issue a statement in a day or two giving clarity about his plans .
it was unclear if other candidates from the first ballot with little support would also seek to be included , but the election board said it still had time to print ballot papers .
the sept. 1 supreme court judgment that nullified kenyatta s 1.4 million vote win also stipulated elections had to be held within 60 days .
if that schedule is not met , the constitution provides for the speaker of parliament , a member of kenyatta s party , to take power .
with two weeks to go until the elections , it is still unclear who will stand .
i would expect one of the parties will try to seek an authoritative announcement from the supreme court , international crisis group s mutiga said .
amid the political uncertainty , the government has trimmed this year s gdp growth forecast from 5.9 percent to 5.5 percent last month .
the country s equity markets slid further on wednesday .
kenya s all share index closed down 0.67 percent while the blue chip index fell 1.41 percent .