dubai/geneva ( reuters ) - yemen s cholera epidemic has reached one million suspected cases , the international committee of the red cross said on thursday , with war leaving more than 80 percent of the population short of food , fuel , clean water and access to healthcare .
yemen , one of the arab world s poorest countries , is embroiled in a proxy war between the houthi armed movement , allied with iran , and a u.s.-backed military coalition headed by saudi arabia .
the united nations says yemen is suffering the world s worst humanitarian crisis , and eight million people are on the brink of famine .
the cholera figure is almost certainly exaggerated , but that does not diminish the scale and complexity of the humanitarian crisis , said marc poncin , yemen emergency coordinator for aid agency m decins sans fronti res .
cholera flared up in april and spread rapidly , killing 2,227 people .
the death rate has fallen dramatically , and without laboratory confirmation , recent cases are probably diarrhea , poncin said .
a new wave of cholera is expected in march or april .
it s probably unavoidable .
we need to be ready to face another big epidemic , said poncin , adding that cholera may become a long-term burden as it has in haiti .
the places where the war is active are the ones most at risk for increase of disease .
the latest emergency is diphtheria , a disease not seen in yemen for 25 years , which has affected 312 people and killed 35 .
it has not spread explosively , as cholera did , but diphtheria outbreaks can affect many thousands , and there is a global shortage of diphtheria anti-toxin .
yemen has enough for 200-500 patients , poncin said .
an urgent diphtheria vaccination campaign early in 2018 will complicate the who s hope of doing mass cholera vaccination at the same time , especially given the problems with security and accessing remote areas , poncin said .
the houthis , who control much of the country , are also suspicious of vaccination drives , he added .
yemen s troubles have been aggravated by the saudi-led coalition s blockade of its ports , which has caused a fuel shortage and a spike in food prices .
the health system has virtually collapsed , with health workers unpaid for a year , although the who gives incentive payments for cholera work .
the ports were closed in retaliation for a missile fired from yemen by the houthis .
on wednesday , despite a fresh missile attack on riyadh , saudi arabia said it would allow the houthi-controled port of hodeidah , vital for aid , to stay open for a month .