so much for tolerance and diversity how would you describe an industry in which the number of blacks employed has now dropped to 1968 levels ? think about it .
in 1968 democrats were still fighting to keep blacks from being equal to whites .
actually the number of blacks employed in this industry is worse than in 1968 when you take their percentage of the overall population into account .
in 1968 blacks accounted for 10.9 % of the population .
today they constitute 13.2 % of the population .
so , what industry is the most rife with racism ?
the media.is this just too delicious for words or what ?
the same media who inflate and lie about news stories in order to inject racism into the mix , themselves are the biggest racists in america .
today , only 4.78 % of all newsroom employees are black .
in 1968 there were less than 5 % employed in the newsroom .
so basically the same percentage despite the fact that there are many more blacks today that in 1968.take a look at this white house press conference and tell me how many blacks you see : this is typical of liberals , do as i say and not as i do .
alex t. williams of the columbia journalism review ( cjr ) breaks down the numbers for al minorities : the percentage of minorities employed in daily newspapers ( the asne looks at black , hispanic , asian american , native american , and multiracial populations ) has increased from 3.95 percent in 1978 , when the asne began conducting the census , to 13.34 percent in 2014 .
the radio television digital news association estimates that in 2014 , minorities made up 13 percent of journalists in radio and 22.4 percent of journalists in television .
still , these figures are a far cry from the 37.4 percent of americans that are minorities .
it s not a matter of blacks not wanting to be newsroom workers .
to the contrary , there are plenty of black college graduates who majored in journalism .
it s just that the media won t hire them .
more from williams of cjr : here , i found an alarming trend .
comparing the 2013 job placement rates , graduating minorities that specialized in print were 17 percentage points less likely to find a full-time job than non-minorities ; minorities specializing in broadcasting were 17 percentage points less likely to find a full-time job ; and minorities specializing in public relations were 25 percentage points less likely to find a full-time job .
in contrast , minorities specializing in advertising were only 2 percentage points less likely to find a full-time job than their white counterparts .
via : pc graveyardsorry friends , the media may suffer from an inability to tell the truth , but these facts don t lie