geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations human rights office called on australia on friday to restore food , water and health services to about 600 interned refugees and asylum seekers in papua new guinea , which canberra cut off three days ago .
the detainees in the manus island centre have defied attempts by the governments of both australia and png to close the camp , saying they fear violent reprisals from the local community if they are moved to other transit centers .
we call on the australian government ... who interned the men in the first place to immediately provide protection , food , water and other basic services , u.n. rights spokesman rupert colville told a news briefing .
australia has an obligation to do so under international human rights law and the 1951 u.n .
refugee convention , he said .
there was no immediate comment from australia or its representatives in geneva .
its government has said the camp had been ruled illegal by png authorities and it had committed to supply other sites for 12 months .
colville joined the u.n. high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) in warning of an unfolding humanitarian emergency in the center where asylum seekers began digging wells on thursday to try to find water as their food supplies dwindled .
the remote manus island center has been a key part of australia s disputed immigration policy under which it refuses to allow asylum seekers arriving by boat to reach its shores , detaining them instead in png and naura in the south pacific .
we repeat our overall concerns about australian offshore processing centers which are unsustainable , inhumane and contradictory to its human rights obligations , colville said .
around 500 of the men have still not had their asylum claims processed , he said .
and obviously the sooner the better , some of them have been there i think for four years , colville said .
so that s a very long time to sit in effectively a detention center disguised as a regional processing center without your case being processed .
the alternative accommodation being proposed is not finished or adequate to meet their needs , including security , he said .
we have conveyed to the australian government and to the local government of papua new guinea as well that until the time the accommodation is ready , refugees should not be moved there , unhcr spokesman babar baloch said .
but also we have urged australia and png to de-escalate the situation , resume basic services - water , electricity , medical services as well , he said .
the last food distribution was on sunday , he said .
australia s policy of deterrence by rescuing people at sea , mistreating them and abandoning them has become a notion of cruelty , baloch said .