mexico city ( reuters ) - if elected , mexican presidential candidate andres manuel lopez obrador will review oil contracts signed after historic reforms in the sector , the leftist politician said on tuesday .
the 63-year-old leads various polls ahead of next year s presidential election , and opponents looking to keep him out of office denounce him as a populist who would seek to emulate venezuela s socialist government .
mexico opened up its energy sector with sweeping reforms in 2013 and 2014 to give investors the chance to participate in oil exploration and extraction .
it has held auctions for sites on land as well as in shallow and deep water , in its efforts to boost energy production .
we will intervene because we don t want to end up not producing petroleum , lopez obrador said in a speech at the wilson center in washington , d.c .
the fall in production must be stopped if not , we will end up buying crude oil , and we can t have that .
we are going to intervene quickly and we are going to review the contracts .
the leader and founder of the political party morena did not specify the form of the intervention .
but he said he would not trust those who had signed the contracts for mexico and would ensure the pacts were favorable for the country .
we are not going to act in an arbitrary way , we are going to be respectful of the law , but we will review the contracts , lopez obrador said .
everything related to pemex must be public business - their profits are for the mexican people and we must look after them .
it is not an ideological matter , it is not a political matter .
mexican crude production hovers around 2 million barrels per day , off a height of 3.4 million in 2004 .
authorities have said after the reform production would increase gradually over several years .
the reform had not lived up to its promise , said lopez obrador , adding that his industry plan included a refining stimulus , through the modernization of six of state-run oil company pemex s refineries in mexico .
he also called for two more refineries to be built so that mexico would not have to continue importing more than half the gasoline it consumes .
we sell crude oil and we buy gasoline , and it s necessary to pay a surcharge of 30 percent just for the freight , money that could be saved if the gasoline was made in mexico , lopez obrador said .