last thursday , during hillary s acceptance speech at the dnc , she delivered a heart-wrenching and emotional tale about a little girl in a wheelchair .
boy , that hillary she s always thinking of the less fortunate and doesn t think twice about sticking her neck out to help the little guy .
there s only one problem with hillary s story ( and pretty much everything she says ) it was all a big lie !
hillary told the crowd at the dnc and millions more who were watching her on tv , about a poor suffering handicapped girl in a wheelchair in new bedford , massachusetts who could not go to school because of her disability .
hillary said she helped the girl get to school.here s part of the transcript from the la times : my mother , dorothy , was abandoned by her parents as a young girl .
she ended up on her own at 14 , working as a housemaid .
she was saved by the kindness of others.her first-grade teacher saw she had nothing to eat at lunch and brought extra food to share the entire year .
the lesson she passed on to me , years later , stuck with me : no one gets through life alone .
we have to look out for each other and lift each other up.and she made sure i learned the words from our methodist faith : do all the good you can , for all the people you can , in all the ways you can , as long as ever you can .
so , i went to work for the children s defense fund , going door-to-door in new bedford , mass. , on behalf of children with disabilities who were denied the chance to go to school.i remember meeting a young girl in a wheelchair on the small back porch of her house .
she told me how badly she wanted to go to school it just didn t seem possible in those days .
and i couldn t stop thinking of my mother and what she d gone through as a child.it became clear to me that simply caring is not enough .
to drive real progress , you have to change both hearts and laws .
you need both understanding and action.so we gathered facts .
we built a coalition .
and our work helped convince congress to ensure access to education for all students with disabilities .
watch hillary spin her big lie here : ken pittman at wbsm reported : here s what i learned ; the mayor of new bedford in 1973 was a guy i happen to know , mayor john markey ( 81 years old and a lifelong democrat now living in dartmouth , ma .
mayor markey is also a retired judge and a man whose credibility and character are beyond reproach .
jack as he is known , is eligible for both court and municipal pension but only accepts one .
he is not one to double dip .
i called jack and asked him a few questions about handicap services in 1973 at the new bedford public schools , including wheelchair accessibility .
i took over as mayor in january of 1973 .
we had a budget for vans with drivers and provided services to students with disabilities .
it was tremblay bus .
they would pick them up and drop them off at their homes .
now , they may not have been able to go to the local school , depending on whether or not the schools were accessible for wheelchairs but there were many schools then which could and did accommodate our handicapped students in wheelchairs .
in fact , we had a local guy who was a paraplegic , injured in a diving accident who came to my office many times to advocate for the disabled and i actually spent an entire day in 1973 in a wheelchair to better understand the challenges they face everyday .
soon after that we were cutting out sidewalks for wheelchairs and doing things in new bedford before the laws ever compelled us to .
via : gateway pundit