atlanta ( reuters ) - as hundreds of thousands of floridians flee hurricane irma , people in the state of georgia have opened their homes to strangers who emerged from hours-long traffic jams to find hotels and campgrounds booked solid .
authorities in florida have ordered about a third of the state s population , 6.3 million people , to evacuate ahead of the hurricane s expected landfall on sunday .
some stayed put , but many left their homes .
and many who drove to neighboring georgia initially had nowhere to stay .
with churches in atlanta appealing for donations of mattresses and blankets for shelters , and hotels and motels along interstate 75 heading north to the city from florida reportedly at capacity through next week , homeschool teacher mary hoyt decided something needed to be done .
she helped found atlanta hurricane solidarity , an informal network that works via word of mouth and local news media attention , and has so far managed to match 75 evacuee families with homes in atlanta .
those are the ones we have settled or on their way , said hoyt , who lives in the city s eastern suburb of decatur .
we have 300 more homes and counting that are available .
people are so amazingly generous .
at the atlanta motor speedway , meanwhile , staff are accustomed to accommodating thousands of campers at their nascar stock car racing events .
they have opened the facilities in hampton , about 25 miles ( 40 km ) south of atlanta , for free to anyone seeking refuge .
many georgia coast residents were also locking up homes and heading inland before irma hits .
on saturday , all lanes of interstate 16 , which runs west of historic savannah , were turned inland for evacuating traffic only .
campsites in places like indian springs state park , near the small town of flovilla , a few miles ( kms ) east of interstate 75 , were full , said park manager katherine darsey .
there are a lot of florida license tags here , darsey said , adding that people were still welcome to use the parking lot overnight if they needed a safe place to rest .
the airbnb website listed 85 homes in georgia and florida on saturday evening that had been made available for free to irma evacuees by the properties owners , said airbnb spokeswoman crystal davis .
evacuees four-legged friends were also seeking safety : animal shelters that were already busier than usual with pets displaced from texas and louisiana last month by hurricane harvey reported more arrivals from florida .
the equestrian center in alpharetta , another atlanta suburb , has agreed to house 150 horses from florida for free , said its director , matt casey .
forty horses had arrived by saturday afternoon , and more were on the way .
one cat from paisley , about 40 miles ( 60 km ) north of orlando , was en route to sanctuary in indiana when she was spooked by a traffic accident while being driven through atlanta .
the 2-year-old calico named coco jumped out of the car s window and darted into woods .
i ve been heartsick over it , said her owner , cindy voelz , 55 .
she must be so frightened .
voelz is staying with friends in the city while she looks for coco .
she said she really appreciates the help she has had searching from volunteers at an atlanta animal shelter .
i can t believe how nice everyone is here , she said .