london ( reuters ) - sally jones , a british jihadi who recruited online for the islamic state group , has been killed in syria by a u.s. drone along with her 12-year-old son , the sun newspaper reported on thursday .
a convert to islam from southern england , jones was nicknamed the white widow by the british press after her jihadi husband junaid hussain , also an is militant , was killed by a drone in 2015 .
quoting a british intelligence source who had been briefed by u.s. counterparts , the sun reported that jones and her son had been killed in june close to syria s border with iraq , as she was attempting to flee the is stronghold of raqqa .
u.s. intelligence chiefs were quoted as saying they could not be 100 percent certain that jones had been killed as there was no way of recovering any dna from the ground , but they were confident she was dead .
her son jojo was presumed to be dead too , although his presence with her was not known at the time of the drone strike and he was not an intended target , according to the sun .
british prime minister theresa may s spokesman declined to comment directly on the report , as did defence secretary michael fallon .
if you are a british national in iraq or syria , and if you have chosen to fight for daesh , an illegal organization that is preparing and inspiring terror attacks on our streets , then you ve made yourself a legitimate target , fallon told reporters in london .
and you run the risk every hour of every day of being on the wrong end of an raf or a united states missile , he said .
one western security source , speaking on condition of anonymity , said that jones had not been heard of since earlier this year so the assumption was that she was dead , although the source refused to confirm the details of the sun report .
other is militants have been reported dead only to reappear .
a central intelligence agency spokeswoman declined to comment .
jones , who before her jihadi days was once a singer in a punk band , has been the subject of years of fascination by the british press .
she was believed to have left her home in chatham , in the southern county of kent , in 2013 to travel to syria , where she married hussain whom she had met online .
she was active as an online recruiter and sometimes posted propaganda messages on social media , including a striking photograph of herself dressed as a nun pointing a gun toward the camera .