addis ababa ( reuters ) - the united states is considering how to pressure south sudan s president salva kiir into peace , but withdrawing aid may not work , u.s. envoy to the united nations nikki haley said ahead of a visit to south sudanese refugees in ethiopia on tuesday .
haley plans to visit gambella in western ethiopia , where nearly 350,000 refugees have flooded across the border from south sudan since the country spiraled into civil war in 2013 , just two years after it gained independence from sudan .
you have to really think hard before you pull u.s. aid because president kiir doesn t care , haley said .
he doesn t care if his people suffer and that s the concern we have as we don t know that will make a difference .
that s a conversation we will have and we will try and see exactly what will move president kiir so that he does ... start to really look at creating a safe position for his people , she told reporters in addis ababa late on monday .
haley will this week be the most senior member of u.s. president donald trump s administration to visit south sudan , where she is due to meet with kiir .
but first , she will see how the conflict has threatened to spillover through deadly cross-border raids into gambella , ethiopia by gunmen from south sudan .
trump s new aid administrator , mark green , visited south sudan last month , telling kiir that washington was reviewing its policy toward his government .
he called on kiir to end the violence and implement a real ceasefire .
the war in south sudan was sparked by a feud between kiir and his former deputy riek machar .
it has plunged parts of the world s youngest nation into famine and forced a third of the population - some 4 million people - to flee their homes .
machar fled and is now being held in south africa to stop him stirring up trouble , sources told reuters in december .
a fragile peace deal broke down last year amid gun battles between soldiers and rebels in the capital juba .
international efforts to bring warring sides to new talks have not succeeded .
we can t see any more deaths , we can t see anymore famine , we ve got to start seeing the situation start to get better and i think that the pressure is only going to continue until president kiir makes a difference , haley said .
the trump administration last month imposed sanctions on two senior south sudanese officials and the former army chief for their role in the conflict , atrocities against civilians and attacks against international missions in south sudan .