manila/marawi city , philippines ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte was eager to credit new ally beijing in the death of militant leader isnilon hapilon , saying it was a chinese rifle that fired the bullet that finished off islamic state s emir in southeast asia .
the smoking gun that took out the region s most feared insurgent on monday was one of the 100 sniper rifles donated by china , duterte said , although the ranger unit conducting the operation said the shot was fired from a heavier weapon mounted on an armored vehicle .
duterte is a huge fan of the chinese rifles and took a pot-shot himself in the direction of militants in marawi city recently .
addressing businessmen and diplomats , he singled out ambassador zhao jianhua for china s support that led to the crucial killing .
i would like to officially inform you , ambassador zhao , that the rifle that killed hapilon was a sniper rifle made in china , duterte announced late on thursday , to warm applause from the crowd .
but the version of the final hours of the life of hapilon and another rebel leader , omarkhayam maute , posted on the facebook page of a member of the army scout rangers , tells a different story .
the blow-by-blow account on scout ranger books , posted the day hapilon was killed , tells of how the 8th scout ranger company was engaging militants and was not aware the rebel commanders were among those they killed , until fleeing hostages told them .
the soldiers operating at night used thermal imaging on an armored vehicle and the shot that killed hapilon came from a gun mounted on top of it , according to the account .
no mention was made of chinese weapons or snipers .
prior to duterte s remarks , two soldiers in that vehicle told cnn philippines the fixed weapon was remote controlled .
a general in marawi in command of the armored assets told reuters the fixed weapons are 50-calibre machine guns .
duterte has made a big effort to befriend china and has frequently praised its leadership while in contrast , chiding defense treaty ally the united states , its biggest source of weapons and expertise , for what he calls hypocrisy and for treating his country like a dog .
asked which gun killed hapilon , colonel romeo brawner , deputy commander of the marawi task force , said he could not say for sure , as troops had used guns made by the united states , china and others countries .