wellington ( reuters ) - some new zealand forest owners are suspending replanting of trees and re-thinking investments as the country s third-largest export earner finds itself in the sights of maverick politician winston peters protectionist agenda .
the election king-maker last week said he would prioritize a restructure of the forest industry in closely-watched coalition talks with major parties after last month s inconclusive election result .
the plan includes a possible quota system which would force growers to favor local mills over a higher-paying export market .
exports of forest products totaled around nz $ 4.75 billion ( $ 3.36 billion ) in 2015 , with china the top destination .
that has put the pacific nation s lucrative forestry sector at the heart of concerns that new zealand first in power will spell greater government intervention in new zealand s small , outward facing economy .
every time the government has done something like that we get what you call a hole in the supply of timber and we re going into a hole now , an undersupply , said joe carr , the owner of a privately-held logging business managing 500 hectares of forest in the far north of the country .
carr is holding off replanting 60 hectares of his land due to the possible restrictions and said on average growers were paid a third less to sell logs locally than to export them .
he said his son was re-thinking whether his family should stick to forestry after 44 years in the business .
free-marketeer new zealand s plantation forests , like much of the country s industry , were opened up to private investment in the early 1990s after sweeping economic reforms the previous decade .
peters comments signal a stark change from new zealand s role as a global test-bed for free market reforms since the 1980s .
the new zealand first party is also pushing for significant curbs on migration , restrictions on foreign ownership of land and favors more central bank intervention in the foreign exchange market .
peters , a consummate pragmatist , is considered unlikely to insist on his more radical ideas .
he has served in governments with both the labour and national parties in the past without major economic overhaul .
but the 72-year old is also looking to cement his legacy in what is likely to be his last major hold on power after 40 years in politics .
definitely , if he negotiates hard on some of these things , we could see a more interventionist approach than we have in the past , said catherine beard , head of industry association business nz .
million-dollar hit the idea is a quota-system would force more logs to be sold and processed locally , adding value to the nz $ 270 billion economy .
the industry could process around 20 percent more than the current 8 million cubic meters each year with more reliable supply , said kevin hing , deputy director of the new zealand timber industry federation , which represents sawmillers .
we recognize that log export is an option for many forest owners , but we don t want that to be at the expense of domestic processing , hing said .
forestry owners say big companies already favor local processors and the proposals would have a disproportionate impact on small forest growers .
they worry the prospect of curbed earnings would lead growers to hold off planting , reducing the supply of logs .
the unintended consequence of that , which i don t think winston peters has thought through , is that you actually devalue that asset and you chase investors away , said peter clark , ceo of forestry service firm pf olsen limited .
he said such quotas would knock hundreds of millions of new zealand dollars off timber assets .
new zealand s privately-owned forests , mostly pinus radiata that grow much faster than in their native california , are worth nz $ 25-nz $ 30 billion .
peters has also said foreign ownership restrictions would be a large part of this week s negotiations talks .
he called the high concentration of foreign ownership crazy in an august speech on his plans for the forestry sector .
just over half of the country s forests are owned by offshore companies , according to the new zealand institute of forestry .
nz first , in government , will seriously tighten up the ability of foreigners to buy our land , peters said august .
all of this is making some overseas investors nervous .
they re saying if it gets much harder they think that their head office offshore will start looking at new zealand ... and say : do we , long term , want to continue investing in here or do we slowly start withdrawing ?
, said warwick searle , the head of agribusiness at investment consultant cbre .
an official for state-owned china forestry group , which owns about 22,000 hectares of new zealand forest , said overseas ownership was already carefully regulated by the country s authorities and quotas would also make it harder to operate .
we hope that new zealand remains open for business , steve walker , the firm s local chief operating officer , in an email .