new york ( reuters ) - add the juggernaut that is donald j. trump to the list of what-ifs that is worrying wall street .
a growing realization that the unpredictable new york real estate developer is in a position to win the republican nomination and then battle hillary clinton for the white house in november ’ s election has caused some investors to sell u.s. stocks .
they fear having such a wild-card president could trigger trade wars , hurt the economy and add a lot of market volatility .
“ as the market rarely feasts on lack of predictability - trump represents a nightmare for investors this year , ” said hedge fund manager douglas kass of seabreeze partners management inc , who said last week that he was adding to his existing short bet on the u.s. stock market in part because of trump ’ s increasingly strong position in the race .
trump ’ s statements on business and wall street don ’ t neatly fit into one ideological worldview , but if anything , they are seen as isolationist in a globally connected world .
he can also suddenly pick on businesses over various issues , such as his call for a boycott of apple inc ’ s ( aapl.o ) products after the tech giant refused to help the fbi unlock the iphone used by one of the san bernardino shooters .
“ the election this year is the height of uncertainty , ” said phil orlando , a senior portfolio manager and chief equity strategist at federated investors in new york , which manages $ 351 billion .
he said political concerns - personified by trump ’ s emergence as a frontrunner - are one of the main reasons why he began reducing equity exposure in mid-january .
there are , of course , plenty of other factors having an impact on u.s. financial markets .
u.s. stocks rallied on tuesday after strong u.s. factory and construction data suggested the economy was regaining momentum .
that was even as investors contemplated expectations that trump would do very well in 11 states holding republican primary or caucus elections on this super tuesday .
trump ’ s rhetoric mixes populist criticism of immigration policy , wall street behavior , and other countries ’ trade policies , while also citing support for business-friendly efforts such as lower taxation .
the lack of detail from trump about his policies and how he would implement them is a particular worry for investors .
“ trump has been light on policy substance so it ’ s very difficult for the markets to handicap , ” said dave lafferty , chief market strategist at natixis global asset management , which manages $ 870.3 billion in assets .
he expects market volatility to rise if trump extends his lead in tuesday ’ s elections .
some investors are particularly concerned about trump ’ s nationalist rhetoric , saying it is potentially destructive to a global economy that is already struggling .
if it reduces trade flows then it could also hamper u.s. and global growth and hurt u.s. company profits .
the real estate investor proposes labeling china a currency manipulator and ending what he calls china ’ s illegal export subsidies and theft of u.s. intellectual property .
he also wants to penalize companies who move jobs from the u.s. to mexico by hitting them with high tariffs if they want to export back to the u.s. , as well as build a wall at the mexican border to prevent the flow of illegal immigrants .
“ in areas of trade policy and foreign affairs lies the greatest uncertainty , ” kass said .
“ trump is not likely to be market-friendly in any of these policy areas. ” in response , trump ’ s spokeswoman hope hicks said in an email to reuters that the same crowd criticizing the republican party ’ s top candidate had been responsible for causing the last worldwide recession and economic meltdown in 2007-2008 .
“ they have zero credibility , ” said hicks .
“ mr .
trump will restore confidence to the global markets by ending runaway spending and borrowing , restoring trade balance and fairness , and bringing wealth to america ’ s middle class. ” investors had , for some time , been concerned about the strength of vermont senator bernie sanders ’ insurgent campaign for the democratic nomination against former secretary of state clinton , given he declares himself to be a democratic socialist and has said wall street ’ s business model is fraudulent .
with recent losses to clinton in democratic contests in south carolina and nevada , he is now seen as less likely to win the nomination .
trump ’ s plans include ideas that traditionally come from republican candidates , such as lowering the corporate tax rate , simplifying the tax code , and as his web site puts it , cutting the deficit through “ eliminating waste , fraud and abuse ” and “ growing the economy to increase tax revenues. ” “ i think markets will like trump on the taxes issue since he favors lower rates and a permanent change in repatriation rules , ” said david kotok , chairman and chief investment officer at cumberland advisors in sarasota , florida , which manages $ 2 billion in assets .
still , financial advisers say that trump ’ s plans to do away with the so-called carried interest tax loophole - which gives hedge fund and private equity managers preferential tax treatment on much of their income - would prompt more selling if he begins to climb in national polls against clinton .
jeffrey gundlach , the co-founder and ceo of bond investing and trading powerhouse doubleline capital , said that trump has a history of being “ comfortable with a lot of debt and leverage , ” and that won ’ t impede him from spending heavily .
he said he believes trump ’ s pledge to spend heavily on the military makes defense stocks a good investment play .
others see such spendthrift tendencies more darkly .
david ader , chief government bond strategist at crt capital group in stamford , connecticut , said trump ’ s history raises questions about his ability to run an organization as unwieldy and complex as the government .
the businessman has in the past filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy protection for the trump taj mahal casino and trump plaza hotel .
ader says the uncertainty would cause investors to flock to safe-haven u.s. treasuries should trump take office .
“ it ’ s one thing to run casinos that have gone bankrupt , it ’ s another to run a country and its foreign policy , ” he said .
whether he would enjoy the support of the senate and house of representatives is a critical question , and will determine how many of his policy pronouncements can be turned into legislation .
congress could act as a brake if trump gets the presidency and behaves as wildly as trump the candidate .
he clearly does not have the full support of a number of key republican senators and would be unlikely to get much democratic support for many measures .
todd morgan , senior managing partner at wealth management firm bel air investments advisors in los angeles , said that the increasing likelihood that trump will be the republican nominee is one reason why he has raised cash in some client portfolios over the past four months .
he would likely sell more if it looks like trump will win the general election , he said .
“ it ’ s like a scale and you keep dropping more weights on the balance everyday , and the political uncertainty is becoming a bigger and bigger weight , ” he said .
for more on the 2016 presidential race , see the reuters blog , `` tales from the trail '' ( here ) .