paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron said on wednesday he would draw up a list of extremist organizations to convey to saudi arabia after its crown prince pledged to cut their funding .
saudi arabia finances groups overseen by the mecca-based muslim world league , which for decades was charged with spreading the strict wahhabi school of islam around the world .
saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman is seeking to modernize the kingdom and cleave to a more open and tolerant interpretation of islam .
he never did it publicly , but when i went to riyadh ( this month ) , he made a commitment , such that we could give him a list and he would cut the financing , macron said during an interview with france 24 television .
i believe him , but i will follow up .
trust is built on results , macron added .
the crown prince has already taken some steps to loosen saudi arabia s ultra-strict social restrictions , scaling back the role of religious morality police , permitting public concerts and announcing plans to allow women to drive next year .
the head of the muslim world league told reuters last week that his focus now was aimed at annihilating extremist ideology .
we must wipe out this extremist thinking through the work we do .
we need to annihilate religious severity and extremism which is the entry point to terrorism , mohammed al-issa said in an interview .
macron , speaking from abidjan , said he had also sought commitments to cut financing of extremist groups from qatar , iran and turkey .
the french leader will make a quick trip to doha on dec. 7 , where he will discuss regional ties and could sign military and transport deals , including the sale of 12 more rafale fighter jets .
qatar has improved its ties with iran since saudi arabia and other arab states boycotted it over alleged ties to islamist groups and its relations with tehran .
macron said he still intended to travel to iran next year , but wanted to ensure there was a discussion and strategic accord over its ballistic missile program and its destabilization activities in several regional countries .