paracas , peru ( reuters ) - support from business leaders for peru s president pedro pablo kuczynski has plummeted , a survey showed , as he spars with an opposition-controlled congress and struggles to revive economic growth .
the survey by ipsos peru , taken at a business forum in paracas to the south of lima last week and released late on friday , showed participants approval for kuczynski fell to 37 percent from 89 percent a year earlier at a similar event .
kuczynski took office in july 2016 promising to modernize peru and strengthen its economy with solid backing from lima s business elite after a tight runoff election against right-wing populist keiko fujimori .
but the 79-year-old former investment banker s first year in power was hampered by congress , which is dominated by fujimori s popular force party and voted to oust his cabinet in september .
meanwhile economic growth in what was once one of latin america s fastest growing economies slowed after heavy flooding and a corruption scandal involving brazilian builder odebrecht stalled investment in public works projects .
the economy and politics can not continue on separate lines , their progress is interdependent and deficiencies in politics and institutions can block the path of our development , the president of the business forum , drago kisic , told reporters .
peru s central bank president julio velarde also warned during the event that the clashes between the government and congress could hinder growth in the future , saying the finance ministry had lost influence over the legislature .
it is absolutely necessary in the long term that there be a better consensus among political forces in terms of agreeing on the essential elements to underpin growth , he said .
finance minister claudia cooper said on friday peru s economy could grow more than 4 percent in 2018 , up from 2.8 percent expected in 2017 , if private investment in the metals exporting nation recovered .
the ipsos survey showed that among hundreds attending peru s best known business forum , disapproval with kuczynski had risen to 63 percent from 11 percent a year earlier .
closing the conference on friday , kuczynski defended his government and called on attendees and congress to unite in a fight against populism .
i want to ask you to speak out more clearly about the challenges that we are facing politically , this is a determined government , not a confrontational one , he said .