cairo ( reuters ) - a previously unknown militant group with links to al qaeda claimed responsibility on friday for an attack in egypt s western desert that killed at least 16 policemen two weeks ago , announcing the start of a holy war against the egyptian state .
the new group , ansar al-islam , gave no evidence for its claim of responsibility for the oct. 21 attack but said abu hatem emad al-din abd al-hamid , a fighter suspected by the authorities of involvement , was one of its leaders .
he was killed this week in an air strike .
we have started our jihad with the battle of the lion s den in the bahariya oasis area on the borders of cairo and were victorious against the enemy s campaign , the statement said .
two security sources and a forensic doctor said dna analysis of bodies of militants killed in the air raid showed abd al-hamid was among them .
the security sources said he was the deputy of hesham al-ashmawy , a former egyptian military officer turned jihadist who has operated out of the city of derna across the border in libya and is blamed for past attacks .
the two men graduated from egypt s military academy the same year and were both fired from the army for adopting radical islamist beliefs .
ashmawy is known for being loyal to al qaeda , which means that if ansar al-islam s claim of responsibility is verified it could herald the emergence of a new egyptian cell of the network founded by osama bin laden .
in recent years most attacks on security forces in egypt have been blamed on fighters claiming allegiance to the islamic state group .
ashmawy is believed to have switched allegiance from islamic state to al qaeda , which operates more on a system of linked cells rather than a formal hierarchy .
we have information that ashmawy and abd al-hamid broke away from ( islamic state ) after a third colleague of theirs was killed and also for doctrinal issues , said one officer with egypt s homeland security agency on condition of anonymity .
three security sources said at the time of the oct. 21 attack that at least 52 police officers and conscripts had been killed when their patrol was struck by militants .
the interior ministry denied that figure the next day , saying 16 policemen had been killed .
the attack was the latest to plague egypt s security forces who face an islamic state insurgency mostly focused in the sinai peninsula but which has expanded to mainland egypt .
other militant groups are active in cairo and other cities .
president abdel fattah al-sisi appointed a new military chief of staff after the militants struck .
the interior ministry dismissed several high-ranking officials .
security forces responded with two raids in the span of a week , killing dozens of militants and freeing a police officer who was taken hostage during the attack .
ansar al-islam said it used rocket-propelled grenades in the attack but provided no estimate for how many people were killed .
it said the egyptian air force struck 11 days later , killing several members including abd al-hamid .
security sources say ashmawy has carried out some of the most high-profile attacks in egypt , including the attempted assassination of a former interior minister in 2013 and the killing in 2015 of egypt s top public prosecutor in a car bomb .
ashmawy moved in 2014 to derna , a hotbed of libyan islamist radicalism near the border with egypt , where he runs an al-qaeda cell , security sources say .
derna has been hit in air strikes by both the eastern-based libyan national army and its ally egypt .
both denied carrying out air strikes on derna on monday which killed at 1east 15 people , however .
ansar al-islam s statement was carried by groups with al-qaeda links , including guardians of sharia , whose social media feeds carry statements from al-qaeda chief ayman al-zawahiri .