caracas ( reuters ) - president nicolas maduro has predicted a new foreign-led effort to mediate venezuela s political crisis would produce a deal soon , but the opposition said on saturday it would not accept another time-wasting show .
following months of anti-maduro protests earlier this year that led to at least 125 deaths , both sides sent delegations to meet the dominican republic s president this week for a possible start to a negotiated solution .
after weeks of conversations , we are close to an agreement , of political co-existence , of peace and sovereignty , maduro said in a speech late on friday .
we re very near .
but the opposition , which accuses maduro of creating a dictatorship and ruining a once-prosperous oil economy , insisted the talks in santo domingo were only exploratory and would not proceed without firm guarantees of democratic change .
they want a date for the next presidential election , due by the end of 2018 , with guarantees it will be free and fair , plus freedom for hundreds of jailed activists , a foreign humanitarian aid corridor , and respect for the opposition-led congress .
iron-clad guarantees they can t mess us around like last year , when they promised heaven and earth , but nothing happened , said julio borges , the leader of congress which has been overridden by a pro-maduro legislative superbody called a constituent assembly .
if we don t have iron-clad guarantees ... that everything is leading to democratic change ... we won t take a step more , he told reporters on saturday , recalling failed 2016 vatican-led talks .
we want to avoid a repeat of last year s show .
maduro says the constituent assembly has brought peace to the south american nation of 30 million .
but many major foreign powers do not recognize the body given its origins in a controversial election that the opposition boycotted .
after more than four months of often violent protests , which also led to thousands of injuries and arrests , maduro says a u.s.-fanned coup attempt has been defeated .
but the strife has seen international opinion harden against him .
dominican leader danilo medina said mexico , chile , bolivia and nicaragua would join a new round of talks on sept. 27 , with two other countries to be defined .
the democratic unity coalition said on saturday one of those was paraguay .
while the government is eager to show the world it is entering a dialogue , opposition leaders face skepticism from their supporters , many of whom view a potential negotiation as a betrayal of dead protesters and legitimization of an autocrat .