when you read these statistics , the orlando massacre of 49 innocent men and women in a public space should really come as no surprise to anyone who s paying attention between 2001 and 2014 , the united states has permanently resettled nearly three quarters of a million migrants ( 674,920 ) from nations that may execute gays and lesbians including a quarter of a million ( 250,387 ) who were resettled during hillary clinton s tenure in the state department .
as secretary of state , clinton was in charge of screening visas for admission , which some foreign nationals could then adjust to receive green cards.following the orlando terrorist attack , in which the son of afghan migrants targeted the lgbt community and slaughtered 49 people in a gay nightclub , donald trump called for a common-sense , mainstream immigration policy that promotes american values .
indeed , new evidence has shown that the orlando terrorist s anti-western values were imported from overseas and were not homegrown or native to the united states absent immigration.trump explained that the values of radical islam which our current immigration policies are importing into america are incompatible with western values and institutions : a radical islamic terrorist targeted the nightclub not only because he wanted to kill americans , but in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens because of their sexual orientation .
it is a strike at the heart and soul of who we are as a nation many of the principles of radical islam are incompatible with western values and institutions .
radical islam is anti-woman , anti-gay and anti-american .
i refuse to allow america to become a place where gay people , christian people , and jewish people , are the targets of persecution and intimidation by radical islamic preachers of hate and violence.trump pledged that , as president , he would curb the flow of assimilation-resistant migrants from terror-prone regions that share these same oppressive views .
following the attack , the washington post published a list of mostly muslim countries where homosexuality may be punished by death .
the washington post , however , did not deem it necessary to make any mention of how many migrants from these nations that hold anti-western , anti-lgbt values are being resettled throughout the united states.between 2001 and 2014 , the u.s. permanently resettled 674,920 migrants from nations where gays can be executed , according to data from the department of homeland security ( dhs ) .this figure does not include the total number of migrants the u.s. has permanently resettled from muslim nations during that time , which is nearly 1.7 million.to see the breakdown of how many migrants the u.s. has admitted from countries where homosexuality can be punishable by death , click here.many washington politicians , however , have pushed to continue and even expand- the already record high levels of immigration from nations that hold anti-western values.hillary clinton is joined in her opposition to pausing muslim migration by house speaker paul ryan , who today said that temporarily pausing muslim migration is not reflective of our principles and is not in our country s best interest .
in stating his opposition to trump s proposal , ryan did not explain how american communities have been made better by such historic flows of sharia-sympathetic migrants or as donald trump put it why we should admit anyone into our country who supports violence of any kind against gay and lesbian americans .
via : breitbart news