srebrenica , bosnia ( reuters ) - bosnian muslims who lost loved ones in the 1995 srebrenica massacre said on wednesday that no punishment was enough for ratko mladic , the ex-bosnian serb wartime commander jailed for life for genocide .
mladic , dubbed the butcher of bosnia , was convicted by a u.n. tribunal on 10 counts of war crimes including the siege of sarajevo in which over 10,000 civilians died from shelling and sniper attacks , and the expulsion of hundred of thousands of non-serbs during the 1992-95 conflict .
can there ever be adequate punishment for someone who committed so many crimes ?
it would be too many even for 300 years , let alone three days , said vasva smajlovic , 74 , referring to the srebrenica slaughter in july 1995 .
her husband , son-in-law and other relatives were among the 8,000 muslim men and boys taken away and shot dead execution-style after mladic assured u.n. peacekeepers and local residents that no harm would befall them after his forces seized the town .
i try to count my dead all the time .
i count to 50 and then i m not able to count anymore , smajlovic said tearfully while watching a live telecast of the mladic verdict .
no words can describe how i feel .
i am angry .
all this comes too late .
her sister-in-law felt , however , justice was served with mladic s conviction , even if it came 22 years after the war .
nothing can compensate for our pain but it is important that justice is done , said bida smajlovic , who last saw her husband when he tried to flee srebrenica through woods in july 1995 .
his remains were later found in a mass grave .
on july 11 , 1995 , mladic s ultra-nationalist forces separated men and boys from women and took them away in buses or on foot to be shot within days .
it was europe s worst single atrocity since world war two .
wednesday s verdict , the last major case before the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia ( icty ) after 24 years of work , stirred tension in a region still scarred by the 1990s balkans conflagration .
bosnian serb leader milorad dodik , who frequently threatens the secession of the serb region from bosnia , said the tribunal s judgment of mladic only proved its bias against the serbs .
but bakir izetbegovic , the muslim bosniak member of bosnia s tripartite presidency , said : no people , including serbs , should call mladic a hero , ... , glorify criminals and decorate war criminals .
i hope this verdict will bring about such kind of sobering in bosnia .
the opinions underscored the stillborn reconciliation process in the federal state , now divided into an autonomous serb republic and muslim-croat federation .
placards with a portrait of the once beefy and brash mladic bearing a slogan you are our hero plastered the sides of buildings in srebrenica , now a largely ethnic serb town , and nearby bratunac on wednesday .
the general will become a legend , and we shall continue to live as we have lived , said milena komlenovic , the serb mayor of the eastern town of kalinovik , where mladic went to school .
she added that the international court s decisions - over 60 of 83 defendants convicted have been serbs - had aggravated rather than healed divisions in bosnia .
politicians in neighboring serbia , whose 1990s nationalist president , slobodan milosevic , armed and funded mladic s forces , appealed for calm and urged all to look to the future when a now democratic belgrade hopes to join the european union .
our hearts are also with the victims , the victims on all sides .
i do honestly feel ... for all victims , but let s look towards the future , serbian prime minister ana brnabic said .
zdravka gvozdjar , whose nine-year-old son eldin was killed in the bosnian serb bombardment of besieged sarajevo , said the verdict was no surprise and partially satisfactory .
he deserved a much worse punishment but i was so excited and satisfied that he was handed down a life sentence because it is the most he could get .
there is no comfort for me or any other mother ( but ) we have learned to live with the pain .