bengaluru , india ( reuters ) - indian journalists and rights activists protested on wednesday against the murder of an outspoken publisher of a weekly tabloid amid growing concerns about freedom of the press at a time of rising nationalism and intolerance of dissent .
gauri lankesh , 55 , the editor and publisher of the kannada-language gauri lankesh patrike newspaper , was shot dead on tuesday by unidentified assailants near her home in the southern city of bengaluru .
she had parked her car outside her gate and was walking to the main entrance of her home when the attackers fired at least seven rounds , killing her , police said .
the motive was not known .
lankesh was a fierce advocate of secularism and opposed hardline hindu groups associated with prime narendra modi s right-wing , nationalist ruling party .
her weekly , with a circulation of more than 5,000 , is regarded as influential in the state , read by policy makers and politicians .
lankesh spent decades with various media outlets before taking over the newspaper started by her father .
several journalist groups , including the editors guild , press club of india and press association , held protests in cities across india , calling her murder a brutal assault on the freedom of the press .
they said she was a critical , secular voice at a time when the country was being swept by a wave of right-wing , hindu nationalism .
she was an idealist and would take on the right-wing forces on several controversial issues , said y.p .
rajesh , an executive editor at the news website the print and a long-time friend of lankesh .
the u.s. embassy in new delhi also condemned the killing .
the murder is a new low in india s recent record of protecting journalists .
the committee to protect journalists has said that there have been no convictions in any of the 27 cases of journalists murdered in india because of their work since 1992 .
this year , the country of 1.3 billion people slipped three places to 136th in the world press freedom index , compiled by reporters without borders .
the group said hindu nationalists , on the rise since the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) swept to power in 2014 , were trying to purge all manifestations of anti-national thought .
journalists seen to be critical of hindu nationalists are often insulted on social media , and some women reporters have been threatened with assault .
people , including bjp members , have also openly insulted journalists , using terms like presstitute - a combination press and prostitute - to berate them .
in recent weeks , lankesh had posted videos on her facebook page that were critical of modi s economic policies and the rise of hardline hindu groups since he came to power .
last year , she was sentenced to six months in jail after a defamation case was filed by a bjp member .
she was released on bail .
ananth kumar , a federal minister in the modi government , said the state government must arrest those behind the killing .
the state government in karnataka , run by the congress party , said it had set up a special investigations team to investigate and police were examining cctv footage .
m.n .
anucheth , a senior police official investigating the case , said lankesh was shot in the head , neck and chest .
this is an attempt to silence all of us all of those who believe in democracy and decency , ramchandra guha , a historian told the indian express newspaper .
( this story has been refiled to fix spellng in paragraph 22 )