is our community organizer in chief being tested by putin ? the air is frigid and the wind is howling as air force col. frank flores lifts a pair of foot-long binoculars and studies a hazy dot about 50 miles west across the bering strait .
that s the mainland there , he shouts above the gusts.it s siberia , part of russia , on the asian mainland.named for an old mining camp , tin city is a tiny air force installation atop an ice-shrouded coastal mountain 50 miles below the arctic circle , far from any road or even trees .
the pentagon took over the remote site decades ago and built a long-range radar station to help detect a surprise attack from the soviet union.at least from this frozen perch , america s closest point to vladimir putin s russia , the cold war is turning warm again.u.s .
f-22 fighter jets scrambled about 10 times last year twice as often as in 2013 to monitor and photograph russian tu-95 bear bombers and mig-31 fighter jets that flew over the bering sea without communicating with u.s. air controllers or turning on radio transponders , which emit identifying signals.the russian flights are in international airspace , and it s unclear whether they are testing u.s. defenses , patrolling the area or simply projecting a newly assertive moscow s global power .
they re obviously messaging us , said flores , a former olympic swimmer who is in charge of tin city and 14 other radar stations scattered along the vast alaskan coast .
we still don t know their intent .
u.s. officials view the bombers which have been detected as far south as 50 miles off california s northern coast as deliberately provocative .
they are a sign of the deteriorating ties between moscow and the west since russia s annexation of ukraine s crimea region in march of last year and its military intervention to support separatists in eastern ukraine.similar russian flights in europe have irked leaders in britain , ireland , sweden , norway and elsewhere .
in january , british authorities were forced to reroute commercial aircraft after russian bombers flew over the english channel with their transponders off.in all , the north atlantic treaty organization says its jets scrambled to monitor russian warplanes around europe more than 100 times last year , about three times as many as in 2013 .
russian air patrols outside its borders were at their highest level since the soviet union collapsed in 1991 , nato said.russian defense minister sergei shoigu said in a statement in november , as tensions heightened over ukraine , that russia s strategic bombers would resume patrols in both the atlantic and the pacific .
in the current situation we have to maintain military presence in the western atlantic and eastern pacific , as well as the caribbean and the gulf of mexico , he said.although the arctic draws less attention , russia is flexing muscles there after years of decline .
president vladimir putin s government has announced plans to reopen 10 former soviet-era military bases , including 14 airfields , that were shuttered along the arctic seaboard after the cold war.a shipyard in severodvinsk , the largest city on the russian arctic coast , has begun building four nuclear-powered submarines for the first time in decades , according to russian news reports .
the pentagon says the reports are accurate.the pentagon has responded by spending $ 126 million last year to upgrade tin city and other coastal radar stations in alaska .
it also has added military exercises with northern allies including flying u.s. strategic bombers over the arctic for the first time since 2011.last week , four b-52s flew from bases in nebraska and louisiana on simultaneous , round-trip sorties to the arctic and north sea regions , the air force announced .
along the way , the bomber crews engaged in air intercept maneuvers with fighter jets from canada , england and the netherlands.the air force has said it may base the first squadrons of next-generation f-35 fighter jets at eielson air force base in alaska starting next year.the buildup comes as melting ice caps are opening valuable new sea lanes , sparking a scramble for oil and other untapped natural resources by the eight nations with territorial or maritime claims in the far north .
we re experiencing a reawakening of the strategic importance of the arctic , said navy adm. william e. gortney , commander of the pentagon s northern command and of the north american aerospace defense command .
is this a second cold war ?
it doesn t matter what we think , gortney said .
maybe they think the cold war never ended .
via : la times