forcing employees in a mostly hispanic area of a very liberal city to speak english seems like a bit of a risk .
it appears however , that mr. schneider is unconcerned about the spotlight on his english only policy and is standing firm on his convictions .
it s going to get disruptive if we have to become bilingual , trilingual or anything else .
ron schneider , leon s frozen custard ownermilwaukee leon s frozen custard has an english-only policy a policy some are questioning , and others are applauding.ron schneider , the owner of leon s , says there s nothing wrong with his policy , and that it doesn t appear to be hurting his business.leon s is located near 27th and oklahoma on milwaukee s south side.leon s frozen custard is a milwaukee institution but the custard isn t good enough for everyone to overlook the controversial policy .
most people that live here are latino , jorge maya said .
i don t think i m going to be back anytime soon .
this all started on tuesday , may 17th , when joey sanchez overheard one of leon s employees interacting with a spanish-speaking customer .
she whispered to him in spanish i m not allowed to speak spanish to you , ' sanchez said.sanchez was next in line .
he also placed his order in spanish .
the employee gave him the same response .
i m trying to understand or find the why .
i need to hear from him , to hear why he has this policy , sanchez said.schneider told witi his employees can only speak english on the job .
hey , c mon !
it is america .
we ve spoken english for a long , long time , schneider said.schneider says the policy has been in place for a decade , and it has never been an issue .
any foreign language is going to be a problem .
what i m trying to avoid is when people come up here , get waited on in a different language because there happens to be an employee who speaks that language , schneider said.sanchez said he feels leon s policy is just bad business .
if they have the people who can speak spanish and communicate with the customer better , why not ?
sanchez said.other customers said they side with schneider .
we do live in america , you know ?
ryan schmidt said.schneider , who points out that his wife is hispanic , says no customer has ever been turned away at leon s. via : fox 2 now