sydney ( reuters ) - australia will extend its pacific islands migrant labor program and fly aerial surveillance missions to protect valuable pacific fisheries , prime minister malcolm turnbull said at the pacific island leaders forum .
the meeting , held in apia , samoa , brought 17 pacific island nations plus australia and new zealand to the negotiating table .
the new agreement helps tiny low-income pacific island nations by giving them access to australia s large and developed economy , with migrant workers repatriating funds via overseas remittances .
the per capita gross national incomes of 11 countries in the region range from $ 1,540 for the solomon islands to $ 13,496 for palau , according to world bank figures , while australian workers earn an average yearly salary of more than $ 64,000 .
australia s population of 24 million people is highly urbanized , leading to labor shortages in rural areas .
prime minister malcolm turnbull signed an agreement on friday to allow 2,000 islanders to work in rural areas over the next three years , adding to an existing seasonal worker program which supplies agricultural labor .
the micro-nations of kiribati , nauru and tuvalu will have first access to the scheme , which will allow workers to engage in non-farm work such as care of the elderly .
the world bank said it was in australia s interests to encourage stability .
aid dependency in the region is high , and reliance on aid alone is an unbalanced strategy .
by improving employment prospects and increasing remittance flows , labor mobility helps stabilize otherwise fragile states , it said in a new report , pacific possible , released at the forum .
the report said the pacific region had the potential to create more than 500,000 new jobs and increase incomes by more than 40 percent by 2040 , if they focused on developing key areas such as tourism and fisheries .
the western and central pacific ocean covers about 8 percent of the world s ocean mass and contains the last healthy tuna stocks , supplying 60 percent of the world s tuna , the report said .
australia has agreed to fund aerial surveillance for pacific island member states to combat illegal fishing , with the planes to be in the air by the end of this year .