ankara ( reuters ) - turkey s foreign minister said on wednesday ankara would not submit to impositions from the united states to resolve a feud which has seen the two nato allies stop issuing visas to each other s citizens .
however , president tayyip erdogan s spokesman struck a more positive tone , saying he expected the crisis to be resolved soon following the arrival in turkey of a u.s. delegation for talks on repairing bilateral ties .
earlier this month washington suspended visa services after turkey detained two turkish nationals employed as u.s. consular staff .
they are being held on suspicion of links to last year s failed coup in turkey , allegations rejected by washington .
ankara swiftly retaliated by suspending its own visa services in the united states .
the dispute hit the turkish lira and stocks and unnerved investors .
the united states has said it wants details of the charges against its staff , and turkish broadcaster haberturk said the u.s. delegation had set four conditions to solve the crisis , including ankara providing evidence related to the detentions .
we will cooperate if their demands meet the rules of our constitution but we will not succumb to impositions and we will reject any conditions that we can not meet , foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu told a news conference on wednesday .
the two people arrested by turkey are a translator at the consulate in the southern province of adana and a drug enforcement administration ( dea ) worker in istanbul .
erdogan s spokesman ibrahim kalin said the talks with the united states were now moving in a good direction .
i believe this crisis will be resolved soon , he told state-owned trt haber .
the u.s. delegation does not have the authority to lift the visa suspension but they will communicate our views to washington and , hopefully , the white house will take positive steps soon .
foreign ministry sources described wednesday s talks as positive and said the two sides agreed to continue the discussions to resolve the dispute as soon as possible .
relations between turkey and its western allies have soured significantly since the july 2016 coup and the large-scale purges of the turkish armed forces , state institutions , media and academia that followed .
ankara blames the network of u.s.-based muslim cleric fethullah gulen for the coup and has repeatedly asked washington to extradite him .
gulen , who has lived in pennsylvania since 1999 , has denied the charges and condemned the coup .
turkey has sacked or suspended more than 150,000 people from their jobs on suspicion of links to the gulen network , prompting criticism from rights groups , the united states and the european union that ankara is undermining free speech and democracy .