beijing ( reuters ) - china s top newspaper warned communist party officials on thursday not to pray to god and worship buddha , because communism is about atheism and superstition is at the root of many corrupt officials who fall from grace .
china officially guarantees freedom of religion for major belief systems like christianity , buddhism and islam , but party members are meant to be atheists and are especially banned from participating in what china calls superstitious practices like visiting soothsayers .
the party s official people s daily said in a commentary it had not been uncommon over the past few years to see officials taken down for corruption to have also participated in feudalistic superstitious activities .
in fact , some officials often go to monasteries , pray to god and worship buddha , it said .
some officials are obsessed with rubbing shoulders with masters , fraternizing with them as brothers and becoming their lackeys and their money-trees .
chinese people , especially the country s leaders , have a long tradition of putting their faith in soothsaying and geomancy , looking for answers in times of doubt , need and chaos .
the practice has grown more risky amid a sweeping crackdown on deep-seated corruption launched by president xi jinping upon assuming power in late 2012 , in which dozens of senior officials have been imprisoned .
the people s daily pointed to the example of li chuncheng , a former deputy party chief in sichuan who was jailed for 13 years in 2015 for bribery and abuse of power , who it said was an enthusiastic user of the traditional chinese geomancy practice of fengshui .
another much more junior official , in the southern province of jiangxi , wore charms to ward off bad luck , it said .
as an official , if you spend all your time fixating on crooked ways , sooner or later you ll come to grief , it said .
the founder of modern china , mao zedong , banned fortune telling and superstition in puritan , communist china after the 1949 revolution , but the occult has made a comeback since the still officially atheist country embraced economic reforms and began opening up in the late 1970s .
in one of the most famous recent cases , china s powerful former security chief zhou yongkang was jailed for life in part due to accusations he leaked undisclosed state secrets to a fortune teller and healer called cao yongzheng , known as the xinjiang sage after the far western region where he grew up .
the people s daily said officials must remember marx s guiding words that communism begins from the outset with atheism .
superstition is thought pollution and spiritual anesthesia that can not be underestimated and must be thoroughly purged , it said .