beijing ( reuters ) - china on monday jailed former tianjin mayor huang xingguo for 12 years , after he took more than 40 million yuan ( $ 6 million ) in bribes to push through promotions and land approvals , a court in the northern province of hebei said .
dozens of senior chinese officials have been investigated or jailed since president xi jinping assumed power , vowing to root out corruption and warning that the problem threatens the ruling communist party s grip on power .
huang , who was also acting chief of the communist party in the northern port city , became its mayor in 2008 , before being investigated on suspicion of corruption in september last year .
he abused his power to obtain bribes of more than 40 million yuan ( $ 6.04 million ) in exchange for promotions and land approvals , the shijiazhuang intermediate people s court said on its official microblog on china s twitter-like weibo .
the corrupt behavior spanned huang s political career of more than two decades spent in several chinese cities , from previous posts in ningbo and taizhou in the coastal province of zhejiang to his time in tianjin , the statement added .
it was not possible for reuters to reach huang for comment .
in january , the communist party said it would prosecute huang , 63 , for graft , following its announcement last september of an initial investigation .
huang had made presumptuous comments on government policy and had damaged party unity , the investigation by the corruption watchdog , the central commission for disciplinary inspection ( ccdi ) , showed .
he was also found to have accepted gifts , traveled with an entourage and worked to further his career by buying support and giving jobs to friends .
the court said its sentence took into account the guilt and remorse huang expressed over his offences , besides his cooperative attitude and the evidence he gave investigators .
tianjin , about an hour southeast of beijing , has ambitions to become a financial hub for northern china and is one of four areas designated a municipality , along with beijing , shanghai and chongqing , giving it the same high status as a province .
in 2015 , a series of massive explosions at a chemicals warehouse in tianjin killed about 170 people , provoking nationwide anger that it had been built close to people s homes .