zurich ( reuters ) - switzerland could become the latest country to ban facial coverings worn by some muslim women after activists collected more than the 100,000 signatures required to put the proposal to a national vote .
the group , called yes to a mask ban delivered the petition on friday , setting up a vote by 2020 .
some of its leaders also spearheaded the 2009 swiss ban on new minarets being built in the country .
a delegation of leaders from the group delivered three boxes containing 106,600 signatures to the federal chancellery , part of the swiss parliament building in bern .
full-face coverings such as niqabs and burqas are a polarizing issue across europe , with some arguing that they symbolize discrimination against women and should be outlawed .
the clothing has already been banned in france .
facial coverings are a symbol of radical islam that have nothing to do with religious freedom but are rather an expression of the oppression of women , said anian liebrand , a swiss campaign leader .
in switzerland , we show our faces when we talk to each other .
others contend that bans unnecessarily intrude on religious freedom .
how many people wear these burqas in switzerland ?
said oender guene , a spokesman for the federation of islamic organisations in switzerland , which represents more than 200 mosques .
you can probably count those living in switzerland on maybe one or two hands .
the rest are usually rich tourists from the gulf .
two thirds of switzerland s 8.4 million residents identify as christians .
but its muslim population has risen to 5 percent , largely because of immigrants from former yugoslavia .
one swiss canton , italian-speaking ticino , already has a similar ban .
at least two demonstrators who wore veils in defiance after the ban came into effect last july paid fines of 250 swiss francs ( $ 260 ) , swiss media have reported .
the switzerland-wide initiative foresees parliament deciding on penalties .
though the measure would also forbid protesters from concealing their faces during demonstrations , the main focus has been on burqas .
france s ban was upheld in 2014 by the european court of human rights .
this year germany s parliament backed a ban on full-face veils for civil servants , judges and soldiers , while austria and the netherlands have debated the issue .
with signatures in hand , leaders of the swiss initiative expect three years of wrangling in switzerland s system of direct democracy before voters get the chance to register their view .
liebrand is optimistic his initiative s path will mirror the progress of the 2009 minaret ban .
the minaret campaign started as underdogs and was something the big parties didn t want , he said .
but i reckon the facial coverings ban will also resonate with the people .