don t think for a minute this union-style black lives matter/occupy type sit-in wasn t orchestrated in our oval office by our community organizer in chief .
obama is desperate to pass gun control legislation before he leaves office .
the democrats who are occupying our house floor are only acting as puppets for his radical agenda .
as california democrat rep. brad sherman spoke wednesday evening during an unprecedented sit-in on capitol hill to demand a vote on gun control , rep. louis gohmert ( r-tx ) interrupted him , shouting : radical islam killed these people !
sherman , a moderate democrat from the san fernando valley , had joined several dozen of his party colleagues in a protest against house republicans refusal to allow votes on several gun regulations all of which had already failed in the senate.though the bills have no chance of becoming law , democrats hope to win at least one of the votes , which would enable them to argue that by voting democrat this november , americans could help them retake the senate and pass new gun restrictions.the protest was led by rep. john lewis ( d-ga ) , who has long drawn on his history in the civil rights movement for partisan purposes , and who hinted last weekend during a southern california visit that democrats would do something big on guns.the protest was also timed to coincide with , and drown out , a speech in new york by presumptive republican presidential nominee donald trump .
trump responded to rival hillary clinton s attack earlier this week by criticizing clinton for alleged corruption at the state department and for her foreign policy record , while laying out his own alternative economic policies.rep .
gohmert began heckling rep. sherman during his speech which was broadcast via periscope by another californian , rep. scott peters of san diego , in violation of house rules .
at roughly 4:24 in the video below , gohmert points to a poster of the victims of the june 12 terrorist attack and insists that radical islam killed them not the lack of gun control regulations.via : breitbart news