detroit ( reuters ) - back in 2008 , with gas prices averaging nearly $ 4 a gallon , president barack obama set a goal of getting one million plug-in electric vehicles on the roads by 2015 .
since then , his administration has backed billions of dollars in ev subsidies for consumers and the industry .
yet today – with gas prices near $ 2 a gallon - only about 400,000 electric cars have been sold .
last year , sales fell 6 percent over the previous year , to about 115,000 , despite the industry offering about 30 plug-in models , often at deep discounts .
such challenges are part of the backdrop for obama ’ s wednesday visit to detroit , where he ’ s expected to discuss the state of the auto industry .
despite slow plug-in sales , the industry continues to roll out new models in response to government mandates and its own desire to create brands known for environmental innovation .
at the detroit auto show last week , general motors co ( gm.n ) showed off its new electric bolt ev ; ford motor co ( f.n ) unveiled a new plug-in version of its ford fusion ; and fiat chrysler automobiles nv ( fcha.mi ) unveiled its first plug-in hybrid , a version of its new pacifica minivan .
ford ceo mark fields said last week that evs “ are a difficult sell at $ 2 a gallon. ” plug-in vehicles accounted for fewer than 1 percent of the 17.4 million cars and trucks sold last year , according to data from hybridcars.com and baum & associates , a michigan-based market research firm .
that doesn ’ t include sales of more mainstream gas-electric hybrids such as the toyota prius .
but hybrid sales also fell last year - by 15 percent , to 384,000 - and now comprise just 2.2 percent of all vehicle sales .
in his state of the union address last week , obama didn ’ t specifically address electric vehicles but said : “ we ’ ve got to accelerate the transition away from old , dirtier energy sources. ” the main obstacles for electric vehicles are their high cost and short driving range .
the chevy bolt promises a breakthrough on both fronts , with a 200-mile range and a price starting at about $ 30,000 - after government incentives .
still , that ’ s a steep buy-in compared to increasingly efficient gasoline-powered economy cars that can sell for less than $ 20,000 .
“ if gasoline was $ 8 a gallon , consumers would amortize the costs of an electric vehicle pretty quickly , ” said former gm vice chairman bob lutz , who headed up the development of the original chevy volt , a pioneering plug-in hybrid .
“ but at $ 1.50 a gallon , who is going to be willing to pay an $ 8,000 or $ 10,000 premium ? ” palo-alto electric car maker tesla motors ( tsla.o ) has garnered praise for making high-performance , long-range sport sedans - typically selling for about $ 100,000 and traveling about 250 miles between charges .
but other automakers have struggled to produce a more affordable car with a range longer than 100 miles .
green car advocates say evs are a crucial part of the effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and will help wean the united states off imported oil .
in the long term , they argue , oil prices are almost certain to rise again , making electric cars more viable .
the industry is moving ahead with ev development for a number of reasons .
many states , led by california , have imposed zero-emission vehicle mandates .
california has set an ambitious goal to have 1.5 million such vehicles on its roads by 2025 .
the state accounts for about 40 percent of all electric car sales , but only about 120,000 of the 31 million automobiles on california roads as of a year ago were zero-emission vehicles .
many automakers worry that consumers will perceive them as technologically backward if they don ’ t build electric cars – even if they can ’ t yet sell them in large numbers .
the industry is also responding to an influx of state and federal cash and related mandates .
the u.s. energy department awarded hundreds of millions of dollars in low-cost loans to spur electric vehicle manufacturing by companies such nissan motor co ( 7201.t ) and tesla .
in 2009 , the administration dedicated $ 2.4 billion of the $ 787 billion stimulus bill to promote battery and ev production .
consumers can get a federal tax credit of up to $ 7,500 for buying electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids .
the obama administration has repeatedly proposed boosting the credit to $ 10,000 .
carlos ghosn , ceo of nissan - which saw sales of its electric leaf fall by 43 percent in 2015 - told reporters at the show that automakers are ramping up ev offerings because of increasingly strict government mandates .
“ everybody came to the conclusion that there ’ s no way we can meet the emission regulation in the future ” without selling zero-emission vehicles , he said .
“ this is not going to be an easy shift. ” volkswagen ag ( vowg_p.de ) , still reeling from its diesel emissions crisis , has touted plans to introduce 20 more plug-in vehicles by 2020 .
gm chairman and ceo mary barra said she is convinced that customers want evs and that gas prices won ’ t stay low forever .
“ long-term electrification is part of the solution , ” she said at the show .
lutz , the former gm executive , says automakers have no choice but to build them .
because of government mandates , he said , “ electric vehicles are going to have to be crammed in the market at way below what it costs to make them . ”