how in the world did this racist thug get elected ?
he s disgusting !
he kept calling potus 45 then chris cuomo asked why he was doing that his answer is idiotic and disrespectful : that s just what i call him .
i believe that when he begins to act as if he deserves to be in that office , and leads in terms of unifying people , then he will deserve the name of president trump .
but at this point , i believe that he has not done the things in regards to bringing this country together .
chris cuomo : do you believe the president helped with what he said yesterday ? wes bellamy : i believe that 45 did make some strides in regards to specifically condemning the white supremacists and the kkk .
.
.
i would love to move away from the remarks and comments of 45 and focus more on what s going on here on the ground in charlottesville .
.
.
so again , i m not as concerned with what 45 is doing , i m more concerned with us progressing as a community.chris cuomo : wes , quick question .
why do you refer to the president as 45 ?
yes , he is the 45th president , but is that intentional , or is that just a quick term.bellamy : well , that s just what i call him .
i believe that when he begins to act as if he deserves to be in that office , and leads in terms of unifying people , then he will deserve the name of president trump .
but at this point , i believe that he has not done the things in regards to bringing this country together , he has not done the things in regards to making us a more unified place .
nor has he decided to condemn the individuals in a rapid pace , or as he should , or speak out in the way we believe he should .
but again , i m not here to talk about 45.bellamy is a known racist but cbs is complicit with their desire to censor bellamy s racist tweets : cbs reporter jan crawford interviewed bellamy in her april 13 evening news segment about the robert e. lee statue at the center of charlottesville controversy .
crawford downplayed the racist comments and made no mention of bellamy s punishment for the disgusting tweets he sent ( see below ) his past tweets suggest that he was part of the race problem .
but cbs purposefully minimized his history , shifting the blame onto the vice mayor s opponents .
supporters of the statue unearth crude tweets written by bellamy as a younger man , crawford noted , and he also was targeted with death threats , but bellamy feels his fight is justified .
just what kinds of crude things did bellamy say ?
there were racist tweets , such as his comment in 2009 : i don t lik whit people so i hate white snow ! ! ! ! !
fml ! ! ! !
and his 2010 tweet : i really # hate how almost 80 % of the black people here talk white .
there were inappropriate and crude tweets .
the same year , he tweeted : alright .
my phone goin ham .
lol .
there is a diff between ass & eatin pussy ! ! !
i repeat there is a diff between ass & eatin pussy !
there were also sexist posts .
i m all for equal opportunity .. but a female principal with a school full of female teachers is fkn a sure fire way to fk our lil boys up smh , he tweeted in october 2011.this is the behind-the-scenes info of the fight between bellamy and kessler ( organizer of the march to protest the removal of the statue ) :