berlin ( reuters ) - german police arrested a 19-year-old syrian suspected of planning an islamist-motivated bomb attack in germany with the aim of killing as many people as possible , the federal prosecutor s office said on tuesday .
interior minister thomas de maiziere said security officials had averted a major terrorist attack .
the man , identified as yamen a. , had been in contact online with jihadists including one who described himself as a soldier of the caliphate , a spokeswoman for the federal prosecutor s office said .
yamen a. was arrested in the early hours in the northeastern town of schwerin .
police searched his home and also those of other people not suspected of being directly involved .
according to the findings so far , yamen a. made the decision no later than july 2017 to detonate an explosive device in germany in order to kill and injure as many people as possible , the prosecutor s office said in a statement .
as a result , he began to procure components and chemicals needed to make an explosive device .
whether the suspect had already envisaged a specific target for his bomb attack is still unclear , the office added .
he had ordered chemicals over the internet that could be used to make the explosive tatp , short for triacetone triperoxide , the spokeswoman for the prosecutor s office later added .
he had also acquired two radios , batteries and a cellphone battery , suggesting he planned a remote-controlled explosion by radio or mobile telephone .
there were no indications that he was a member of a terrorist organisation , the office said .
it did not say when he arrived in germany .
chancellor angela merkel , who is trying to form a new coalition government after elections last month , has come under fire for allowing more than one million people to enter germany over the past two years - many of them refugees from syria .
her open door refugee policy saw her conservatives bleed support in the election to the anti-immigration alternative for germany ( afd ) , which won seats in the national parliament for the first time .
de maiziere said the raid on the suspect took place late enough to secure evidence and at the same time early enough to reliably ward off the danger .
the threat situation in germany remains high .
germany , europe , the west are in the sights of islamist terrorism , he added in a statement .