tripoli/tunis ( reuters ) - an armed alliance involved in a three-week battle over the libyan smuggling hub of sabratha said it had taken control of the coastal city on friday .
a group called the operations room and its allies have been fighting the anas al-dabbashi brigade , a major facilitator of migrant smuggling that recently said it had changed tack and struck a deal with the u.n.-backed government in tripoli to stop boats setting off across the mediterranean .
sabratha city has been liberated from the militias the dabbashi militias and their alliance , said operations room spokesman saleh graisia .
now the city is fully controlled by the operations room ... the militias have escaped to the west .
a senior member of the dabbashi brigade confirmed that its men had retreated .
it is over , he said in a message sent to reuters .
they took over sabratha .
the setback for the dabbashi brigade creates new uncertainty over control of future migrant flows from libya .
since a 2016 deal between the eu and turkey to block crossings in the aegean , libya has been the gateway for the vast majority of migrants trying to reach europe by boat , and the area around sabratha has been the most common departure point .
from july , the number of crossings dropped sharply , a change attributed to increased activity by libya s eu-trained coastguard and to the dabbashi brigade blocking departures in return for offers of an amnesty and jobs in the security forces .
the head of the dabbashi brigade , ahmed al-dabbashi , said his men were then targeted by opponents who wanted to continue smuggling .
rivalries in sabratha are also tied into overlapping political , ideological , tribal and economic differences .
both the dabbashi brigade and the operations room , which was created last year to force islamic state militants from sabratha , have links to the u.n.-backed government of national accord ( gna ) .
since 2015 , the dabbashi brigade has guarded an oil and gas facility west of sabratha run jointly by libya s national oil corporation ( noc ) and italian firm eni .
italian officials have visited sabratha as part of efforts to block migrant flows from there .
the libyan national army ( lna ) , which has opposed the gna and is headed by prominent commander khalifa haftar , has also claimed ties to the operations room , leading to fears that the clashes in sabratha could lead to a broader escalation of the conflict which developed in libya after a 2011 uprising .
the lna is based in eastern libya but is seeking to expand its reach in the west of the country .
milad al-zawi , a spokesman for the lna s special forces , said this week that around 40 of its soldiers had been fighting in sabratha .
we hope that sabratha is a good sign for the lna , he said on friday .
the gna also welcomed developments in sabratha , expressing deep satisfaction and claiming the operations room as its own .
the fighting in sabratha has left dozens dead and injured and has caused extensive damage to residential areas .
the city s roman ruins , which are a unesco world heritage site , have also been damaged .
sabratha s municipal council appealed on friday for displaced families not to return to their homes until they had been checked for explosives .
the military engineering unit is working to defuse booby traps inside the city , said operations room spokesman graisia .