lima ( reuters ) - peru s opposition-ruled congress voted 55-21 late on thursday to pass legislation that expands a raft of new financial restrictions to the local partners of scandal-plagued brazilian builder odebrecht .
if signed by president pedro pablo kuczynski , the law would deliver a fresh blow to peru s biggest construction group , grana y montero , just as the company s shares have been climbing back from a sharp drop after partner odebrecht admitted to a decade-long bribery scheme last year .
supporters of the bill said odebrecht s partners might have had a hand in the graft and must be included in anti-corruption rules passed early this year that restrict the transfer of company assets abroad until civil reparations have been paid .
the legislation would also seize companies ill-gotten gains made from government contracts .
grana declined to comment on the legislation .
the company has repeatedly denied knowing about or being involved in odebrecht s bribes and said last week that a 6-month internal probe it commissioned turned up no evidence of wrongdoing .
lawmakers in kuczynski s party voted against the bill and his government will likely send it back to congress saying it violates the presumption of innocence , a former deputy justice minister in kuczynski s government , edgar carpio , told reuters .
the justice ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
the bill taps growing impatience in peru with criminal investigations related to odebrecht that have yet to yield any convictions or broaden to target additional companies .
it s been a year and nothing , opposition lawmaker victor andres belaunde said .
we re disappointed with the lack of courage of many who don t want to confront corruption .
right-wing opposition party popular force , which dominates congress , has slammed kuczynski s government and the attorney general s office as soft on graft .
opposition lawmakers have demanded kuczynski face questioning in congress about what he knew about odebrecht s bribes when he was part of the cabinet of former president alejandro toledo , whom prosecutors allege took $ 20 million from the company in exchange for lucrative highway contracts .
grana partnered with odebrecht on two of the highway contracts and a $ 5 billion natural gas pipeline project that was canceled this year as the bribery scandal unfolded .
kuczynski has denied wrongdoing and has answered lawmakers questions about his knowledge of odebrecht in writing , but he has said he would not do so in a congressional commission because it would be a circus .