berlin ( reuters ) - germany s social democrats ( spd ) faced pressure on wednesday to consider offering coalition talks to chancellor angela merkel s conservatives to settle the worst political crisis in modern german history .
a leader of the smaller free democrats ( fdp ) also raised the possibility of reviving coalition talks with the conservatives and greens that collapsed at the weekend raising fears across europe of stalemate in the eu s economic and political powerhouse .
but the party chief later appeared to ruled it out .
the signs of possible flexibility came after president frank-walter steinmeier , in a move unprecedented for a largely ceremonial position , intervened to promote talks that could avert a disruptive early repeat election .
spd leader martin schulz , whose party had governed in coalition under merkel since 2013 , wants to go into opposition after september polls that knocked its support to the lowest levels since formation of the modern german republic in 1949 .
but the mass-circulation bild newspaper said 30 members of the spd s 153-strong parliamentary group questioned that position this week at a meeting of the parliamentary party .
spd lawmaker johannes kahrs , spokesman for the seeheimer circle , a conservative wing in the party , urged schulz to keep an open mind when he meets on thursday with steinmeier .
kahrs told the passauer neue presse newspaper that the collapse of the coalition talks had changed the situation .
we can not just tell the german president , sorry , that s it .
bild said german foreign minister sigmar gabriel , who handed leadership of the spd to schulz and became foreign minister earlier this year , also favors a resumed grand coalition .
germany , traditionally a bastion of stability in the eu , could face months of political stagnation , further complicating agreement on reforms of euro zone governance and eu defense and asylum policies .
merkel , who remains acting chancellor until a government is agreed , has said she would prefer to work with the spd .
if that failed , she would favor new elections over an unstable minority government .
merkel s 12-year hold on power was shaken at the september elections partly by the arrival of the anti-immigration afd party in parliament .
guenther oettinger , an eu commissioner and member of merkel s christian democratic union ( cdu ) , urged the spd to think again about its rejection of coalition talks .
the long process of forming a government is weakening germany s influence in brussels , oettinger told der spiegel newsmagazine in an interview to be published on thursday .
axel schaefer , deputy head of the spd s parliamentary group , urged the three political blocs to try again to reach agreement .
but he said his party would also talk with conservatives if asked to do so by steinmeier , who is meeting with possible coalition partners this week .
a top official of the pro-business fdp told broadcaster ntv her party would not rule out reviving the three-way coalition talks if merkel s conservatives and the greens offered a completely new package of proposals .
if it really was possible to build a modern republic in the coming years , then we are the last ones who would refuse to talk , fdp secretary general nicola beer said .
but fdp chief christian lindner told spiegel magazine : for the foreseeable future , it is impossible to imagine cooperation with the greens at the federal level .
stephan weil , the spd premier of lower saxony who just completed a coalition agreement with conservatives in his state , has said a new election could leave few options other than a grand coalition anyway , the sueddeutsche newspaper reported .
joe kaeser , chief executive of siemens , told die welt newspaper that he hoped new elections could be avoided since the results would likely be little changed from sept. 24 .
a new poll released wednesday showed that half of germans favor a new election , while a fifth support a minority government .
only 18 percent want a renewal of the spd-conservative coalition that ruled the past four years .