( reuters ) - a federal judge in miami on thursday said former panamanian president ricardo martinelli should be extradited to his homeland to face charges he illegally orchestrated a campaign funded by public money to spy on political rivals there .
u.s. magistrate judge edwin torres said panama had established probable cause for all charges it brought against martinelli , and that a show of good faith to its government required his surrender .
there are reasonable grounds to suppose him guilty of all or some of the offenses charged , torres wrote in a 93-page decision .
the u.s. department of state will decide whether to extradite martinelli , but in an aug. 1 court filing said it supported extradition .
it is not clear when a decision might be made .
martinelli , 65 , has denied the charges , and plans to appeal the extradition order , according to an email from his lawyer marcos jimenez .
he is also seeking political asylum .
officials with the panamanian government did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
martinelli was panama s president from 2009 to 2014 .
prosecutors accused him of diverting more than $ 13.4 million of public funds , intended to help the underprivileged , to fund a surveillance system to listen in on more than 150 rivals .
martinelli , a wealthy businessman through his ownership of supermarkets , was arrested in june by u.s. authorities in coral gables , florida , and later held without bail .
he had previously left panama as that country was preparing to charge him .
panama s current president , juan carlos varela , had once been martinelli s vice president , but they later became rivals .
martinelli s lawyers have called their client s prosecution politically motivated .
they had sparred with u.s. prosecutors over whether an extradition treaty updated in july 2014 between the united states and panama covered martinelli s alleged cyber crimes , which predated the update .
torres said it did , and that martinelli s having at best suggested the issue was ambiguous was not enough to conclude that his interpretation ultimately prevails and bars his extradition .