austin a shoving match and war of words nearly turned into a fistfight on the texas house floor monday , the final day of a bitterly contentious 140-day legislative session .
this session has been very , very difficult , said rep. celia israel , d-austin .
there are enough of us here who remember a time in texas when respect and decorum ruled the day .
those rules flew out the house door when a group of protesters crashed the chamber s gallery monday , chanting opposition to the so-called sanctuary cities ban .
legislators approved a bill this year that would force local governments to enforce federal immigration laws , what opponents call a show-me-your-papers law.angry illegal aliens flooded the texas state capitol building .
they can be seen flooding the capitol building in the video below .
`` greg abbott escucha !
estamos en la lucha ! ''
# txlege # sb4 pic.twitter.com/2ptmxrjisb james barrag n ( @ james_barragan ) may 29 , 2017as they protested , latino reps. ramon romero and cesar blanco , both democrats , waved to the noisy crowd .
republican matt rinaldi of irving , a fervent supporter of the anti-immigration legislation , approached the latino democrats .
they said rinaldi told them he had called u.s. immigration and customs enforcement to report the protesters , who were largely hispanic.the democrats were enraged .
a shoving match ensued , and lawmakers accused one another of making violent threats .
rinaldi said a democrat eventually threatened to come get him .
rep. justin rodriguez , d-san antonio , who didn t witness the initial altercation , said he later heard rinaldi say , i ll put a bullet in your head , to the democrat he alleged was menacing .
dallas newshere is republican legislator matt rinaldi s response to the accusation by democrat legislator justin rodriguez : a statement regarding today .
pic.twitter.com/m0bcbxa43p matt rinaldi ( @ mattrinalditx ) may 29 , 2017illegal aliens have been living in our nation without any fear of repercussions for their actions for over a decade now .
that was before we had a president who took illegal immigration seriously .
trump s strong position of illegal immigrants has given local lawmakers some hope of restoring law and order to states like texas that are overwhelmed with an exploding illegal immigration population .