united nations ( reuters ) - the united states accused iran on tuesday of supplying yemen s houthi rebels with a missile that was fired into saudi arabia in july and called for the united nations to hold tehran accountable for violating two u.n. security council resolutions .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said information released by saudi arabia showed the missile fired in july was an iranian qiam , which she described as a type of weapon that had not been present in yemen before the conflict .
saudi-led forces , which back the government in neighboring yemen , have been targeting the iran-allied houthis in a more than two-year war .
saudi arabia s crown prince on tuesday described iran s supply of rockets to the houthis as direct military aggression that could be an act of war .
haley said that by providing weapons to the houthis , iran s islamic revolutionary guard corp s had violated two u.n. resolutions on yemen and iran .
she said a missile shot down over saudi arabia on saturday may also be of iranian origin .
we encourage the united nations and international partners to take necessary action to hold the iranian regime accountable for these violations , haley said .
it was not immediately clear what action the united states was calling for .
saudi u.n .
ambassador abdallah al-mouallimi echoed haley s call for u.n. action against iran in a letter to the u.n. security council and secretary-general antonio guterres later on tuesday , seen by reuters .
he said the missile fired on saturday may amount to a war crime and that saudi arabia was taking appropriate measures to respond to these terrorist acts .
iran s u.n .
ambassador gholamali khoshroo also wrote to the security council and guterres on tuesday , rejecting the accusations by saudi arabia as baseless and unfounded .
iran calls for self-restraint and wisdom instead of provocation and threat that may bring further instability to this already volatile region , khoshroo wrote in the letter , seen by reuters .
under a u.n. resolution that enshrines the iran nuclear deal with world powers , tehran is prohibited from supplying , selling or transferring weapons outside the country unless approved in advance by the u.n. security council .
a separate u.n. resolution on yemen bans the supply of weapons to houthi leader abdul-malik al-houthi , two houthi commanders , yemen s former president ali abdullah saleh , his son , and those acting on their behalf or at their direction .
the united states could propose people or entities to be blacklisted by the security council s yemen sanctions committee , a move that would need consensus approval by the 15-members .
or it could put forward a new security council resolution to impose sanctions on iran .
to pass , a resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the united states , britain , france , china or russia .