radical democratic chair tom perez was being interviewed by msnbc s joy reid about what democrats need to do to ensure they win more seats in congress .
joy reid asked her viewers , how do democrats turn enthusiasm and better vibes , along with real anger at donald trump into the only thing that matters , winning elections ?
reid then turned to dnc chair tom perez for answers .
as perez started to speak from a location in portland oregon , where he was appearing with bernie sanders for an event , viewers can see people in the background setting up for an apparent event .
( only democrats would have people setting up their stage who have absolutely no respect for our american flag . )
watch the people tasked with setting up the americans flags , as they drag the flag ( on right side of the screen ) across the ground before attempting to set it up .
as the interview continues , it s only fitting that while perez is talking about the email list hillary clinton gave the dnc from her campaign , that our american flag ( after being dragged across the ground ) would fall onto the stage .
perez goes on to discuss democratic values .
sorry tom , but for most of us who ve been witnessing the childish , violent and unamerican behavior of democrats following hillary s loss to president trump , we all became keenly aware of your democratic values .
when our american flag fell to the ground , almost on cue while mentioning hillary s name that pretty much summed up your party.here s the perez interview in its entirety .
the tom perez interview happens at about 25-30 seconds into the show : here s a tweet showing the moment the flag fell while perez was speaking : metaphor alert .
pic.twitter.com/raju5qmdke t. becket adams ( @ becketadams ) april 18 , 2017dnc chair tom perez was clearly not the best choice for the fractured democrat party following hillary s blistering loss to president trump .
the day before his interview with joy reid on msnbc tom perez was introduced by the leader of the maine young democrats claire cumming .
the video shows cumming attempting to get the crowd excited by the mere mention of socialist bernie sanders , regardless of why you showed up today , you showed up for a reason .
something compelled you to find the space and time to be here , and i want you to ask yourself what that reason is .
the excitement quickly fell flat when she mentioned tom perez to the crowd .
watch the millennials boo perez as cumming appears to be surprised by their reaction to this name :