( reuters ) - u.s. civil rights activist deray mckesson , who was instrumental in the growth of the black lives matter movement against police violence , is running for mayor of baltimore .
mckesson , who filed his paperwork minutes before wednesday ’ s deadline , is among more than a dozen democrats heading to an april primary .
the 30-year-old son of two now-recovered drug addicts , mckesson rose to prominence during the 2014 protests in ferguson , missouri , over the police killing of unarmed black teen michael brown and has become one of the nation ’ s best-known civil rights leaders .
his distinctive blue patagonia vest has been seen everywhere from street demonstrations in his native baltimore to a recent appearance on “ the late show with stephen colbert. ” “ i am not the silver bullet for the challenges of our city - no one individual is , ” mckesson said on wednesday in a post on the blog publishing platform medium .
“ together , with the right ideas , the right passion , the right people , we can take this city in a new direction. ” his rivals include former baltimore mayor sheila dixon and state senator catherine pugh .
the city has not elected a republican mayor in more than 50 years .
current mayor stephanie rawlings-blake said in september that she would not seek re-election when her term ends .
a website set up to collect contributions for mckesson ’ s campaign had recorded 474 donations totaling $ 34,383 by midday thursday .
an alumnus of maine ’ s bowdoin college , mckesson worked in baltimore and minneapolis schools before moving into full-time activism .
one political observer said working-class baltimore voters might hold his lack of political experience against him .
“ the profile he has now , he ’ s gotten from doing national work , not local work , ” said lester spence , associate professor of political science and african studies at johns hopkins university .
last year , the mainly black city of 600,000 people was torn by its worst riots in a half-century following the death of freddie gray from injuries sustained while in police custody .
coming amid a string of controversial police killings across the united states , gray ’ s death proved a turning point when prosecutors brought charges against six officers within weeks .
the first of those six trials , in which officer william porter faced charges including involuntary manslaughter , ended in a hung jury .
that threw state ’ s attorney marilyn mosby ’ s aggressive schedule into disarray , and a judge last month rejected prosecutors ’ request to order porter to testify against his fellow officers while he awaits retrial .