jerusalem ( reuters ) - from an argument over dog poo to an alleged anti-semitic caricature he posted on facebook , yair netanyahu , the israeli prime minister s 26-year-old son , is courting controversy with his social media activity .
the criticism of netanyahu in israel is turning into a sideshow to more weighty events : criminal investigations into corruption allegations against his father and mother .
they both deny any wrongdoing .
the young netanyahu is widely seen in israel as being groomed by his parents as a future political leader and the facebook posts have attracted particular public interest .
on saturday , he posted a cartoon using what the anti-defamation league , which monitors anti-semitism worldwide , described as anti-semitic imagery in a facebook post mocking some of his father s critics .
it included a depiction of u.s. billionaire george soros at the top of a food chain , dangling the world in front of both a reptile and former prime minister ehud barak , a frequent critic of netanyahu .
jewish financiers controlling the world is a well-known anti-semitic theme .
soros supports left-wing and human rights organizations that have been highly critical of israel and its treatment of palestinians .
the israel office of the anti-defamation league denounced the cartoon on twitter , writing : the caricature posted by yair netanyahu includes explicit anti-semitic elements .
one can not belittle the danger inherent in an anti-semitic discourse .
in further facebook posts following criticism for posting the cartoon , yair netanyahu , who is a university student , condemned the israeli left for being two-faced in trying to silence him .
a family spokesman said yair netanyahu would not be making any other comment .
the prime minister refused to ask questions from reporters about the post on sunday morning at the start of his weekly cabinet meeting .
last month , the son made another headline-grabbing post after a protester was killed during a white nationalist rally in the u.s. state of virginia .
it appeared to suggest that hard-left organizations now pose more of a danger than neo-nazi groups , which he wrote are a dying breed .
in july , netanyahu junior found himself in a bizarre social media row over dog poo .
a neighbor of the family said on facebook that yair , who lives with his parents , responded with an obscene gesture and walked away after she had asked him to clean up the mess left by the dog he was walking in a park .
the post went viral .
a family spokesman said at the time that the woman had behaved aggressively and yair does not know if kaiya ( the dog ) did defecate as ( she ) alleges .
some critics in israel suggested netanyahu s online activities were meant to deflect attention from his parent s legal troubles .
on friday , israel s attorney-general said he was considering indicting sara netanyahu on suspicion of using state funds for personal dining and catering services amounting to some $ 100,000 .
benjamin netanyahu , who has served as prime minister for 11 years , spread over four terms , is being investigated by police in two corruption cases .