united nations ( reuters ) - the united nations security council is due to vote on friday on a u.s.-drafted resolution that seeks to toughen sanctions on north korea in response to its latest intercontinental ballistic missile launch , diplomats said .
the draft , seen by reuters on thursday , seeks to ban nearly 90 percent of refined petroleum product exports to north korea by capping them at 500,000 barrels a year and demand the repatriation of north koreans working abroad within 12 months .
it would also cap crude oil supplies to north korea at 4 million barrels a year .
the united states has been calling on china to limit its oil supply to its neighbor and ally .
the text was circulated to the 15-member council on thursday .
while it was not immediately clear how china would vote , traditionally a draft on north korea is not given to all members until it is agreed by beijing and washington .
the united states has been negotiating with china on the draft resolution for the past week , diplomats said .
if adopted , it would be the 10th resolution imposing new sanctions on north korea over its missile and nuclear programs since 2006 .
to pass , a resolution needs at least nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the united states , britain , france , russia and china .
the united states late last month warned north korea s leadership it would be utterly destroyed if war were to break out after pyongyang test-fired its most advanced missile , putting the u.s. mainland within range .
during a speech on thursday , north korean leader kim jong un stressed that nobody can deny the entity of the dprk which rapidly emerged as a strategic state capable of posing a substantial nuclear threat to the u.s. , according to north korea s official kcna news agency .
dprk is the acronym for the country s official name , democratic people s republic of korea .
u.n. political affairs chief jeffrey feltman visited pyongyang earlier this month - the first senior u.n. official to do so since 2011 - and said north korean officials did not commit to talks , but he believes he left the door ajar .
the u.s.-drafted resolution repeats previous language by reaffirming the council s support for the six party talks , calls for their resumption .
so-called six-party talks on north korea s nuclear program stalled in 2008 .
in a bid to further choke north korea s external sources of funding , the draft resolution also seeks to ban north korean exports of food products , machinery , electrical equipment , earth and stone , including magnesite and magnesia ; wood ; and vessels .
it would ban exports to north korea of industrial equipment , machinery , transportation vehicles , and industrial metals .
the draft resolution would subject 19 new north koreans and the ministry of the people s armed forces to a global asset freeze and travel ban .
it also seeks to allow countries to seize , inspect and freeze any vessel in their ports or territorial waters that they believe was carrying banned cargo or involved in prohibited activities .
separately , china and russia on thursday asked for more time to consider a u.s. proposal to blacklist 10 ships for transporting banned items from north korea , diplomats said .
it was unclear how much more time would be given .
the vessels are accused of conducting illegal ship-to-ship transfers of refined petroleum products to north korean vessels or illegally transporting north korean coal to other countries for exports , the united states said in its proposal .
countries are required to ban blacklisted ships from entering their ports .
the council s north korea sanctions committee in october designated four ships as banned for carrying coal from north korea .