what in the world is going on that young adults are actually taking up astrology and witchcraft witchcraft ? ? ?
they ve ditched religion for the occult ? ?
? banu guler , co-founder of artificial intelligence powered astrology app co star said the lack of structure in the field is exactly what drives young , educated professionals to invest their time and money in astrology.when coco layne , a brooklyn-based producer , meets someone new these days , the first question that comes up in conversation isn t where do you live ?
or what do you do ?
but what s your sign ?
so many millennials read their horoscopes every day and believe them , layne , who is involved in a number of nonreligious spiritual practices , said .
it is a good reference point to identify and place people in the world .
interest in spirituality has been booming in recent years while interest in religion plummets , especially among millennials .
the majority of americans now believe it is not necessary to believe in god to have good morals , a study from pew research center released wednesday found .
the percentage of people between the ages of 18 and 29 who never doubt existence of god fell from 81 % in 2007 to 67 % in 2012.meanwhile , more than half of young adults in the u.s. believe astrology is a science .
compared to less than 8 % of the chinese public .
the psychic services industry which includes astrology , aura reading , mediumship , tarot-card reading and palmistry , among other metaphysical services grew 2 % between 2011 and 2016 .
it is now worth $ 2 billion annually , according to industry analysis firm ibis world.uptick in the occultmelissa jayne , owner of brooklyn-based metaphysical boutique catland , said she has seen a major uptick in interest in the occult in the past five years , especially among new yorkers in their 20s .
the store offers workshops like witchcraft 101 , astrology 101 , and a spirit seance .
so capitalism is at fault ?
whether it be spell-casting , tarot , astrology , meditation and trance , or herbalism , these traditions offer tangible ways for people to enact change in their lives , she said .
for a generation that grew up in a world of big industry , environmental destruction , large and oppressive governments , and toxic social structures , all of which seem too big to change , this can be incredibly attractive .
well , this explains so much about why the left is messed up ! read more : marketwatch