jawzjan , afghanistan/kabul ( reuters ) - when a taliban commander defected to islamic state in northern afghanistan a few months ago , his men and the foreign fighters he invited in started to enslave local women and set up a bomb-making school for 300 children , officials and residents said .
the mini-caliphate established six months ago in two districts of jawzjan province marks a new inroad in afghanistan by islamic state ( is ) , which is claiming more attacks even as its fighters suffer heavy losses in iraq and syria .
qari hekmat , a prominent taliban leader in jawzjan , switched allegiance around six months ago , according to local people who have since fled , raising the movement s black flag over the local mosque and forcing residents to swear fealty to is s leader abu bakr al-baghdadi .
they started killing a lot of people and warned others to cooperate , said baz mohammad , who fled darz aab district after his 19-year-old son was recruited into is at the local mosque .
is in jawzjan has now attracted the attention of u.s. forces in afghanistan , which will launch an offensive in the north in the next few days , u.s. army general john nicholson said on tuesday .
u.s. air strikes and special forces have been pounding the main afghan foothold of is fighters in the eastern province of nangarhar , but that has not prevented the movement from stepping up attacks .
is has claimed at least 15 bombings and other attacks in afghanistan this year , including two in kabul last month , killing at least 188 people .
the number of attacks is up from just a couple nationwide last year .
it is unclear whether the all the attacks claimed by is were carried out by the group , or linked to its central leadership in the middle east .
afghan intelligence officials say some of the attacks may in fact have been carried out by the taliban or its allied haqqani network and opportunistically claimed by is .
yet the sheer number of attacks plus the targeting of shi ite mosques , an is hallmark , indicates the movement is gaining some strength , though their links to the leadership in the middle east remain murky .
some analysts see is as an umbrella term covering groups of fighters in nangarhar s mountains , armed gangs in northern afghanistan and suicide bombers in kabul .
little is known about what ties them together .
is in afghanistan never was such a solid , coherent organization , even from the beginning , said borhan osman , an international crisis group analyst .
in jawzjan , islamic state gained its pocket of territory in much the same way it did in nangarhar - through defection of an established militant commander .
hekmat s taliban fighters had long held sway in darz aab and qushtepa districts , with the afghan government having little control , residents who fled to shiberghan , some 120 km away ( 75 miles ) , told reuters .
but when hekmat had a falling-out with the central taliban leadership and switched allegiance , his men were joined by about 400 is-affiliated fighters from china , uzbekistan , tajikistan , pakistan , chechnya and elsewhere , according to darz aab s district chief , baz mohammad dawar .
foreign militants have long operated in the border areas of afghanistan , and in jawzjan they had typically moved from place to place , occasionally cooperating with the taliban .
but once they came to stay , life changed for the worse , according to three families and local officials who spoke to reuters , even by the war-weary standards of afghanistan .
is took our women as slaves , or forcefully made them marry a fighter .
the taliban never did that , said sayed habibullah , a darz aab resident .
the taliban had mercy and we spoke the same language , but is fighters are foreigners , much more brutal and barbaric .
the fighters also forced some 300 children into is training .
in the school , is allocated two classes for the children to learn about guns and bombs , said ghawsuddin , a former headmaster in darz aab who , like many afghans , goes by one name .
islamic state emerged in afghanistan more than two years ago , when members of the pakistani taliban swore allegiance to the relatively new global islamist movement that at the time had seized vast swathes of iraq and syria .
by june 2015 , newly is-aligned fighters had crossed into afghanistan and seized around half a dozen districts in nangarhar , scorching taliban poppy fields and forcing them to flee .
( reut.rs/2j2l6oy ) soon after , u.s. forces began air strikes and dispatched special forces to assist afghan troops in fighting islamic state - also known by the arabic acronym daesh .
nicholson , the commander of nato-led forces in afghanistan , said on tuesday that some 1,400 operations had been conducted against is since march , removing over 1,600 from the battlefield and cutting off their outside finance and support .
daesh has been unable to establish a caliphate in afghanistan , nicholson said , adding we see no evidence of fighters making their way from iraq and syria to afghanistan , because they know if they come here they will face death .
.
even if is is not bringing in new fighters - though that remains a fear - it is another obstacle to afghan security after 16 years of war against the taliban .
whether it is islamic state or taliban , they are our enemy , said jawzjan police chief faqir mohammad jawzjani .
and they have to be eliminated .