nairobi ( reuters ) - a former lawmaker filed a petition at kenya s supreme court on monday challenging president uhuru kenyatta s victory in last month s presidential election in a last minute move that opens the door to legal scrutiny of the vote .
harun mwau filed the petition hours before a monday deadline set by the constitution expired .
earlier in the day , a coalition of civil society groups said they were being targeted by the government in an effort to head off potential legal cases .
the supreme court has until nov. 14 to rule on election petitions .
if it upholds the result , kenyatta will be sworn in on nov. 28 .
kenyatta came to power in 2013 and won a second and final term in august , defeating opposition leader raila odinga by 1.4 million votes .
the supreme court nullified the vote citing procedural irregularities and ordered a second election .
odinga did not contest the repeat vote on oct. 26 saying it would be unfair because the election commission had failed to implement reforms .
kenyatta won with 98 percent of the vote , though opposition supporters staged a boycott and prevented polls from opening in the west of the country .
kenya is a regional hub for trade , diplomacy and security and its prolonged election season has disrupted its economy .
rights groups said on monday the government was trying to prevent them from lodging cases challenging the oct. 26 result .
the government s ngo board , which monitors civil society organizations , summoned three groups for an audit on monday , they said .
it is not a coincidence that the ngo board has decided to come after these organizations .
all three have been instrumental in calling for free , fair , and credible elections , said a statement from kura yangu sauti yangu , a coalition of civil society groups that monitored the election .
the name means my vote my voice in kiswahili .
the three organizations , katiba institute , muslims for human rights and inuka trust , belong to the coalition .
the head of muslims for human rights said he had planned to file a court challenge .
kura yangu sauti yangu deployed 2,000 monitors for last month s vote and said it found multiple cases where results from polling stations differed from results on the forms posted on the election portal .
they are trying to attack everywhere to see who is preparing to go to court so that they stop it , tom oketch , secretary general for the coalition for constitutional implementation , told a news conference .
calls to fazul mohamed , the ngo board s executive director , went unanswered .
mwenda njoka , a spokesman for the interior ministry , under which the board falls , said only mohamed could comment .
in a separate case , another organization filed a case against the opposition , seeking to hold them liable for losses incurred because of their demonstrations .