hong kong ( reuters ) - typhoon hato , a maximum category 10 storm , slammed into hong kong on wednesday lashing the asian financial hub with wind and rain that uprooted trees and forced most businesses to close , while in some places big waves flooded seaside streets .
there were reports of 34 people injured in hong kong while in the city of macau , across the pearl river estuary , three people were killed , authorities there said .
in hong kong , more than 450 flights were canceled , financial markets suspended and schools closed as hato bore down , the first category 10 storm to hit the city since 2012 .
i ve never seen one like this , garrett quigley , a longtime resident of lantau island to the west of the city , said of the storm .
cars are half submerged and roads are impassable with flooding and huge trees down .
it s crazy .
many skyscrapers in the usually teeming streets of hong kong were empty and dark as office workers stayed at home .
hato , that means sky pigeon in japanese , churned up hong kong s victoria harbor and triggered large swells and big waves on some of the city s most popular beaches , with serious flooding in low-lying areas .
in residential districts such as heng fa chuen on densely populated hong kong island , waves smashed against the sides of oceanfront buildings and surged over a promenade , sweeping away walls and benches and swamping vehicles parked nearby .
construction cranes swayed at the tops of skyscrapers , windows imploded and nearly 200 trees were uprooted , while some people used canoes to venture out into flooded streets .
authorities downgraded the storm to a category three by late-afternoon with government services , the courts , financial markets and companies set to resume normal business on thursday .
the storm also caused a power blackout across most of the gambling hub of macau for about two hours , residents said , with disruption to mobile phone and internet networks .
there was severe flooding on the streets , with some cars almost completely submerged , and the water supply was affected in some districts .
the three men who died included a 45-year-old chinese tourist who was hit by a heavy truck , according to a government statement .
the former portuguese colony s casinos , however , had backup power , two casino executives told reuters .
the storm also made landfall in china s guangdong province , in zhuhai city adjacent to macau , chinese state news agency xinhua reported .
numerous flights and trains were canceled in guangdong province , with shenzhen s international airport particularly badly hit .
thousands of residents along the chinese coast were evacuated and fishing vessels were called back to port .
maximum winds near hato s center were recorded at a destructive 155 kph ( 95 mph ) as it continued to move west across guangdong in the general direction of hainan island .
a senior scientific officer for the hong kong observatory warned that sea levels could rise several meters in some places , with the government issuing flood alerts and opening 27 shelters across the city .
trading in hong kong s financial markets was halted for the day , the stock exchange said .
typhoon nida in august last year was the last storm to close the exchange for the whole day .
the city s flagship carrier , cathay pacific , and hong kong airlines said the majority of their flights to and from hong kong between 2200 gmt tuesday and 0900 gmt wednesday would be canceled .
other transport services , including ferries to macau and outlying islands in hong kong , were suspended .