ed murray has just been accused of alleged sexual assault of teenagers which took place in the 1980 s according to the lawsuit filed .
the mayor denies all allegations.a 46-year-old kent man sued seattle mayor ed murray on thursday , claiming murray raped and molested him over several years , beginning in 1986 when the man was a 15-year-old high-school dropout.the lawsuit in king county superior court , filed under the man s initials , d.h. , alleges murray sexually abused the crack-cocaine addicted teen on numerous occasions for payments of $ 10 to $ 20 .
i have been dealing with this for over 30 years , the man , now sober for a year , said in an interview with the seattle times .
he said he was coming forward as part of a healing process after years of the shame , the embarrassment , the guilt , the humiliation that i put myself through and that he put me through .
a statement from murray s personal spokesman jeff reading said , these false accusations are intended to damage a prominent elected official who has been a defender of vulnerable populations for decades .
it is not a coincidence that this shakedown effort comes within weeks of the campaign filing deadline .
these unsubstantiated assertions , dating back three decades , are categorically false .
mayor murray has never engaged in an inappropriate relationship with any minor .
mayor murray will vigorously fight these allegations in court .
d.h. is not the first to accuse murray , one of the state s most powerful politicians , of sexual abuse that occurred decades ago .
murray , 61 , has known of other allegations for years , and has quietly , but vigorously denied them.two men , jeff simpson and lloyd anderson , said they knew murray when they were growing up in a portland center for troubled children , and later as teenagers .
they accuse murray of abusing them in the 1980s when he was in his 20s .
simpson made the claim as a teen in 1984 , and talked with a social worker and detective at the time .
no charges were filed .