flint , mich. ( reuters ) - democratic presidential contenders bernie sanders and hillary clinton sparred in a debate on sunday over who had the best chance to beat republican front-runner donald trump , and mocked the level of discourse in the republican white house race .
near the end of a michigan debate that featured sharp clashes over trade and the auto industry bailout , as well as a lengthy discussion of religion , clinton and sanders both said they could not wait to face the brash billionaire in the nov. 8 election to succeed democratic president barack obama .
“ i think donald trump ’ s bigotry , his bullying , his bluster , are not going to wear well on the american people , ” clinton said .
“ we have to end the divisiveness , we have to unify the country. ” sanders said he would “ love ” to run against trump and noted many opinion polls showed him faring better against him than clinton did .
he and clinton urged voters to compare the substance of their debate with the republican versions , which last week featured name-calling and trump defending his penis size .
“ we are , if elected president , going to invest a lot of money in mental health , ” sanders said , then cracked a joke .
“ and when you watch these republican debates , you know why we need to invest in mental health. ” trump frequently says he will beat either clinton or sanders .
“ i am the one person that she does not want to run against , ” he said of clinton on saturday .
the debate in flint , which is suffering a water contamination and public health crisis , came as sanders has struggled to slow clinton ’ s march to the presidential nomination .
sanders picked up some good news on sunday with a projected win in maine ’ s caucus .
clinton , 68 , a former secretary of state and first lady , has spoken on the campaign trail of the need for more love and kindness , a contrast to trump ’ s rhetoric about his plans to deport illegal immigrants and temporarily bar muslims from entering the country .
“ i don ’ t intend to get into the gutter with whoever they nominate , but instead to lift our sights , ” clinton said in the debate .
describing herself as a “ praying person , ” she said it was hard to imagine living under the pressure of the white house “ without being able to fall back on prayer and on my faith. ” sanders , asked if he was deliberately keeping his jewish faith in the background on the campaign trail , said his father ’ s family was wiped out in the holocaust .
he described going shopping with his mother as a boy in brooklyn , new york , and seeing people with numbers on their arms from nazi concentration camps .
“ i am very proud of being jewish , and that is an essential part of who i am as a human being , ” sanders said .
earlier , the two candidates exchanged angry jabs over trade , with sanders accusing clinton of backing “ disastrous ” trade policies that moved manufacturing jobs out of cities like flint and detroit and shifted them overseas .
but clinton said sanders ’ opposition to the 2009 auto bailout , a crucial issue in a state that is home to the u.s. auto industry , would have cost millions of jobs .
the bailout , which clinton supported , passed congress and has been credited with helping save the u.s. industry .
sanders , 74 a u.s. senator from vermont and democratic socialist , also questioned the sincerity of clinton ’ s conversion to opposing the trans-pacific partnership , a proposed 12-nation pacific rim trade deal .
the two contenders cut each other off on several occasions , a rare occurrence in a race that has been much more polite than the raucous republican presidential campaign .
“ excuse me , i ’ m talking , ” sanders said to clinton when she tried to interrupt .
“ if you ’ re going to talk , tell the whole story , ” clinton responded .
sanders pressed his charge that clinton was too close to wall street and demanded again that she release the transcript of paid speeches she has given to wall street firms .
clinton said she would release them when all the candidates , including republicans , also release transcripts of similar talks .
throwing up his hands , sanders said : “ i ’ ll release it .
here it is .
there ain ’ t nothing !
i don ’ t give speeches to wall street ! ” the debate was held in flint to highlight the city ’ s water contamination crisis , and both candidates expressed outrage at flint ’ s plight and demanded republican governor rick snyder ’ s resignation .
the crisis in flint , a predominantly black city of 100,000 , was triggered when an emergency city manager installed by snyder switched the city ’ s water supply to the nearby flint river from lake michigan to save money .
the change corroded flint ’ s aging pipes and released lead and other toxins into the water supply , exposing thousands of residents including children to high lead levels that have sparked serious health problems .
( additional reporting by alana wise , luciana lopez and jonathan allen ; editing by caren bohan and peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .