mexico city ( reuters ) - rescuers are unlikely to find any more survivors of mexico s earthquake still buried in the ruins and will cease operations to find them at the end of thursday , the emergency services chief said .
tuesday marks one week since the 7.1 magnitude quake struck around lunchtime , killing 331 people , damaging 11,000 homes and leading to a outpouring of civilian volunteers to aid and comfort the victims .
luis felipe puente , coordinator of mexico s civil protection agency , told reuters that rescuers would continue hand-picking through the debris at four sites until thursday .
i can say that at this time it would be unlikely to find someone alive , puente said , considering that specially trained dogs have yet to pick up the scent of survivors .
forty-three people were still missing , including 40 who may have been trapped beneath a collapsed office building in the roma district of mexico city , puente said .
one person was believed missing at each of three other sites in the capital .
at the office building , relatives protested overnight , increasingly angry with the slow progress recovering their loved ones and an alleged lack of information .
asked how much longer search and rescue operations would continue , the official responded , as of today ( monday ) , we have agreed to another 72 hours .
the week began with signs that mexico was resuming its routine as the streets filled with traffic and more than 44,000 schools in six states reopened .
but in the capital city , only 676 of the more than 8,000 public and private schools resumed classes .
the quake , coming exactly 32 years after a 1985 earthquake killed some 10,000 people , delivered a massive psychological blow that specialists say will take time to overcome .
the children are in crisis and don t want to talk .
some kids didn t even remember their own names , said enriqueta ortuno , 57 , a psychotherapist who has been working with victims in the hard-hit xochimilco district .
much of the nation s attention was focused on a fallen school in mexico city where 19 children and seven adults died .
later on tuesday , the top official in the municipality where the school was located was due to reveal documents related to the its construction .
that school was one of many buildings that prosecutors will investigate , puente said .
roughly 10 percent of damaged buildings were constructed after strict building codes were enacted in the wake of the 1985 earthquake .
the mexico city mayor and the national government have already ordered judicial investigations to determine who was responsible for new construction that did not meet the requirements , puente said from civil protection headquarters , where a roomful of technicians monitored seismic activity and tropical storms on an array of screens .
in mexico city , 187 people died in 38 buildings that collapsed .
mayor miguel angel mancera said thousands of families who lost their homes in uninhabitable buildings would be offered 3,000 ( $ 170 ) pesos monthly in temporary rent assistance .
rescuers pulled 69 people from quake-damaged properties , of whom 37 were still in the hospital as of monday , 11 of them in grave condition , puente said .
demolitions of buildings that are beyond repair could begin as soon as tuesday , he said .
responders from 18 countries came to mexico to help , but with the search for survivors down to four sites most of them had gone home , with americans and israelis among the few to remain , puente said .
the japanese contingent left on monday .
international aid was now focused on humanitarian needs , puente said , with china providing large numbers of beds , tents and kitchen and bathroom fixtures for temporary shelters for the homeless .
but the biggest contributions came from mexicans themselves , who responded with so much food , supplies and volunteer work that officials had difficulty moving largesse from wealthy and accessible neighborhoods to the most needy .
puente recognized some deficiencies in coordinating relief efforts , but overall , he said , the government today is an international benchmark .