london ( reuters ) - britain said on monday that comments by foreign secretary boris johnson about jailed iranian-british aid worker nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe should not be used by the islamic republic to bring additional charges against her .
johnson told the british parliament s foreign affairs committee last wednesday that zaghari-ratcliffe had been teaching people journalism , a statement that the thomson reuters foundation , a charity organization for which she works , said was incorrect .
last week s remarks by the foreign secretary provide no justifiable basis on which to bring any additional charges against nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe , a spokesman for the british foreign office said .
while criticizing the iranian case against mrs zaghari-ratcliffe , the foreign secretary sought to explain that even the most extreme set of unproven iranian allegations against her were insufficient reason for her detention and treatment .
zaghari-ratcliffe , a project manager , is serving a five-year jail sentence after being convicted of plotting to overthrow iran s clerical establishment .
she was brought again into court on saturday , three days after johnson s remarks , and accused by a judge of spreading propaganda against the regime .
she is not a journalist and has never trained journalists at the thomson reuters foundation where she is project manager in my media development team , monique villa , thomson reuters foundation chief executive , said in a statement .
i see a direct correlation between this statement by boris johnson , who rightly condemned the treatment that nazanin has received in iran , and the fact that nazanin was brought once again into court on saturday 4 november .
the charges against nazanin were denied by her family and the foundation , a charity organization that is independent of thomson reuters and operates independently of reuters news .
tulip siddiq , a lawmaker for the opposition labour party , said johnson had failed to retract his comments , which she said had undermined efforts to secure zaghari-ratcliffe s release .
by suggesting nazanin was in iran teaching people journalism , boris johnson has endangered the cause to secure her release , siddiq , who is the lawmaker for the area where zaghari-ratcliffe lived in london , said in an emailed statement .
the foreign secretary s failure to retract his comments to the foreign affairs select committee is unforgivable , siddiq said .
his comments were both untrue and unhelpful to her case .
the iranian embassy in london could not be reached for comment .