our vision of the world ?
where are the catholics who re against this scam ?
the catholic church has been hijacked by leftists who re following the one world global agenda in the name of social justice : fossil fuel is the cheapest form of energy man has these days , and these people have the audacity to talk about the cry of the poor while advocating for things that will make it far more difficult for them to exist and survive ? ? ? ? ?
the only thing that makes life unfair is the delusion that it should be fair .
steve maraboli does this political agenda mean the church is now giving up its tax exempt status ?
you can t have it both ways .
please speak up against this !
the ten-point plan advanced by the bishops calls for the adoption of a fair , transformational and legally binding global agreement based on our vision of the world .
in the lead-up to the united nations climate change conference ( cop21 ) in paris next month , a group of cardinals , patriarchs and bishops have called for a radical , legally binding international climate agreement that mandates , among other things , complete global decarbonization by 2050 and an end to the fossil fuel era .
the nine prelates claim to represent the catholic church from the five continents and will address participants in the cop 21 in paris taking place from november 30 to december 11 , 2015 .
signers include archbishop joseph kurtz , the president of the u.s. bishops conference , cardinal reinhard marx , president of the union of european bishops conferences ( comece ) and cardinal oswald gracias , the archbishop of bombay .
drawing inspiration from pope francis encyclical letter on the environment laudato s , the bishops express the widely-held hope that a just and legally binding climate agreement will emerge from the negotiations of the cop 21 in paris , and to this end , advance a ten-point policy proposal .
in their appeal , the bishops reference the dramatic acceleration of climatic change , which , they say , is the result of unrestrained human activity .
they also claim that this ecological phenomenon is primarily due to excessive reliance on fossil fuels .
the pope and catholic bishops from five continents , the declaration states , appeal for a drastic reduction in the emission of carbon dioxide and other toxic gases .
human-induced climate change , the bishops continue , is having a dramatic impact on sea levels , extreme weather events , deteriorating ecosystems and the loss of biodiversity .
the ten-point plan advanced by the bishops calls for the adoption of a fair , transformational and legally binding global agreement based on our vision of the world .
via : breitbart