san juan , puerto rico ( reuters ) - a dam in puerto rico weakened by heavy rains from hurricane maria was in danger of failing on sunday , posing a flood threat to thousands of homes downstream as the storm-battered u.s. island territory struggled through a fifth day with virtually no electricity .
some 70,000 people who inhabit a river valley below the guajataca dam in the northwestern corner of the island have been under evacuation orders since friday afternoon , when authorities first warned that the earthen structure was in danger of imminent collapse .
the fear of a potentially catastrophic dam break added to the pandemonium facing disaster relief authorities in the aftermath of maria , which has claimed at least 29 lives across the caribbean , according to officials and media reports .
puerto rico governor ricardo rossello personally urged residents of the area to heed evacuation orders after surveying damage to the dam on saturday , telling reporters that a fissure in the structure has become a significant rupture .
the dam , which stands about 120 feet ( 37 meters ) tall , was built in 1929 and supplies the surrounding region with hydropower , drinking water and irrigation supplies .
the national weather service in san juan , the island s capital , extended a flash flood watch for communities along the rain-swollen guajataca river below the dam through midday sunday .
if the dam were to fail , flooding would be life-threatening , the weather service warned .
stay away or be swept away , it said .
maria , the second major hurricane to savage the caribbean this month and the most powerful to strike puerto rico in nearly a century , carved a path of destruction through the island after plowing ashore early on wednesday .
arriving as a category 4 storm on the saffir-simpson wind scale , with top winds of up to 155 mph ( 249.5 kph ) , maria ripped roofs from buildings , turned roads into gushing debris-strewn rivers and knocked out power across the entire island , home to 3.4 million people .
we lost our house , it was completely flooded , said resident carmen gloria lamb , a resident near the rain-swollen guajataca .
we lost everything ; cars , clothes , everything .
puerto rico officials have officially confirmed 10 storm-related fatalities on the island , and the hurricane was blamed for at least 19 other deaths across the caribbean , the bulk of them on the devastated island nation of dominica .
severe flooding , structural damage to homes and the loss of all electricity , except from backup generators , were three of the most pressing problems facing puerto ricans , new york governor andrew cuomo , whose state is home to many of puerto rican descent , said during a tour of the island .
it s a terrible immediate situation that requires assistance from the federal government , not just financial assistance , he said on cnn on saturday .
even the island s medical facilities have been left in precarious shape , with many hospitals flooded , strewn with rubble and running critically low on diesel fuel needed to keep generators operating .
evacuation to the u.s. mainland is the only option for some patients .
signs of the strain on puerto ricans were evident throughout san juan , the capital .
drivers had to wait up to seven hours at the few filling stations open on saturday , according to news reports .
water rationing also began on saturday .
signs posted throughout san juan s old town informed residents that service would return for two hours until further notice .
telephone service also was unreliable , with many of the island s cell towers damaged or destroyed .
on sunday morning , the governor told reporters that officials would continue to clear roads and bridges blocked by the storm and that he would be joining a supply delivery mission to caguas , a small city in the mountains south of san juan .
the storm caused an estimated $ 45 billion of damage and lost economic activity across the caribbean , with at least $ 30 billion of that in puerto rico , said chuck watson , a disaster modeler at enki research in savannah , georgia .
maria , which was hundreds of miles ( km ) east of florida over the atlantic ocean on sunday , has been downgraded to a category 2 storm and was expected to weaken further as it moves north in the atlantic off the east coast over the next two days .
maria hit puerto rico about two weeks after hurricane irma , one of the most powerful atlantic storms on record , killed more than 80 people in the caribbean and the united states .
the two storms followed hurricane harvey , which also killed more than 80 people when it struck texas in late august and caused flooding in houston .