( reuters ) - a third-party presidential run by michael bloomberg would be a long shot for the former new york city mayor but could help real estate mogul donald trump if he lands the republican nomination , according to a reuters/ipsos poll .
in a matchup between trump and democratic front-runner hillary clinton , adding bloomberg ’ s name to the ballot would trim clinton ’ s lead over trump to six percentage points from 10 , according to the poll conducted from jan. 23 to jan. 27 .
in a trump versus democratic hopeful bernie sanders matchup , adding bloomberg would erode sanders ’ lead over trump to seven points from 12 , the poll results showed .
in all matchups , bloomberg himself would land just 10 percent or less of the vote in november .
the 73-year-old financial information industry billionaire , who earned a reputation as a social liberal with strong wall street ties during his time as new york city mayor , has considered a white house run for years .
according to recent media reports , he would be especially interested in running if trump and sanders win their party nominations , and would spend at least $ 1 billion of his own money to drive his campaign .
while bloomberg ’ s chances in an election currently look grim , a possible silver lining for him is that he has yet to make a first impression on most americans .
when asked , only 41 percent of those surveyed said they were “ somewhat ” or “ very ” familiar with the three-term former mayor .
that compares with 66 percent for sanders and 59 percent for republican senator ted cruz .
clinton and trump , who have been in the public spotlight for decades , enjoy almost 100 percent name recognition .
the reuters/ipsos poll included responses from 1,673 people .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of the poll ’ s accuracy , of about 3 percentage points .
other key findings : •if republicans nominate trump and democrats nominate sanders , about 37 percent of voters would support sanders compared with 30 percent for trump and 8 percent for bloomberg .
•if cruz and clinton win the nominations , clinton would win 38 percent of the vote against 25 percent for cruz and bloomberg at 10 percent .
•if bloomberg ran against the current front-runners , trump and clinton : 37 percent would support clinton , followed by 31 percent for trump and 9 percent for bloomberg .
( editing by richard valdmanis and tom brown ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .