according to bedford , mass .
school superintendent , john sills , no employees will face disciplinary action for showing this video to the students .
people who are sick and tired of watching our nation being divided down racial lines should call him at 781-275-7588 .
it s time to flood the lines of these leftist school administrators and let him know how you feel about the shaming of white students in a high school he is paid to supervise.bedford , mass .
after students played a video promoting racial stereotypes during the morning announcements , school administrators are dismissing it as a teachable moment .
a group of students at bedford high school who produce bhs live created a video called sh * t white people say , which played off racial stereotypes allegedly held by their white peers.it featured a black girl wearing a blonde wig , several school employees and a number of minority students.it warns white students to do not assume things about their black classmates .
i m very offended by what i saw , parent bob marshall tells fox 25 .
it was a very disgusting video , very hurtful video .
a lot of them were upset by what they saw , marshall he says of students who watched it during morning announcements .
i m shocked that a video like that could be displayed and that nobody oversaw it .
school administrators are pleading ignorance.here s the video : in a letter home to parents after the incident , the school s principal says , there has not been a vetting process of videos for bhs live .
therefore , the video was not previewed by any administrator , student or teacher surrounding bhs live .
a protocol for vetting student videos is being developed .
that seems a little hard to believe , given that three adults participated in the production.superintendent john sills says while it was framed in a way that was offensive , it was a positive thing that the video spurred conversations .
i would never say it s good when something offensive happens .
but we always seek to find positives , and we continue to work to derive learning from it , according to sills.that s not good enough for marshall .
to me , it s smoke and mirrors to say oh , it was a learning lesson , marshall says .
somebody needs to be held accountable and somebody needs to lose their job over it .
according to the superintendent , no employees will face disciplinary action.via : eag news