washington ( reuters ) - billionaire wilbur ross , chosen by donald trump to help implement the president-elect ’ s trade agenda , earned his fortune in part by running businesses that have offshored thousands of u.s. jobs , according to labor department data attained by reuters .
as a high-stakes investor a decade ago , ross specialized in turning around troubled manufacturing companies at a time when the u.s. economy was losing more than 100,000 jobs yearly due to global trade .
a senate confirmation hearing on his nomination to become commerce secretary is set for wednesday .
supporters say ross saved thousands of u.s. jobs by rescuing firms from failure .
data attained by reuters through a freedom of information act request shows that rescue effort came at a price : textile , finance and auto-parts companies controlled by the private-equity titan eliminated about 2,700 u.s. positions since 2004 because they shipped production to other countries , according to a labor department program that assists workers who lose their jobs due to global trade .
[ for a graphic click tmsnrt.rs/2iyijwa ] the figures , which have not previously been disclosed , amount to a small fraction of the u.s. economy , which sees employment fluctuate by the tens of thousands of jobs each month .
but ross ’ s track record clashes with trump ’ s promise to protect american workers from the ravages of global trade .
recently , trump claimed credit for saving 800 jobs at a carrier corp. factory in indiana , even touring the plant to shake hands with employees .
he has targeted ford motor co ( f.n ) and other automakers to keep hundreds of jobs inside the u.s. borders .
that disconnect could draw attention at his hearing , one of many scheduled this week for cabinet nominees ahead of trump ’ s jan. 20 inauguration .
“ he is not the man to be protecting american workers when he ’ s shipping this stuff overseas himself , ” said don coy , who lost his job at the end of 2016 when a company ross created - international automotive components group - closed a factory in canton , ohio and shifted production of rubber floor mats to mexico , eliminating the final 16 jobs in a factory that once employed 450 workers .
ross resigned from the iac board of directors in november 2014 and was named chairman emeritus .
ross did not respond to several requests for comment .
his offshoring activities are not unusual in an era when globalization has lowered international trade barriers .
auto-parts maker delphi corp. , for example , has offshored 11,700 u.s. jobs since 2004 , while textile makers have offshored at least 17,000 jobs since then , the labor department said .
as iac shuttered its canton plant in the final months of 2016 , ross argued on behalf of trump that free-trade agreements hurt the united states .
“ when ford offshores new production facilities to mexico , that both boosts the mexican economy and reduces investment in this country , ” he wrote in september in a washington post opinion piece penned with peter navarro , another trump economic adviser who has been tapped to direct a white house trade council .
in a bid to reverse offshoring , trump has threatened to impose “ a big border tax ” on automakers that choose to build cars in mexico rather than the united states and has talked of resetting free-trade deals such as the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) .
a trump transition spokesperson said personnel decisions at ross ’ s auto-parts and textile companies were driven by the need to put operations near customers and keep u.s. plants competitive , echoing arguments made by other auto industry executives who face pressure from trump .
“ few people have done as much to defend american jobs and negotiate good deals for american workers as wilbur ross , ” said the spokesperson , who asked not to be named .
the offshoring figures for ross ’ s companies came from the labor department ’ s trade adjustment assistance ( taa ) program , which provides retraining benefits to some workers who lose their jobs due to outsourcing or cheap imports .
the program does not cover everybody who is hurt by global trade : service-sector workers were not eligible until 2009 , and those who don ’ t apply for the program don ’ t show up in its records .
only 1.6 million factory workers qualified for taa benefits between 2001 and 2010 , a time when the united states shed 6 million manufacturing jobs .
despite trump 's campaign rhetoric about countries like mexico and china taking u.s. jobs , the taa figures show globalization has claimed fewer jobs in recent years .
the program covered roughly 80,000 workers last year , down from about 340,000 in 2009 .
[ for a graphic , click tmsnrt.rs/2iygjgr ] ross amassed a fortune , estimated by forbes magazine at $ 2.5 billion , by buying up companies in struggling industries and returning them to profitability .
labor leaders such as united steelworkers president leo gerard have said that ross over the years saved thousands of manufacturing jobs .
in one case , ross bought two struggling north carolina fabric makers out of bankruptcy to create international textile group ( itg ) in 2004 , as textile import quotas were being phased out .
between 2005 and 2011 , the company laid off 1,268 u.s. workers as it set up operations in mexico , china and nicaragua , taa records show .
itg ceo ken kunenberger told reuters that those job reductions were primarily due to competition from cheap imports .
itg now operates six u.s. plants , down from nine in 2007 , according to its annual reports .
ross sold the company in october for an undisclosed sum .
ross also created international automotive components group in 2007 to buy up auto-parts makers around the world as the industry struggled with overcapacity and slowing sales .
taa filings show iac eliminated 853 u.s. jobs because it shifted work from the united states to mexico .
“ we tried every trick in the book to get them to stay but they just weren ’ t interested , ” said tim scott , who served on the city council in carlisle , pennsylvania when iac decided to close its plant there in 2009 , shifting work to mexico and tennessee .
an iac spokesperson said the company has expanded in mexico to be near the automakers that buy its parts , a common business strategy in the sector .
iac has expanded its workforce in mexico and canada by 42 percent to 8,500 since 2008 , and by 10 percent in the united states to 11,000 over the same period , spokesman david ladd said .
in another venture , ross combined several mortgage lenders into homeward residential holdings inc. in 2007 , just as the housing market was collapsing .
homeward laid off 596 employees in florida and texas and shifted their work to india in 2012 , according to taa filings .
that was a sizeable portion of the company ’ s global workforce , which it pegged at 2,800 a few months after the layoffs were announced .
ross sold homeward in october 2012 for $ 750 million , which delivered a further return on top of $ 900 million in profits the company had already generated .
“ homeward has been profitable in each year of its existence , ” he said in a press release .