new york ( reuters ) - the chances that the republican party will decide its nominee for the november presidential election through a brokered convention have increased since super tuesday even as front-runner donald trump has racked up primary wins , according to two online betting sites .
according to predictit , the probability of a brokered convention stood at 43 percent as of midday on wednesday , following primaries in five states , including florida and illinois , the previous night .
that was up from 35 percent on march 2 , the day after trump won contests in seven out of 11 states , according to the website , which is run by victoria university in wellington , new zealand .
according to ladbrokes plc , another online betting site , the chances of a brokered convention were 4-5 on wednesday , down from evens on march 2 .
that means there is a 56 percent probability of a brokered convention , up from 50 percent .
trump ’ s chances of winning the general election dropped to 5/2 from 2/1 despite his victories on tuesday night , but ladbrokes attributed the result partly to a large single bet of nearly $ 20,000 that skewed the results .
that gives him a 29 percent probability of winning , down from 33 percent .
the billionaire new york businessman has emerged as the clear leader in the republican race .
on tuesday , he scored big wins in primaries in florida , illinois and north carolina , knocking out rival marco rubio and bringing him closer to the 1,237 convention delegates he needs to win the nomination .
but he lost the crucial state of ohio and left the door open for those in the party trying to stop him from becoming the republican nominee for the nov. 8 election .
that means that trump might fall short of the majority required , enabling the party ’ s establishment to put forward another name at the july convention in cleveland to formally pick its candidate .
meanwhile , democratic front-runner hillary clinton ’ s chances of winning the presidency fell to 4/9 from 8/15 .
that increases her probability of winning to 69 percent from 65 percent following tuesday ’ s primary victories in florida , illinois , ohio and north carolina .
those wins cast doubt on u.s .
senator bernie sanders ’ ability to overtake her for the democratic party ’ s nomination .