huckabee s not hiding his frustration with trump s potential pick for secretary of state .
he tells fox and friends he believes thinks if trump chooses mitt romney , it would be a real insult to those who voted for him .
it s not about that i don t care for mitt personally but i m still very unhappy that mitt did everything he could to derail donald trump .
he didn t just go after him from a standpoint that i disagree with his policy on immigration or i disagree with his policy on taxes .
he attacked him on a personal level on his character and integrity and so it would be a real insult to all those donald trump voters who worked really hard .
that s what i believe he has to stop and consider .
gateway pundit .
@ govmikehuckabee : choosing mitt romney as secretary of state would be a big insult to all those who voted for trump pic.twitter.com/hizfmhcevj fox & friends ( @ foxandfriends ) november 23 , 2016trump supporters took to twitter today to voice their opposition to a secretary of state romney .
for a while # neverromney was trending on twitter until suddenly , and for no apparent reason , twitter removed it from the trending list .
here are a few examples , starting with our favorite conservative on twitter , paul joseph watson of infowars , who reminds us of the open disdain romney had for trump while trump was fighting for his life against a tsunami of # nevertrumper s and hillary s coordinated media complex : # neverromney let 's get this trending !
pic.twitter.com/fq4qhsblhi paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) november 23 , 2016breaking : trump army bans together to ask trump to rethink his sec.of state choice .
we are 100 % # neverromney ! https : //t.co/vlh8r5ah6t amy moreno ( @ vivalaames10 ) november 23 , 2016i agree @ realdonaldtrump , don t reward mitt romney .
@ transition2017 # neverromney pic.twitter.com/gfwee5kdtm asa j ( @ asamjulian ) november 23 , 2016newt gingrich also shared his disappointment during an interview with tucker carlson regarding a potential secretary of state mitt romney : i can think of 20 other people who would be more naturally compatible with the trump vision of foreign policy , gingrich told fox news tucker carlson tonight .
trump s decision has not come without any conflict .
the choice for the secretary of state position has been delayed by an internal struggle between the supporters of romney , and those suggesting the former new york mayor rudy giuliani .
american lookout