beirut ( reuters ) - the head of an iran-backed iraqi shi ite militia has visited lebanon s border with israel accompanied by hezbollah fighters , a video released on saturday showed , in a show of iranian influence that lebanon s prime minister called illegal .
qais al-khazali , leader of the iraqi paramilitary group asaib ahl al-haq , declared his readiness to stand together with the lebanese people and the palestinian cause , in the video footage widely circulating on social media .
his appearance at the frontier is likely to be seen in the middle east as an example of tehran demonstrating its reach , and could add to tension in lebanon , caught in a regional tussle between iran and saudi arabia .
lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri issued a statement saying the border visit by a paramilitary in uniform violated lebanese law .
he had instructed security chiefs to prevent any person from carrying out activities of a military nature on the country s territory and to prevent any illegal actions , and barred khazali from entering the country , it said .
lebanon is still recovering from a crisis triggered a month ago , when hariri announced his resignation while visiting saudi arabia , accusing iran and hezbollah of meddling in regional conflicts in violation of lebanon s policy of non-intervention .
hariri returned to lebanon two weeks later and withdrew his resignation last week , while his government restated its non-intervention policy .
hezbollah , a heavily armed shi ite group that fights openly in syria as an ally of iran , serves in the power-sharing government with hariri , a sunni muslim politician with deep business and political ties to saudi arabia .
a commander in an alliance between hezbollah , iran and russia , who spoke to reuters on condition of anonymity , said al-khazali was accompanied by officers from asaib ahl al-haq and visited the entire border with occupied palestine .
the commander did not say when the visit took place .
in the video , an unidentified commander , presumably from hezbollah , gestures toward military outposts in northern israel and explains to khazali that they were hit by hezbollah missiles in previous confrontations between the group and israel .
we are now on the border separating southern lebanon with occupied palestine with our brothers in hezbollah , and announce our full preparedness to stand united ... against the israeli occupier , khazali says in the video .
hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah said in june that any future war waged by israel against syria or lebanon could draw in fighters from countries including iran and iraq .
iran s revolutionary guards , who established hezbollah in lebanon in 1982 , have mobilized shi ite militias from around the region in recent years .
they have fought islamic state in iraq and helped president bashar al-assad in the war in syria .