hong kong ( reuters ) - the jailing of three hong kong democracy activists this year is a serious threat to the city s rule of law , a group of senior international lawyers said on monday , adding the independence of the judiciary risks becoming a charade .
joshua wong , alex chow and nathan law were sentenced to community service last year for unlawful assembly but were dealt harsher punishments of jail in august after a government appeal .
hong kong , a former british colony , returned to chinese rule in 1997 under a one country , two systems formula that promises it a high degree of autonomy and freedoms not enjoyed on the mainland , including an independent judiciary .
in an open letter , 12 lawyers including former lord chancellor charles falconer criticized the imprisonment of the trio , who were among the leaders of the democracy protests in late 2014 that drew hundreds of thousands at their peak .
the independence of the judiciary , a pillar of hong kong , risks becoming a charade , at the beck and call of the chinese communist party , the lawyers said .
hong kong s rule of law and basic freedoms , at the heart of the principle of one country , two systems , now face grave threats .
they described the 2014 democracy demonstrations as one of the most peaceful public protests the world has seen .
a series of court cases against about 100 young democracy activists has , however , shaken confidence in the city s vaunted rule of law and critics fear a watering down of its freedoms and creeping interference by communist party rulers in beijing .
the lawyers letter comes amid heightened criticism of mainland chinese authorities over what some hong kong and international observers see as increased meddling by beijing in the former british colony s affairs .
among the letter s signatories were geoffrey nice , former chief prosecutor in the trial of serbia s slobodan milosevic , human rights lawyer jared genser who represented chinese dissident liu xiaobo and kirsty brimelow , chairwoman of the bar human rights committee of england and wales .
the letter comes days after british activist benedict rogers , who has been critical of hong kong s rights record , was barred entry to the territory , prompting demands for an explanation from british foreign secretary boris johnson .
hong kong has , on occasion , barred entry to dissidents , including former leaders of the 1989 tiananmen square protests in beijing and a dutch sculptor who made a tiananmen sculpture , though other tiananmen activists have been allowed in for short visits .
china said after benedict was denied entry that it had the right to bar people from hong kong and that it had complained to britain after it demanded an explanation .