san antonio ( reuters ) - the mayor and city manager of a south texas town that bills itself as the “ spinach capital of the world , ” were arrested on thursday on charges including strong-arming contractors into paying bribes in exchange for doing business , authorities said .
a federal indictment claims five current and former city officials of crystal city demanded payments from contractors so they could pay off personal gambling bills , bar tabs , car loans , and other expenses .
a businessman was also charged for running an illegal gambling operation .
the federal bureau of investigation and texas rangers padlocked the city hall for crystal city , with a population of about 7,500 people as part of a probe into corruption where city officials are also accused of dipping into city coffers for their own personal gain , law enforcement officials said .
none of those arrested , who include mayor ricardo lopez , made statements after being taken into custody .
if convicted , each faces up to 10 years in a federal prison , prosecutors said .
city manager william jonas , according to the indictment , was elevated to that position from city attorney to reward him for procuring bribes , the indictment said .
businessman ngoc tri nguyen , known as “ mister t , ” is charged with paying bribes in exchange for opening an illegal gambling room , and getting city officials to use their muscle to shut down a competing business , it said .
crystal city is known for a quirky tourist attraction of a large statue of the spinach-eating cartoon character popeye in front of city hall which celebrates the area ’ s history as a spinach producer .
it holds an annual spinach festival .
“ public corruption is one of the most insidious crimes confronting our communities today , ” fbi special agent in charge christopher combs said in a statement .
“ it contributes to the cynicism we are seeing from members of the public who often feel as though all politicians are corrupt. ” the arrests took place without incident and the fbi also seized documents at a san antonio office in san antonio , which is leased to jonas , said fbi special agent michelle lee .
jonas , a san antonio attorney , is a former prominent texas republican lobbyist who is also facing state charges of assault after police said he is suspected of pushing a woman who attempted to enter the city hall using the wrong entrance .