berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel won a fourth term in office in a german national election on sept. 24 , but a fractured vote that brings the far-right into parliament means she is trying to work out a three-way coalition untested at federal level .
the new alliance would compromise merkel s conservative bloc - her christian democratic union ( cdu ) and the bavarian christian social union ( csu ) - along with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmentalist greens .
such a three-way tie-up is called a jamaica coalition in reference to the three parties colors : black , yellow and green , which match those of the jamaican flag .
to secure a coalition agreement , the unlikely allies must overcome differences on a range of issues including immigration policy , europe , tax and the environment .
following are coalition-related remarks from senior officials : i advise calm .
a way will be found .
with good will on all sides , it is possible .
but it is not easy .
i consider such an alliance to be very difficult .
in any case , we will enter seriously into talks with the greens and fdp .
whether this can be successful is strongly dependent on the flexibility of the greens .
we will conduct these discussions responsibly .
after the years of a grand coalition and voters clear rejection of it ... jamaica could mean a new , fresh wind for germany .
maybe it s even a little bit sexy .
the number of refugees coming to us has to be reduced .
on disagreement between merkel s cdu and bavarian csu over a cap on migrants : i am sure we will come to a common position .
on an oct. 8 meeting between the cdu and csu to discuss a common position before any exploratory talks with fdp or greens : i don t expect clarity to be achieved in one meeting .
it is not about where to put a comma , this is about fundamentals .
he described the csu s demand for a cap on refugees as non-negotiable .
in separate comments : we have to make sure that a year like 2015 is not repeated .
the integrative capacity of our country has an upper limit .
we are against a rigid upper limit on the admission of asylum seekers .
but we must talk about a limit to the integration capacity of our country .
there can be no upper limit .
we should not focus on red lines , but rather on common horizons .
( french president emmanuel ) macron is a godsend .
more cooperation in crime fighting , the military , asylum , energy and digital is within reach .
in separate comments : we need there to be a way to leave the euro without having to leave the european union .
conservative wolfgang schaeuble has agreed to relinquish the post of finance minister to become president of parliament , clearing the way for another party to take the key ministry .
it would be fine to have a green finance minister who cuts the tax burden on the middle classes .
in separate comments : the uptake of new debts must still be ruled out .
( tax ) relief and investments must be made possible in another way .
in case the fdp becomes part of the government , a new fiscal policy will be of central importance .