tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - the result of honduras presidential election remained in limbo on tuesday , with a gregarious tv host s surprise lead narrowing sharply , prompting him to call on supporters to take to the streets of the capital to defend the vote .
president juan orlando hernandez , who won u.s. praise for helping tackle the flow of migrants and deporting drug cartel leaders , was favored to win before sunday s vote in the poor central american nation with one of the world s highest murder rates .
but a delayed , partial count on monday morning pointed toward an unexpected victory for tv entertainer salvador nasralla , 64 .
inexplicably , election authorities then stopped giving results for more than 24 hours .
when , under mounting criticism from international election monitors over a lack of transparency , the electoral tribunal began updating its website again , the tendency rapidly began to change .
in a television interview on tuesday evening , an angry nasralla said the election was being stolen from him and asked his supporters to flock to the capital , tegucigalpa , to protest .
we ve already won the election , he said .
i m not going to tolerate this , and as there are no reliable institutions in honduras to defend us , tomorrow the honduran people need to defend the vote on the streets .
the electoral observation mission of the organization of american states ( eom/oas ) in honduras urged people to remain calm and wait for official results , which it said should be delivered as quickly and transparently as possible .
the credibility of the electoral authorities and the legitimacy of the future president depend on this , it said in a statement .
on tuesday evening , nasralla s original five-point lead had thinned to under 2 percentage points , with nearly 71 percent of ballots counted , according to the election tribunal .
nasralla said in a later television interview that the election tribunal was only counting ballots from regions where hernandez had won , skewing the results and giving the false sense that the president was heading for victory .
he asked the tribunal to include ballots from regions where he was stronger .
a self-described centrist , nasralla headed a center-left coalition called the opposition alliance against the dictatorship , and claimed victory on monday - as did hernandez .
election official marcos ramiro lobo told reuters on monday afternoon that nasralla was leading by a margin of five points , with about 70 percent of ballots counted .
lobo said nasralla appeared certain to win , signaling that experts at the electoral body regarded his lead as irreversible .
on tuesday , hernandez reiterated that he had won , and refused to concede , telling supporters they should wait for final results .
after hernandez spoke , thousands of his blue-clad supporters gathered outside the presidential residence to celebrate his supposed victory .
we won the election with juan orlando hernandez , and we won t let them remove him from power , said 35-year-old housewife maria aguirre , who hailed from a rough neighborhood on the outskirts of tegucigalpa .
the election tribunal s delay was due to difficult negotiations between hernandez s national party and nasralla s alliance , according to two european diplomats who spoke on condition of anonymity .
behind closed doors , the parties were discussing immunity from prosecution for current officials and how to carve up positions in government , the diplomats said .
in an interview on tuesday , nasralla denied he was in talks with the national party .
he vowed to review whether to keep a base stationed with u.s. troops if he wins the election , but also promised to deepen security co-operation .
hernandez s national party appears set to retain control of congress in the election , giving it the second-most important perch in the country .
the european union s chief observer for the election , marisa matias , urged election officials to maintain an open channel of communication as they finalized the results .
the electoral body had been so certain hernandez would win that it showed unprecedented transparency during the contest , one of the diplomats said .
that left the body with little room to maneuver when nasralla came from nowhere to take a strong lead .
with a booming voice and finely coiffed hair , nasralla is one of the country s best known faces as the host of game shows that feature scantily clad women by his side .
he is backed by former president manuel zelaya , who was ousted in 2009 after he proposed a referendum on his re-election .
the possible return to a position of influence for one-time leftist zelaya risks fuelling concern in washington .
the united states has longstanding military ties to honduras and few ideological allies among the current crop of central american presidents .
hernandez , 49 , was credited with lowering the murder rate and boosting the economy , but he was also hurt by accusations of ties to illicit , drug-related financing that he denies .
his bid for a second term , which was made possible by a 2015 supreme court decision on term limits , divided opinion in the coffee-exporting nation of 9 million people .