a shocking victory 53 % leave 47 % stayit was at three o'clock in the morning that it became clear that leave would win https : //t.co/23hhvtl3i9 john rentoul ( @ johnrentoul ) june 24 , 2016watch here to see the outspoken ukip party leader , nigel farage only months ago destroy eu elitist leaders , germany s angela merkle and france s francois hollande on their willingness to open their borders to economic migrants and people who have no intention of assimilating in their countries.as results poured in , a picture emerged of a sharply divided nation : strong pro-eu votes in the economic and cultural powerhouse of london and semi-autonomous scotland were countered by sweeping anti-establishment sentiment for an exit across the rest of england , from southern seaside towns to rust-belt former industrial powerhouses in the north .
a lot of people s grievances are coming out and we have got to start listening to them , said deputy labour party leader john mcdonnell.with more than 16 million of an expected 30 million votes counted , the result was closely split , with the leave ahead by a few hundred thousand votes and remain underperforming analysts expectations .
few remain strongholds are doing better than expected , said john curtice , a university of strathclyde political scientist and bbc election analyst .
there are far more places where leave are doing better than expected .
it may be possible that the experts are going to have egg on their face later on tonight , he said.a vote to leave the eu would destabilize the 28-nation trading bloc , created from the ashes of world war ii to keep the peace in europe .
a remain vote would nonetheless leave britain divided and the eu scrambling to reform.the british pound plunged to a 31-year low on friday as results in the country s european union referendum gave the leave side a small but growing lead.the figures delivered a deep shock to financial markets , overturning earlier anticipation of a narrow victory for remain .
the pound initially soared as polls closed and two opinion surveys put remain ahead and two leading supporters of the leave campaign said it appeared the pro-eu side had won.but it then suffered one of its biggest one-day falls in history , plummeting from about $ 1.50 to below $ 1.35 as results suggested a strong possibility the uk would vote to quit the bloc .
as results poured in , a picture emerged of a sharply divided nation : strong pro-eu votes in the economic and cultural powerhouse of london and semi-autonomous scotland were countered by sweeping anti-establishment sentiment for an exit across the rest of england , from southern seaside towns to rust-belt former industrial powerhouses in the north.nigel farage , leader of the uk independence party , has declared june 23 britain s independence day .
via : uk daily mail birmingham votes to leave .
full results : https : //t.co/4hlzofnac7 # euref pic.twitter.com/6m86yjwgsf bbc election ( @ bbcelection ) june 24 , 2016 here is a screen shot of the bbc s most recent polling results : for live updates , go here : bbc nigel farage had said even if the leave campaign loses the referendum we will win this war .
nigel farage is a big winner today ! the ukip leader said eurosceptics had been dismissed as fringey and fruitcakes in the past but would attract around 50 % of votes cast.while remain might edge a win , he said : the eurosceptic genie is out of the bottle and will not be put back .of the eu , he said : if we do stay part of this union it s doomed it s finished anyway .
the uk voted on thursday in a referendum on to leave or remain part of the european union.outspoken ukip party leader nigel farage has won !
the uk has voted to break free from the globalistvia : bbc