no hypocrisy here director martin scorsese well known for violent films like goodfellas , the departed , and casino has joined a campaign for the destruction of guns.scorsese will take part in carl mccrow s gun neutral campaign , which asks that a real gun be destroyed for every fake gun that is used in a hollywood production.in december 2014 breitbart news reported that mccrow was a part of a london-based gun control group called one less gun .
at that time they were asking for donations to cover the destruction of a firearm and the donor was told he or she would receive a thank you note in the form of a bullet casing with the serial number of the weapon destroyed etched upon it.one less gun said : like it or not , guns are a part of popular culture .
they are integral to many of our favorite games and films [ and ] are in all likelihood to remain so for many generations to comes .
one less gun is simply dedicated to reducing their number and promoting a social responsibility to this fact .
one less gun offers everybody the opportunity to contribute to the solution of this largely ignored problem .
by texting onelessgun to 70007 on your mobile phone you can destroy a gun for 5 .
our target is to destroy one million weapons .
that will save lives , stabilize communities and make a safer world.that campaign has now been complimented by the gun neutral campaign and scorsese is on board .
for every fake gun used in one of his violent films a real gun that a law-abiding citizen could use for self-defense will be destroyed .
according to the guardian , mccrow responded to scorsese s pledge by saying , i m really pleased .
if we can set this as a standard , then who knows how many lives could be saved .
the simple fact is that there are too many guns and they ruin people s lives every day .
by joining the gun control push after making untold millions of dollars creating films riddled with violence , murder , depictions of criminal gun use , and mayhem , scorsese comes across much like gun-toting action star liam neeson .
it was neeson who emerged after the january 7 terror attacks on charlie hebdo headquarters in france to say , there are too many [ bleeping ] guns out there , especially in america .
via : breitbart news