washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama on tuesday proposed expanding the earned income tax credit ( eitc ) , which helps low-income taxpayers , to give a bigger boost to childless people .
some republicans as well as democrats in congress back increasing the tax credit .
house of representatives speaker paul ryan , a republican , favors expanding the credit as an incentive for pulling people into work .
in his budget blueprint for the fiscal year starting oct. 1 , obama proposed doubling the tax credit for workers who are not raising children , bringing the credit to a maximum of about $ 1,022 a year for them .
he said it should be expanded to cover workers with earnings up to 150 percent of the poverty line , so about $ 18,180 for a single person .
under current law the cutoff comes at about $ 15,040 .
obama also favors expanding eligibility to single workers between ages 21-24 to help draw them into the workforce ; currently they must be 25 to qualify .
the earned income tax credit , created in 1975 , is intended to promote work as well as help low-income people .
because it is a refundable credit , it produces a refund if the taxpayer does not owe any taxes .
currently it gives more generous benefits to families with children .
obama has proposed expanding it for the past two years ; ryan agrees it should be increased for childless workers .
but they disagree on how it should be funded .
obama has talked about closing tax loopholes , while ryan has talked about cutting spending .
obama ’ s budget proposed making the credit available to workers aged 65 and 66 , and to workers in the struggling territory of puerto rico .
the white house said its proposal would help 13.2 million low-income people .
the congressional research service ( crs ) said recently that in 2013 , a total of $ 68.1 billion was claimed by 28.8 million tax filers under the program .
but it said the rules were too complex and up to a quarter of payments were issued “ improperly ” .
obama ’ s budget also proposed $ 12 billion over 10 years to supplement food stamps for poor families when school meal programs are closed in the summer .
it asked for $ 2 billion in emergency aid for families in crisis , a $ 1.2 billion increase in rental assistance to poor families , $ 328 million in education and housing grants to poor neighborhoods , and a $ 15 million pilot program to help poor families move to better neighborhoods .