beirut ( reuters ) - iran s foreign minister on monday defended its ballistic missile program and urged european countries not to be influenced by u.s. president donald trump s confrontational policy towards tehran .
in an op-ed article in the new york times , mohammad javad zarif also urged european powers to help preserve the landmark 2015 deal under which iran curbed its disputed nuclear program in exchange for the lifting of a number of international sanctions .
in october trump struck a blow against the deal , approved by his predecessor barack obama , by refusing to certify that iran is complying with the terms of the deal despite findings to the contrary by u.n. nuclear inspectors .
trump has also called iran an economically depleted rogue state that exports violence .
europe should not pander to washington s determination to shift focus to yet another unnecessary crisis - whether it be iran s defensive missile program or our influence in the middle east , zarif wrote .
his remarks seemed to be at least partly aimed at france which has been critical of the islamic republic s missile tests and regional policy , including involvement in syria s war , in recent weeks .
last month french president emmanuel macron said he was very concerned by the missile program and called for talks about it , an appeal rejected by iranian officials .
iran s missiles are for defensive purposes only , zarif wrote in the op-ed .
we have honed missiles as an effective means of deterrence .
and our conscious decision to focus on precision rather than range has afforded us the capability to strike back with pinpoint accuracy , he wrote .
nuclear weapons do not need to be precise .
conventional warheads , however , do .
while criticizing the missile program , european powers that were party to the nuclear deal - france , britain and germany - have reaffirmed their commitment to the nuclear deal and voiced concern at trump calling it into question .
zarif also criticized rival saudi arabia s regional policy and military campaign in yemen but also called for dialogue .
as iran and its partners labor to put out fires , the arsonists in our region grow more unhinged .
they re oblivious to the necessity of inclusive engagement , zarif wrote .
( refile with full name of minister , para 2 , inserts dropped word labor in last para )