yangon ( reuters ) - the vatican on wednesday defended pope francis s decision not to use the word rohingya in public during his visit to myanmar , saying his moral authority was unblemished and that his mere presence drew attention to the refugee crisis .
but at a news conference , the holy see s spokesman also acknowledged that vatican diplomacy was not infallible and that others were entitled to their views .
the pope leaves on thursday for bangladesh , where about 625,000 muslim rohingya from predominantly buddhist myanmar have fled following a military crackdown in rakhine state .
he is due to meet rohingya refugees there .
since he arrived in myanmar , francis has studiously avoided the highly charged term , following advice of local church officials .
they feared it could set off a diplomatic incident and turn myanmar s military and government against minority christians .
even though his calls for justice , human rights and respect were widely seen as applicable to the rohingya , who are not recognized as citizens or as members of a distinct ethnicity , rights groups such as amnesty international said they were disappointed .
i think it was pretty clear from the local concerns that the pope was going to take the advice very seriously in public , vatican spokesman greg burke said at the news conference , which was also with several myanmar bishops .
that doesn t take away from anything the pope has said in the past , or from anything he says in private , burke said .
the fact of the matter that the pope is here and draws attention to the country itself is an incredibly positive thing .
scores of rohingya villages were burnt to the ground , and refugees arriving in bangladesh told of killings and rapes .
washington said last week that the military s campaign included horrendous atrocities aimed at ethnic cleansing .
myanmar s military has denied accusations of murder , rape and forced displacement .
the government blames the crisis on the rohingya militants , whom it has condemned as terrorists .
everyone s entitled to their own opinion here .
nobody ever said vatican diplomacy s infallible , burke said when asked if the vatican had any second thoughts about the decision for the pope not to use the word .
he said the aim of vatican diplomacy was building bridges and seek discussions as brothers , which often take place behind closed doors .
this suggested the pope , who has defended rohingya by name before in rome , may have used the term in private during meeting in myanmar .
the pope , burke said , was not afraid of minefields , but he could not just parachute in to areas to solve crises .
i find it really hard to think that the moral authority of the pope has somehow diminished .
people are not expected to solve impossible problems , burke said .
the moral of the pope stands .
you ll see him go ahead and you can criticize what is said and what is not said , but the pope is not going to lose moral authority on this question , he said .
asked about the accusations of ethnic cleansing , bishop john hsane hgyi said i did not see it with my own eyes .
i don t know if its true or not .
when she came to power in 2016 , nobel peace laureate and longtime champion of democracy aung san suu kyi said her top priority was ending ethnic conflicts that have kept myanmar in a state of near-perpetual civil war since independence in 1948 .
that goal remains elusive and , although suu kyi remains popular at home , she has faced a barrage of international criticism for expressing doubts about reports of rights abuses against rohingya and failing to condemn the military .
although suu kyi formed myanmar s first civilian government in half a century , her defenders say she is hamstrung by a constitution written by the military that left the army in control of security and much of the apparatus of the state .
the military s power was clear on monday when its leader , senior general min aung hlaing , demanded to meet the pope before sun kyi , upending the planned schedule , which had her meeting the pontiff first .
i m sure the pope would have preferred meeting the general after he had done the official visits , burke said .