london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may was forced to appoint a new defense minister on thursday after her ally michael fallon quit in a sexual harassment scandal that has prompted calls for an end to the locker room culture in parliament .
just hours after fallon resigned over past behavior he said had fallen below the high standards we require of the armed forces , may appointed gavin williamson , 41 , a rising star in her ruling conservative party .
weakened after losing her parliamentary majority in a june election that many conservatives blame on her , may had to move swiftly .
the growing harassment scandal threatens to undermine her further if other allegations against conservatives , including against her deputy damian green , force more resignations .
williamson has risen quickly up the ranks of the conservatives and may selected him last year as the party s chief whip in parliament - a role in which he is tasked with maintaining voting discipline on legislation .
as chief whip , williamson was renowned for his toughness and for introducing lawmakers to his pet tarantula cronus , named after the god of time who swallowed each of his children according to greek mythology .
but he has no former experience of the armed forces , according to his online profile , and some conservative lawmakers openly questioned the appointment .
sarah wollaston writing on twitter : there are times when offered a job that it would be better to advise that another would be more experienced and suited to the role .
williamson said nothing as he arrived at the ministry of defense on thursday , taking on the role at a difficult time for may , who since june s election is dependent on the support of a small northern irish party for a majority in parliament .
fallon s resignation after he apologized for repeatedly touching a female radio presenter s knee in 2002 , was yet another blow .
described by conservative sources as a political rottweiler , fallon was a trusted minister able to robustly face down criticism of the government .
britain s parliament is the latest institution to become embroiled in a sex scandal after abuse allegations against hollywood producer harvey weinstein prompted thousands of women and men to share stories about improper behavior .
ruth davidson , leader of the conservatives in scotland , said it was time to break with a culture in politics where powerful people use positions of power to demand things from others .
the dam has broken on this now , and these male-dominated professions where the boys-own locker room culture has prevailed and it s all been a bit of a laugh , have got to stop , she told the bbc .
allegations of sexual abuse have ranged from a charge of rape by an activist in the opposition labour party by a senior party member , to unconfirmed details of serial sex pests on a list reportedly drafted by aides and researchers in parliament .
may has ordered investigations into a report that one of her ministers asked a female secretary to buy sex toys and an allegation that her deputy , green , made an inappropriate sexual advance on a young woman - something he denies .