eymet , france ( reuters ) - britain s prime minister may be hailing a new sense of optimism in brexit talks .
but david and iona stent , who sold their english home three years ago to start anew in the sun-kissed vineyards of france s dordogne , are having none of it .
the couple are frustrated as london inches ahead in its divorce with the european union , and say friday s interim deal offers them scant reassurance for the future of their franglais foods market stall business .
under the agreement , the 1.2 million britons with permanent residence in eu states will be allowed to stay and receive the same treatment over social security , healthcare and employment as the 3 million europeans living in britain .
but the deal was only sealed with a handshake .
it is just words from politicians .
it gives me no confidence at all , said iona , who sells fudge , scottish cakes and quiches in the bastide village of eymet and surrounding areas .
the couple are determined to stay in france .
if they can , they will apply for french citizenship , but they are not sure if they will be eligible .
eymet s warm climate , good wine and cheap , tumbledown farmhouses have been a magnet for british expatriates since the 1970s .
the village boasts an english pub , tea room and a grocery store offering marmite , heinz baked beans and custard powder .
there is even a cricket club .
while friday s deal outlined the terms of britain s separation from the eu , pitfalls lie ahead .
tough discussions over britain s trade relationship with the bloc could widen differences within prime minister theresa may s cabinet over how britain should look after it leaves .
we don t know what situation we ll find ourselves in , said iona .
we joke about turning up at the jungle ( migrant camp ) in calais .
we ve got this idea they re going to reinstate it for all the brits .
on the far side of the medieval village s central place gambetta , clipped english accents fill le treize cafe as stephen and liz chorlton ponder their pension income .
britain s pound has fallen 13 percent against the euro since the vote to leave the eu , eroding uk-based earnings , pensions and investment incomes .
we ve got nothing left in the uk other than a few savings , said stephen , 60 , who quit his job in manchester in 2010 after the finiancial crisis hit the shop-fitting industry and moved to southwestern france .
sterling s slump means he and his wife now juggle drawing down their pound-denominated private pensions and tapping the income they earn from a french investment fund .
i had a conversation with my financial adviser last week .
he reckons i could live until i am in my 90s and says if i keep drawing out at the level i m allowed , my spending will be unsustainable , said liz .
there are about 300 britons among eymet s 2,600-strong population , a number which swells in the summer .
many lament the divisive nature of the brexit debate in britain .
others fume at former prime minister david cameron s decision to hold the vote in the first place and what they see and the incoherence of his successor s negotiating strategy .
none of us got the vote .
it s like being shat on from a great height and we have no say about it , said pensioner andrew cardle as carafes of wine lubricated a game of indoor-skittles between the sinners and eymet cricket club .
for all the uncertainty , few britons in eymet believe they will be thrown out .
the influx of foreigners here pulled eymet back from the dead , said keith mcbride , a 54-year-old former city broker with a broad essex accent and two golden labradors .
come brexit , no one knows what the rules will be , he said .
but they re not going to backtrack and say people who are in the system are now out of the system , because we pay contributions .
nonetheless , some are contemplating an insurance policy : french nationality .
if i have to i ll take ( french ) citizenship .
piece of cake , if i can pass that bloody language exam , said david horlock , who runs a small plastering business .
in a sign some in britain are still considering a move to france before brexit hits , terrie simpson , whose agence eleonor estate agency has seen revenues rise over the past two years , said there was still demand from britons .
we ve had people come in and say we re so fed up with brexit that we want to buy a house in france , said simpson , whose office front door carries a sticker in the colors of the eu flag reading : bollox to brexit .
it might sound arrogant to say they need the english here , but they do .
they spend their money in the restaurants , their money is in the banks and young families pay taxes and send their children to the school , said simpson .
many locals do fret that the shutters will come down on eymet s cafes and local businesses if brexit leads to an exodus of britons .
if the are no english here , we re screwed !
said cheesemonger philippe barbe .
they re a big part of our local economy .