cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - sat in his hillside grocery shop in a bangladesh refugee camp , rohingya muslim momtaz-ul-hoque takes a break to listen to an audio recording on his mobile phone , while children and passers-by gather round to hear the latest news from myanmar .
i listen because i get some information on my motherland , said hoque , 30 , as he plays a message on whatsapp explaining the myanmar government s proposals for repatriating refugees .
hoque has been in bangladesh since an earlier bout of violence in myanmar s rakhine state in 1992 , but the number of refugees in the camps has swelled dramatically to more than 800,000 in recent weeks , after a massive myanmar military operation sent around 600,000 people fleeing across the border .
tens of thousands of exhausted refugees have arrived with little more than a sack of rice , a few pots and pans and a mobile phone powered by a cheap solar battery , and many are desperate for news of what is going on back home .
with few news sources in their own language and low levels of literacy , audio and video messages distributed on apps such as whatsapp , facebook and youtube have become a community radio of sorts for the muslim minority .
dozens of whatsapp groups have sprung up to fill the information gap .
their offerings range from grainy footage of violence , to listings of the names and numbers of people missing in the chaos of the exodus , or even an explainer from educated rohingya on how to adjust to life in the camps .
at a shop selling cold drinks in the leda refugee camp , two men played whatsapp news through a loudspeaker .
out of breath , a man narrated a scene purportedly from a village in myanmar s buthidaung region , according to mohammed zubair , a refugee who translated the broadcasts for reuters .
they are surrounding the village .
we are under attack from the military and the mogs ... some people are seriously injured , zubair translates the speaker as saying , using a derogatory term common in bangladesh to refer to ethnic rakhine buddhists .
i trust it 100 percent , zubair said of the information .
reuters was not able to verify the account .
the whatsapp groups tend to have hundreds of members , meaning that the spread of information depends on people passing on the news .
many of the listeners do not know who is sending the message or the trustworthiness of the broadcaster .
some said outdated or inaccurate reports were common .
in some cases , we got audio messages of villages burning in myanmar , and when we contact people in those villages , there s nothing , said one refugee inside a tea shop in bangladesh skutupalong camp .
other refugees said videos of violence claimed to have been filmed in villages in myanmar turned out to be footage from other countries .
many also worry that the unregulated nature of whatsapp groups increases opportunities for voices keen to push an agenda rather than share facts .
rohingya rebel group the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) - whose aug. 25 attacks on security forces triggered the latest crisis - and its followers have been among the most active adopters of whatsapp to spread their message .
audio messages urging support , updates on the latest military movements and official press releases dominate some groups .
several refugees in bangladesh said they had no idea if the messages , often posted by people with phone numbers registered in the middle east or other parts of asia , were actually from arsa members .
refugees also worry that bangladeshi security forces want to monitor the broadcasts , and are looking in the camps for arsa supporters .
at the tea shop in kutupalong camp , refugees have stopped listening to the broadcasts on loudspeakers during daylight hours , preferring to gather clandestinely at night instead .
still , many rohingyas say social media platforms play a crucial role in keeping spirits up among the community .
the rohingya people are not organized , said hoque , the grocer .
they can not take out their frustration any other way , so this is a way of protesting .