fengxian , china ( reuters ) - chinese president xi jinping spoke to the country on wednesday about waves of positive energy from the ruling communist party after its twice-a-decade leadership shuffle , but on the rural outskirts of shanghai , not everyone was riveted to the screen .
as the party congress drew to a close and xi prepared to unveil a new leadership team during the national broadcast , some elderly residents gathering for lunch in the sleepy suburb of fengxian expressed indifference .
an 85-year-old man with a shock of white hair , who identified himself by the surname cai , said he would not watch .
whatever happens today , i don t care , he said with a smile .
i m a christian and i go to worship after lunch , and i will be late if i watch .
i am not cultured .
i don t understand what they are saying .
gathering in a crowded two-storey compound with dusty concrete floors and solid wooden furniture heaving with fruit and snacks , fei jinxian , another 85-year-old fengxian resident , said she was unclear of the significance of wednesday s events .
watching the broadcast , fei and her friends nodded appreciatively when xi emerged on to the stage , but she said she barely recognized any of the other figures appointed to the politburo standing committee , including premier li keqiang .
i recognize xi jinping , and i recognize han zheng because he is from our city , but the others i don t know about , fei said in the local dialect .
as a chinese television commentator reflected on the historical importance of this moment , 58-year-old gu wenfeng said she did not understand .
i don t normally pay much attention to politics , she said .
i only watch it if my son is around and he puts it on .
xi has emerged as china s most powerful leader since mao zedong after a congress that enshrined his own political theory into the constitution .
xi told the gathering of chinese and international reporters and a tv audience of millions about the great rejuvenation of the chinese nation and the waves of positive energy from the ruling communist party , but people in fengxian were more concerned about local matters .
fengxian has seen its population decline as its youth head into the cities for fresh opportunities and better wages , but rapid urbanization and a campaign to build a new socialist countryside through government infrastructure spending has transformed the area .
the leaders have been paying a lot of attention with the waterways , roads and whatnot , said gu , pointing to a new drainage channel running through the village .
i think the next five years are going to get better .
shen bo , a 31-year-old grassroots communist party official in fengxian , told reuters that he was unfamiliar with most of the new leadership line-up , but said he was proud of the powerful president xi , who had a feeling for the times and remained in touch with china s rural heartlands .
i can use three characters to describe him , he said , using characters that mean touching the ground , or down to earth .
because he has studied the grassroots more , and that is my strongest impression of him .