amateur president donald trump is donating his second-quarter salary to the department of education , the white house announced wednesday .
during her daily press briefing , white house press secretary sarah huckabee sanders , who was besieged with questions about trump s twitter announcement saying that he s banning transgender americans from serving in the military , told everyone about the $ 100,000 donation .
huckabee sanders then handed the check signed by the former reality show star to education secretary betsy devos , a billionaire.now , while they may seem generous on the surface , trump has proposed slashing the education department by $ 9.2 billion .
that s a 14 percent reduction so $ 100,000 is a mere drop in the bucket.and while he s profiting from his businesses , typically every weekend when the 71-year-old needs a break , he threw his relatively meager salary at the very department he s stripping funding from.devos announced that the money would go toward hosting a science , technology , engineering , and mathematics camp for children at the department .
we want to encourage as many students as possible to pursue stem fields , devos said.trump 's donation to dept of education : $ 100,000.spending cut to education in trump 's proposed 2018 budget : $ 9,200,000,000 .
peter alexander ( @ peteralexander ) july 26 , 2017trump donated his first quarter salary of about $ 78,000 to the national park service .
just like huckabee sanders did today , sean spicer made a big show of handing over the trump s salary to benefit the national park service , but his budget slashes the department of the interior by 12 percent.trump s first paycheck of $ 78,333 went to a department he planned to slash by $ 1.6 billion in funding .
we see a pattern here ! shortly before trump s inauguration , mar-a-lago doubled its annual membership fee to $ 200,000 .
he s literally profiting from his presidency by using his florida resort for official government business .
each weekend trump spends at one of his businesses , the visit generates revenue for the alleged president .
and we , the taxpayers , are footing the bill.but hey , he gave departments which he s slashed funding for his paycheck , so he s a really good guy , right ?
here , have a penny while i take a billion dollars from you .
it s all good.it does make a good photo-op , though.featured image via win mcnamee/getty images