sydney ( reuters ) - australians turned in 51,000 illegal firearms , ranging from 19th-century weapons to a rocket launcher , during a three-month amnesty that ended on friday , and which prime minister malcolm turnbull said had helped avert las vegas-style mass shootings .
the cache , representing about a fifth of illegal firearms , was collected during australia s second amnesty since its worst ever massacre , when a lone gunman killed 35 people in the island state of tasmania in 1996 .
there has not been a mass shooting since the then conservative government banned all semi-automatic rifles and semi-automatic shotguns that year , and introduced tougher background checks on gun purchases .
the firearms gathered in this year s amnesty will be destroyed .
those who still own such guns face jail time , and the government is pushing for harsher penalties for gun traffickers .
every single one of those 51,000 guns could be used , could have been used in a crime where australians could be killed - now they can t , turnbull told reporters in sydney .
the killer there had a collection of semi-automatic weapons which a person in his position would simply not be able to acquire in australia , he added .
turnbull was referring to the deadliest mass shooting in modern u.s. history , when stephen paddock , 64 , armed with numerous assault rifles , fired this week on an outdoor country music festival in las vegas , killing 58 people and himself .
the attack has focused attention on gun ownership rules in the united states , and in australia , where gun ownership restrictions are seen to have worked .
in tasmania in 1996 , martin bryant killed 35 people at the former prison colony of port arthur , using military-style weapons bought without background checks .
in response , conservative prime minister john howard convinced australia s eight provincial governments to toughen their laws , despite opposition from his own side of the political divide .
rapid-fire guns were outlawed , and a national licensing system required gun sellers and buyers to register , and specify reasons - such as gun club membership - why they needed weapons .
the measures provoked opposition from gun owners , in particular farmers , but has since mostly vanished , because australia s rules are seen to have worked .
you can t just buy a gun , said phillip alpers , a firearms injury researcher at the university of sydney , adding that potential purchasers faced a full background check by police .
they will ask you for a genuine reason for owning a firearm , he added .
if you can t ( provide one ) , you won t get the gun .
australia s few gun stores are heavily regulated , in contrast with the united states , where ammunition and weapons are sold at chain stores , such as walmart .