madrid ( reuters ) - barely a quarter of catalans want to continue with a plan to claim independence from spain in the wake of dec. 21 regional elections , according to a poll published in el pais newspaper on monday .
an illegal catalan independence referendum on oct. 1 plunged spain into its worst political crisis in decades .
it eased after the sacking of the secessionist catalan authorities by the madrid government elicited little resistance .
but uncertainty could return if the pro-independence camp wins in the dec. 21 vote .
just 24 percent of those polled by metroscopia said they would like to continue with the independence process after the elections , whereas 71 percent said they would prefer politicians to find an agreement based on catalonia staying part of spain .
pro-independence parties may fail to retain an absolute majority of seats in the catalan parliament in next month s election , the first part of the poll published on sunday showed .
however , the survey s margin of error at 2.4 percent and the fact support was evenly split between the two sides makes reading conclusions from polls difficult .
the telephone poll surveyed 1,800 catalans between nov. 20 and nov. 22 .
failure to capture a majority in the regional parliament would be a heavy blow for catalan separatists who have billed the election as a plebiscite on madrid s decision to impose direct rule on the region last month .
the oct. referendum produced a large majority in favor of independence , but turnout was only 43 percent because many who opposed the breakaway did not vote .
catalan separatist parties are forecast to win 46 percent of the vote , down slightly from 47.7 percent in a previous election in 2015 .
unionist parties combined would account for another 46 percent of votes , up from less than 40 percent last time , according to the metroscopia poll .
turnout for the election , which former catalan leader carles puigdemont said on saturday would be the most important in the region s history , is predicted to reach a record 80 percent .