barack obama is turning his new home in the posh kalorama section of the nation s capital just two miles away from the white house into the nerve center of the mounting insurgency against his successor , president donald j. trump.obama s goal , according to a close family friend , is to oust trump from the presidency either by forcing his resignation or through his impeachment.and obama is being aided in his political crusade by his longtime consigliere , valerie jarrett , who has moved into the 8,200-square-foot , $ 5.3-million kaloroma mansion with the former president and michelle obama , long time best friends.jarrett played a vital if at times low-key role in the obama presidency .
she lived in the white house , dined with the obamas , and help shape his domestic and foreign policies.the former president has set up an office on the west end of the national s capitol , where he recently hosted an open house for his white house staff including joe biden , susan rice , josh earnest and jarrett.but the office , part of his post presidency perks , can not be used for political purposes .
the rent on his home is paid by him personally.on tuesday , former attorney general eric holder revealed that obama is indeed getting closer to making his public reappearance in politics .
it s coming .
he s coming , holder said speaking to reporters .
and he s ready to roll .
according to the family source , obama was at first reluctant to assume the role of leader of the opposition .
no longer the most powerful man in the world , he was just observing trump and not liking what he saw , said the source .
he was weary and burned out after eight years in office .
but valerie convinced him that he didn t have any choice if he wanted to save his legacy .
and , as usual , he bowed to valerie s political wisdom and advice .
in his only public comment against trump since leaving the presidency , obama came out in support of the protests opposing president donald trump s executive order to restrict immigration from predominantly muslim countries.a spokesman said the former president thinks they re citizens exercising their constitutional right to assemble , organize and have their voices heard by their elected officials is exactly what we expect to see when american values are at stake .
daily mail