chicago/palm beach , fla. ( reuters ) - u.s. presidential candidate donald trump canceled a campaign rally friday night amid security concerns just hours after the republican front-runner earned the endorsement of a former rival who said the billionaire ’ s pugnacious campaign style is belied by a more thoughtful , private side .
“ there are two different donald trumps : there ’ s the one you see on the stage and there ’ s the one who ’ s very cerebral , sits there and considers things very carefully , ” ben carson said friday as he became the second former republican candidate to back trump in the white house race .
the soft-spoken retired neurosurgeon , who dropped out of the race last week , said the american people would be “ comforted ” when they discover trump ’ s gentler side .
the thousands of protesters who showed up for trump ’ s rally friday evening at the university of illinois at chicago - along with thousands of supporters - showed little indication they had noticed anything but the candidate ’ s combative campaign style .
the university arena turned into a chaotic scene as the two warring sides amped up their positions .
a half hour after the rally was slated to begin , a trump campaign staffer announced it was being postponed for safety reasons , unleashing competing chants of “ we dumped trump ! ” and “ we want trump ! ” throughout the packed venue .
“ we made a great decision not to have the rally , ” trump told cnn after meeting with law enforcement and making the call .
“ i am not a person that wants to see violence , ” he added .
trump blamed protesters for creating disturbances at his campaign events and said it is a “ love fest ” among his supporters .
friday ’ s event in chicago stood out because the huge number of protesters virtually matched the number of trump supporters , as opposed to other trump campaign events where protesters have been a very small , albeit vocal , minority .
earlier in the day , speaking at a public event in st. louis , missouri , trump was interrupted repeatedly by protesters who were led out of the event by police and security , an increasingly common occurrence at his raucous rallies .
“ he ’ s all mouth , get him out , ” trump shouted as one of the protesters was led out .
“ go back to mommy , ” he said as another protester was led away .
the latest endorsement for trump followed a republican debate in miami on thursday night at which trump and the remaining three candidates in the republican race struck a markedly more civil tone .
carson shot to the top of the republican pack last year but faltered in the early nominating contests .
his endorsement is unlikely to dramatically shift the republican race , but it gives trump a boost as the republican establishment cranks up attacks , and comes just days before crucial nominating contests in the battle to be the party ’ s presidential candidate for the nov. 8 election .
the republican primaries to be held on tuesday in five states will be critical for trump to cement his lead , and to determine whether u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida and ohio governor john kasich , whose home states are among those holding contests on tuesday , will be able to continue with their increasingly long-shot candidacies .
trump ’ s nearest rival in the race is u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas .
carson ’ s comments on friday aimed to soften trump ’ s public image after a campaign marked by his demeaning personal attacks on opponents , harsh comments about mexican immigrants and calls to temporarily bar all muslims from entering the country .
trump ’ s controversial campaign has led many republican establishment figures to call for an all-out effort to prevent him from winning the nomination - an effort that carson said would fracture the republican party and ensure a democratic win in november .
asked about carson ’ s comments , trump said he did not want to “ overanalyze ” himself but there was only “ one donald trump. ” “ certainly you have all of this , and you have somebody else that sits , and reads and thinks .
and i ’ m a thinker , ” said trump , 69 .
“ perhaps people don ’ t think of me in that way because you don ’ t see me in that form. ” trump also raised the possibility that he will not attend the next republican debate , scheduled for later this month in salt lake city .
“ we ’ ve had enough debates , in my opinion , ” he said .
in st. louis , trump ’ s speech was interrupted more than a half-dozen times by protesters .
scuffles between trump supporters and protesters have become more frequent , and a protester was punched in north carolina on wednesday by a trump supporter who has been charged with assault .
“ the officers are being very gentle , ” trump advised , telling the crowd later , “ it adds to the flavor , makes it more exciting , isn ’ t this better than listening to a long boring speech ? ” carson ’ s endorsement of trump followed that of another former candidate , new jersey governor chris christie , who announced his backing last month .
next tuesday ’ s voting will be a pivotal point as candidates chase the 1,237 delegates from primary contests and caucuses needed to win the republican nomination .
trump has 459 delegates , followed by cruz at 360 , rubio at 152 and kasich at 54 , according to the associated press .
the primaries in florida and ohio on tuesday have the potential to be game-changers because both states award republican delegates on a winner-take-all basis , meaning that he winner of the popular vote in each state will be awarded the state ’ s entire slate of delegates .
many states award delegates proportionate to the popular vote .
for his part , rubio said in a round of television interviews on friday he was still in position to win florida next week .
voters in his home state who do not want trump as the republican nominee should support him , he said .
“ if they don ’ t want donald trump to be our nominee , then voting for john kasich or ted cruz in florida is a vote for donald trump , ” rubio said on abc ’ s “ good morning america. ” rubio said later that his supporters in ohio should vote for kasich next tuesday if that looked like the best anti-trump tactic .
“ clearly john kasich has a better chance of winning ohio than i do , and if a voter in ohio concludes that voting for john kasich gives us the best chance to stop donald trump there , i anticipate ” that is what they will do , rubio told reporters at an event in west palm beach , florida .
( additional reporting by clarece polke , eric beech , amanda becker and susan heavey in washington and jon herskovitz in texas ; writing by john whitesides and amanda becker ; editing by frances kerry and leslie adler ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .