kabul ( reuters ) - ( this september 27th story has been refiled correct headline and first paragraph to show strike caused civilian casualties , not killed civilians ; corrects second bullet point to say missile malfunction . )
suicide bombers and militants firing mortars attacked kabul s airport during a visit by u.s. defense secretary jim mattis on wednesday , prompting a u.s. air strike that accidentally caused a number of civilian casualties , officials said .
the clashes and casualties overshadowed a visit intended to demonstrate u.s. support for the afghan government and provided a sharp reminder of the risks associated with a more aggressive u.s. policy that is expected to increase the number of air strikes .
hours after mattis touched down in kabul , militants fired high explosive ammunition including mortar rounds near the main airport and detonated several suicide vests in an attack claimed by both the taliban and islamic state .
gunmen holed up in a nearby house battled security forces for much of the day .
u.s. forces conducted an air strike supporting an afghan special police unit fighting the attackers but suffered a missile malfunction , causing several casualties , the u.s.-led nato mission there said .
it gave no further details .
resolute support deeply regrets the harm to non-combatants , the statement said .
we take every precaution to avoid civilian casualties , even as the enemies of afghanistan continue to operate in locations that deliberately put civilians at very high risk .
mattis visit came after u.s. president donald trump announced a new strategy for afghanistan , promising a stepped-up military campaign against the taliban who have gained ground as they seek to re-establish their brand of islamic law after their 2001 defeat .
the strategy will give u.s. commanders greater freedom to use american firepower against the militants but , speaking a few hours before the air strike , mattis said they would do everything humanly possible to prevent civilian casualties .
we are here to protect the afghan people while we attack the terrorists , he told a joint news conference with ghani and nato secretary general jens stoltenberg , accusing militants of hiding behind women and children .
mattis said the taliban could not hope for a military victory and promised a more holistic approach without fixed timetables and involving other countries in the region , including pakistan .
i want to reinforce to the taliban that the only path to peace and political legitimacy for them is through a negotiated settlement , he said .
ghani said his government remains open to talks with the taliban as well as a peace strategy involving pakistan .
mattis has said the united states will send an additional 3,000 troops to help train afghan security forces , which are focusing on building up the air force and special forces , but he gave few details of what would change .
i don t want to tell the enemy exactly what we are doing but the whole point is to make certain we have a compelling battlefield advantage over anything the taliban tries to mass against your forces , he said .
the taliban have made steady inroads since nato ended its main combat operation in 2014 and are now estimated to control or contest at least 40 percent of the country .
afghan commanders have regularly pleaded for more air support .
however the kabul air strike showed the risks that the new strategy could cause a repeat of the bitter disputes over civilian casualties that soured relations between washington and the government of former president hamid karzai .
already in the first half of the year , as afghan and u.s. aerial operations have picked up , u.n. figures have shown a 43-percent jump in civilian casualties caused by air strikes and ghani called on his allies to limit the damage .
there are now about 8,400 u.s. troops in afghanistan as part of the 13,500-strong nato-led resolute support mission advising and training afghan forces as well as a separate counter-terrorism mission , targeting islamic state and al qaeda .
trump has said he expects nato allies to increase contributions of both troops and funding to the afghanistan mission , and stoltenberg said the credibility of the international alliance depended on maintaining support .
we know the cost of staying in afghanistan , he said .
but the cost of leaving would be higher .
if nato forces leave too soon , there is a risk afghanistan may return to a state of chaos and once again become a safe haven for international terrorism .