washington ( reuters ) - senate agriculture committee chairman pat roberts is turning up the heat on the u.s. derivatives and commodities regulator over an accounting error that could mean it has deficient funds .
roberts , a kansas republican , sent a letter dated feb. 3 to timothy massad , head of the commodity futures trading commission , calling for answers on the error , according to the committee .
the letter included a list of 11 questions for the cftc to answer and a request for a detailed briefing before feb. 17 .
pressure has mounted on the agency since last month after reuters reported that auditing firm kpmg took the extremely rare action of withdrawing nearly a decade of financial opinions about the agency ’ s accounts when it learned of a significant material error related to leases .
the auditor estimated the cftc had understated liabilities by $ 194 million in the year to sept. 30 , 2015 , and by $ 212 million the previous year .
lawmakers are concerned that the cftc has violated a federal law prohibiting government agencies from obligating or spending federal funds in excess of the amount available .
the nonpartisan federal watchdog , the government accountability office , is investigating whether the leasing errors put the cftc afoul of the anti-deficiency law .
“ what i find particularly troubling is in 2011 the u.s. securities and exchange commission faced a similar dilemma concerning its leasing practices and how it accounted for its leases , ” roberts wrote , referring to the top u.s. securities regulator .
“ considering the similarity between the agencies , the similarity of the issues , the public congressional inquiries and the gravity of errant accounting , i am bewildered as to how cftc finds itself in this current state of affairs. ” the questions roberts posed revolve around how much guidance kpmg and the white house ’ s office of management and budget provided the cftc .
he also asked about the accounting practices the commission uses and how closely it monitors its books .