jerusalem ( reuters ) - prime minister benjamin netanyahu said on monday he has put the united states and russia on notice that israel will continue to take military action across the frontier in syria , even as the two powers try to build up a ceasefire there .
we are controlling our borders , we are protecting our country and we will continue to do so , netanyahu said in public remarks to members of his right-wing likud party in parliament .
i have also informed our friends , firstly in washington and also our friends in moscow , that israel will act in syria , including in southern syria , according to our understanding and according to our security needs .
u.s. president donald trump and russian president vladimir putin on saturday affirmed joint efforts to stabilize syria as its civil war wanes , including with the expansion of a july 7 truce in the southwestern triangle bordering israel and jordan .
israel has been lobbying both leaders to deny iran , lebanon s hezbollah and other shi ite militias any permanent bases in syria , and to keep them away from the golan heights frontier , as they gain ground while helping damascus beat back sunni-led rebels .
netanyahu s remarks echoed those on sunday by israel s regional cooperation minister , tzachi hanegbi , who sounded circumspect about the ceasefire deal and said israel has set red lines and will stand firm on this .
israel s military has said it has carried out around 100 strikes in syria .
attacks have targeted suspected hezbollah or iranian arms depots or have come in retaliation for shelling from the syrian-held golan .
a u.s. state department official has said russia had agreed to work with the syrian regime to remove iranian-backed forces a defined distance from the golan heights frontier with israel , which captured the plateau in the 1967 middle east war .
the move , according to one israeli official briefed on the arrangement , is meant to keep rival factions inside syria away from each other , but it would effectively keep iranian-linked forces at various distances from the israel-held golan as well .
those distances would range from as little as 5-7 kilometers ( 3-4 miles ) and up to around 30 km ( 18 miles ) depending on current rebel positions on the syrian golan , the official said , speaking on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the issue .