sydney ( reuters ) - australian police on monday used metal cutters to remove five protesters who had chained themselves to the gate of the prime minister s official residence over the treatment of asylum seekers detained in papua new guinea .
papua new guinea police last week expelled about 400 protesting asylum-seekers from a shuttered australian-run detention camp on manus island .
the united nations decried the crackdown as shocking .
the manus island detention camp , and another in the south pacific island nation of nauru , have been cornerstones of australia s policy under which it refuses to allow asylum seekers arriving by boat to reach its shores .
the policy , aimed at deterring people from making a perilous sea voyage to australia , has been heavily criticized by the united nations and human rights groups but has bipartisan political support in australia .
but some people , including some christian groups , object to it .
it s our hope that as church leaders we can actually respond ... in non-violent ways , in peaceful ways that actually highlight the issue and do justice to the beauty and the courage of the men on manus island , said one of the protesters , jarod mckenna , who said he was a christian pastor .
prime minister malcolm turnbull does not live in the official residence and he was not there during the three-hour protest which ended when police ordered the five to keep still while the chains were cut from around their necks .
they were then taken away in a police vehicle .
there were no reports of injuries , police said .
australia says allowing asylum seekers arriving by boat to reach its shores would only encourage people smugglers in asia and see more people risk their lives trying to reach australia .
australia closed the manus island detention center on oct. 31 , after it was declared illegal by a papua new guinea court .
the asylum-seekers , who have said they fear for their safety as well as being resettled in papua new guinea or another developing country , were taken to transit centers .
australia has rejected an offer from new zealand to resettle 150 of the men , and is instead aiming to sending up to 1,250 of them to the united states under a swap deal .
so many people feel hopeless , kurdish journalist and manus island detainee behrouz boochani told reuters by text message from one of the transit centers .
papua new guinea immigration and police officials did not return reuters telephone calls or emails .