belgrade ( reuters ) - catalonia s president has no choice but to suspend secession since it is unlikely anyone will recognize the spanish region on the basis of a disputed referendum , a former british diplomat who has advised the catalans and other secessionist movements said .
carne ross , who as founder of the diplomatic consultancy independent diplomat has worked with kosovo , south sudan , western sahara and catalonia on their respective bids for sovereignty , said there would be no solution to the crisis without a legal plebiscite agreed to by madrid .
to get there would require pressure from spain s european union partners , ross told reuters in a telephone interview .
a full declaration of independence would have been very problematic , would have led to obvious confrontation with madrid and he ( catalan president carles puigdemont ) was under enormous pressure not to declare independence , including i assume from the countries that catalonia would look to for recognition , said ross .
at the end of the day , if you re to be independent , you need to be recognized as such .
i think they are only likely to get international recognition if there is a legal referendum that madrid accepts .
puigdemont declared on tuesday that catalonia had the mandate for independence but proposed suspending sovereignty to allow for talks with madrid on an agreed solution .
on wednesday , spanish prime minister mariano rajoy called for clarity as to whether or not catalonia had declared independence and raised the specter of madrid suspending the region s autonomy .
catalonia s oct. 1 referendum was declared illegal by a spanish high court and mustered only 43 percent turnout as many independence opponents stayed at home .
hundreds of people were injured by baton-wielding police as they intervened to close polling stations .
ross said many catalans had been radicalized by madrid s resistance and police behavior .
fuel has been added to the fire , he said .
in my view , legitimate independence can only be legitimately declared when it has a clear majority of the population .
i don t think it is right to declare independence when you don t have that clear majority .
and as things currently stand , catalonia does not have that clear majority .
ross formerly headed the middle east section of the british mission to the united nations but resigned from the civil service in 2004 over the invasion of iraq .
his work with independent diplomat was the subject of the documentary accidental anarchist that was broadcast in july on the bbc .
ross , who advised the catalan government between july 2013 and september 2015 and is a committed advocate of self-determination , said it was unrealistic to expect a mediated solution resulting in , for instance , greater autonomy for catalonia .
he cited the examples of montenegro and scotland , in which referendums were held on the basis of negotiated terms in 2006 and 2014 respectively .
montenegro narrowly voted to leave a state union with serbia , while a majority of scots opted to remain with britain .
i think that the international community should be calling for madrid to do what britain did with scotland , which is to allow a legal referendum to resolve this once and for all .
french president emmanuel macron has rejected a call by puigdemont for eu mediation , but ross said the bloc should state clearly to madrid that it needs to find a more consensual solution .
asked if the catalans had erred in holding a referendum that madrid did not agree to , ross replied : they had no other option to build up the pressure for that dialogue .