united nations ( reuters ) - the 193-member united nations general assembly will hold a rare emergency special session on thursday at the request of arab and muslim states on u.s. president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital , sparking a warning from washington that it will take names .
palestinian u.n. envoy riyad mansour said the general assembly would vote on a draft resolution calling for trump s declaration to be withdrawn , which was vetoed by the united states in the 15-member u.n. security council on monday .
the remaining 14 security council members voted in favor of the egyptian-drafted resolution , which did not specifically mention the united states or trump but which expressed deep regret at recent decisions concerning the status of jerusalem .
mansour said on monday he hoped there would be overwhelming support in the general assembly for the resolution .
such a vote is non-binding , but carries political weight .
u.s .
ambassador nikki haley , in a letter to dozens of u.n. states on tuesday seen by reuters , warned that the united states would remember those who voted for the resolution criticizing the u.s. decision .
the president will be watching this vote carefully and has requested i report back on those countries who voted against us .
we will take note of each and every vote on this issue , haley wrote .
she echoed that call in a twitter post : the u.s. will be taking names .
under a 1950 resolution , an emergency special session can be called for the general assembly to consider a matter with a view to making appropriate recommendations to members for collective measures if the security council fails to act .
only 10 such sessions have been convened , and the last time the general assembly met in such a session was in 2009 on occupied east jerusalem and palestinian territories .
thursday s meeting will be a resumption of that session .
trump abruptly reversed decades of u.s. policy this month when he recognized jerusalem as israel s capital , generating outrage from palestinians and the arab world and concern among washington s western allies .
trump also plans to move the u.s. embassy to jerusalem from tel aviv .
the draft u.n. resolution calls on all countries to refrain from establishing diplomatic missions in jerusalem .
haley said on monday that the resolution was vetoed in the security council in defense of u.s. sovereignty and the u.s. role in the middle east peace process .
she criticized it as an insult to washington and an embarrassment to council members .
israel considers jerusalem its eternal and indivisible capital and wants all embassies based there .
palestinians want the capital of an independent palestinian state to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in a 1967 war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .