washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate marco rubio racked up a number of endorsements from party leaders on monday , giving weight to his message that he can become the establishment favorite behind whom republicans can unite .
arkansas governor asa hutchinson , u.s .
senator orrin hatch of utah and former republican presidential candidate bob dole said they would back the u.s. senator from florida for the party ’ s nomination to run for president in the nov. 8 election .
three republican leaders from nevada - u.s .
senator dean heller and u.s .
representatives cresent hardy and mark amodei - also announced their support for rubio leading up the state ’ s caucuses on tuesday .
“ i ’ m delighted to support @ marcorubio because he is best choice to keep our country safe , ” hutchinson posted on twitter .
“ will you join me and help marco win arkansas ? ” the arkansas primary comes after nevada in the state-by-state nominating contest on march 1 .
twelve other states and american samoa will also be holding primaries or caucuses on that date , known as super tuesday .
the endorsements came as rubio tries to seize on the exit of former florida governor jeb bush on saturday to win the support of more mainstream members of their party .
bush dropped out after a poor showing in south carolina ’ s republican primary .
hatch , who said he had initially supported bush because he had more experience , called rubio the “ more serious candidate ” compared with front-runner donald trump .
“ i feel he has the background to be able to really help turn this mess around , ” hatch told reporters .
dole , a former u.s. senator from kansas who lost to then-president bill clinton in 1996 , said he switched his support to rubio after bush left the campaign trail because he was young , hard-working and a “ better candidate ” than rival ohio governor john kasich .
“ he wants to grow the party as opposed to ( u.s .
senator ted ) cruz , ” dole said in an interview on abc ’ s “ political powerhouse ” podcast , referring to another republican candidate .
“ i don ’ t know what he wants to grow. ” ( reporting by megan cassella ; additional reporting by susan cornwell ; editing by eric walsh and jonathan oatis ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .