beirut ( reuters ) - lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri said on saturday that he would not accept iran-backed hezbollah s positions that affect our arab brothers or target the security and stability of their countries , a statement from his press office said .
the statement did not specify which countries he meant .
hariri announced his resignation from his post on nov. 4 in a televised statement from saudi arabia , a sunni monarchy and regional powerhouse locked in a confrontation with shi ite iran .
hezbollah is fighting alongside syrian president bashar al-assad in syria .
gulf monarchies have accused the shi ite group of also supporting the houthi group in yemen and of backing militants in bahrain .
hezbollah denies any activity in yemen or bahrain .
hariri s resignation pitched lebanon to the forefront of a regional power tussle this month between saudi arabia and iran , which backs hezbollah .
the two regional powers back competing factions in iraq , syria , lebanon and yemen .
after returning to lebanon this week , he shelved the decision on wednesday at the request of president michel aoun , easing a crisis that had deepened tensions in the middle east .
following his announcement , made on lebanon s independence day , hundreds of hariri supporters packed the streets near his house in central beirut , waving the blue flag of his future movement political party .
on saturday , he said that his decision to wait instead of officially resigning is to give a chance to discuss and look into demands that will make lebanon neutral and allow it to enforce its disassociation policy .
disassociation is widely understood in lebanon to mean its policy of staying out of regional conflicts .
the regional role played by the hezbollah political and military movement has greatly alarmed saudi arabia , hariri s long-time ally .
on saturday , hezbollah s international relations officer ammar moussawi said that the shi ite group is ready to reach understandings with our partners in the country , and that the group is open to real dialogue and cooperation with all , lebanon s state news agency nna reported .
moussawi added that hariri s resignation , which he said was done under coercion from riyadh , was a spark that aimed to ignite lebanon .
top lebanese druze politician walid jumblatt on saturday called on saudi arabia to enter dialogue with iran and said that the kingdom s modernization plans could not work while riyadh was engaged in a war in yemen .