beirut ( reuters ) - u.s.-backed militias in syria said they came under attack on saturday from russian jets and syrian government forces in deir al-zor province , a flashpoint in an increasingly complex battlefield .
the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias fighting with the u.s.-led coalition , said six of its fighters were wounded in the strike .
the pentagon said russia bombed a position east of the euphrates river where it knew sdf fighters and coalition advisers were stationed .
the jets did not injure coalition forces , it said .
there was no immediate comment from moscow or damascus .
washington and moscow support separate offensives in the syrian conflict , with both advancing against islamic state militants in the eastern region that borders iraq .
our forces east of the euphrates were hit with an attack from the russian aircraft and syrian regime forces , targeting our units in the industrial zone , the sdf said in a statement .
the sdf accused damascus of trying to obstruct its fighters .
such attacks waste energies that should be used against terrorism ... and open the door to side conflicts , it said .
the assaults by the russian-backed syrian army and the u.s.-backed sdf have at times raised fears of clashes that could stoke tensions between the competing world powers .
both offensives have converged on islamic state from opposite sides of the euphrates river that bisects oil-rich deir al-zor , islamic state s last major foothold in syria .
syrian troops with iran-backed militias have closed in from the west since last week , while the sdf advances from the east .
russian and u.s. battles against islamic state in syria have mostly stayed out of each other s way , with the euphrates often acting as a dividing line .
talks have been under way to extend a formal demarcation line , officials have said .
the u.s. coalition has said the sdf does not plan to enter deir al-zor city , where syrian soldiers have broken an islamic state siege that lasted since 2014 .
still , in june , the sdf accused the syrian military of bombing its positions in raqqa province , and the united states shot down a government warplane in syria s crowded airspace .
ahmed abu khawla , the commander of the sdf s deir al-zor military council , said russian or syrian fighter jets flew in from government territory before dawn on saturday .
the warplanes struck as the sdf waged heated and bloody battles in the industrial zone on the eastern bank , seizing factories from islamic state militants , he said .
we have requested explanations from the russian government , he told reuters .
we have asked for explanations from the coalition ... and necessary action to stop these jets .
the air raid came a day after khawla said his fighters would not let syrian government forces cross the euphrates .
on friday , he warned the army and its allies against firing across the river , which he said they had done in recent days .
the russian foreign ministry said units of the syrian army had already crossed .
a senior aide to president bashar al-assad said the government would fight any force , including the u.s.-backed fighters , to recapture the entire country .
i m not saying this will happen tomorrow ... but this is the strategic intent , bouthaina shaaban said in a tv interview .
syrian troops and allied forces captured villages on the western bank of the euphrates on saturday , state media said .
shi ite militias fighting with damascus also launched attacks against islamic state in the south of deir al-zor province along the border .
just over the frontier inside iraq , the military said iraqi armed forces dislodged islamic state from the natural gas-rich akashat region .
the caliphate that islamic state said in 2014 it had established , spanning both countries , effectively collapsed in july when an iraqi offensive captured the city of mosul .
in syria , the militants have lost much of their headquarters in raqqa to the sdf with the help of air strikes and special forces from the u.s.-led coalition .