washington ( reuters ) - a diplomatic crisis between the united states and turkey that led them to stop issuing visas to each other s citizens is overblown and will likely be resolved soon , turkish deputy prime minister mehmet simsek said on wednesday .
in remarks apparently aimed at defusing tensions between the two countries , simsek told an event in washington that turkey considered the safety and security of u.s. diplomats and employees in turkey a top priority and described the detention of staff at u.s. missions in turkey as routine investigations .
tensions between the two nato allies rose in recent days after the detentions of two locally employed staff prompted the united states on sunday to suspend non-immigrant visa services at its embassy and consulates in turkey .
hours later , turkey issued a similar suspension on visas for u.s. citizens .
u.s.-turkish relations were already strained over u.s. military support for kurdish fighters in syria and the united states unwillingness to extradite muslim cleric fethullah gulen , a former erdogan ally whom ankara views as the mastermind behind last year s failed military coup .
we don t want this dispute to last more than a second , simsek said of the current visa spat at a briefing on u.s. business opportunities in turkey at the u.s. chamber of commerce on wednesday .
he added that turkey is committed to safeguarding u.s. government employees in turkey .
simsek s remarks contrasted with turkish president tayyip erdogan s statements on tuesday that agents had infiltrated u.s. missions in turkey and that ankara no longer recognized u.s .
ambassador john bass as a legitimate envoy .
bass told reporters on wednesday the u.s. government had still not received any official explanation from the turkish government for why the employees were arrested in turkey this year .
when a u.s. drug enforcement administration worker was detained in istanbul last week , erdogan s spokesman said the employee had been in contact with a leading suspect in last july s failed coup .
since the abortive putsch , in which at least 240 people were killed , more than 50,000 people have been detained and 150,000 , including teachers , academics , soldiers and journalists , have been suspended from work .
simsek on wednesday dismissed concerns expressed by some western allies that the crackdown shows turkey is slipping into authoritarian rule under erdogan .
turkey is not doing arbitrary arrests .
there are no political hostages .
give us the benefit of the doubt that turkey s judicial system will work and is functioning , he said .