21st century wire says censorship is running rampant on the world s largest social media website.watch a video of this report here : .
former facebook workers have come out with shocking revelations that the social media giant is actively censoring conservative news topics and reports , while also falsifying its list of trending topics.the source says that workers routinely prevented stories about the right-wing cpac gathering , mitt romney , rand paul , and other conservative topics from appearing in the highly-influential section , despite the fact that they were organically trending on the site.the workers were known as news curators , and even actively injected news stories and reports into the trending list even when they were not organically popular enough to be included.facebook claims that the site s news trends section shows you topics that have recently become popular on facebook , but these revelations mean that the section actually just reflects the personal biases of its owners and the institutional concerns of the corporation.the anonymous source said : depending on who was on shift , things would be blacklisted or trending , i believe it had a chilling effect on conservative news , i d come on shift and i d discover that cpac or mitt romney or glenn beck or popular conservative topics wouldn t be trending because either the curator didn t recognize the news topic or it was like they had a bias against ted cruz .
the source kept an active log of the omissions , which included former irs official lois lerner , who was accused by republicans of inappropriately scrutinizing conservative groups ; wisconsin gov .
scott walker ; popular conservative news aggregator the drudge report ; chris kyle , the former navy seal who was murdered in 2013 ; and former fox news contributor steven crowder.yet , while omissions are worrying , the scariest aspect of this story is how facebook actively injects falsified trends into the news feeds of its one billion users .
the corporation can fraudulently set not only a national , but international , conversation on a topic of its choosing and also skew its bias toward which ever way its owners lean.the source continued : facebook got a lot of pressure about not having a trending topic for black lives matter .
they realized it was a problem , and they boosted it in the ordering .
they gave it preference over other topics .
when we injected it , everyone started saying , yeah , now i m seeing it as number one .
the black lives matter movement is widely credited as having originated from social media , but this suggests that its true origins lie elsewhere in the hands of very small group of elite news curators seeking to implement their own personal agenda in american politics.facebook s response to these damning revelations is most definitely lacking : we take allegations of bias very seriously .
facebook is a platform for people and perspectives from across the political spectrum .
trending topics shows you the popular topics and hashtags that are being talked about on facebook .
there are rigorous guidelines in place for the review team to ensure consistency and neutrality .
these guidelines do not permit the suppression of political perspectives .
nor do they permit the prioritization of one viewpoint over another or one news outlet over another .
these guidelines do not prohibit any news outlet from appearing in trending topics .
read more on facebook s scheming : 21st century wire facebook files