berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel won a fourth term in office in the german national election on sept. 24 , but a fractured vote that brings the far-right into parliament means she must try to work out a three-way coalition untested at federal level .
the new alliance would comprise merkel s conservative bloc - her christian democratic union ( cdu ) and the bavarian christian social union ( csu ) - along with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmentalist greens .
such a tie-up is called a jamaica coalition , because the three parties colors of black , yellow and green match those of the jamaican flag .
to secure a coalition agreement , the unlikely bedfellows must overcome differences on a range of issues including immigration policy , europe , tax and the environment .
the cdu and csu have reached an agreement over immigration policy , but it is not clear whether it will pass muster in a full coalition .
following are remarks on the possible coalition from senior officials : we achieved a joint result ( with the bavarian csu allies ) which i think is a very , very good basis to go into exploratory talks with the fdp and greens .
on friday , october 20th , we will have a first round of exploratory talks with all partners .
the parties come from very different starting positions .
there will be discussions in a lot of policy areas with the fdp and the greens .
we know that unusual combinations can , of course , bring the opportunity to find some solutions to things that had seemed unsolvable until now .
so now we need to put our noses to the grindstone and see what we can do .
we d be well advised not to be perfectionists in the upcoming coalition negotiations but rather to be open and to build trust that a government will be formed that acts sensibly , even during unforeseeable crises .
thoroughness is certainly more important than speed , but i m optimistic that everything will be sorted out by christmas .
all four parties are showing goodwill and the will of the voters is clear too : jamaica should be formed .
we all need to just get started now .
compromises always mean everyone needs to give a bit .
if the coalition comes off , it must not be a coalition that only agrees on the lowest common denominator .
that won t work .
we don t have to govern .
there is also the possibility of another grand coalition ( between merkel s conservatives and the social democrats ) .
it can succeed .
the most important thing is that trust needs to be built between participants , and that takes time .
that s why it would be illusory to believe we could conclude negotiations by christmas .
no one would understand it if the new government does not pass an immigration law .
we need a mix of humanity and order .
we greens also want to secure the eu s external borders and build a sensible database of fingerprints .
there must be a compromise that nonetheless represents everyone .
this is an agreement between the cdu and csu , and far from the result of exploratory talks for a coalition with the fdp and greens .
immigration is not the only issue where the parties have different ideas .
i am certain that , in the end , the solution that the cdu/csu have found with each other will not be the basis for common work ( with us ) for the next four years .
no party can expect the others to accept its original wording without changes ...
but i believe that a signal about limiting immigration on humanitarian grounds will ultimately make its way into the coalition agreement .
europe s fiscal policy needs a shift away from austerity toward a common pact for tax collection and investments , which would trigger social and ecological innovations .
a red line for us in coalition talks is the mutualization of debt in europe , the creation of new pots of money .
what we christian democrats call preservation of creation overlaps a lot with what the greens call a sustainable approach to nature .
a misunderstanding on the part of the chancellor must be cleared up before the exploratory talks begin : we greens are resolutely against the driving bans of which there is a risk due to the lack of action and ignorance of her transport minister alexander dobrindt , germany s most incompetent minister .
there can only be a jamaica tax concept if it includes the end of the solidarity surcharge without taking that money out of people s pockets somewhere else .