miziara , lebanon ( reuters ) - abu khaled had lived in the lebanese town of miziara for almost 20 years until a woman s suspected murder by a syrian refugee led to his expulsion alongside several hundred other syrians .
they gave us notice to evict at 2 a.m. , said abu khaled , standing outside a bare building in a nearby village with some of his 13-strong family , who were all forced to leave on the orders of the local authorities .
i don t know how we left - we carried our stuff on the road and then found this warehouse and we put ourselves here , he told reuters .
more than six years into the syrian war , 1.5 million syrians account for one quarter of lebanon s population .
but patience is wearing thin with their presence and the strain it has placed on local resources .
the lebanese army has previously carried out evictions of syrian refugees , citing security concerns .
at the local level , ill feeling has surfaced intermittently in recent years , with councils imposing curfews , telling lebanese not to rent houses to syrians , or outright asking them to leave an area .
the miziara council went a step further by using trucks to move people out , said george ghali , programs manager at the lebanese rights group alef .
the decision was prompted by last week s arrest of a syrian man for the murder of 26-year-old rayya chidiac in miziara , a wealthy christian town in north lebanon .
chidiac had been found dead in a relative s home on sept. 22 showing signs of bruising , strangling and sexual assault , security forces said .
the refugee , in his 20s , had worked as the building s caretaker , and confessed to her murder .
while the crime shocked syrians and lebanese alike , the locals said they must protect their own and could no longer risk living alongside syrians .
we are giving them food and they are devouring us .
we can not welcome them here any more , priest yousef faddoul told reuters .
let them set up tents for them elsewhere .
but the syrians say they are being punished collectively for one man s crime .
if i don t go back to my work , what can i do ?
in my country there is a war ... two days ago , a rocket exploded near my house , said sobhi razzouk , a syrian from idlib who had worked in miziara for 15 years before being expelled .
like abu khaled , he was had joined in lebanon by his family after the war began .
we condemn this horrific act ... but the way we were expelled - we never expected this .
in response to questions from reuters , the united nations refugee agency unhcr called for restraint from collective reprisals against refugees , and said it was in touch with local authorities and refugee families .
miziara s municipal authority said on its facebook page that syrians could now only be in town during daytime working hours - if they had work permits .
landlords can only rent accommodation to those with residency permits .
another post from the municipality encouraged miziara landlords and those who sponsor syrians to evict them or annul their guarantees .
we support evicting syrians in a legal way and evicting all those who break the law and anyone who has no business being in miziara , said maroun dina , the head of the municipal council , said .
this is a problem across lebanon .
if the government doesn t take the necessary steps then the public will and i can not control the public , dina said .
many syrians in lebanon live in a precarious legal situation , with proper residency and work documentation expensive and hard to obtain .
lebanon has resisted the establishment of organized refugee camps for syrians , fearing a repeat of its experience with around half a million palestinians , most still living in refugee camps set up after the creation of israel almost 70 years ago .
that has left syrians scattered across the country in tented settlements or urban areas - without any clear definition of their rights , and at the mercy of local authorities .
their long-term presence is a particularly sensitive issue for lebanon , where the addition of so many predominantly sunni muslim syrians would upset the delicate sectarian balance with christians , shi ite muslims and other groups .
as the syrian government regains control of more syrian territory , calls have increased in lebanon for syrians to return home , although prime minister saad al-hariri has said there can be no forced return .
last week , the north lebanese town of bsharri cited chidiac s death as a reason to clamp down on syrians , saying the situation in syria had improved to the point where they no longer needed to be in lebanon .
it issued a statement saying syrians must not gather in public squares , must not go out after 6 p.m. , and would be barred from renting properties in the area from nov. 15 .