rtformer congressman ron paul revealed a list of fake news journalists he claims are responsible for bogus wars and lies about hillary clinton s chances of winning the election .
journalists from cnn , the new york times , and the guardian are included .
this list contains the culprits who told us that iraq had weapons of mass destruction and lied us into multiple bogus wars , according to a report on his website , ron paul liberty report .
paul claims the list is sourced and holds a lot more water than a list previously released by melissa zimdars , who is described on paul s website as a leftist feminist professor .
revealed : the real fake news list https : //t.co/1ckose25lu pic.twitter.com/lqb9uze1pi ron paul ( @ ronpaul ) november 19 , 2016 @ ronpaul @ the_newright pic.twitter.com/hntdhzbnkm stavros ( @ ubipages ) november 19 , 2016 these are the news sources that told us if you like your doctor , you can keep your doctor , he said .
they told us that hillary clinton had a 98 % of winning the election .
they tell us in a never-ending loop that the economy is in great shape !
paul s list includes the full names of the fake news journalists as well as the publications they write for , with what appears to be hyperlinks to where the allegations are sourced from .
in most cases , this is wikileaks , but none of the hyperlinks are working at present , leaving the exact sources of the list unknown.cnn is paul s biggest alleged culprit , with nine entries , followed by the ny times and msnbc , with six each .
the ny times has recently come under fire from president-elect donald trump , who accuses them of being totally wrong on news regarding his transition team , while describing them as failing .
the failing @ nytimes story is so totally wrong on transition .
it is going so smoothly .
also , i have spoken to many foreign leaders .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) november 16 , 2016the publication hit back , however , saying their business has increased since his election , with a surge in new subscriptions.cnn s wolf blitzer is also amongst those named on the list .
in an email from the democratic national committee ( dnc ) released by wikileaks , the dnc staff discusses sending questions to cnn for an interview with donald trump.also listed is ny times journalist maggie haberman , whom leaked emails showed working closely with clinton s campaign to present the democratic candidate in a favorable light.read more : new leak reveals extent of clinton ties with us mediaso-called fake news has been recently attacked by us president barack obama , who claimed that false news shared online may have played a role in donald trump s victory in the us presidential election.facebook head mark zuckerberg has now said that the social media site may begin entrusting third parties with filtering the news.read more : zuckerberg hints at third-party news verification to fight fake news on facebookread more about msm fabricating news at : 21st century wire msm watch filesshare on facebookshare on twitter