this is like one big slush fund for hillary 2016 .
the clintons not only collected millions from foreign donors , they also rake in $ 7 million in taxpayer dollars .
really outrageous !
the clinton foundation and its major health charity have raked in more than $ 7 million from the u.s. government in recent years , according to an analysis of public records conducted by the washington free beacon.the clinton health access initiative ( chai ) , chaired by bill clinton and run by the former president s long-time associate ira magaziner , has received $ 6,010,898 from the centers for disease control and prevention ( cdc ) since 2010 .
chai , the biggest arm of the clinton family s charitable efforts , accounting for 60 percent of all spending , received $ 3,193,500 in fiscal years 2010 , 2011 , and 2012 , according to federal contracts , during hillary clinton s tenure as secretary of state .
the organization received an additional $ 2,817,398 from the cdc in fys 2013 , 2014 , and 2015.the grants , including $ 200,000 awarded as recently as january , have gone to chai s global aids program , and are filed under global health and child survival .
the cdc is listed as a $ 1 to $ 10 million contributor to chai , according to its donor list released earlier this month.the boston-based health arm of the clinton foundation has come under scrutiny for failing to disclose donations from foreign governments in violation of a pledge clinton made to the obama administration before she assumed office as secretary of state.a reuters report found that the health initiative stopped making its annual disclosure in 2010 and that no complete list of donors to the clintons charities has been published since .
the group only recently published a partial donor list , which its spokesperson maura daley told reuters made up for chai s oversight of failing to meet the disclosure agreement.when asked whether the cdc has any concern regarding its funding of chai or plans to provide grants to the organization in the future , an agency spokesperson told the washington free beacon that it can t predict who will apply for and be awarded grants .
cdc and potential grantees must follow federal guidelines when applying for or awarding and monitoring grants , said shelly diaz .
chai , like any other organization meeting federal requirements , may apply for cdc grants .
they would also be expected to meet the same ongoing requirements for grantees ( e.g .
reports , audits , performance standards ) .
chai received hundreds of millions from foreign nations between 2009 and 2014 , including : the united kingdom ( $ 79.7 million ) , australia ( $ 58.6 million ) , norway ( $ 38.1 million ) , canada ( $ 12.1 million ) , ireland ( $ 11.7 million ) , sweden ( $ 7.2 million ) , and new zealand ( $ 1.2 million ) .the boston globe found that foreign donations sharply accelerated to chai when hillary clinton became secretary of state.read more : wfb