after hollywood producer harvey weinstein was finally publicly outed after decades of alleged sexual abuses toward women , a # metoo hashtag formed and a dam broke .
suddenly it seemed that every time we turned on our computers , every time we received a phone alert , it was yet another man outed as an abuser.the worst of the worst of sexual abusers , though , are those who abuse children .
roy moore , the right-wing christian nut-job who s running for senate in alabama has been accused of doing just that .
five women have now come forward alleging that moore dated them and worse while they were teens and he was in his 30s.this all began almost a year to the day after an audio tape of donald trump bragging about how he s such a big star he can just grab women s pussies .
is it possible , though , that trump is as bad , if not worse , than moore ? while liberals and democrats have decried the alleged abusers , regardless of ideology or party affiliation , republicans have taken a * shall we say * more nuanced stance when it comes to moore .
they have invoked the bible , saying that the virgin mary was a teenager when jesus was born .
of course , much like they forget the well regulated militia part of the second amendment , these men who would slut shame their own sisters if they were democrats who wanted birth control , suddenly forgot the first part of mary s moniker .
they also defended moore by saying that he was just a fragile young buck of 32 , who couldn t have possibly known better , while his alleged victims were well on their way to adulthood at 14 and 16.donald trump has been surprisingly mum about the moore allegations , but spokesperson kellyanne conway carefully straddled the line by saying that if the allegations were true , moore should resign .
trump , though , had something interesting to say about the subject of statutory rape three years ago .
in a tweet , trump called it talent to date a woman who s young enough to be his daughter .
note : he was married to melania at the time .
@ rexrode_lisa `` @ realdonaldtrump you date girls young enough to be your daughter.that 's perverted '' dated .
no , that 's talent .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 23 , 2013 this wasn t the first time trump expressed interest in young girls .
at least twice , trump was heard saying that he would soon be dating girls who , at the time , were very underaged.donald trump once told 14-year-old girls , 'in a couple of years , i 'll be dating you ' https : //t.co/nslyeqp8dg pic.twitter.com/aydew6ngnz l.a. times politics ( @ latimespolitics ) october 13 , 2016 in 1992 , he said about a 10-year-old girl that he would be dating her in 10 years .
here s the video : all of this , of course , was out there before the election and trump voters didn t care .
trump voters in alabama don t care about the allegations against moore either .
a poll taken after the accusations began to surface showed moore with a 10 point lead against his democratic opponent , doug jones .
if we haven t thrown in the moral towel as a country , republicans certainly have .
jerry falwell s moral majority has turned into an immoral minority of right-wing ideologues who would pimp out their own daughters if it meant putting another republican in congress.featured image via drew angerer/getty images .