washington ( reuters ) - u.s. senate minority leader chuck schumer and 11 other democrats said on tuesday it was “ critical ” that the trump administration leave in place new vehicle fuel efficiency rules , saying the higher standards were achievable .
scott pruitt , the head of the environmental protection agency , is expected to announce as early as this week the reopening of a review of the rules that were set by the obama administration for the 2022-2025 period .
automakers say the changes , which would raise the fleet average fuel efficiency to more than 50 miles per gallon by 2025 from 27.5 mpg in 2010 , will impose significant costs and are out of step with consumer preferences .
they argue they need more flexibility to meet the rules amid low gas prices .
environmentalists , who favor the new standards , say they would reduce fuel costs and greenhouse gases and have vowed to sue if the trump administration weakens them .
“ these automobile emissions standards are economically feasible and technologically achievable for the auto industry , ” the democratic senators , including edward markey of massachusetts and former presidential candidate bernard sanders of vermont , wrote in a letter to pruitt .
“ it is critical that they remain in place. ” epa spokeswoman cathy milbourn declined to comment on the letter “ since the agency has not announced how it will proceed on the vehicle emission standards. ” the white house also declined to comment .
trade groups representing automakers , including general motors co ( gm.n ) , ford motor co ( f.n ) and toyota motor corp ( 7203.t ) , have asked the epa to withdraw the rules , which stem from a 2011 deal the industry reached with the u.s. government .
the chief executives of gm , ford , and fiat chrysler automobiles nv ( fcha.mi ) , along with the top north american executives at toyota , volkswagen , honda , hyundai motor co ( 005380.ks ) and others separately have urged president donald trump to revisit the decision .
the obama administration in 2011 said the changes would save motorists $ 1.7 trillion in fuel costs over the life of the vehicles and cost the auto industry about $ 200 billion over 13 years .
in july , the epa estimated the fleet would average 50.8-52.6 mpg in 2025 because americans were buying more suvs and trucks .
it had until april 2018 to decide whether the standards were feasible under a “ midterm review , ” but moved up its decision to a week before president barack obama left office .
the epa is also considering taking steps to reverse california ’ s waiver under the clean air act that allows it to set its own vehicle greenhouse gas emissions standards .
california has repeatedly vowed to vigorously contest any efforts to withdraw its authority , and in january the state hired former u.s. attorney general eric holder to represent it .
at the geneva auto show , fiat chrysler chief executive sergio marchionne told reporters he opposed the obama administration ’ s decision to finalize the rules .
“ we have simply asked that the case be reopened to understand what the consequences would be of the norms introduced five years ago , ” marchionne said , adding that he expects to “ see a positive reply in the coming days ” from the trump administration .