arrogant and smug is what we d call mcconnell when he spoke to a group telling them trump has excessive expectations of government unbelievable ! after 7 years of promises , the senate leader can t do a thing mcconnell should take the blame for the do-nothing senate ! speaking at a rotary club gathering in kentucky on monday , senate majority leader mitch mcconnell vented about how president donald trump s lack of political experience has led to him setting excessive expectations for legislative priorities.mcconnell , r-ky. , told the group in florence that he found it extremely irritating that congress has earned the reputation of not accomplishing anything .
part of the reason i think that the storyline is that we haven t done much is because , in part , the president and others have set these early timelines about things need to be done by a certain point , said mcconnell , a republican and the state s senior senator.trump , a political newcomer , as mcconnell noted , has a habit of declaring progress on major priorities that do not necessarily reflect the reality of lawmaking.for example , as the house was in the midst of negotiations about its obamacare replacement bill in february , trump announced that congress was in the final stages of its bill and said it would be ready for submitting in march .
while the house bill was unveiled in march , that chamber didn t vote on it until may , and health care votes continued until the end of july.that sort of disconnect has led to trump s expressing disappointment when bills chief among them health care reform fail to end up on his desk , even though , as with health care , the political reality indicated all along how difficult it was going to be to pass legislation .
our new president , of course , has not been in this line of work before .
and i think he had excessive expectations about how quickly things happen in the democratic process , mcconnell told the group .
so part of the reason i think people feel we re underperforming is because too many artificial deadlines unrelated to the reality of the complexity of legislating may not have been fully understood .
president trump tweeted back to mcconnell : get back to work !
here s the list of republican senators who went against president trump : primary them !
cornyn corker tillis isakson collins hatch gardner heller flake young capitothe more these senators push against trump , the more the american people will turn on the republican turncoats !