pyeongchang , south korea ( reuters ) - set to host the winter olympics in february , south korea conducted a series of security drills on tuesday to prepare against terror attacks ranging from a hostage situation , a vehicle ramming a stadium and a bomb-attached to a drone .
police and firemen were among around 420 personnel participating in the exercise , held in front of the olympic stadium at pyeongchang , just 80 km ( 50 miles ) from the heavily fortified border with north korea .
during the simulated drills , members of a swat team shot down a drone with a bomb attached that was flying toward a bus carrying athletes .
in another part of the mock exercise a terrorist took hostage athletes on a bus , and tried to ram the vehicle into the stadium before being gunned down by police .
officers in gas masks also removed a chemical bomb .
anxiety on the korean peninsula has been rising in recent months due to a series of missile tests by north korea as it continues its pursuit of nuclear weapons in defiance of u.n. sanctions and warnings from the united states .
please keep in mind that accidents always happen where no one has expected , south korean prime minister lee nak-yon said .
please check until the last minute whether there are any security loopholes .
lee did not mention north korea , but south korea s defense ministry on friday flagged risks that north korea could resort to terrorist or cyber attacks to spoil international events .
some 5,000 armed forces personnel will be deployed at the winter games , according to south korean government officials and documents reviewed by reuters .
pyeongchang s organizing committee for the 2018 games ( pocog ) has also hired a private cyber security company to guard against a hacking attack from the north , tender documents show .
to minimize the risk of provoking an aggressive north korean reaction during the games , south korea has asked washington to delay regular joint military exercises until after the olympics , the financial times reported .
a spokesman for south korea s defense ministry said on tuesday that nothing has been decided .