.
by gilad atzmonearlier this week , senior tablet magazine writer yair rosenberg pointed out in a washington post article that the white nationalists who gathered in charlottesville , virginia targeted the jews .
they ( the white nationalists ) immediately went after the jews , rosenberg writes .
they chanted anti-semitic and nazi slogans , including blood and soil and jews will not replace us all crafted to cast jews as foreign interlopers who need to be expunged .
the attendees proudly displayed giant swastikas and wore shirts emblazoned with quotes from adolf hitler .
one banner read , jews are satan s children .
this is an important and genuine observation by rosenberg .
he suggests that the white nationalists are fully aware that that they are in a battle with the jews .
the jews also seem to acknowledge that they are at war with the white nationalists and that this broad category includes the american president * who according to the jewish press took side with the nazis .it seems that the american people are the only ones who are kept in the dark .
they seem baffled by this spectacle of hatred that threatens to escalate into a new civil war .
the americans are told by their media that this is a race war : white vs. black , slavery apologists vs. peace loving liberals , white lives matters vs. black lives matter and so on .
but if rosenberg is right and this is a war between the jews and the white nationalists , why do the american media attempts to conceal it ? if you hate racism , as you should , but also brave enough to look for an answer , you may grasp how volatile the situation is .
those who read jewish history aren t surprised by the current developments .
it has all been building for quite a while.this article was originally published at gilad atzmon s bloggilad atzmon s book being in time : a post political manifesto is available now on : amazon.co.uk , amazon.com and gilad.co.uk .
read more charlottesville news at : 21st century wire charlottesville filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv