ankara/berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel said on tuesday germany would only restrict some arms sales to turkey , softening an earlier announcement of a freeze on major arms sales after ankara said that would hurt their joint fight against islamic state .
merkel spoke a day after foreign minister sigmar gabriel said berlin had put all major arms exports to nato partner turkey on hold , citing deteriorating human rights there and strained diplomatic ties .
she told broadcaster ndr that germany would decide on arms sales requests from turkey on a case-by-case basis , noting that berlin cooperated with ankara on security matters .
we also remain in a joint fight against islamic state , merkel said , in an apparent rebuff of the more forceful remarks made by gabriel , a senior member of the social democrats ( spd ) , junior partners in her ruling coalition .
turkey accused gabriel of using the issue for political gain ahead of a sept. 24 national election .
the countries ties through the u.s.-led military alliance have come under increased pressure since turkish president tayyip erdogan started a crackdown on political opponents after a failed coup last year .
germany has criticized mass arrests in turkey , refused to extradite people turkey says were involved in the putsch and demanded the release of around a dozen german or turkish-german citizens arrested in recent months .
this month , merkel went as far as saying she would seek to end turkey s membership talks with the european union - drawing accusations from turkey that she was flirting with populism to build support before the election .
berlin is also considering adding turkey to a list of countries that pose high security risks for intelligence agents , police officers and military officials , germany s sueddeutsche zeitung newspaper and two broadcasters reported , citing a spokesman for the interior ministry .
the list includes china , russia , pakistan , north korea and 26 other countries .
merkel did not give details of what criteria germany would use to make its case-by-case decisions on arms exports .
but in a written response to a question from greens lawmaker ozcan mutlu about german arms exports to turkey , economy ministry state secretary matthias machnig said they would not be approved if berlin suspected they could be used for repression .
machnig s response , dated sept. 7 , also showed arms sales to turkey had declined significantly since a year earlier .
he listed arms exports to turkey approved between jan. 1 and aug. 31 this year - primarily bombs , torpedoes and missiles with some small arms and munitions - worth a total of about 25 million euros ( $ 29.84 million ) , down from 69 million euros in the same period last year .
after merkel spoke , turkish foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu said he found the chancellor s approach more suitable and chided gabriel for using the issue to drum up votes .
gabriel s spd is running 13 to 14 percent behind merkel s conservatives in many opinion polls .
turkish eu affairs minister omer celik , speaking in london , had said gabriel s ban on major arms deals would weaken turkey s fight against terrorism and make europe less secure .
a nato spokesman said the alliance has no role in commercial arms sales between member states .
it does not monitor , promote or facilitate such transactions , the spokesman added .