craiova , romania ( reuters ) - nato launched a new multinational force in romania on monday to counter russia along its eastern flank and to check a growing russian presence in the black sea following the kremlin s 2014 seizure of crimea .
the force will initially be built around a romanian brigade of up to 4,000 soldiers , supported by troops from nine other nato countries , and complementing a separate deployment of 900 u.s. troops who are already in place .
the plans are to include additional air and sea assets to give the force greater capabilities .
our purpose is peace , not war , romanian president klaus iohannis told the nato parliamentary assembly of alliance lawmakers , which is meeting this year in bucharest .
we are not a threat for russia .
but we need dialogue from a strong position of defense and discouragement , he said , before flying to the craiova military base in south-eastern romania .
at the base , as military bands played , nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg stood alongside iohannis , addressed some of the troops in green face paint and inspected vehicles and weapons .
we are sending a very clear message : nato is here , nato is strong and nato is united , stoltenberg told assembled polish , romanian , spanish and portuguese soldiers .
russia accuses nato of trying to encircle it and threatening stability in eastern europe , which nato denies .
around the black sea , romania , bulgaria and turkey are nato members while georgia and ukraine aspire to join .
the nato force aims to develop its presence in the black sea region , rich in oil and gas , without escalating tensions as it seeks to counter russia s own plans to create what military analysts say is a buffer zone .
the 2008 russian operation to put troops in georgia s south ossetia region , its support for separatists in eastern ukraine since 2014 and its annexation of crimea have raised the stakes , with all sides warning of a new , cold-war style scenario .
apart from romania , poland is the biggest troop contributor .
bulgaria , italy and portugal will train regularly with the force in craiova , and germany is also expected to contribute .
in additional to existing nato black sea naval patrols , a maritime presence will include more allied visits to romanian and bulgarian ports , training and exercises .
britain is deploying fighter planes to romania .
canada is already helping to patrol romanian air space , and italian planes are helping patrol over bulgaria .
some eastern europeans want nato s new ballistic missile defense shield , which includes a site in romania , to be part of nato s eastern posture vis-a-vis russia .
the aegis ashore system would add another level of deterrence , said maciej kowalski , an analyst at the polish casimir pulaski foundation , referring to the u.s.-built system .
nato says the system is to intercept any iranian rockets .
as in the baltics and poland , where the u.s.-led alliance has some 4,000 troops , nato says the relatively light multinational model recalls allied support for west berlin in the 1950s , when the presence of british , french and u.s. forces ensured the soviet union could not control all of berlin .
under nato s founding treaty , an attack on one ally is an attack on all , meaning all 28 nato nations would be required to respond in the case of any potential russian aggression .
while months in planning , the establishment of the force comes as russia winds down its biggest war games since 2013 .
the zapad , or west , games showed off moscow s latest weaponry and its ability to quickly mass forces on nato s borders .
the enhanced nato presence in romania and bulgaria marks a diplomatic success for bucharest , which gained greater persuasive power because it is set to reach a nato goal of spending 2 percent of economic output on defense this year , a priority for u.s. president donald trump .
romania pushed for bigger nato naval presence on the black sea for more than a year , but found its neighbor bulgaria wary of provoking russia .
turkey supports only limited nato reinforcements , concerned about breaking international rules limiting the scale of patrols in the black sea .
turkey has played down the extent of russia s militarization of crimea , which nato says involves deploying surface-to-air missiles and communications jamming equipment .