danang , vietnam ( reuters ) - concluding a peace treaty between russia and japan would involve moscow examining how it could be affected by tokyo s security commitments to its allies , russian president vladimir putin said on saturday .
russia and japan never formally ended their hostilities after world war two because of a dispute over a chain of islands in the pacific .
putin was speaking at the end of an asia-pacific economic cooperation summit in vietnam at which he said he discussed talks on the treaty with japan s prime minister shinzo abe .
japan has a long-standing defense alliance with the united states , a stance that sits uncomfortably with moscow , which has often accused washington of projecting its military might close to russia s borders .
i want to say that here there are lots of questions regarding the peace treaty , putin told reporters .
its not a secret that we also need to look at what commitments japan has towards its partners in the areas of defense and security , and how that will influence the progress of the negotiating process on the peace treaty between russia and japan .
putin said moscow needed to examine what commitments japan has and what she can do , and can not do , independently .
it s entirely natural , if there are some commitments , that they obviously have to be observed , and how does that impact our relations with japan ?
we all have to understand that it s a lot of work , and maybe it is indeed not a question of just one year , the russian leader said at a news conference in the vietnamese city of danang , where the apec summit was held .
the disputed islands are known in russia as the kurile islands and in japan as the northern territories .
soviet forces occupied four islands at the southern end of the chain at the end of world war two .
putin said that there were some aspects of the dispute which could already be addressed , including easing visa restrictions for japanese citizens to visit the disputed islands , and establishing economic cooperation there .
that it to say , there are certain things that can be done right away , some things probably will take a long time , putin said .
it does not depend on who is in office ; abe , putin , or someone else , putin said .
it s important that our countries , our peoples are resolved on a long-term resolution of all the problems to create a favorable environment for our relations to develop .