the american taxpayer is on the hook for the millions and millions it costs to house and feed these kids .
record numbers came here with over 10,000 in october and november .
this is unbelievable !
you can blame the obama policy for this : please watch this shocking video : obama policy paying millions to take in illegals : wfaa found this : as the newest surge of refugee south american children begins arriving soon in north texas , everything from food to clothing , counseling and medical services will be provided by the nonprofit group bcfs .
but , records show , taxpayers will be footing the bill.long before the buses of workers who will care for immigrant children rolled into north texas today , san antonio-based bcfs was tapped by the obama administration to provide temporary shelters in north texas at taxpayer expense .
how much is this going to cost ?
neither bcfs nor the u.s. health and human services department could say today.but , an online database search of federal contracts and grants shows that there was a spike in payments to the group coinciding with last year s surge of unaccompanied minors.according to usaspending.gov , bcfs received $ 296 million to administer the government s unaccompanied alien children program nationwide over the past three fiscal years .
the costs for temporary shelter operations , medical care , security , room and board are requested , vetted , proposed and authorized for by the federal government , said krista piferrer , bcfs spokeswoman .
all expenses are based on cost-reimbursement , which means funds are drawn down only when goods/services are requested and expended .
what the records don t show is exactly what the money bought , or where it was spent.we do know one area where bcfs has spent dollars , though.according to the center for responsive politics , bcfs , which used to be called baptist child & family services , has spent $ 210,000 on lobbying lawmakers since 2006.record number of illegal minors in october and november of 2015 : the department of homeland security has told congress that for the past six years it has deported just six percent of youths who entered the country illegally , an enormous policy failure that illegal immigrants are seizing on to encourage friends and relatives to raid the border.getting into the united states is so easy , and staying here a cinch , that illegals are even telling u.s. border patrol officials that they know they will be freed and are using social media to send home photos of their permisos , documents that set them free .
border patrol agents have confirmed that the new arrivals are saying that they know they will be released after they are processed , said jessica m. vaughan of the center for immigration studies .
they have heard this from family and friends who have gone before and shared their experience .
they use social media to communicate this , sometimes even texting pictures of what they call their permiso , which is the document they get showing them to appear for a court date years in the future , she told secrets.according to a congress report , dhs told the senate homeland security and governmental affairs committee that since 2009 , it has apprehended some 122,700 unaccompanied children from el salvador , guatemala and honduras .
but it has only repatriated about 7,700 , or 6 percent.when added to the administration s practice of releasing most illegal minors who promise to eventually show up at an immigration court hearing and a judge s order to close some detention centers , those looking to flee troubled latin countries believe that once they get across the border that they are home free , said a report on the issue from the senate homeland panel headed by wisconsin sen. ron johnson.a new surge of crossings by minors on the border appear to prove that out , according to vaughan.when asked about a new report on the surge and what was fueling it , she said , i believe that part of the reason for the new surge is that the smugglers now can assure their potential customers that they will no longer face a possibility of extended detention after being processed by the border patrol , because a federal judge has ordered dhs to close the family and child detention centers .
vaughan , the center s director of policy studies , said that border patrol agents have revealed that new arrivals know they will be released once processed and use social media to spread the word in latin america.via : we