united nations ( reuters ) - the president of the central african republic , faustin-archange touadera , on tuesday pleaded with the world to not forget his country and urged the u.n. to bolster its peace-keeping force amid growing violence that threatens to spin the country out of control .
thousands have died and a fifth of central africans have fled a conflict that broke out after mainly muslim seleka rebels ousted president francois bozize in 2013 , provoking a backlash from christian anti-balaka ( anti-machete ) militias .
although unrest has since subsided , fighting has spiked this year and the united nations warned this month that ethnic fighting could descend again into a much larger conflict if combatants are not disarmed .
central africa is at a critical moment in its history .
we need the support of our friends ; there are risks that we ll be forgotten , touadera told a news conference ahead of a high-level meeting at the u.n. general assembly .
violence has escalated since former colonial power france last year ended its peacekeeping mission in the country , which once had as many as 2,000 soldiers .
france has grown concerned by events , although officials say paris is unlikely to return to central africa unless the capital were under threat .
the violence continues despite a peace deal signed between the government and rival factions in rome last month and a 13,000-strong u.n. mission ( minusca ) , which will see its mandate renewed in november .
the only force capable of ensuring security is the united nations , touadera said .
the capacities of minusca in terms of men and equipment have to be strengthened .
national security forces are too weak to tackle a multitude of armed groups and counter the spillover from conflicts in neighboring countries .
diplomats have also said that touadera does not have the political strength to impose central government rule .
touadera bemoaned the departure of france s operation sangaris , but also the withdrawal of about 2,000 american and uganda forces that were fighting the ugandan rebel group the lord s resistance army and the withdrawal of minusca s congolese battalion in the west .
all of this has created a vacuum that the minusca must fill , he said .