geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations called on world powers on thursday to help arrange the medical evacuation of 500 people , including 167 children , from eastern ghouta , saying the besieged damascus suburb has now become a humanitarian emergency .
nine people died in recent weeks waiting for permission from the syrian government for the sick and wounded to be evacuated from the rebel-held area to hospitals less than an hour drive from the capital , said jan egeland , the u.n. humanitarian adviser on syria .
russia and iran , as well as the united states and france , pledged to help during the weekly humanitarian meeting , he said .
it would be incredible if they can not deliver a simple evacuation of mainly women and children , a 40-minute drive to damascus city , egeland told a news conference in geneva .
we are convinced that we can do the evacuation if we get a green light from the government .
we can then negotiate calm with both sides .
dozens of mortar bombs landed on ghouta , the last major rebel stronghold near damascus , on wednesday , a war monitor and a witness said , despite a 48-hour truce proposed by russia to coincide with the start of peace talks in geneva .
eastern ghouta , next door to damascus , is the eye of the hurricane , it is the epicentre of this conflict .
at the moment there are 400,000 people there , egeland said .
in the past two months , u.n. convoys have delivered supplies to only 68,000 of the 400,000 trapped civilians , he said .
our not being able to reach eastern ghouta for many months in most of areas has now led to an undoubtedly catastrophic situation , egeland said .
acute malnutrition rates among children there is nearly 12 percent , above the 10 percent emergency threshold , and a five- or six-fold increase since january , he added .
in general i would say that no , there is no calm in this de-escalation zone , there is only escalation in this de-escalation zone , egeland said .
that has ended in eastern ghouta except for ( a pause of ) two days only , there has been massive loss of civilian life , hundreds and hundreds have been wounded .
we need sustained calm to be able to feed 400,000 people who now beyond doubt are in a humanitarian emergency , he said .
civilians in damascus have also been killed or wounded by mortars coming from eastern ghouta , he added .
in hassakeh , in northeastern syria , u.n. aid workers found a desperate situation , egeland said .
they told about children walking around barefoot , recently displaced children , barefoot in the snow and the cold .
he hoped that the u.n. security council would agree on a resolution allowing cross-border aid to continue to enter syria , supplying 2.7 million people in rebel-held areas .
it is my clear understanding from all members of the security council that none wants a break of the pipeline .