monrovia ( reuters ) - the u.s. embassy in liberia on wednesday defended the credibility of last month s presidential election there , amid allegations of irregularities and fraud that have delayed a run-off poll .
first-round winner george weah , a former international football star , was initially set to face the runner-up , vice-president joseph boakai , last week to determine who will replace current term-limited president ellen johnson sirleaf .
but the third-place finisher , charles brumskine , contested the outcome of the first round , claiming gross irregularities had occurred and accusing nec officials of fraud , an allegation the body denies .
no accredited liberian , regional , or international observation group suggested that the cumulative anomalies observed reflect systemic issues sufficient to undermine the fundamental integrity of the electoral process , the u.s. embassy said in a statement .
liberia s supreme court ordered the elections commission to fully examine brumskine s allegations last week , a decision likely to push back the run-off date by weeks and even creates the possibility of the first round being re-run .
a number of first-round candidates , including boakai , have publicly backed brumskine s challenge to the results and echoed his fraud allegations .
the dispute led johnson sirleaf , a nobel peace prize winner , to state in a radio address following the supreme court decision that liberia s democracy was under threat , without elaborating .
efforts by any actors to impede the expressed will of liberia s people for personal ambition could risk goodwill and future investments in liberia by international partners , the u.s. statement warned .
liberia , africa s oldest modern republic , was founded by freed u.s. slaves in 1847 , and maintains a special relationship with the united states .
the west african timber and rubber producer is still trying to heal the wounds of one of the continent s most brutal civil wars , which ended nearly 15 years ago .
a successful vote would be its first democratic transfer of power in more than seven decades .