of course , black caucus member and loudmouth activist , rep. cummings would be the first to let everyone know how outraged he was if this what a white congressman a lyft car adorned with congressional plates that went viral on social media belongs to rep. elijah e. cummings ( d-md .
) , the washington post reported tuesday.a photo submitted to local washington , d.c. , blog popville last week depicted a black honda with a pink lyft driver sticker on its window shield and the words maryland u.s. congress 7-a on its license plates.cummings told the washington post that his daughter who just graduated from howard university has been using the car to drive for lyft and earn extra income .
in an effort to earn some extra money to pay her expenses at school , she signed up for a part-time position with one of the ride-sharing companies , cummings said .
they , in turn , gave her a sticker to apply to the windshield of the car .
cummings added that he has asked his daughter to remove the congressional plates , which afford special parking privileges for members and staffers.allen b .
west elected to the house in 1996 , cummings is coming up on his 20th year representing maryland s 7th congressional district which includes over half of baltimore city and most of howard county .
his district contains some of maryland s most black precincts , precincts in which statistics for crime and incarceration , homelessness , economic development , school drop-out , unemployment , drug conviction and out-of-wedlock birth rates all are consistently worse than both state and federal levels for all those same statistical categories.yet despite these facts , cummings believes its time for everybody else to realize that black lives matter.in a piece published on afro.com cummings laid out his plan new plan , enacting black lives matter into law , stating [ in part ] : america is at an historic crossroads .
either we will move forward in 2016 with public policies that support greater opportunity for everyone or we will continue to sink deeper into economic inequality , injustice and violence .
these are the stakes in our current political struggles and this is why black lives should matter for everyone .
it s not the first time congressional cars have come under the spotlight .
roll call s video of rep. eleanor holmes norton ( d-d.c. ) performing a botched park job outside the capitol went viral last year .
via : the hill