our full report on the horrible shooting of rep. steve scalise is below these hate-filled comments from the left .
we wanted you to see that the left wasted no time in continuing the rhetoric : soon after congressman steve scalise was shot by a crazed shooter , the left wasted no time with their hate-filled comments : restless news published a meme saying the shooting was karma : a twitter user named charles barkley ( not the real charles barkley ) : well that kkk f * cker deserved it the left took on gun control mentioning sandy hook : some on the left even brought up obamacare : rep. steve scalise was shot wednesday morning in alexandria , virginia , in a deliberate attack .
a congressional staffer was also shot .
scalise is in surgery right now and is expected to recover.rand paul said scalise being there likely saved everyone because his presence ( he s leadership ) meant capitol police were there.scalise , a member of the house republican leadership as the majority whip , appeared to have been shot in the hip and it appeared two capitol hill police agents were shot , according to rep. mo brooks who was on deck when the shooting occurred .
the shooting took place at a practice for the gop congressional baseball team.nbc news special report : congressman scalise , aides shot at baseball practice in virginia https : //t.co/kd9i1ip9mz jason calabretta ( @ jasoncalabretta ) june 14 , 2017in a statement , texas rep. roger williams , one of the team s coaches , said one of his staff members was shot during the incident and is receiving medical attention .
there was no information on the staffer s injuries.according to both congressional and law enforcement sources , the shooting appears to be a deliberate attack .
two law enforcement sources say the suspect is in police custody , has been taken to a hospital.lawmakers who spoke at the scene to reporters described a normal morning practice , at a field where they ve practiced for years , when all of a sudden shots rang out .
lawmakers , staff members and even the young son of one of the members ran for cover , jumping into dugouts and over fences to avoid the gunshots.members described scalise dragging himself roughly 15 yards away from second base , where he had been playing , and lying there until the shooter was neutralized , at which point some of them ran to assist him and apply pressure to the wound until he could be evacuated .
once they were able , sen. jeff flake said he and rep. brad wenstrup , who is a physician , went out to where scalise was lying to apply pressure to the wound .
scalise was coherent the whole time , flake said.kentucky sen. rand paul told cnn it would have been a massacre without capitol hill police .