london ( reuters ) - once seen as an opportunity for investors to position themselves for a future north korean turnaround , the country ’ s rarely traded defaulted debt may move further into the twilight zone after new sanctions were imposed this week on pyongyang .
debt from north korea - probably the most isolated of the frontier markets - has already been frozen for years as the secretive nation faces the most stringent sanctions regime in the world .
it is part of a highly opaque market in the legacy debts of countries isolated from the rest of the international community , such as pre-castro cuban debt .
north korea has syndicated loans with a face value of around $ 1 billion , tied to loans in default since the 1980s .
it has not undertaken any restructuring with its creditors .
the debt was repackaged in 1997 into a special vehicle called nk debt corporation by french bank bnp , making it into transferable securities .
total debt accumulated by borrowing heavily from western banks back in the 1970s - including principal and accumulated interest - amounted to about $ 3 billion , washington dc-based think-tank peterson institute for international economics estimated in 2013 .
the securities had been regularly traded since around 2000 , according to stuart culverhouse , head of research at exotix capital .
prices spurted higher after the death of president kim jong-il in 2011 on hopes that his son kim jong-un , north korea ’ s new swiss-educated leader , would make progress with the international community and open up the economy .
that pushed prices to 14-18 cents on the dollar , up from 13-15 but investors ’ hopes were soon dashed .
culverhouse was unable to say what price the securities could now trade at .
“ there was a market , but it essentially got frozen at the beginning of 2013 after the united nations and other sanctions were imposed , which people felt restricted trading in the notes , ” he said .
exotix , a specialist in emerging and frontier debt , has not seen the loans trade in the past three to four years , culverhouse said .
this week ’ s developments will further dishearten holders of the debt .
a war of words between u.s. president donald trump and north korea ’ s kim has raised fears of a nuclear standoff , while the u.n. security council imposed fresh sanctions on saturday after pyongyang ’ s intercontinental ballistic missile tests .
these curbs ban north korean exports of coal , iron , iron ore , lead , and seafood , and could slash the asian state ’ s $ 3 billion annual export revenue by a third .
“ a lot of people have taken a view that it is just not worth it , they won ’ t trade , ” culverhouse said .
it is not just the more specialized distressed debt traders who once took a shine to north korean debt : one of the holders of nk debt corporation ’ s notes is the franklin emerging markets debt opportunities fund .
according to the fund ’ s annual report in july 2016 , it held nk debt corporation ’ s zero-coupon bonds with a principal amount of $ 15.5 million and maturing in march 2020 .
it did not ascribe a value to the position .
but in its july 2013 annual report , the fund had valued the debt , which was denominated in german marks and swiss francs , at $ 830,000 .
it said it had acquired the securities between 2007 and 2011 for more than $ 3.1 million .
the asset manager declined to comment .
north korea is only the latest frontier market to be moving further out of reach of investors desperate to expand into new high-return markets .
excitement over investment in cuba for instance has gone tepid after trump ordered a clampdown on u.s. business dealings with the caribbean island ’ s military , saying he was cancelling his predecessor barack obama ’ s “ terrible and misguided deal ” with havana .
investing in iran too has proven a long slog , despite optimism after tehran ’ s 2015 deal with six major powers to curb its nuclear program in exchange for the lifting of oil bans and most financial sanctions .
“ nothing is going to happen with these ( north korean ) issues for a long , long time , ” said charles blitzer , a debt restructuring expert and former imf staffer .
blitzer estimates that interest arrears on north korean debt amount to around 4-5 times the outstanding $ 1 billion principal .
“ north korea is like cuba in spades - they have similar ratios of principal to arrears and have not yet indicated much interest in dealing with the london club , ” said blitzer , referring to debt owed to the private sector .