( this version of the story corrects spelling of caitlan coleman throughout ) by asif shahzad islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistani troops shot out the tyres of a vehicle carrying a kidnapped u.s.-canadian couple and their children in a raid that led to the family s release after five years of being held hostage , a pakistani security official said on friday .
u.s. drones were hovering near the northwestern pakistani area where american caitlan coleman , her canadian husband joshua boyle and their three children , all born in captivity , were freed , another security official said .
coleman and boyle were held by the taliban-linked haqqani network after being kidnapped while backpacking in afghanistan , and their rescue marked a rare positive note in often-fraught u.s.-pakistan relations .
the family flew out of pakistan on friday , according to a pakistani airport official who saw them .
it was not clear whether they were bound for canada or the united states .
a senior pakistani security source on friday detailed how the family were freed following a car chase in the northwestern tribal region bordering afghanistan .
he said pakistani troops and intelligence agents , acting on a u.s. intelligence tip , zeroed in on a vehicle holding the family as they were being moved into kurram tribal agency near the town of kohat , some 60 km ( 37 miles ) inside pakistan .
agents from pakistan s inter services intelligence ( isi ) spy agency and soldiers attempted to intercept the vehicle , but it sped away , according to the security source .
our troops fired at the vehicle and burst its tyres , he said , declining to be identified because he is not authorised to speak openly to the media .
the kidnappers managed to escape , the security official added , saying the troops wouldn t fire at the fleeing captors for fear of harming the hostages .
the army recovered the hostages safely from the car .
army spokesman major general asif ghafoor told nbc news that the vehicle s driver and another militant had escaped to a nearby refugee camp .
the family s rescue has been hailed by u.s. president donald trump as a positive moment for u.s.-pakistan relations , which have frayed in recent years amid washington s assertions that islamabad has not been doing enough to tackle haqqani militants who are believed to be on pakistani soil .
trump , in a statement , said the release of the hostages showed pakistan was acquiescing to america s wishes for it to do more to provide security in the region .
a second pakistani security official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said u.s. drones on wednesday had been seen circling kohat , suggesting u.s. co-operation included sophisticated surveillance inside pakistan .
kohat is deep inside pakistani territory , next to the eastern edge of kurram agency in khyber-pakhtunkhwa province - outside the afghan frontier zone where u.s. drones have in the past been tolerated by pakistan .
the u.s. embassy and the pakistani military did not comment on the drone report .
however , a taliban commander in pakistan with knowledge of the hostage family said u.s. drones flying in the area prompted their captors to move them .
we took care of this family like our own family members and special guests , but after frequent flying of u.s. drones on kurram tribal region and its adjoining areas , it was decided to move them to a safer place , said the taliban official on condition of anonymity .
they were being shifted to a safer place when captured by the pakistani forces .
pakistani officials bristle at u.s. claims islamabad is not doing enough to tackle islamist militants , particularly the haqqanis .
after the release of the family , they emphasised the importance of co-operation and intelligence sharing by washington , which has threatened to cut military aid and other punitive measures against pakistan .
pakistan s military indicated the family were rescued shortly after entering pakistan from afghanistan , and a government official repeated that assertion on friday .
we have been taking on the terrorists ...
so we have taken action based on the intelligence that was provided by the u.s. side , said foreign ministry spokesman nafees zakaria .
he added that he had no other details on the operation maybe because they were abducted in afghanistan , they were there in afghanistan , and that could be the reason why you have not heard much about it .
however , two taliban sources with knowledge of the family s captivity said they had been kept in pakistan in recent years .
a u.s. government source in washington also said there was no indication the family had been in afghanistan .
the haqqani network operates on both sides of the porous afghan-pakistani border but senior militants have acknowledged they moved a major base of operations to kurram agency in the tribal areas .
the united states and afghanistan say that safe havens inside pakistan allow the taliban , including the haqqani network , to plan and launch attacks against the western-backed afghan government and u.s. and other foreign troops that support them .
the taliban have been fighting for 16 years to re-establish their ultra-islamist regime that was toppled in a u.s.-backed military operation over sheltering the al qaeda terrorist network that planned the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks on u.s. cities .