detroit teachers make viral video : blame republican governor for deteriorating schools ellen degeneres donates $ 500,000 to help school .. principal busted stealing money from school.but it s all about the kids while there is no question many of the schools in detroit are in horrible shape , placing the blame on republican governor rick snyder is laughable .
taxpayers in the state of michigan have been bailing out the corrupt detroit public schools for decades.some detroit teachers at spain elementary got together to make a video highlighting the issues they were facing due to lack of funds available to their schools .
the video caught the attention of ellen degeneres .
in the video , the teachers blame the deteriorating condition of the detroit public schools on republican governor rick snyder .
the teachers also compare their schools to the schools in the suburbs , where the working taxpayers live who fill the coffers of the public school officials and administrators who always seem to be under investigation for stealing from them .
the teachers also make a point at of suggesting that because the students are black , they are somehow being treated unfairly , invoking the words of martin luther king , jr. to prove her point .
watch here : over a dozen current and former principals in the detroit public school system have been charged in a conspiracy scheme involving more than $ 900,000 in kickbacks and bribes , federal prosecutors announced tuesday.at least 13 principals are named in the federal complaints including the principal of a school that was featured on the ellen degeneres show and received $ 500,000 in donations because conditions there were so poor.one of the principals , ronald alexander , had received about $ 23,000 in kickbacks , the federal complaint says.alexander appeared on the ellen degeneres show in february when degeneres surprised his performing arts school with donations from lowe s home improvement and pop star justin bieber , who pledged $ 1 from each ticket of his michigan concert toward spain elementary-middle school.during the show , teachers told degeneres how they did not have enough money for books for each of the students and how classrooms lacked heat .
[ quote_box_center ] of all the people in the whole world , i am the happiest principal on earth , alexander said at the time .
[ /quote_box_center ] here is the video clip of the wonderful principal thief at spain elementary-middle school , who generously accepted the $ 500,000 donation from ellen degeneres : the real victims in a case like this are the students and the families the teachers and the educators who want to make a difference , barbara mcquade , u.s. attorney for the eastern district of michigan , said at a news conference .
a case like this is a real punch in the gut .
the investigation started two years ago following a routine audit , prosecutors said.as part of the alleged scheme , school supplies vendor allstate sales was used by the various schools to purchase items such as auditorium chairs , supplemental teaching materials , and paper .
the principals submitted fraudulent invoices for payments to allstate sales for some items that were never received.in exchange , those detroit public schools principals received kickback payments , mcquade said .
they ve each been charged with conspiracy and face arraignments.norman shy , allstate sales owner , allegedly worked with clara flowers , a principal and assistant superintendent , from at least february 2009 to january 2015 .
she had the power to select vendors and order materials for various schools.the scheme involved a total of $ 908,518 in kickbacks and bribes in exchange for allstate sales doing business with the detroit public schools worth $ 2.7 million , mcquade said.detroit s public schools have been in financial straits , and the allegations against the city principals come as michigan gov .
rick snyder announced that he signed a law releasing $ 48.7 million in emergency funding to help the state s largest school district stay open through the end of the school year.mcquade said the announcement of the charges were not linked to the governor s actions .
this continues to demonstrate that the challenges at dps aren t just detroit s problem , they are concerns for all of michigan , snyder said in a statement tuesday .
via : nbc