parachinar/peshawar , pakistan ( reuters ) - a suspected u.s. drone strike killed three people in the tribal area of pakistan near the afghanistan border on friday , a senior regional official said , in what afghan taliban sources say was an attack targeting a haqqani network militant .
if confirmed , it would be the first u.s. drone strike inside pakistan since president donald trump outlined a new afghanistan strategy and pushed islamabad to take greater action against pakistan-based haqqani militants who are allied to the afghan taliban .
baseer khan wazir , the political agent and the most senior administrator in the kurram agency region in the federally administered tribal areas ( fata ) , said the drone strike took place close to the border with afghanistan .
two missiles were dropped on the home of maulvi mohib and three people have been killed , wazir said .
a spokesman for the u.s.-led international force in kabul had no immediate information on the report but said he would look into it .
two afghan taliban sources , speaking on condition of anonymity , said mohib was affiliated with the haqqani network .
he remained associated with the haqqani network but wasn t a prominent figure , said one senior taliban member .
a second commander confirmed that mohib was part of the afghan taliban : we don t differentiate the haqqani network and taliban .
this is just a propaganda of the western media , he said .
u.s. officials in washington are currently discussing what measures to take if pakistan continues to turn a blind eye to haqqani militants operating on its soil .
pakistan denies there are any militant havens inside the nuclear-armed nation .
analysts have been predicting an increase in drone attacks inside pakistan ever since trump came into power , but since january there have only been a few .
another option being weighed by washington , according to u.s. officials , is targeted sanctions against pakistani officials with links to extremist groups such as the haqqani network .
but prime minister shahid khaqan abbasi told reuters on monday that such a move would be counter-productive , hurting both countries fight against militancy .