donald trump is really excited about all the nothing he s accomplished in his first 100 days in office .
so , he announced on saturday that he plans to celebrate by throwing a big rally on his 100th day .
presumably , he expects a better turnout than he got for his pathetic inauguration.next saturday night i will be holding a big rally in pennsylvania .
look forward to it !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) april 22 , 2017rally will be to mark trump s 100 days in office & organized/paid for by trump s campaign committee , per senior campaign official https : //t.co/wyw92z8a87 jeremy diamond ( @ jdiamond1 ) april 22 , 2017so far , with 100 days under his belt , trump hasn t managed to accomplish squat except for failing to follow through on his absurd campaign promises .
mexico isn t paying for his stupid wall .
his muslim ban was shot down twice as bigoted and unconstitutional .
obamacare is still the law of the land .
and he is known as the biggest recruiting tool isis has at the moment .
exactly why he thinks this warrants a party is unclear .
but as can only be expected of a narcissist , he is somehow convinced that this is a great idea and it totally won t have an embarrassing turnout.it is worth pointing out that the day of trump s big rally is the same night the white house correspondents dinner will be taking place without the man occupying the white house in attendance because the press hurt his feelings.on friday , trump tweeted that the 100-day mark is a ridiculous standard .
no matter how much i accomplish during the ridiculous standard of the first 100 days , & it has been a lot ( including s.c. ) , media will kill !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) april 21 , 2017he then followed up by telling the press that it s just an artificial barrier .
he added that since he didn t have the slightest clue how to actually president when he took office , he should be given extra leeway .
he also noted that even though repealing obamacare was one of his biggest campaign promises , he has really only been thinking about if for two months .
i ve been here 92 days , but i ve only been working on the health care , you know , i had to get like a little bit of grounding , right ?
trump told the associated press .
health care started after 30 day ( s ) , so i ve been working on health care for 60 days .
featured image via olivier douliery-pool/getty images