there are two paths one is america and the other one is occupy ( black lives matter ) .
black , white , gay and straight anyone that s willing to stand next to me to fight the progressive left , i will be in that bunker .
and if you re not in that bunker because you re not satisfied with this candidate more than shame on you you re on the other side !
this is quite possibly the most important message you will hear from now until november 8 , 2016 .
as we watch americans tear each other apart on social media and argue about who has chosen the best candidate and why , the left is busy organizing and finding ways to come together to defeat us.anyone who is not smart enough to put aside the petty bickering and senseless arguing over whether or not ted cruz knew about fliers someone from his campaign sent out to iowa voters , or if donald trump contributed to hillary s senate campaign , deserves exactly what they get.conservatives wouldn t get behind john mccain because he wasn t conservative enough .
tea party members wouldn t get behind mitt romney because he was born with a silver spoon in his mouth , so he couldn t possibly understand the average american .
or maybe they couldn t get behind him because he supported universal health care in massachusetts , making him the equivalent of obama .
so how did that work out for you ?
was barack a better choice in 2008 than mccain ?
was he a better choice in 2012 than mitt romney ? if romney was our president , would we be watching the resurgence of the violent anarchist occupy movement ?
would black lives matter terrorists and various radical illegal alien groups , be rioting across the nation and meeting with our president at our white house to strategize their next move ? while we tear each other apart , these groups are busy organizing and plotting ways they can threaten and punish anyone who gets in the way of their radical , progressive agenda .
and what are trump and cruz supporters doing to counter them ?
they re fighting amongst themselves .
they re busy pounding their chests and proclaiming how much smarter they are than their friends on social media .
if we are ever going to take this country back for our sake , and the sake of our children and grandchildren , we need to put aside our differences , however minor or major they may be and come together to fight as one team.trump and cruz are the only two candidates who have a chance of winning the republican nomination , and they are both fighters .
neither one of them blink in the face of radicals like bernie sanders , hillary or barack hussein obama .
they have fought back against a media who is not used to being called out for their lies or misrepresentations of the truth .
the democrat party is shaking in their boots .
for the first time in decades , the left is finding themselves with their backs against the wall .
this is no time to let up .
this is exactly the time we need to come together and redouble our efforts .
there has never been a more important time in our nation s history to fight back against those who choose to fundamentally transform america.please watch one of the most powerful speeches you will ever hear from a liberal , turned conservative warrior .
andrew breitbart was taken from this earth much too soon , but his compelling words ring more true today than ever .
he gave this inspirational speech at cpac in 2012 .
here is the most important snippet of that speech :