sydney ( reuters ) - australia s population is expanding at the fastest pace in the developed world as skilled migrants flock to the resource-rich nation , a fillip to economic growth overall but perhaps also a source of puzzling weakness in wages .
government figures released on thursday showed the number of people resident in australia increased 388,100 in the year to june , a rise of 1.6 percent on 2015/16 .
that was far above the global increase of 1.1 percent , and well ahead of the united states gain of 0.7 percent and canada s 0.9 percent .
there s still plenty of room for more , given the giant continent still only has 24.6 million people , putting it at 53rd in united nations global population rankings .
much of australia s growth came in net overseas migration , which surged more than 27 percent in the year to june to 245,500 .
that was the highest 12-month total since 2009 , while the flow into the states of new south wales and victoria beat records .
a strong labor market is attracting interstate and overseas migrants to melbourne , while better housing affordability and jobs growth is driving population growth in queensland and tasmania , said ryan felsman , a senior economist at commsec .
overall the stronger rate of population growth is boosting spending , demand for infrastructure , demand for homes , and overall economic growth .
leading migrant countries include china , india , britain and new zealand .
the flood of newcomers , mostly on skilled migrant programs , is one reason property prices have been on a tear in recent years , especially in sydney and melbourne .
the extra demand created by all these new australians was also a major reason the economy grew a brisk 2.8 percent in the year to september .
indeed , strip away population growth and the economy would have expanded by just 1.3 percent .
yet the influx of able bodies has also expanded the workforce right at the time when employers were ramping up their demand for labor , restraining wages growth .
separate figures from the australian bureau of statistics released on thursday showed a barnstorming 383,000 net new jobs were created in the year to november .
but wages still grew at a pedestrian annual pace of 2 percent , a perfect case of expanding supply benefiting employers rather than those already employed .
policymakers at australia s central bank have been baffled by the divergence between employment and wages , citing the mystery as an argument against a rise in interest rates anytime soon .