well , it s not like we didn t know this but it s very revealing to know why obama says he got into politics .
hope and change was for just some folks and not for others please note what malik is quoted as saying about barack recently ouch ! president obama s half-brother , malik abongo roy obama , has sold a handwritten letter from the president , penned 20 years ago , that reveals obama s reasoning for getting into politics including to deal with some serious issues blacks face here .
some colleagues of mine here have talked me into running for the illinois state senate ( like being an mp for a province ) , the future world leader wrote his kin in july 1995 , before his political career began .
i have agreed , since i have an interest in politics to deal with some serious issues blacks face here , obama wrote .
the letter also reveals obama s disdain for meetings , saying , of course , it involves a lot of campaigning , going to meetings and so on , which i don t find so attractive .
he adds , anyway , if i win it will only be a part-time post , and i will continue my work as a lawyer .
the letter which we hear malik sold as a package with a copy of a manuscript of obama s first book , dreams from my father , with handwritten notes also gives an update on first lady michelle and his late mother , who died later that year .
modal trigger photo : momentsintime.com michelle is fine , also busy with her work , obama wrote .
my mom s health has been stabilized for now , but she is by no means cured and continues to undergo extensive treatment .
in the letter , signed much love barack , the future president adds news that his brother s found a new wife , man , i must say you don t fool around !
the letter was offered up to parties such as la-based memorabilia dealer moments in time before it was snapped up by a collector .
malik , who lives in kenya , also sold two other handwritten letters from obama for nearly $ 15,000 each in 2013 .
malik , who shares the same father with the president , has said they were best men at each other s weddings .
but earlier this year , he called obama a schemer and said , he s not been an honest man .
.
.
in who he is and what he says and how he treats people .
the amount paid for the letter was not disclosed .
the white house did not comment.via : nyp