townsville , australia ( reuters ) - it was early morning last thursday when pauline hanson s rented battler bus started hissing so loudly the election campaign was halted at a petrol station on a stretch of desolate highway near a remote edge of australia .
unable to get to the rural queensland state voters she is relying on to deliver her anti-immigration one nation party its best result in two decades , her supporters came to her .
stranded near the gemstone-mine town of marlborough , with a population of just a few hundred , hanson was approached by truckers and travelers , most seeking to get a picture taken with her .
i was actually stopping to get something to eat , and as i was looking across i went , oh there s the battler bus , i ll have to go say hello to pauline , said truck driver shane williams , who came over to look at the engine .
i think immigration is a big thing for everybody .
i think it s going to be a good thing if pauline gets some say in parliament keep the bastards honest .
hanson is not a candidate in the queensland state election on nov. 25 , having last year re-entered the federal parliament on a wave of popular support after a near two-decade absence .
but her face is on almost every one nation party billboard and flyer in queensland s coal-rich and sugar cane-growing heartland , turning the vote into a test of whether hanson s resurgence continues , or is pushed back to the fringes .
to australia s most prominent right-wing nationalist it s not about joining a global populist push ; it s that the rest of the world is finally catching up .
i was espousing a lot of this 20 years ago , hanson told reuters in the sunny tropical town of townsville , a gateway to the great barrier reef marine park .
u.s. president donald trump s election victory a year ago , however , is resonating across the world , she added .
this is definitely the start .
people are starting to wake up .
you see people had no one else really to vote for .
with its blown turbo hose fixed , hanson s bus rolled down the road , three hours behind schedule , stopping at several towns before arriving at a town hall-style event that evening more than 400 kilometers ( 249 miles ) away .
hanson s town halls are a mix of stump speech and off-the-cuff observations , usually involving battler stories she s heard from locals on the campaign trail : claims that foreigners are buying up agricultural land and immigrants are not paying taxes ; complaints about crippling energy prices and government handouts to aboriginals ; support for a ban on muslim migrants .
hanson s rhetoric can be blunt , and draws almost instant condemnation in the cities , where she s often viewed as extreme .
but in her rural heartland , where one town can be in drought while another gets hit by cyclonic floods , she is the mainstream .
she s the only one trying to save our country really , said 20-year-old jack roach in proserpine , a sugar-cane town of 3,500 in queensland .
polls suggest one nation might take around 20 percent of the popular vote in queensland , australia s third-most populous state , and situated in the northeast .
that would mark its biggest electoral success since the 1990s .
it s unclear , however , whether that will translate into more than a handful of seats among the 93 parliamentary seats at stake in the election .
on the hustings , support appears very strong in towns beyond the black stump - a colloquial term in australia to describe remote areas - as well as coal-producing areas and sugar cane fields .
more vigorous opposition to hanson s policies comes from more tourist-dependent coastal areas .
to her supporters , hanson is the plain-speaking , anti-politician who can shake up the liberal-national and labor political establishment in australia .
she speaks like us , said 24-year-old carpenter brodie tophan , who works south of the coastal town of bowen and approached hanson for a selfie .
people call us racist , but we are just telling it like it is .
australia s modern far right movement was born in 1996 in the city of ipswich , an inland river port and former coal mining center in queensland , where hanson made an unlikely but successful run for political office while managing a fish and chip shop .
after using her maiden speech in parliament to warn the country would be swamped by asians , she co-founded the one nation party .
it enjoyed early electoral success , before imploding over infighting .
the party power struggle and hanson s 11-week imprisonment for electoral fraud in 2003 - eventually quashed - halted her momentum , and she spent years struggling to regain her once formidable connection to voters .
labor parliamentarian jennifer howard , who is contesting the seat of ipswich , said the mainly white area that fostered hanson s rise in the 1990s has given way to a more diverse population that will hinder one nation s success .
howard said she used to take her children to hanson s shop in the late 1980s .
my daughter used to say to me , why is that lady always so angry ?
hanson s rage against her political foes looks likely to continue until a better advocate of her nationalist policies emerges .
that is yet to happen , with past changes to the party leadership proving unsuccessful , and newer right-wing parties unable to attract anywhere near hanson s popular support .
moreover , an overtly anti-immigration party is swimming against the demographic tide : census data shows one-in-three australians today were born overseas , compared to one-in-five 20 years ago .
that s evident even at hanson s old fish and chip shop , now run by vietnamese immigrant thanh huynh , who described her as interesting without disclosing who she would vote for .
the shop s menu offers most of the same items hanson used to make , including dagwood dogs - or corn dogs - but has some imported ideas , including vietnamese spring rolls .