fox & friends continues to embarrass themselves in defense of donald trump , and cnn host jake tapper took them to task for it.on monday , fbi director james comey testified under oath on capitol hill that trump s accusation that president obama wiretapped him is totally false and that trump is under investigation for colluding with russia during the 2016 election.trump s credibility was completely destroyed and his russia scandal only deepened.but fox & friends downplayed comey s damning testimony by claiming that americans didn t miss much and posted a video on twitter featuring 25 seconds of footage of comey telling lawmakers that he can t answer their question .
the footage included absolutely no context and completely left out comey s confirmation that trump slandered president obama and his confirmation that trump is being investigated by the fbi.if you missed yesterday s congressional hearing with fbi dir .
james comey , you didn t miss much pic.twitter.com/anjdtwcgxk fox & friends ( @ foxandfriends ) march 21 , 2017cnn anchor jake tapper was not amused and soon responded by informing fox news that comey s testimony was quite consequential .
false .
quite consequential .
fbi confirmed it is investigating whether trump campaign coordinated with russia .
https : //t.co/rocdgl4wep jake tapper ( @ jaketapper ) march 21 , 2017other twitter users also barraged fox & friends with sharp criticism for ignoring the bombshell testimony .
@ foxandfriends pretty sure he answered a couple of important questions .
you can bury the lede deep , but we ll still find it .
tick , tock .
mike mass ( @ mikemasse ) march 21 , 2017 @ foxandfriends maybe you missed it , but we didn t. maria langer ?
( @ mlanger ) march 21 , 2017mt @ foxandfriends if you missed yesterday s fox & friends , you didn t miss much pic.twitter.com/nhd7dyawzo stephen miller ( @ redsteeze ) march 21 , 2017 .
@ foxandfriends except for that little part where they re investigating the trump campaign for collusion with russia which would be treason victor huckabee ( @ popesaintvictor ) march 21 , 2017 @ foxandfriends this is pathetic , even for you .
seth grahame-smith ( @ sethgs ) march 21 , 2017 @ foxandfriends i see we ve reached the rimming period of your ass kissing .
brian scully ( @ brianscully ) march 21 , 2017after being called a partisan correspondent , tapper responded by reminding everyone that facts are not partisan .
@ devansadr facts aren t partisan .
any fbi director confirming this investigation in open hearing is huge news .
jake tapper ( @ jaketapper ) march 21 , 2017fox & friends demonstrated once again that they are nothing more than trump s personal propaganda team .
they have zero credibility and every single one of them should removed from the air like andrew napolitano was after he lied in defense of trump.featured image via screenshot