vladikavkaz/ivnya , russia ( reuters ) - at polling station no .
333 in the russian city of vladikavkaz , reuters reporters only counted 256 voters casting their ballots in a regional election on sunday .
people were voting across russia in what is seen as a dress rehearsal for next year s presidential vote .
kremlin candidates for regional parliaments and governorships performed strongly nationwide .
when the official results for polling station no .
333 were declared , the turnout was first given as 1,331 before being revised up to 1,867 on tuesday .
that is more than seven times higher than the number of voters counted by reuters - with 73 percent of the votes going to united russia , the party of president vladimir putin .
election officials at the polling station said their tally was correct and there were no discrepancies .
reuters reporters were there when the polls opened at 08:00 until after the official count had been completed .
they saw one man , who said he was a united russia election observer , approaching the ballot box multiple times and each time putting inside voting papers .
we must ensure 85 percent for united russia .
otherwise , the tsar will stop providing us with money , the man , sergei lyutikov , told a reporter , in an apparent reference to putin .
putin is the strong favorite to win re-election next year .
many voters credit him with restoring national pride .
however , with the economy forecast to grow only 1 percent this year enthusiasm for putin is not as strong as it has been .
political analysts say that could result in a weak election turnout .
reuters reporters observed the vote at six polling stations on sunday .
at all six the reporters found discrepancies , of varying sizes , between the official vote tally and the number of voters the reporters counted .
the reporters were present for the entire voting day except for in one place where a reporter missed the start because they were initially not allowed in .
kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov , responding to a reuters request for comment , said : on the whole , no one has any doubts about the legitimacy of the elections , not the observers , not journalists .
there were some incidents , probably .
after all , it s a big country .
but neither we nor journalists have the right to describe something as a violation until the central election commission describes it as such , he said .
there were observers there .
so in this case there probably should be complaints from them .
so one needs to see if there were complaints from them .
russia s central election commission , asked about the discrepancies witnessed by reuters , did not immediately respond .
ella pamfilova , chair of the commission , told a news conference after polls closed that the irregularities that had been reported to her commission would be investigated .
united russia s party headquarters , in a statement sent to reuters , said it gave no orders to anyone to stuff ballots or falsify results .
it said all violations would be examined by election commissions and , if the law was broken , those responsible would be punished .
the six polling stations the reuters reporters visited were in three regions but there were thousands of polling stations operating in russia on sunday so the events only offer a small snapshot of what happened .
reuters reporters are unable to assess if such practices were widespread , or whether they had a material bearing on the outcome of the election .
opinion polls consistently show that united russia has more support than any other russian party .
golos , a non-governmental organization whose volunteers monitored the voting in 36 regions , said late on monday it had received reports of 825 violations of election rules .
they included multiple reports of inflated turnout figures and ballot-stuffing .
however , the ngo said violations were down compared to previous elections .
at polling station no .
333 , located in a further education college in vladikavkaz , capital of the north ossetia region , voters on sunday were electing a new regional parliament .
lyutikov was there throughout the day .
he works as an aide to vadim suanov , a united russia deputy in the outgoing north ossetia regional legislature , according to the legislature s website .
suanov , who was running for re-election on sunday , told reuters he knew nothing about what his employee did in the polling station .
lyutikov cast his ballot in the first hours of voting but later inserted ballot papers about 10 times , according to the reuters witnesses .
lyutikov told a reuters reporter not to document him at the ballot box , threatening to break her mobile phone if the pictures and video footage were not deleted .
at one point , he showed a reporter his passport , with his name , sergei ivanovich lyutikov and his date of birth , april 17 1984 .
while he was approaching the ballot box , he was in sight of yelena khadonova , the chair of the election commission for polling station no.333 .
asked about lyutikov s actions , she said : i have nothing to comment on .
i haven t seen anything .
at a parliamentary election last september , reuters reporters at several polling stations found cases of inflated turnout and ballot-stuffing .
russia election chiefs said they would investigate , and the police launched their own investigation .
after sunday s vote , kremlin candidates were on track to win in all 16 regions where governors were being elected , according to preliminary results .
in the six regions where parliaments were being elected , including in north ossetia , united russia was in comfortable first place .
united russia was less dominant in municipal elections in parts of moscow , where support for opposition candidates is traditionally stronger .
at another location , polling station no .
618 in belgorod region , a reuters reporter accompanied election officials on their visits to voters houses to administer home voting .
the number of home voters was equal to about a quarter of those who voted at the polling station .
under russia s electoral rules , voting at home is reserved for cases where a voter has specifically requested a visit , because for health reasons they are unable to make it to a polling station .
kremlin opponents and independent monitors say home voting is open to abuse because it is not subject to the same scrutiny as voting in a polling station , where monitors from several parties , and journalists , are often present .
despite the rule that home voting is only offered on request , several of the people visited by the election officials at their homes said they had not asked to vote at home .
the election officials entered most of houses without knocking on the door .
one man in his sixties was smoking a cigarette in his backyard when the election officials arrived .
first build a road and then we ll talk , he told the officials , pointing at a bumpy path leading to his house .
he denied he asked them to come , but still cast his vote .
the officials said a relative or neighbor may have made the request on his behalf .
over the course of two hours , during which the reporter was with the officials at all times , they collected 14 filled ballot papers .
when the officials returned to the polling station , they had 18 filled ballot papers .
the officials who made the trip said the tally was correct .
the head of the election commission at polling station no .
618 , lyubov grushko , said : the difference in numbers is a provocative issue , we won t discuss it .