hollywood , fla. ( reuters ) - inside a sweltering nursing home , a crisis unfolded on wednesday as 150 centers across florida still lacked power days after hurricane irma ravaged the state .
firefighters and medics responding to an emergency call in hollywood north of miami found three people dead inside a building whose second floor the police chief later described as extremely hot .
altogether , city officials said eight people between the ages of 71 and 99 had died , but the causes were not yet determined .
an investigation of possible criminal negligence has begun , hollywood police chief tomas sanchez told reporters .
attempts by reuters to reach an official of the for-profit rehabilitation center at hollywood hills home by phone and email were unsuccessful .
while sanchez declined to say what the temperatures were on the second floor of the building , the deaths illustrate the perils that can persist and even increase in the aftermath of a major disaster for the elderly and medically fragile .
heat is a top killer after hurricanes and disasters cause power outages , said dr. thomas kirsch , director of the national center for disaster medicine and public health .
kirsch noted that hundreds of elderly people died in the 1995 chicago heat wave and when hurricane katrina devastated new orleans in 2005 .
the temperatures in broward county north of miami have reached 90 degrees fahrenheit ( 32 degrees celsius ) in the three days since irma smashed into florida on sunday .
we often see that injuries and deaths after disaster in the united states are more common than those actually caused by the disaster itself , kirsch said .
after losing its full air conditioning on sunday , the facility placed eight portable air coolers throughout the building and fans in the halls , state officials said in an emergency order late on wednesday .
officials also contacted the power provider , the state said .
efforts to prevent such disasters in nursing facilities have improved in recent years , public health experts said , and that new federal regulations require facilities to have sufficient backup power to maintain reasonable temperatures .
such capacity is now being tested in florida , home to among the highest concentrations of senior citizens in the united states with more than 1.6 million people ages 75 years or older , according to the 2015 u.s. census .
the u.s. senate aging committee , citing the florida deaths , on wednesday said it would have a hearing next week on disaster planning for the elderly .
at a housing community for senior citizens in immokalee , florida , some residents told a reuters reporter on tuesday they had nothing to eat in their small apartments that were without power .
an office assistant was hunting for bottled water and ice for residents without running water .
among the state s nearly 700 nursing facilities , about 150 lacked power as of wednesday morning , said the florida health care association , which represents most of the homes .
early on wednesday , several calls were placed to emergency services from the hollywood nursing home .
more than 150 people were evacuated , many suffering from respiratory issues , dehydration and heat-related problems , according to memorial regional hospital spokesman randy katz .
as recently as tuesday afternoon , the home had told state health officials it had power and access to fans and spot coolers , florida governor rick scott noted in a statement .
an assisted living center that went without power for nearly three days said that its efforts to run fans and keep breezes flowing between open windows could only go so far .
inside temperatures climbed to 88 degrees fahrenheit ( 31 celsius ) , nearing a critical point .
a day you can survive , two days ok , said dan nelson , chief operating officer for cape coral shores assisted living , adding that after that things like what happened over in hollywood unfortunately could happen somewhere else .
the hollywood center where the deaths occurred had earned a below average mark of two out of five stars from the nursing home rating system for medicare , the u.s. health insurance program for the elderly and disabled , medicare records showed .
elder care in disaster poses challenges even in the best circumstances , said kathryn hyer , a professor in the school of aging studies at the university of south florida in tampa , whose research shows that evacuations can be deadly for the medically frail who are dependant on equipment and medications .
while sheltering in place can be preferable at times , she said , doing so requires planning to survive the aftermath .
it s just hard , hyer said , noting at least nursing centers offered some protections .
i really worry about the people who are in the community alone and how they are doing .