kirkuk , iraq ( reuters ) - kurdish peshmerga forces have retreated to positions they held in northern iraq in june 2014 in response to an iraqi army advance into the region after a kurdish independence referendum , a senior iraqi commander said on wednesday .
an iraqi military statement said government forces had taken control of kurdish-held areas of nineveh province , including the mosul hydro-electric dam , on tuesday after the peshmerga pulled back .
on monday , baghdad s forces recaptured the major oil city of kirkuk to the south shortly after the peshmerga abandoned it .
the peshmerga had advanced into nineveh and the kirkuk region over the past three years as part of the war against islamic state militants , filling a void left by a temporary collapse of the iraqi army in the face of an is onslaught .
as of today we reversed the clock back to 2014 , the iraqi army commander , who asked not to be identified , told reuters .
there was no immediate comment from kurdish leaders .
the territory taken by the peshmerga as it rolled back islamic state was outside the official boundaries of the autonomous kurdish regional government ( krg ) , mainly in kurdish-populated areas claimed historically by the kurds .
with this week s withdrawals from disputed territories , peshmerga forces appeared to have re-deployed roughly along the krg s boundaries .
iran and turkey joined the baghdad government in condemning the iraqi kurds sept. 25 referendum , worried it could worsen regional instability and conflict by encouraging their own kurdish populations to push for homelands .
with the referendum having given iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi a political opening to regain contested land and shift the balance of power in his favor , it may prove a gamble that makes the krg s quest for statehood more elusive .
around 61,200 people were displaced iraq s military operation in and around kirkuk , a city of over 1 million , over the past 48 hours but most were now returning to their homes , the u.n. humanitarian affairs office in baghdad said .
witnesses said , however , that dozens of kurdish families began to flee kirkuk on wednesday for sulaimaniya inside the krg for fear of attack by shi ite popular mobilization paramilitaries , allied with baghdad and armed by iran , that had entered the city along with government forces .
we have a family member with the peshmerga and we are afraid we might get arrested by the popular mobilization .
we are fleeing towards sulaimaniya , said the driver of one car filled with his family .
at least 150 vehicles were seen streaming out of kirkuk at one point .
but most subsequently turned around and returned home after local police assured them that fears of reprisals were groundless , a reuters reporter said .
though kurdish-owned shops in kirkuk were mainly closed on wednesday due to concern about the presence of shi ite militia , there were no reports of serious incidents as federal security forces patrolled the streets , witnesses said .
we call on all parties to do everything possible to shield and protect all civilians impacted by the current situation , lisa grande , the u.n. humanitarian coordinator in iraq , said .
abadi ordered the prosecution of anyone found circulating fake videos aimed at inciting strife between kurds and arabs and endangering civil peace in areas retaken by baghdad s forces .
the kurdish vote was championed by krg president and kdp party chief masoud barzani but not supported by the rival puk party , in part because of the strong opposition of the kurds longtime ally the united states .
the united states sided with abadi s shi ite-led government in rejecting the kurds secessionist move .
barzani has stood by it , saying the overwhelming yes for independence won t be in vain and would be pursued by peaceful means .
kurds have sought an independent state since at least the end of world war one , when colonial powers divided up the middle east after the multi-ethnic ottoman empire fell apart and left kurdish-populated land split between turkey , iran , iraq and syria .