the t.i.n.a .
doctrine there is no alternative brandon smith alt-marketwhen people unfamiliar with the liberty movement stumble onto the undeniable fact of the conspiracy of globalism they tend to look for easy answers to understand what it is and why it exists .
most people today have been conditioned to perceive events from a misinterpreted standpoint of occam s razor they wrongly assume that the simplest explanation is probably the right one.in fact , this is not what occam s razor states .
instead , to summarize , it states that the simplest explanation given the evidence at hand is probably the right explanation.it has been well known and documented for decades that the push for globalism is a deliberate and focused effort on the part of a select elite ; international financiers , central bankers , political leaders and the numerous members of exclusive think tanks .
they often openly admit their goals for total globalization in their own publications , perhaps believing that the uneducated commoners would never read them anyway .
carroll quigley , mentor to bill clinton and member of the council on foreign relations , is often quoted with open admissions to the general scheme : the powers of financial capitalism had ( a ) far-reaching aim , nothing less than to create a world system of financial control in private hands able to dominate the political system of each country and the economy of the world as a whole .
this system was to be controlled in a feudalist fashion by the central banks of the world acting in concert , by secret agreements arrived at in frequent meetings and conferences .
the apex of the systems was to be the bank for international settlements in basel , switzerland ; a private bank owned and controlled by the world s central banks which were themselves private corporations .
each central bank sought to dominate its government by its ability to control treasury loans , to manipulate foreign exchanges , to influence the level of economic activity in the country , and to influence cooperative politicians by subsequent economic rewards in the business world .
carroll quigley , tragedy and hopethe people behind the effort to enforce globalism are tied together by a particular ideology , perhaps even a cult-like religion , in which they envision a world order as described in plato s republic .
they believe that they are chosen either by fate , destiny or genetics to rule as philosopher kings over the rest of us .
they believe that they are the wisest and most capable that humanity has to offer , and that through evolutionary means , they can create chaos and order out of thin air and mold society at will.this mentality is evident in the systems that they build and exploit .
for example , central banking in general is nothing more than a mechanism for driving nations into debt , currency devaluation , and ultimately , enslavement through widespread economic extortion .
the end game for central banks is , i believe , the triggering of historic financial crisis , which can then be used by the elites as leverage to promote complete global centralization as the only viable solution.this process of destabilizing economies and societies is not directed by the heads of the various central banks .
instead , it is directed by even more central global institutions like the international monetary fund and the bank for international settlements , as outlined in revealing mainstream articles like ruling the world of money published by harpers magazine.we also find through the words of globalists that the campaign for a new world order is not meant to be voluntary .
when the struggle seems to be drifting definitely towards a world social democracy , there may still be very great delays and disappointments before it becomes an efficient and beneficent world system .
countless people will hate the new world order and will die protesting against it .
when we attempt to evaluate its promise , we have to bear in mind the distress of a generation or so of malcontents , many of them quite gallant and graceful-looking people .
hg welles , fabian socialist and author of the new world order in short , the house of world order will have to be built from the bottom up rather than f rom the top down .
it will look like a great booming , buzzing confusion , to use william james famous description of reality , but an end run around national sovereignty , eroding it piece by piece , will accomplish much more than the old-fashioned frontal assault .
richard gardner , member of the trilateral commission , published in the april , 1974 issue of foreign affairs the new world order can not happen without u.s. participation , as we are the single most significant component .
yes , there will be a new world order , and it will force the united states to change its perceptions .
henry kissinger , world action council , april 19 , 1994i could quote globalists all day long , but i think you get the general idea .
while some people see globalism as a natural offshoot of free markets or the inevitable outcome of economic progress , the reality is that the simplest explanation ( given the evidence at hand ) is that globalism is an outright war waged against the ideal of sovereign peoples and nations .
it is a guerrilla war , or fourth generation warfare , waged by a small group of elites against the rest of us.a significant element of this war concerns the nature of borders .
borders of nations , states and even towns and villages , are not just lines on a map or invisible barriers in the dirt .
this is what the elites and the mainstream media would like us to believe .
instead , borders when applied correctly represent principles ; or at least , that is supposed to be their function.human beings are natural community builders ; we are constantly seeking out others of like-mind and like-purpose because we understand subconsciously that groups of individuals working together can ( often but not always ) accomplish more .
that said , human beings also have a natural tendency to value individual freedom and the right to voluntary association .
we do not like to be forced to associate with people or groups that do not hold similar values.cultures erect borders because , frankly , people have the right to vet those who wish to join and participate in their endeavors .
people also have a right to discriminate against anyone who does not share their core values ; or , in other words , we have the right to refuse association with other groups and ideologies that are destructive to our own continue this story at alt-marketread more nwo news at : 21st century wire nwo files