sydney/singapore ( reuters ) - the captain of the malaysian airlines aircraft that vanished somewhere in the southern indian ocean with 239 people on board had flown a route on his home flight simulator six weeks earlier that was initially similar to the one actually taken , australian authorities said on tuesday .
the details were contained in a 440-page final report by the australian transport safety bureau ( atsb ) on the unsuccessful search for flight mh370 .
the disappearance of the boeing 777 on march 8 , 2014 , on a flight to beijing from the malaysian capital of kuala lumpur , has become one of the world s greatest aviation mysteries .
the report concluded that the reasons for the loss of the aircraft could not be established with certainty until the aircraft was found .
it is almost inconceivable and certainly societally unacceptable in the modern aviation era ... for a large commercial aircraft to be missing and for the world not to know with certainty what became of the aircraft and those on board , the atsb said .
the aircraft was thought to have been diverted thousands of miles off course out over the southern indian ocean before crashing off the coast of western australia .
australia , which led the underwater hunt , and malaysia and china called off a a $ 200 million ( $ 160 million ) search for the plane in january , despite the protests of families of those onboard .
six weeks before the aircraft s disappearance , captain zaharie ahmad shah used his home simulator to fly a route that was initially similar to part of the route flown by mh370 up the strait of malacca , with a left-hand turn and track into the southern indian ocean , the atsb said in its report .
by the last data point the aircraft had flown approximately 4,200 nautical miles , the report said .
this was further than was possible with the fuel loaded on board the aircraft for flight mh370 .
the simulated aircraft track was also inconsistent with those modeled using satellite signal data from mh370 , the report said .
however , the atsb said there were enough similarities to the flight path of mh370 for the agency to carefully consider the possible implications for the underwater search area , including whether it glided after fuel exhaustion or was ditched in a controlled manner .
aircraft debris found later indicated the flaps were most likely retracted , which wasn t consistent with a controlled ditching , the report said .
australia s main scientific agency said in august it believes with unprecedented precision and certainty that the plane crashed northeast of the search zone .
but those findings were dismissed by australia s government at the time as not specific enough , and the search has not been re-opened .
doing so depends on finding credible , new evidence about the plane s whereabouts .
the atsb report published on tuesday detailed the unsuccessful 1,046-day hunt for the plane , above and below the surface of the indian ocean , and scientific analyses of satellite pictures , sea currents and even barnacles found clinging to a piece of the plane found on reunion island .
the understanding of where mh370 may be located is better now than it has ever been .
the underwater search has eliminated most of the high probability areas , the atsb said .
we ... deeply regret that we have not been able to locate the aircraft , nor those 239 souls on board that remain missing .
it recommends aircraft and aircraft equipment manufacturers investigate providing better methods of automated satellite tracking for planes if they encounter problems during flight in future .
malaysia has continued to investigate the plane s whereabouts and in august said it received an offer from a private seabed exploration firm , ocean infinity , to resume the search .
malaysian investigators said in 2015 there was nothing suspicious in the financial , medical or personal histories of pilots or crew .
( for a graphic on the world 's largest search , click tmsnrt.rs/2xbonen )