this is obama s america this will be his legacy .
he was elected by over 90 % of the black community .
he promised them jobs .
instead , he opened our borders and gave their jobs to illegal aliens who will gladly do the jobs for less money.during obama s tenure , the percentage of black americans struggling below the poverty line has advanced , according to the most recent census bureau data , from 25.8 in 2009 to 26.2 in 2014 up 1.6 percent .
real median income among black households during those years , according to the census bureau , sank from $ 35,954 to $ 35,398 down 1.5 percent.the number of black food-stamp participants exploded across that time frame from 7,393,000 to 11,699,000 , the u.s. department of agriculture reports up 58.2 percent .
also , from obama s oath of office through the fourth quarter of 2015 , the percentage of black americans who own homes foundered from 46.1 percent to 41.9 percent , according to the census down 9.1 percent .
-national reviewmilwaukee : a standoff between police and an angry crowd turned violent saturday night in the hours after a milwaukee police officer shot and killed an armed suspect during a foot chase on the city s north side.after an hours-long confrontation with officers , police reported at 10:15 p.m. that a gas station at n. sherman blvd .
and w. burleigh st. was set on fire .
police said firefighters could not for a time get close to the blaze because of gunshots.later , fires were started at businesses including a bmo harris bank branch , a beauty supply company and o reilly auto parts stores near n. 35th and w. burleigh streets , a grim and emphatic mayor tom barrett said .
he spoke at a midnight news conference at the district 3 police station at n. 49th st. and w. lisbon ave.the mayor said some involved in the disturbances took to social media early in the evening to encourage others to come out and participate in trouble-making .
he said many of them were young people , and he urged parents to keep tight reins on their children to avoid a repeat of saturday night .
our police officers are doing everything they can to restore order , he said .
but he said everyone needed to help restore calm .
if you love your son , if you love your daughter , text them , call them , pull them by their ears , get them home .
the mayor said police had shown an amazing amount of restraint saturday evening.hamilton said , our city is in turmoil tonight .
he promised a full and open investigation into the the police-involved shooting.assistant police chief james harpole said at least 200 people had gathered at the disturbances earlier .
he said there were multiple gunshots over the course of the evening.when the gas station was set ablaze , there were three people in the building and all got out safely , he said.the news conference ended with aldermen russell w. stamper ii and khalif rainey delivering strongly worded statements about the disturbance springing from the frustrations of black milwaukeeans and the problems they face.rainey , who represents the area where the man was shot by the officer and the disturbance occurred , was particularly pointed .
he said sherman park had become a powder keg this summer , and ended his remarks by implying that downtown could be the site of disturbances if the issues facing african-americans here not addressed .
this entire community has sat back and witnessed how milwaukee , wis. , has become the worst place to live for african-americans in the entire country , rainey said .
now this is a warning cry .
where do we go from here ?
where do we go as a community from here ?
do we continue continue with the inequities , the injustice , the unemployment , the under-education , that creates these byproducts that we see this evening ?
the black people of milwaukee are tired .
they re tired of living under this oppression .
this is their existence .
this is their life .
this is the life of their children .
now what has happened tonight may have not been right ; i m not justifying that .
but no one can deny the fact that there s problems , racial problems , here in milwaukee , wis. , that have to be closely , not examined , but rectified .
rectify this immediately .
because if you don t , this vision of downtown , all of that , you re one day away .
you re one day away .
earlier in the evening , more than 100 people gathered near the scene of the shooting at n. 44th st. and w. auer ave. and at times pushed against a line of 20 to 30 officers , some of whom were in riot gear.at one point , the officers got in their cars to leave and some in the crowd started smashing the windows and side of a squad car .
another vehicle was set on fire .
as officers returned to the scene , this time with more in riot gear , as many as seven shots could be heard about 8:45 to 9 p.m.soon thereafter , the crowd turned on and chased reporters and a photographer from the milwaukee journal sentinel .
one reporter was shoved to the ground and punched.police later tweeted that an officer was hit in the head with a brick that was thrown through a squad window .
police said the officer was being treated at a hospital.at nearly 11 p.m. , police tweeted that gunshots again were fired near n. 44th st. and w. auer ave.city officials said three people had been arrested during the initial disturbance .
another disturbance developed at n. 35th and w. burleigh streets.crowd breaks widows of unoccupied squad near sherman and auer .
other squad set afire and broken windows on another .
pic.twitter.com/jux2mjzyyq milwaukee police ( @ milwaukeepolice ) august 14 , 2016city police officials said two officers stopped two suspects in a car about 3:30 p.m .
the suspects then took off on foot .
during the pursuit , a six-year veteran of the department shot and killed a 23-year-old milwaukee resident , who was carrying a semiautomatic handgun , police said.the officer was not hurt.during his midnight news conference , barrett said the officer pursuing the 23-year-old man ordered him to drop his gun .
the man didn t and the officer fired several times , the mayor said.the man was hit twice , once in the chest and once in the arm .
he said police determined there were 23 rounds in the man s gun.barrett said the officer was wearing a body camera and his understanding was that the camera was operational during the incident .
via : milwaukee journal sentinel