seoul ( reuters ) - south korea and the united states agreed on friday to keep working for a peaceful end to the north korean nuclear crisis , but a u.s. envoy said it was difficult to gauge the reclusive north s intentions as there has been no signal .
north korea is under heavy international pressure to end its nuclear and missile programs , pursued in defiance of u.n. security council resolutions , but has vowed never to give up its nuclear arsenal which it says it needs to counter perceived u.s. aggression .
lee do-hoon , south korea s special representative for korean peace and security affairs , and his u.s. counterpart , joseph yun , met on the southern resort island of jeju , following a summit between south korean president moon jae-in and u.s. president donald trump in seoul last week .
there is no doubt that both of the presidents want to find a peaceful way in regard to north korea s nuclear issue , yun told reporters , according to yonhap news agency .
so we discussed them and we agreed the pressure campaign has to be a central element .
trump has said the time for talk is over but he took a softer tone on his trip to seoul .
north korea s last missile test was on sept. 15 but lee and yun did not seem to put much emphasis on the lull , yonhap said , as they were unable to gauge its intentions .
i hope that they will stop forever .
but we had no communication from them so i don t know whether to interpret it positively or not .
we have no signal from them , yun said .
lee drew significance from the fact that china , the north s lone major ally , had sent a special envoy to pyongyang , saying that south korea was closely watching what would come out of the visit .
the envoy arrived on friday .
trump has traded insults and threats with north korean leader kim jong un as north korea races toward its much publicized goal of developing a nuclear-tipped missile capable of reaching the united states .
the united states stations 28,500 troops in south korea , a legacy of the 1950-53 korean war .
it denies north korea s persistent accusation that it is planning to invade .
( this version of the story was refiled to add korea to headline )