tokyo ( reuters ) - a record crowd paid their respects to japan s 84-year-old emperor akihito at tokyo s imperial palace on saturday , in his first birthday celebration since the date of his abdication was set .
the emperor s birthday is traditionally marked by a national holiday and an address at the imperial palace , which opens to the public on the day .
well-wishers waved small japanese flags and held up smartphones as emperor akihito , whose position is ceremonial with no political power , addressed them from a balcony , flanked by his wife and other members of the imperial family .
the crowd of 52,300 , according to the imperial household agency , was the largest birthday attendance during akihito s symbolic 29-year reign , known as the heisei era , which means achieving peace in japanese .
on this day as we face the cold , my thoughts go out to those who suffered from typhoons and heavy rains , as well as the victims of the great east japan earthquake who continue to lead difficult lives , he said , referring to the 2011 earthquake and tsunami that killed and displaced tens of thousands on the country s eastern seaboard .
along with empress michiko , akihito has spent much of his reign addressing the legacy of world war two , which was fought in the name of his father , hirohito , and consoling victims of disasters such as the 2011 earthquake .
earlier this month , a 10-member imperial household council agreed that akihito would step down on april 30 , 2019 , before passing the chrysanthemum throne to his eldest son , crown prince naruhito .
in comments made to media , akihito said he would use the remaining days of his reign to carry out his duties and prepare to pass the torch to the next era .
akihito has had heart surgery and treatment for prostate cancer and said last year that he feared he would struggle to fulfill his royal duties due to his age .
japan passed a law this year allowing him to step down in a one-off provision as existing law did not provide for abdication .
the last time a japanese emperor abdicated was in 1817 .
throughout his reign , akihito has consistently urged the japanese never to forget the horrors of war .
his conciliatory remarks contrast with gestures made by prime minister shinzo abe , who has adopted a less apologetic tone over japan s past military aggression .