bolling tweeted a couple of messages , thanking his supporters who are standing by bolling , as huffington post reporter yashar ali goes for the jugular overwhelmed by all the support i have received .
thank youi look forward to clearing my name asap eric bolling ( @ ericbolling ) august 7 , 2017in this tweet , bolling claims that the accusations against him are false smear attacks !
i will continue to fight against these false smear attacks !
thank you for continued support eric bolling ( @ ericbolling ) august 9 , 2017the hill fox news host eric bolling is reportedly suing the huffington post reporter who broke a story last week that included several female co-workers claiming bolling sent them lewd photos .
just received a summons .
eric bolling is suing me for defamation $ 50 million in damages , yashar ali , a huffpost contributing writer , tweeted to his 140,000 twitter followers on wednesday .
i stand by my reporting + will protect my sources .
just received a summons .
eric bolling is suing me for defamation $ 50 million in damages .
i stand by my reporting + will protect my sources yashar ali ( @ yashar ) august 9 , 2017ali clarifies in his next post that bolling is suing him and not the huffington post : it 's important to note that bolling 's summons does not include huffpost he is coming after me personally .
i 'm a big boy but very telling https : //t.co/nvludsiv87 yashar ali ( @ yashar ) august 9 , 2017not going to stop reporting on eric bolling or anyone else .
i 've had family members killed/jailed in iran , a lawsuit is n't going to scare me https : //t.co/nvludsiv87 yashar ali ( @ yashar ) august 9 , 2017 the nature of this action is for damages and injunctive relief based on defamation arising from the defendant s efforts to injure the plaintiff s reputation through the intentional and/or highly reckless publication of actionable false and misleading statements about the plaintiff s conduct and character .
as a result of the defendant s actions , the plaintiff has been substantially harmed , reads the summons sent to ali.the editor in chief of the huffington post tweeted that the outlet will be standing by ali in the case.yashar ali is a paid freelancer under contract with huffpost .
we have no hesitation about standing by him financially in this case .
lydia polgreen ( @ lpolgreen ) august 9 , 2017huffpost says they have `` no hesitation '' to financially stand by @ yashar in @ ericbolling case hadas gold ( @ hadas_gold ) august 10 , 2017