on more than one occasion , condoleezza rice was able correct the record by pointing out the hypocrisy of these ladies in such a way that they didn t even know it .
it started with trump-hater and abc senior legal analyst sunny hostin asking about general flynn s alleged discussions with russia weeks before trump s inauguration asking , as someone who has had that position as national security advisor , would you have felt comfortable having those discussions , is that inappropriate ?
rice went on to explain how you will have conversations with foreigners , but the thing you shouldn t do is discuss policy .
she then went on to say that , there s only one president and that as a matter of principle , you can talk to anybody in that period , but you should never suggest that you might be making changes in policy and maybe they should just wait until there s a change in administration .
was rice referring to the time obama was caught on a hot mic telling russian president dmitry medvedev , this is my last election , after the election , i ll have more flexibility ? while explaining how we should be handling vladimir putin s potential meddling in our elections , rice reminded the panel that when hillary was secretary of state she questioned the legitimacy of putin s election in 2012 and now he s saying , i m going to question the legitimacy of your election .
rice s answer wasn t quite what the view hacks had hoped for , and like a dog on a bone , the view host sunny hostin continued , but madame secretary , if he [ putin ] indeed did engage in these kinds of tactics in the election , then the very legitimacy of our election is at issue isn t it ?
rice snapped back , no .
rice then went on to say , i trust the people who voted in wisconsin and texas and alabama and california to have voted on the basis of who they thought was best gon na represent their interests .
so i m not gon na question the legitimacy of their vote because vladimir putin tried to interfere in the elections .
that s just a step that i m don t think we should take .
let s trust our fellow citizens to have been smart enough to vote for the people they ought to be voting for .
zing !
watch : and for the final blow , fake conservative host jedidiah bilah ( who , let s face it , is really just collecting a paycheck because she s a token conservative who s too weak to stand up for anything ) has the opportunity to defend conservatism in some way with one of the most brilliant female conservatives sitting on their panel and she used the opportunity to trash president trump over his handling of n. korea .