kinshasa ( reuters ) - an election to replace congolese president joseph kabila can not take place before april 2019 , the electoral commission said , a delay that the opposition said would cause an impatient population to take matters into its own hands .
the schedule outlined by the electoral commission would torpedo an agreement between kabila s camp and his opponents to hold the election - originally scheduled for november 2016 - before the end of this year .
dozens of people were killed last year in protests against kabila s refusal to step down at the end of his term .
parts of democratic republic of congo are in the hands of insurgents who say they will not stop fighting while he remains in power .
the electoral commission , ceni , said in a statement following a meeting with civil society representatives on tuesday that it would need at least 504 days to organize the poll once voter registration is completed .
enrolment began in parts of kasai , a region ravaged by insurrection , in mid-september and will take about three months , the commission says .
that means the vote could not be organized until april 2019 at the earliest .
ceni is expected to announce election dates this month .
what the ceni has announced is not an electoral calendar but an election-killing agenda , opposition leader claudel lubaya told reuters .
everything now rests on the shoulders of the population , which must take matters into its own hands .
the opposition suspects kabila is trying to cling to power by postponing elections until he can find a way to remove term limits that prevent him from standing for re-election , as presidents in neighboring rwanda and congo republic have done .
kabila , who took power after his father laurent kabila was assassinated in 2001 , denies that , and says the election delays are due to difficulties enrolling millions of voters and mobilizing hundreds of millions of dollars in financing .
his spokesman has repeatedly said that the electoral commission operates independently and that kabila has no control over the timing of elections .
the head of the u.n. peacekeeping mission in congo , maman sidikou , said ceni was badly underfunded .
international donors have contributed only 6 percent of the $ 123 million that the united nations had been expecting , he told the u.n. security council .
congo has never experienced a peaceful transition of power and kabila s refusal to step down has fueled mounting insecurity across a country where millions died in regional conflicts between 1996-2003 , most from hunger and disease .
an insurrection in kasai has killed up to 5,000 people and displaced 1.4 million since august 2016 , and militia violence has also spiked in the eastern borderlands , where dozens of armed groups are active .