( reuters ) - oregon ’ s governor blasted the federal government ’ s response to the occupation of a wildlife refuge by a group of armed men saying the situation was “ absolutely intolerable ” and costing the state about $ 100,000 a week .
governor kate brown , a democrat , said she had been asked by federal officials to limit her public comments about the protest which began on jan. 2 at the remote malheur national wildlife refuge and that she had no wish to escalate the situation .
“ but i will say this ...
the situation is absolutely intolerable and it must be must be resolved immediately .
the very fabric of this community is being ripped apart , ” brown said on wednesday at a news conference .
“ the residents of harney county have been overlooked and under-served by federal officials ’ response thus far. ” the takeover at malheur was the latest flare-up in the so-called sagebrush rebellion , a decades-old conflict over the u.s. government ’ s control of millions acres of land in the west .
the occupiers have declared their move is in support of two local ranchers who were returned to prison this month for setting fires that spread to federal land .
the ranchers ’ lawyer has said the occupiers do not speak for the family .
law enforcement officials have so far kept their distance from the buildings at the refuge , 30 miles ( 48 km ) south of the small town of burns in rural southeast oregon ’ s harney county , in the hope of avoiding a violent confrontation .
one of the occupiers was arrested last week after he drove a government vehicle to a local supermarket .
brown called the situation a “ spectacle of lawlessness ” which must end and said she had conveyed her very grave concerns to the u.s. department of justice and the white house .
“ federal authorities must move quickly to end the occupation and hold all of the wrongdoers accountable , ” the governor said .
“ and until harney county is free of it , i will not stop insisting that federal officials enforce the law. ” the chair of the local native american tribe has also called on the federal government to remove the occupiers .
brown said the standoff was costing oregon about $ 100,000 per week , mostly in additional law enforcement costs , and that she has asked her finance officials to “ scour the budget ” so they could subsidize the expense to harney county .
“ we will be asking federal officials to reimburse the state for these costs , ” she said .