tokyo ( reuters ) - japanese defense minister itsunori onodera urged caution on friday because more provocation was possible from north korea on oct. 10 , when the start of lower house election campaigns in japan coincides with one of the north s main anniversaries .
tensions have risen on the korean peninsula since reclusive north korea conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test on sept. 3 , leading to a new round of sanctions after a unanimous vote by the united nations security council .
u.s. president donald trump has since traded insults with north korean leaders , raising the stakes even further .
north korea has often marked significant events on its calendar by conducting weapons tests , such as its fifth nuclear test last year on sept. 9 , its founding anniversary .
onodera said oct. 10 marks an important anniversary for north korea .
it is the date the north celebrates the founding of the north korean communist party .
i understand it is an important anniversary for north korea .
we would like to maintain a sense of urgency , onodera told reporters .
oct. 10 is also coincidentally the same day that campaigns will begin in japan for parliament s lower house election 12 days later after prime minister shinzo abe dissolved the chamber on thursday .
onodera s warning echoed a comment by south korean national security adviser chung eui-yong , who said during a meeting with president moon jae-in on thursday that he expected pyongyang to act around oct. 10 and 18 , but gave no details .
[ nl4n1m9191 ] oct. 18 marks the start of china s all-important communist party congress .
north korea has conducted a series of ballistic missile launches this year , including two launches over japan in recent weeks , in defiance of international pressure .
china , north korea s main ally and trading partner , has urged that dialogue is the only way to resolve the crisis , although japan has tended to support washington s more robust approach .
abe has said now is the time to apply pressure on north korea , rather than dialogue , in order to convince north korea to end its nuclear and missile programs .