helsinki ( reuters ) - nordic countries agreed on monday to step up defense cooperation and exchange more air surveillance information because they are worried about russia s increasing military activity .
the countries have increased defense spending and cooperation with each other and the north atlantic treaty organization since russia annexed crimea in 2014 .
the ... situation is a common concern for the nordic countries ... we aim at strengthening our national defense and finding cooperation to better address security concerns , finnish defence minister jussi niinisto told a news conference .
it followed a meeting with his swedish , danish and norwegian counterparts and a representative from iceland .
he said the agreement to exchange more air surveillance data would contribute positively to situational awareness as well as flight safety .
the nordic countries have accused russia of repeatedly violating their airspace in the past few years .
the countries also agreed to cooperate on procurement and said they planned to use a common nordic combat uniform .
we see an aggressive russia that is building up its forces , renewing its materials , having new missiles in kaliningrad ... that is the new picture in our part of the world , said danish defence minister claus hjort frederiksen kaliningrad lies between poland and lithuania on the baltic sea .
other ministers said russia did not pose a current threat .
the baltic sea region is a zone of heightened tensions between moscow and the west .
russia has increased its military capability in its baltic enclave of kaliningrad and criticized nato for stationing anti-missile shields in eastern europe .
norway , denmark and iceland are nato members , while sweden and finland - which shares an 833 mile ( 1,340 km ) border with russia - have remained militarily non-aligned .
finland said last week it was planning large-scale military drills with the nordics , the united states and other allies as early as 2020 .
the ministers will meet in helsinki on tuesday with a northern group that includes britain , the netherlands , germany , poland and the baltic states .
u.s. defence secretary jim mattis will also join the meeting .