seoul ( reuters ) - when north korean leader kim jong un signed an order for his scientists to test their latest missile , he was no doubt hoping for technical advances but perhaps also to reclaim the narrative after recent setbacks .
fire it bravely for the party and the motherland !
kim wrote on his order , according to a photograph shown on north korean state television on wednesday , shortly the test of a new intercontinental ballistic missile called the hwasong-15 .
the test , north korea s first since mid-september , allowed kim to declare with pride that his country had finally realized the great historic cause of completing the state nuclear force , one of the strongest statements yet on the status of his nuclear arsenal .
it came a week after u.s. president donald trump put north korea back on a u.s. list of countries it says support terrorism , allowing it to impose more sanctions .
the test also follows a dramatic defection to south korea by a north korean soldier on nov. 13 , who braved a hail of bullets by fellow soldiers as he crossed the heavily fortified border dividing the two koreas .
neither the north korean government nor its state media have made any mention of the defection , which dominated headlines in south korea and in international media for days .
analysts say the test makes technical sense for scientists trying to refine their rockets as they strive to achieve kim s goal of developing a nuclear-tipped missile that can reach all of the u.s. mainland .
but the launch likely also had other benefits .
kim may have wanted to regain control of the narrative and reinforce solidarity , after the defection and increasing diplomatic isolation , a south korean official said .
they couldn t sit pat after having been designated a sponsor state of terrorism , said kim dong-yub , a military expert at south korea s kyungnam university .
the north korean leader is also no doubt keen to fulfil a vow made in a 2017 new year s message to soon achieve an operable icbm , kim said .
kim jong un said at the beginning of this year they were near completing their nuclear capability .
won t he have to say in next year s new year s address that they ve completed it ?