ankara ( reuters ) - a new turkish political party founded by a former minister and vocal critic of tayyip erdogan could cost the president crucial support and potentially unseat the main opposition , a poll suggested on wednesday .
the survey by prominent polling firm gezici showed that the iyi parti ( good party ) , founded this month by the breakaway nationalist lawmaker meral aksener , could mark a dramatic shift in turkish politics , eclipsing the secular chp that dominated turkish politics for large parts of the republic s history .
while only five members of the 550-seat parliament have joined aksener s party , the survey suggested it could win over voters from several parties , including erdogan s islamist-rooted ak party as well as secular or nationalist groups .
although turkey s next elections are not due until 2019 , pollster gezici asked 4,638 respondents how they would vote in the event of a snap election .
support for erdogan s ruling ak party , which has been in power since 2002 , would fall to 43.8 percent , from 49.5 percent in the november 2015 parliamentary polls , the survey showed .
aksener s party would win 19.5 percent of the vote , beating the secularist people s republican party s ( chp ) 18.5 percent , it showed .
that would mark the first time since 2002 elections that the chp - established by turkey s founder , mustafa kemal ataturk - was not the main opposition .
the chp won 25 percent of votes in 2015 .
the nationalist mhp , where aksener previously served as a lawmaker and interior minister , and the pro-kurdish hdp were both seen falling below the 10 percent threshold needed to enter the 550-seat parliament .
the mhp was seen polling at 8.8 percent , from 11.9 in 2015 .
the hdp , whose leaders have been jailed in the crackdown that followed last year s failed coup , was seen taking 7.0 percent , from 10.8 in 2015 .
gezici was one of the most accurate pollsters on the results of april s referendum to change the constitution .
the poll was conducted between oct. 10-15 , days before the widely expected announcement of the formation of the iyi parti .
respondents were asked to choose from a list of potential political parties , including aksener s party .
aksener was expelled last year from the nationalist mhp , the smallest of three opposition parties in parliament , after launching a failed bid to unseat party leader devlet bahceli , whose support helped erdogan to a narrow victory in the april referendum that expanded his authority .
since her expulsion , the 61-year-old has become one of the most prominent voices in the country , frequently criticizing erdogan and the government .
in the case of the iyi parti not participating in potential snap elections , the akp would win just over 47 percent , while the chp would earn 26.8 percent , the poll showed .
the akp , founded by erdogan , has held a majority in parliament for nearly 15 years .
after winning almost 50 percent of votes in 2015 , erdogan and party officials said they aimed to win more than half the votes in the coming general elections .
( this version of the story corrects sixth paragraph to show that chp have been main opposition since 2002 elections , not decades )