update : a leading supreme court analyst thinks attorney general loretta lynch is the most likely candidate to replace the late conservative justice antonin scalia.tom goldstein , who runs the influential scotusblog , had earlier predicted ninth circuit judge paul watford would make the top of president obama s shortlist .
but in a revised blog post , goldstein said he now believes lynch is the leading contender.lynch is a very serious possibility , goldstein wrote .
the fact that lynch was vetted so recently for attorney general also makes it practical for the president to nominate her in relatively short order .
via : nbc newssocial media users beware !
you ve been warned by obama s henchwoman , attorney general loretta lynch the day after a horrific shooting spree by a radicalized muslim man and his partner in san bernardino , california , attorney general loretta lynch pledged to a group of muslim activists that she would take aggressive action against anyone who used anti-muslim rhetoric that edges toward violence .
speaking to the audience at the muslim advocate s 10th anniversary dinner thursday , lynch said her greatest fear is the incredibly disturbing rise of anti-muslim rhetoric in america and vowed to prosecute any guilty of what she deemed violence-inspiring speech .
she said : the fear that you have just mentioned is in fact my greatest fear as a prosecutor , as someone who is sworn to the protection of all of the american people , which is that the rhetoric will be accompanied by acts of violence .
my message to not just the muslim community but to the entire american community is : we can not give in to the fear that these backlashes are really based on.assuring the pro-muslim group that we stand with you , lynch said she would use her justice department to protect muslims from violence and discrimination.claiming that violence against muslims is on the rise and citing france s clamp down on potentially radicalized mosques , lynch suggested the constitution does not protect actions predicated on violent talk and pledged to prosecute those responsible for such actions .
when we talk about the first amendment we [ must ] make it clear that actions predicated on violent talk are not american , said lynch .
they are not who we are , they are not what we do , and they will be prosecuted .
my message not just to the muslim community but to all americans is we can not give in to the fear that these backlashes are really based on , ' said lynch.it is painfully clear that , like her predecessor eric holder , lynch is far more concerned with promoting the social justice agenda than protecting the constitutional rights of american citizens .
what exactly is speech that edges toward violence ?
what exactly are actions predicated on violent talk ?
in the end , it is whatever she decides it to mean .
via : daily wire