new york ( reuters ) - florida ’ s rapidly growing puerto rican population heavily favors democrat hillary clinton over republican donald trump in the u.s. presidential race , according to a poll released on wednesday by groups with links to the democrats .
seventy-four percent of puerto ricans now registered to vote in florida said they would likely pick clinton in the nov. 8 election , versus 17 percent for trump , according to the poll from the center for american progress action fund and latino decisions .
puerto ricans , who traditionally lean toward voting democratic in florida , are a big enough group to swing the closely-fought state .
florida , the third-largest state in the country in terms of electoral college votes needed to win the white house , has seen an influx of people from puerto rico , a u.s. territory , as the caribbean island ’ s economy has floundered in recent years .
more than one million puerto ricans now live in florida , according to the pew research center , making up about 5 percent of the total population .
the center for american progress action fund is a progressive non-partisan organization that has been critical of trump in the past .
latino decisions has consulted for the clinton campaign .
florida is currently too close to call between clinton and trump , according to the reuters/ipsos states of the nation project , and both candidates have been focusing their campaigns there heading into the election .
trump angered many hispanics when he launched his campaign last year by calling some mexican immigrants rapists and drug dealers , and his hardline immigration policies have done little to attract latino voters .
the poll did not gauge the level of eligible puerto rican voters who have registered in florida , an important measure given historically low latino turnout .
latino voter registration lagged white and african-american voters in the 2014 congressional elections by 12 to 15 percentage points nationally , according to the u.s. census .
but it said puerto rican voters now registered in florida appeared motivated .
some 84 percent said they would definitely vote , with another 14 percent saying they would probably do so .
only 2 percent said they definitely would not .
the poll included 504 registered puerto rican voters in florida with a margin of error of plus or minus 4.4 percentage points .
it was conducted from sept. 17 to sept. 26 .