jakarta ( reuters ) - students at an islamic school that indonesian authorities have linked to islamic state returned home after villagers nearby demanded its closure , a school spokesman said on sunday .
a reuters investigation published this month found at least eight staff and four students from the ibnu mas ud school in sukajaya , west java either traveled or tried to travel to syria to join the jihadist group between 2013 and 2016 .
spokesman jumadi told reuters the school was empty after the local police chief said failure to comply with the closure demands would lead to a big demonstration by residents from five surrounding districts .
the school denies it supports is , or any other militant groups .
it also says it does not advocate a violent or extreme version of islam .
jumadi , who goes by only one name , said the police warning prompted the school to call parents to pick up the roughly 250 students .
police could not be immediately reached for comment .
one of the four students , hatf saiful rasul , left for syria when he was 11 and died fighting with is a year later in september 2016 .
his father , imprisoned militant syaiful anam , wrote that his son was inspired to travel by teachers and students of the school who had joined is .
during the school s decade of operation in depok , outside jakarta , and then at sukajaya , at least another 18 people with links to it have been convicted or are now under arrest for militant plots and attacks in indonesia , reuters reported .
they include former students , teachers , parents , founders and donors .
during its investigation , reuters reviewed court documents , deeds of entitlement and interrogation reports , and interviewed counter-terrorism police , donors and former militants .
school head agus purwoko told reporters last week it only taught pupils how to read and memorize the koran .
so ibnu mas ud , in a way , is a childcare .
there are also parents who send their kids here because they are divorcing , going to jail , or facing other problems .
sukajaya village chief wahyudin sumardi told reuters in july that residents had been concerned about activities at the school for years .
local resentment ignited when a member of the school s staff allegedly burned a red and white banner in the village celebrating indonesia s independence day on aug. 17 .
irate residents rallied outside the school , according to police , village chief wahyudin and school spokesman jumadi .
jumadi agreed the next day to move or close the school in a month .
but school head agus and some rights activists said he signed documents under duress and the school should not be closed on the basis of minor damage to patriotic bunting .
we asked the police to prevent the mass protesters taking the law into their own hands and to separate the activities of the children from allegations of involvement in terrorism , said usman hamid , director of amnesty international indonesia .
hamid said the school s closure would increase the students chances of being radicalized .