frankfurt ( reuters ) - germany s environmentalist green party polled at its highest level this year in a survey published on sunday , overtaking chancellor angela merkel s other would-be coalition partner as talks to form a new government continued .
an coalition agreement would see merkel extend her 12-year spell at germany s helm , during which she has helped avoid a collapse of the euro zone and cemented her country s position as the bloc s economic powerhouse .
merkel must bring together the greens , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and her own conservative bloc to secure a majority , with sticking points including immigration caps , whether to end coal production and increasing defense spending .
the poll published by german daily bild put the greens at 11 percent , up by one percentage point from a week earlier , while the fdp fell by the same amount to 10 percent .
it will have no direct bearing on coalition talks , but gives the greens some bragging rights in terms of their negotiating .
the greens are calling for abandoning coal as a source of energy in germany , an objective shared by thousands of demonstrators who marched in the german city of bonn on saturday but opposed by the fdp .
if germany wants to meet its climate protection goals , an exit from coal is necessary , anton hofreiter , one of the leaders of the green s parliamentary party told reuters on sunday .
merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) and their bavarian csu sister party were stable at 31 percent while the social democrats , who have said they would not renew their ruling coalition with the conservatives , slipped by one percentage point to 21 percent .
party leaders are slated to meet on monday evening before the larger negotiating teams launch into more detailed talks .
the fdp leader , christian lindner , said in an interview published on sunday his party did not fear new elections if the negotiations failed .
but a new vote could see more gains for the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) , which surged into parliament last month after a campaign that channeled public anger at merkel s 2015 decision to leave germany s border open to migrants .
the euro-sceptic afd was stable in sunday s survey at 12 percent while left-wing die linke rose by one percentage point to poll to 10 percent .
polling firm emnid interviewed 1,476 people between 26 and 30 october .
a separate survey , carried out by pollster insa in bavaria , put merkel s local ally , the csu , at 37 percent , down from an already disappointing 38.9 percent at general elections on sept. 24 .
csu leader horst seehofer has been fending off calls for his resignation since the vote .
bavaria was the main entry point for migrants to germany in 2015 and the csu wants a limit of 200,000 migrants a year .
the bavarian survey , for which 1,033 people were polled on nov 2-3 , is due to appear in the bild newspaper on monday .