almaty ( reuters ) - when uzbek writer nurulloh muhammad raufkhon s new book came out last year , security forces raided his home and put the author - who was in turkey at the time - on their blacklist , effectively forcing him to stay there in exile .
now , after being removed from the list by the new government , the 62-year-old raufkhon plans to return to his central asian homeland - despite harboring some misgivings .
a safe return of prominent dissidents such as raufkhon might herald a genuine thaw in uzbekistan and mark a significant step toward restoring ties with the west and attracting foreign investment after decades of political and economic near-isolation under the late president islam karimov .
no prominent dissidents have returned home yet though since karimov died a year ago and raufkhon said some of his fellow emigres were still unconvinced it was safe to do so .
raufkhon s book , entitled bu kunlar ( these days ) , was a critique of uzbekistan s development since it became independent from the soviet union in 1991 .
by publishing it , he went against a well-established taboo on criticizing karimov , who ran the nation of 32 million with an iron fist from 1989 , first as a communist apparatchik and then as an elected leader .
he died in september last year from a stroke aged 78 .
they all but made me an enemy of the people , traitor of the motherland , raufkhon , who lives in istanbul , said in an interview with reuters conducted by email and telephone .
last month , the government of shavkat mirziyoyev , a former prime minister who has succeeded karimov , removed some 16,000 people , including raufkhon , from its security blacklist .
that prompted him to start thinking about a return home .
but he had second thoughts very soon - and he is still slightly apprehensive of possible action by a karimov old guard .
after they removed me from the blacklist , somebody decided to put up a list of wanted criminals with photos in the district where i am registered , he said .
my name was among them .
local officials quickly corrected the mistake and covered up his photo , he said , but the incident all the same made him uneasy .
i didn t understand this .
do we have a parallel state ?
he said .
( but ) in the end , i dismissed this as a mistake and decided to return .
to address mistakes like that you need to be back home .
raufkhon said there could be more setbacks .
of course , it is impossible to swiftly change a regime based on violence , he said , adding that a karimov-era elite was strongly resisting reforms .
one of the new government s moves that has raised eyebrows was the sacking last month of khurshid mirzohidov , a reformist chief executive of state television company mtrk .
mirzohidov , previously minister for information technology development , was appointed to mtrk in february as part of a broad reshuffle which followed mirziyoyev s election last december .
a major change brought on by mirzohidov was a series of q & a sessions broadcast live on national television in which senior officials had to answer tough questions - such as those about the use of forced labor in cotton harvesting .
after mirzohidov was sacked , alisher khajayev , who had run state television under karimov , took back the top job .
though live broadcasts have continued after the reshuffle , khajayev has yet to show he will maintain the same probing tv programs as mirzohidov .
speaking of fellow emigres , raufkhon said : they would have come back in an instant , but what stands in their way is uncertainty about what is going to happen to them upon return .
he urged the government to amnesty all opposition activists and guarantee their safety upon return .
raufkhon said he would announce the date of his own return this week .