johannesburg ( reuters ) - south african deputy president cyril ramaphosa , a leading contender to become head of the ruling anc in december , stepped up his criticism of the government on sunday , saying state-owned companies had been captured and funds looted from them .
ramaphosa s remarks during a speech to an african national congress meeting in the old diamond-mining town of kimberley were tougher than others he has made on government graft , signaling the issue will be a main theme of his campaign .
he also took aim without naming them - at the wealthy gupta family , friends of president jacob zuma who have been accused of using undue influence to win lucrative state contracts .
zuma and the guptas have denied any wrongdoing .
many of these state-owned enterprises have been captured by certain people , by a certain family , ramaphosa said .
all of our state-owned enterprises have been captured and we are saying we want to see an end to state capture and the money that has been stolen , we want it back , he said , to roars of approval from the audience .
south africa s top prosecutor said on wednesday police were examining a trove of leaked documents detailing relations between the guptas and zuma , but it was too early to say if a prosecution should be launched .
ramaphosa said in may that south africa was in danger of becoming a mafia state and he took a swipe in july at the guptas over media reports that state funds were diverted in 2013 to pay for a lavish gupta family wedding .
but sunday s remarks about a certain family were more pointed and come as the race heats up for the anc s top spot .
the next head of the party , who will be selected in december , will be its presidential candidate in 2019 national elections .
ramaphosa s main challenger , veteran politician and zuma s ex-wife nkosazana dlamini-zuma , will next week be sworn in as a member of parliament , a move which could see the former minister brought back into the cabinet , raising her profile .
analysts say she has the backing of zuma s well-established patronage network as well as organizations such as the party s women s league .
ramaphosa is a trade unionist-turned-business tycoon who has the backing of a diverse group of unions , communists and investors who do not always see eye to eye but want to rid the anc of zuma s influence and legacy .
the opposition has long accused zuma of sleaze and influence-peddling while in office .
he survived a no-confidence vote in parliament on aug. 8 but 30 anc lawmakers voted with the opposition , indicating deep divisions in the party that has dominated south african politics since the end of apartheid in 1994 .