seoul ( reuters ) - north korean workers are operating in the kaesong industrial zone , state-run web sites said on friday , after the joint venture with south korea was suspended last year amid disagreement over the north s nuclear and missile programmes .
the south ended more than a decade of cooperation at the factory park on the north korean side of the demilitarized zone ( dmz ) after the north launched a rocket that put an object into orbit , closing the last remaining window of interaction between the two sides .
at the time , south korea said it would no longer allow funds paid for kaesong to be used in the north s missile and nuclear programmes .
since then , a south korean official has said there is no evidence that north korea diverted wages paid to its workers by south korean companies operating in the park to its weapons programmes .
they do not even see our proud workers labouring vigorously working in the kaesong industrial complex , north korea s propaganda web site meari ( arirangmeari.com ) said in a post dated friday .
another propaganda web site , uriminzokkiri , said it is nobody s business what we do in an industrial complex where our nation s sovereignty is exercised .
u.s.-funded broadcaster radio free asia reported on monday that north korean authorities were operating 19 clothing factories within the kaesong complex without informing south korean authorities , citing an unnamed source with knowledge of north korean matters in china .
an official at south korea s ministry of unification said north korea must not violate south korean firms property rights within the complex , wire service yonhap reported .
the ministry could not be immediately reached for comment .
reclusive north korea and the rich , democratic south are technically still at war because their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce , not a peace treaty .
in recent weeks , north korea has launched two missiles over japan and conducted its sixth nuclear test , and may be fast advancing toward its goal of developing a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the u.s. mainland .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said last weekend that washington was directly communicating with pyongyang on its nuclear and missile programmes but that pyongyang had shown no interest in dialogue .
u.s. president donald trump later dismissed any prospect of talks with north korea as a waste of time .