mogadishu ( reuters ) - somalia s government said on wednesday it had requested a u.s. air strike that killed scores of suspected militants to help pave the way for an upcoming ground offensive against islamist group al shabaab .
the u.s. military s africa command ( africom ) said on tuesday it had killed more than 100 of the al qaeda-linked insurgents in the strike on a camp 125 miles ( 200 km ) northwest of the capital mogadishu .
those militants were preparing explosives and attacks .
operations against al shabaab have been stepped up , somali information minister abdirahman omar osman told reuters .
we have asked the u.s. to help us from the air to make our readied ground offensive more successful .
al shabaab spokesman abdiasis abu musab denied the air strike had taken place .
it is just ... propaganda , he told reuters .
the united states has ramped up operations in somalia this year after president donald trump loosened the rules of engagement in march .
africom reported eight u.s. air strikes from may to august , compared to 13 for the whole of 2016 .
including tuesday s strike , it has reported five this month alone .
the pentagon said the u.s. military would continue to target militants in strikes in coordination with the somali government .
al shabaab has lost control of most of somalia s cities and towns since african union peacekeepers supporting somali troops pushed the insurgency out of the capital mogadishu in 2011 .
but it retains a strong presence in parts of the south and center .
somali president mohamed abdullahi mohamed , a dual u.s.-somali citizen , has taken a harder line than his predecessors against the insurgency since he was sworn in earlier this year .
but his plans have been undermined by the poor state of the somali military and political infighting .
he has also had to try to mend fences with the powerful habar gidir clan , following a raid involving u.s. forces on the town of bariire in august in which 10 people were killed including three children .