trump is winning support from latinos and from union members two groups that typically vote democrat .
what is it about this candidate ?
we d love to know your thoughts .
this has been an interesting election year so far and will only get crazier .
it s a turning point trump has support from 38 percent of latino voters followed by ted cruz with 15 percent and jeb bush with 14 percent .
the new york post reported : thirty eight percent favor trump , followed by cuban american ted cruz ( 15 percent ) , jeb bush ( 14 percent ) and cuban american marco rubio ( 8 percent ) , according to the national poll conducted by the beck research for the american federation for children .
if you re trying to stop trump this poll should trouble you , said pollster deborah beck.from day 1 of his presidential campaign , trump got into hot water with hispanic organizations for asserting many mexican immigrants are rapists , criminals and drug dealers .
his campaign has since gained steam for his tough talk on building a border wall and making mexico pay for it and implementing a temporary ban on all muslims from entering the united states .
this poll finds that he s building a committed base of voters .
trump is proving to be teflon , and despite his statements about hispanic voters , 38 percent of hispanic republicans back him , said beck , president of beck research llc.the other group that s an unlikely supporter is the union vote : in september , union leaders rocked the political world by suggesting hillary would not just automatically get their nod ; that republican candidate donald trump could be in play for their consideration , in part due to hillary s rejection of the keystone pipeline , while mr. trump supports it.mr .
trump has a history of dealing with unions on his real estate projects around the country.the source of the attraction to mr. trump , say union members and leaders , is manifold : the candidate s unapologetically populist positions on certain economic issues , particularly trade ; a frustration with the impotence of conventional politicians ; and above all , a sense that he rejects the norms of washington discourse .
they feel he s the one guy who s saying what s on people s minds .
read more : gateway pundit