berlin ( reuters ) - jewish groups in germany are pressing the authorities to crack down on anti-semitic acts following the burning of jewish symbols and israeli flags at protests .
the american jewish committee berlin , the jsud group of jewish university students , the central council of jews in germany , and the german-israeli society have called for tougher law enforcement and for new laws to make it easier to ban or disband anti-semitic demonstrations .
chancellor angela merkel and other top german officials have condemned anti-semitic acts seen at demonstrations against u.s. president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel , and vowed to prosecute illegal acts .
the american jewish committee berlin said a new study by an indiana university professor showed broader efforts were also needed to fight anti-semitic attitudes among muslim migrants from syria and iraq .
german has opened its borders to more than 1 million migrants mainly fleeing middle east wars since 2015 , sparking concerns about a further bump in already increasing anti-semitism .
politicians must guarantee that anti-semitic attitudes will not be tolerated and that infractions to laws and regulations will be prosecuted , said the group s director , deidre berger .
she reiterated a longstanding call for the german government to appoint an anti-semitism commissioner to focus attention on the issue .
german justice minister heiko maas and berlin mayor michael mueller vowed during a menorah lighting at the brandenburg gate on tuesday to combat all forms of anti-semitism , while demonstrators continued to voice anger at the u.s. move at a separate event near berlin s main train station .
the central council of muslims in germany has also condemned anti-semitic actions .
indiana university s guenther jikeli , the author of the study , said group interviews of 68 migrants aged 18 to 52 conducted last year revealed widespread anti-semitic attitudes .
they showed rejection of the state of israel and ignorance about the murder of 6 million jews in europe by the nazis during world war two , he said .
there are strong anti-semitic views among refugees that need to be addressed because otherwise they could become the norm , he told reuters tv .
kurds and other refugees persecuted as minorities in their home countries had more nuanced views and more clearly rejected anti-semitism and anti-israeli perspectives , he said .
fabian weissbarth , spokesman for ajc , said the study should spur efforts to tackle anti-semitism among migrants to ensure the findings were not misused by anti-immigrant far-right groups like the alternative for germany ( afd ) party .
if we don t address it as a society , then the afd will , and that will lead to hate and incitement , he said .
we need a differentiated view that recognizes that not all refugees are the same , and we need to look at solutions , such as integration measures , what needs to be included in integration courses , and changes in how social workers and politicians react .