cairo/ramallah ( reuters ) - hamas has agreed to dissolve the administration that runs gaza , it said on sunday , a major step towards handing control of the enclave to a palestinian unity government after a decade of bitter rivalry with president mahmoud abbas .
the islamist group , which has ruled gaza since a brief palestinian civil war in 2007 , said it had taken a courageous , serious and patriotic decision to dissolve the administrative committee that runs the territory of 2 million people , and hand power to some form of unity government .
reunification a decade after hamas and abbas s secular fatah movement battled for control of gaza may hinge on whether complex issues related to power-sharing - which stymied reconciliation bids in the past - can be resolved .
abbas welcomed hamas move - a result of talks mediated by egypt - and said he would convene the palestinian leadership for discussions upon his return from new york where he was attending the u.n. general assembly .
the development would enable the formation of a national reconciliation government to work in the gaza strip and hold ... elections , he said in a statement on official news agency wafa .
earlier , a palestinian government spokesman said cairo s mediation had presented a historic opportunity that could help palestinians toward full statehood .
but fatah said it still needed clarification from hamas on the handing over of government ministries in gaza and control of the enclave s border crossings with israel and egypt .
hamas and fatah agreed in 2014 to form a national reconciliation administration but could not agree on the details .
a unity government formed after hamas won the last palestinian general election , in 2006 , was short-lived .
aiming to pressure hamas to relinquish control of gaza , abbas cut payments to israel for the electricity it supplies to the enclave , leading to power provided for less than four hours on some days , and never more than six hours a day .
azzam al-ahmad , who headed fatah s delegation to the talks in cairo , told wafa : this step will enhance the unity of the palestinians and end ugly division .
the two parties did not meet at the talks which took the form of shuttle-diplomacy with egyptian officials mediating .
ahmad said the two sides planned to meet face-to-face but gave no date .
other palestinian factions would join the talks later to discuss practical steps to implement the agreement , he added .
mending fences with western-backed abbas would be another step in hamas diplomatic push to improve relations with its neighbor egypt , which has kept its frontier with gaza largely closed and accused the group in the past of aiding islamist militants in egypt s sinai desert , something hamas denies .
the united nations envoy welcomed sunday s news .
all parties must seize this opportunity to restore unity and open a new page for the palestinian people , u.n. special coordinator for the middle east peace process nickolay mladenov said in a statement , adding that the u.n. was ready to assist the talks in order to alleviate hardship in gaza .
mladenov thanked egypt for its tireless efforts in creating this positive momentum .
some opinion polls have showed that if parliamentary elections were held now , hamas would win both in gaza and the israeli-occupied west bank , the seat of abbas s palestinian authority .
abbas , 82 , is 12 years into what was meant to be a four-year term as president and opinion polls show him to be unpopular .
he has no clear successor and no new presidential election appears imminent .