johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa should raise state spending on higher education by around a third to at least 1 percent of gross domestic product , a report commissioned by the presidency and released on monday found .
the recommendation by the commission appointed by president jacob zuma came as a senior treasury official resigned after news reports said he had complained about presidential interference in the budget process , and as state-owned utility eskom said it was facing serious liquidity issues .
south africa relies on foreign investors to finance its hefty budget and current account deficits .
investors are nervous ahead of important credit rating reviews scheduled this month and with the ruling african national congress gearing up to elect zuma s successor as party chief in december .
the presidency said on monday that zuma would make an announcement on the higher education report once ministers had processed its findings .
zuma set up the commission early last year in response to protests by university students demanding free education .
the rand and benchmark bonds weakened after the presidency said it would publish the report on monday , but they were little changed after its release .
currency traders and analysts said markets were waiting to see how the presidency would react to the report , but they said its recommendations were risky from an economic standpoint .
if we start repeating this pattern of recording higher and higher budget deficits we are undoubtedly headed for downgrades , said senior nedbank economist nicky weimar .
south african gdp was around 4.3 trillion rand ( $ 296.6 billion ) last year , so an increase in government spending on higher education of 0.25 percent of gdp would amount to around $ 750 million of additional expenditure .
the commission also recommended that all university students should be funded through a cost-sharing model , whereby the government would guarantee income-contingent loans issued by commercial banks .
should a student fail to reach a certain income level , the state should repay the tuition loan , it advised .
introducing those measures would make it more difficult for treasury to rein in a projected budget deficit of over 4 percent of gdp for the 2017/18 fiscal year .
but it would be popular among young people and anc voters , many of whom are dissatisfied that south african society remains deeply unequal more than two decades after the end of apartheid in 1994 .
south africa next holds a national election in 2019 , and the anc has seen its electoral majority shrink in elections .
south african markets have also been pressured by fears that the independence of financial institutions is under threat .
local media outlet fin24 cited sources on monday as saying that treasury deputy director-general michael sachs had resigned last week after complaining that zuma was interfering in the budget process .
treasury confirmed sachs resignation , saying only that his departure was because he wanted to serve the public sector in a different capacity .
international ratings agencies downgraded south africa s debt earlier this year after zuma fired respected finance minister pravin gordhan in an abrupt cabinet reshuffle .
s & p global and moody s are expected to review the country s ratings again on nov. 24 , and all eyes are on whether they will downgrade its local-currency rating to junk status after gordhan s replacement , malusi gigaba , unveiled dismal medium-term budget forecasts last month .
downgrades to sub-investment grade could trigger forced selling of up to $ 12 billion of south african bonds and pile further pressure on the rand , which is already trading at a 12-month low against the dollar .
south africa s debt insurance costs hit a four-month high on monday , reflecting a greater likelihood of ratings downgrades .