rome ( reuters ) - silvio berlusconi has suggested a carabinieri ( military police ) general could be italy s next prime minister if his center bloc wins national elections slated for early 2018 .
berlusconi , a four-times prime minister , is barred from holding public office because of a 2013 conviction for tax fraud .
he is trying to overturn the ban , but is seeking alternative candidates if his legal battle fails .
i have many names , but there is someone who is very capable ... who has had success and is esteemed by everyone , general ( leonardo ) gallitelli , berlusconi told a sunday night chat show on state broadcaster rai .
gallitelli headed the carabinieri , a military police force that operates under the control of both the defense and interior ministries , from 2009 to 2015 .
he is currently head of italy s anti-doping office .
berlusconi said he had not yet discussed the idea with gallitelli .
he has previously suggested that european central bank governor mario draghi or the ceo of carmaker fiat chrysler , sergio marchionne , could be his prime ministerial candidate .
the billionaire media tycoon was widely written off after he quit as prime minister in 2011 amid a sex scandal .
but he has made a remarkable political comeback and his forza italia ( go italy ! )
party is now the lynchpin of a center coalition that leads in opinion polls ahead of next year s election .
berlusconi , 81 , said if his bloc took power he would like to see 12 people from outside the world of politics appointed to the cabinet , with only 8 ministries entrusted to politicians .
his allies , the far-right northern league and brothers of italy , are likely to baulk at the suggestion .
the three parties have agreed that whichever group gets more votes next year should nominate the prime minister .
forza italia is just ahead of the northern league in the polls , but surveys indicate no one party or bloc will win enough votes to govern alone , meaning a hung parliament looks likely .