( reuters ) - boeing co ’ s chief executive said on tuesday that he and president-elect donald trump “ made progress ” on lowering the cost of the air force one presidential aircraft fleet and on a potential sale of boeing fighter aircraft , and suggesting a deal could be struck soon .
boeing ceo dennis muilenburg ’ s visit to trump tower on tuesday marked another step in trump ’ s efforts to use his bully pulpit to cut better deals with defense contractors .
it also showed boeing ’ s adroit use of the meetings to pursue its own sales and herald its importance to the u.s. manufacturing economy .
trump has been pressuring defense companies on prices through twitter posts and meetings .
last month he said a $ 4 billion contract for air force one was too expensive and should be canceled .
boeing has said it so far has a $ 170 million contract for design work on the heavily modified boeing 747 planes and that no final figure for the fleet of planes had been established .
trump also last month asked the chicago-based aerospace and defense company to price a contract for boeing ’ s f/a-18 super hornet fighter jet to compete with lockheed martin ’ s f-35 fighter , which is famously over budget .
while not offering details , muilenburg said the “ excellent conversation ” with trump could lead to a deal “ in the very near term. ” “ we made some great progress on simplifying requirements for air force one , streamlining the process , streamlining certification by using commercial practices , ” muilenburg told reporters after the hour-long meeting .
“ that ’ s going to lead to substantial cost reductions. ” on fighter jets , he said , “ we were able to talk about options for the country and capabilities that will , again , provide the best capability for our war fighters most affordably. ” muilenburg praised trump ’ s approach to negotiations .
“ i think mr. trump is doing a great job of engaging business , ” he said , noting that as the u.s. ’ top exporter , boeing supports 1.5 million u.s. manufacturing jobs and 13,000 small and mid-sized supplier companies .
“ if you want manufacturing jobs , aerospace is the place to invest , ” he said .
“ we ’ re proud to take on that mission and i think mr trump ’ s engagement with industry is going to help us grow manufacturing jobs in this country. ” “ i appreciate the teamwork approach on this - i think it ’ s the right way to do business. ” boeing ’ s stock was down 0.6 percent at $ 157.87 in afternoon trade .