madrid/barcelona ( reuters ) - the jailed leader of catalonia s main pro-independence party has backed away from demands for unilateral secession from spain , days before a regional election that polls suggest will produce a hung parliament .
the independence drive has tipped spain into its worst political crisis since the return of democracy in the 1970s , dividing opinion in the region , denting an economic rebound and prompting a business exodus to other parts of the country .
in reply to written questions from reuters passed to him in prison where he is being held on allegations of rebellion and sedition , oriol junqueras struck a conciliatory tone .
he wrote that he would continue to pursue independence if he became catalonia s next president , but also build bridges and shake hands with representatives of the spanish state .
i can assure you that we are democrats before we are separatists and that the aim ( of gaining independence ) does not always justify the means , he said in comments that appeared to drop his party s earlier demand for unilateral secession .
junqueras esquerra republicana ( republican left ) party is tipped to become the largest separatist force in parliament in thursday s ballot , but surveys suggest neither the pro-independence nor the pro-unity camp will win a majority .
he was deputy leader of the catalan government that was sacked in october after the regional assembly unilaterally declared independence following a referendum that central authorities had deemed illegal .
madrid also dissolved the assembly and called fresh elections .
the spanish justice system s actions against the region s leaders has since then hamstrung the pro-independence camp and further muddied the electoral waters before thursday s vote .
catalonia s ex-president carles puigdemont is campaigning from self-imposed exile in brussels and junqueras doing so from jail along with several other politicians .
it is unclear if many of those likely to be elected will be able to attend parliament .
at separatist rallies across the capital barcelona in recent days , many supporters appeared to recognize that forcing independence without spain s consent was no longer an option .
instead , many favored pressuring madrid into talks and gaining european union approval for a negotiated split .
we can t continue unilaterally .
we might lose more than we would gain , said carles ortega , a 58-year-old consultant , at a rally at a sports center in barcelona s outskirts that puigdemont addressed via videolink .
final polls for the election expected to attract a record turnout showed esquerra running neck-and-neck with pro-unity party ciudadanos ( citizens ) , with both far short of the 68 seats needed to hold a majority .
esquerra previously formed a coalition government with puigdemont s own center-right party , which leads the junts per catalunya platform ( together for catalonia ) which is seen coming third in the vote .
the key for unionist and separatist factions will be winning over the regional offshoot of anti-austerity party podemos , which supports unity but wants a referendum .
its leader favors a left-wing alliance across parties that both back and reject independence .
there is a rising risk that pro-independence parties fall a bit short and need to include podemos and we get a softer push for independence within the institutions , peter ceretti , an analyst at the economist intelligence unit , said .
the movement would rumble on , he said , and press madrid on long-held demands for it to return more of catalonia s tax revenue and recognize the region as a nation , rather than a nationality , in the spanish constitution .
many catalans worry about how the independence drive has obscured all other social issues and could harm the wealthy region s position as spain s primary driver of economic growth and a magnet for foreign investment .
junqueras said if he was elected regional president he would pay heed to voters who opposed independence .
i would tell them everybody has to be respected and that differences always have to be resolved in a democratic way , he said .