erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - a delegation from the kurdistan regional government held talks with the iraqi ruling shi ite coalition in baghdad on saturday , two days before a planned referendum on secession from iraq .
the delegation will discuss the referendum but the referendum is still happening , hoshiyar zebari , a top adviser to kurdish leader massoud barzani , told reuters .
we said we would talk to baghdad before , during and after the referendum .
the krg has said the vote is intended to give its autonomous territory a legitimate mandate to achieve independence from iraq through dialogue with baghdad and neighboring powers turkey and iran .
ankara and tehran are worried that the vote could revive the separatist aspirations of their own kurdish populations .
the kurdish delegation met with representatives of the shi ite ruling coalition in baghdad , and with the iraqi president , fuad masum , himself a kurd , whose role is largely ceremonial .
executive powers are concentrated in the hands of the prime minister , haider al-abadi , a shi ite .
abadi s office said he didn t meet the delegation .
hemin hawrami , an assistant to barzani , tweeted : our delegation in baghdad to deliver a message : we re ready for talks after 25/9 .
turkey said on saturday it would take security and other steps in response to the planned referendum , which it called a terrible mistake .
the turkish parliament convened for a debate and vote on extending a mandate that authorizes turkish troop deployments to iraq and syria , and prime minister binali yildirim alluded to possible military moves .
the united states has urged the krg to cancel the vote , while the u.n. security council warned in a statement of its potentially destabilizing impact on iraq .
washington and other western powers say the vote distracts from the fight against the islamic state militant group .
the krg counters that its peshmerga fighters have made a crucial contribution to that fight .
( this version of the story corrects to say meeting was with the iraqi ruling shi te coalition in baghdad , not with the government in baghdad )