honolulu s caf 8 gets rave reviews on yelp for its radiatore verde and italian stir fry , among other popular dishes at the eclectic mom-and-pop restaurant but the response to its new policy barring pro-trump patrons has been decidedly more mixed.a bright yellow , handmade sign posted on the restaurant s front glass door declares : if you voted for trump you can not eat here !
no nazis .
a photo of the sign was shared with foxnews.com .
one also is proudly posted on the caf s facebook page , and was liked by some 40 people.honolulu resident and donald trump voter susan roberts told foxnews.com she found the sign in extreme poor taste .
it s childish and very unprofessional , she said in an email .
the restaurant owner doesn t have to worry i will not be stepping foot in that establishment .
a facebook user who wrote on the 8 1/2 cafe page says he was joking about the restaurant not serving trump supporters when the owner came over and took away his food : unlike everybody else , i actually did eat here recently on a trip .
i was there with one of my friends and we thought they were joking about not serving trump supporters wrong ! ! !
we were talking about it when all of a sudden a giant fat male comes over , identifies himself as the owner and takes away our food .
he still insisted we pay until we called the police and they sorted him out explaining to this guy that you can t take away food and then expect people to pay .
what a joke this place is.here are a few additional comments from facebook users that were found on the 8 1/2 cafe website : maybe someone should call the health department on them .
didn t someone see a rat skittering across the floor or maybe that was cockroaches.no need to eat at a restaurant owned by a trumpophobe they ll be sued shortly for discrimination , just like the bakers were who wouldn t bake cakes for gay weddings.like the nazis put signs in the windows of restaurants and businesses no jews allowed .
i find it strange that your sign says no nazis no trump supporters ?
yet you are doing the exact same thing the nazis did in poland .
your business will suffer because you do not understand the power of social media , nor do you understand the power of trump supporters .
oh , by the way your food looks like shit ! going to hawaii this summer but i will stay away from your so called restaurant .
i voted for trump and apparently my money isn t good enough for you your choice .
by the way you might want to pick up a history book and read about the nazis i think you might find the similarities in you both uncanny .
people should be able to get food without hearing a political message , one apparent former customer wrote on yelp .
i will never go back .
the 8 1/2 cafe received so many negative comments on yelp that the service designed to rate restaurants as a way to help consumers find good food had to step in and shut down the comment and ratings section for their restaurant : according to the honolulu star-advertiser , the caf was founded by robert warner , a former hair stylist for vidal sassoon in san francisco and former restaurateur in seattle , along with his wife jali .
fox news