moscow ( reuters ) - russian tv personality ksenia sobchak said on wednesday she planned to run in next year s presidential election , offering liberal voters unhappy with president vladimir putin s rule someone to back , though she has little prospect of winning .
opinion polls show putin , who has dominated russian politics for nearly two decades , will comfortably win re-election if , as most observers expect , he decides to seek what would be his fourth term in march .
however , a significant minority of voters accuse the kremlin chief of overseeing a corrupt system that has isolated russia from the outside world , and many of them have taken part in mass protests organized by putin critic alexei navalny .
russian officials say navalny is ineligible to run for president due to a criminal conviction he says was fabricated .
sobchak , who has been described by vogue magazine as the russian version of u.s. socialite paris hilton and is the daughter of putin s former mentor , said she had decided to run because she was tired of the same politicians , including putin , running year after year .
in a video clip posted online on wednesday evening , sobchak , 35 , said she had the right to run for russia s top political job under the country s constitution , which stipulates that all candidates must be 35 or older .
i decided to exercise that right because i am against all of those ( candidates ) who usually exercise that right , she said .
when i was 18 and was studying in university , vladimir putin became president of russia .
children who were born that year will go and vote themselves this year .
just think about that .
but some russian liberals fear sobchak s participation will play into the kremlin s hands by splitting the opposition vote .
liberal laughing-stock last month , commenting on rumors that sobchak would run , navalny complained that she was being used by the kremlin as a safe lightning conductor for voters dissatisfaction .
she was being drawn into this fairly loathsome kremlin game that goes by the title of : let s put a liberal laughing-stock up for the elections in order to distract attention , said navalny .
sobchak told the opposition-leaning tv broadcaster rain she had told putin in advance of her intention to run , adding it had seemed to her that he had not liked her decision .
the kremlin has said she is eligible to run in the election .
sobchak is the daughter of anatoly sobchak , the reformist former mayor of st petersburg who hired putin as an official in city hall in the 1990s .
sobchak , who died in 2000 , became a mentor to putin .
sobchak s mother , lyudmila narusova , sits in the upper house of the russian parliament .
ksenia sobchak s instagram account , often featuring photographs of her dressed in designer outfits and appearing at glitzy society events , has 5.2 million followers .
after graduating from the prestigious mgimo university in moscow , she became a nationwide celebrity when she hosted a russian reality tv show called dom 2 .
she became active in opposition politics around the time that putin , in 2012 , was re-elected to the presidency after stepping down for four years to comply with constitutional term limits .
she appeared at opposition rallies , spoke out against the kremlin on social media , and recast herself as a news anchor for the rain broadcaster .