barcelona ( reuters ) - hundreds of thousands of catalan independence supporters clogged one of barcelona s main avenues on saturday to demand the release of separatist leaders held in prison for their roles in the region s banned drive to split from spain .
wearing yellow ribbons on their lapels to signify support , they filled the length of the avenue marina that runs from the beach to barcelona s iconic sagrada familia church , while the jailed leaders families made speeches .
catalonia s two main grassroots independence groups called the march , under the slogan freedom for the political prisoners , after their leaders were remanded in custody on charges of sedition last month .
the protest is seen as a test of how the independence movement s support has fared since the catalan government declared independence on oct. 27 , prompting spanish prime minister mariano rajoy to fire its members , dissolve the regional parliament and call new elections for december .
an opinion poll this week showed that pro-independence parties would win the largest share of the vote , though a majority was not assured and question marks remain over ousted regional head carles puigdemont s leadership of the separatist cause .
look at all the people here , said 63-year-old pep morales .
the independence movement is still going strong .
barcelona police said about 750,000 people had attended , many from across catalonia .
the protesters carried photos with the faces of those in prison , waved the red-and-yellow striped catalan independence flag and shone lights from their phones .
the spanish high court has jailed eight former catalan government members , along with the leaders of the catalan national assembly ( anc ) and omnium cultural , while investigations continue .
the high court last week issued arrest warrants on charges of rebellion and sedition for puigdemont , who flew to brussels after being deposed , and four other former government members who went with him .
your light reaches us in brussels and illuminates the path we must keep following , puigdemont tweeted during the protest .
on thursday , the supreme court ruled to release on bail the catalan parliament s speaker carme forcadell and four other lawmakers , who enabled the declaration of independence by overseeing a parliamentary vote .
another lawmaker was released without bail .
forcadell left jail on friday after agreeing to renounce any political activity that went against the spanish constitution , in effect banning her from campaigning for independence in the december election .
those terms threaten to undermine the independence movement just as cracks are starting to appear and tensions rise between the grassroots and their leaders .
puigdemont s pdecat party has failed to agree on a united ticket to contest the election with another secessionist party , the erc , denting the pro-independence camp s hopes of pressing ahead after the election .
on saturday , the erc said its leader , jailed former catalan vice-president oriol junqueras , would be its candidate in december and he would campaign from behind bars .
pepita sole , a 61-year-old pensioner in the crowd on saturday , said she understood the oct. 27 declaration was symbolic but now wanted the real thing .
they better understand that we re not faking .