barack only needs to find the closest mirror to understand where the increase in racism and distrust in our over-reaching government originated .
he is without a doubt , the most divisive president in the history of the united states of america .
dividing our nation will be his legacy president barack obama accused right wing talk radio and cable channels like fox news of angering white people in america about the economy , arguing that it was actually doing really well under his administration.during his speech , obama decried republicans who campaigned on stopping welfare queens complaining about makers and takers and even referred to mitt romney s 47 percent comment .
their basic message is anti-government , anti-immigrant , anti-trade , and let s face it it s anti-change , obama said , accusing them of lying just to oppose him .
what they are saying just isn t true , he said , before launching his own attempt at mythbusting narratives from conservative media.obama complained that people failed to recognize that he was succeeding in improving the economy , cutting the deficit , and cutting spending .
it s the story that is broadcast every day on some cable news stations , on right wing radio it s pumped into cars and bars and vfw halls all across america and right here in elkhart , he said .
if you re hearing that story all the time , you start believing it .
it s no wonder people start thinking big government is the problem .
because of conservative radio , obama argued , white americans think that reverse discrimination is as big a problem as discrimination against minorities .
obama argued they were wrong , since black unemployment was still twice as high as white unemployment and hispanic women earned 55 cents for every dollar earned by a white man .
obama warned voters against listening to trump s political argument .
the one thing i can promise you is if we turn against each other based on divisions of race and religion if we fall for a bunch of okey-doke just because it sounds funny or the tweets are provocative , then we re not going to build on the progress we started .
at one point , obama stuttered repeatedly when speaking about trump.our president without a teleprompter : https : //vine.co/v/ivlaijxdqv2obama made his speech at elkhart , indiana , where a majority of voters in the county voted against him in the 2012 presidential election .
one person in the crowd shouted one more time !
suggesting that she wanted obama to run again for office .
no i can t do that , obama said .
the constitution prohibits it but more importantly michelle prohibits it .
via : breitbart news