we mentioned in an article yesterday that the real objective behind this recount effort is probably not to find voter fraud , but to strip trump of the electoral votes in the traditionally blue , must-win states of pa , wi , and mi .
if these state are in the process of a recount effort , trump can not use their electoral votes in the final tally .
a republican majority congress would then have to vote to allow trump to use the votes .
the hope is likely that this action would throw trump s presidency into question with voters , thus setting him up as an illegitimate president in the minds of american citizens .
the good news is , the possiblity of a recount in the state of pennsylvania with 20 electoral votes , is not looking too good for hillary right now jill stein s hillary clinton s effort to recount presidential votes in three swing states already appears to be sputtering in philadelphia.while stein , a former presidential candidate , has raised millions of dollars and filed for a recount in wisconsin , the process in pennsylvania is much more complicated .
candidates can not file for a recount themselves .
instead , they either have to go to court and attempt to prove widespread voter fraud ( there s no evidence of that at this point ) or organize a voter-initiated recount effort.stein s team is going for the latter , asking for thousands of volunteers across pennsylvania to mobilize .
for a voting division also known as a precinct to be recounted , three voters from that division must sign and file an affidavit.as of noon monday , the philadelphia city board of elections had received petitions for 35 of the 1,686 voting divisions in philadelphia , according to city commissioner al schmidt .
he s spoken with organizers who expect another 15 to be filed .
that means that only about 50 of the 1,686 voting divisions in philadelphia , or about 3 percent , would be recounted as a part of stein s effort.stein needed more than 5,000 people in philadelphia alone to sign petitions to file for a recount and would have had to mobilize about 30,000 people statewide to get a full recount going in pennsylvania .
she contends that though her campaign is targeting recounts in wisconsin , pennsylvania and michigan , it is not coordinating with the campaign of hillary clinton , who lost all three of those states to president-elect donald trump .
the green party candidate has so far raised nearly $ 7 million to spearhead the recount.wanda murren , a spokeswoman for the pennsylvania department of state , said in a statement monday afternoon that the state is working to gather information from the 67 counties regarding their progress in certifying election returns .
she said some counties have already certified their elections , therefore closing the five-day window to petition at the county level for a recount.the deadline for voters to file for a recount is the end of the day today.meanwhile , officials in allegheny county have said they will delay certifying their election results as activists are filing petitions seeking a recount .
billypenn