johannesburg ( reuters ) - when cyril ramaphosa won the tight vote to become the new leader of the african national congress on monday after years of near-misses , his loyal supporters jumped to their feet , pumping their fists and cheering .
but as the results for other top positions emerged , the cheers quickly evaporated , as it became clear that anc officials close to president jacob zuma would still control important levers of the ruling party .
ramaphosa , who has served as south africa s deputy president under zuma since 2014 , narrowly defeated former cabinet minister nkosazana dlamini-zuma , zuma s ex-wife and preferred successor , in the race for the anc s top job .
ramaphosa is now within touching distance of becoming president , fulfilling a lifelong ambition for the man nelson mandela wanted to be his heir after the end of apartheid in 1994 .
markets rallied on ramaphosa s victory , as investors piled into rand assets on hopes ramaphosa would follow through on campaign promises to uproot corruption and rekindle economic growth .
but the mood in the conference hall in johannesburg where the anc s new top six most powerful officials were announced told a different story .
the ramaphosa camp fumed that zuma loyalists david mabuza and ace magashule were named anc deputy president and secretary general , while dlamini-zuma backer jessie duarte kept her position as deputy secretary general .
we started on a high note , but as we went down the top six we started having problems .
the thing is that cyril has to work with this collective , said sinenhlanhla xaba , an anc member from the soweto township .
on tuesday supporters of senzo mchunu , ramaphosa s pick for secretary general , disputed the vote count that saw him lose out to magashule , a sign that ramaphosa s team was trying to gain greater control of the upper echelons of the anc .
analysts say the slim margin of ramaphosa s victory will help keep the anc together but will make it difficult for ramaphosa to pursue a pro-growth policy agenda , as the anc faction that backed dlamini-zuma and puts greater emphasis on wealth redistribution will wield considerable influence .
any attempt to remove the 75-year-old zuma as south african president before his second term ends in 2019 - something which anc officials close to ramaphosa have called for - will also be complicated by zuma allies retaining senior posts .
zuma s scandal-plagued time in office has badly tarnished the anc s image both at home and abroad and has seen economic growth slow to a near-standstill .
zuma has survived several votes of no confidence because he controls large sections of the anc through his use of political patronage .
lukhona mnguni , a political analyst at the university of kwazulu-natal , said the anc leadership outcome was a poisoned chalice for ramaphosa because officials aligned with zuma would constrain his room for maneuver .
ramaphosa s team know this was no victory .
he didn t get the people he wanted and hopes for recalling ( removing ) zuma have been dampened , mnguni said .
if zuma is to be recalled , it would only be because mabuza and magashule gang up on him , which i don t think is likely .
ramaphosa , 65 , told reporters on tuesday that the anc s new top six was a unity leadership which reflected the views of different sections of the party .
investors had hoped ramaphosa , a former trade union leader and millionaire businessman , would secure a decisive win in the anc race , putting him in a strong position to enact reforms which could help south africa avoid further credit rating downgrades .
dlamini-zuma , who president zuma publicly backed for anc leader , was seen as more focused on tackling racial inequality and struggled to distance herself from the corruption scandals that have dogged her ex-husband .
but in the new anc top six announced on monday , three officials were from the slate of ramaphosa s preferred candidates and three were from dlamini-zuma s ticket .
with no clear win for either the nkosazana dlamini-zuma or cyril ramaphosa slates , i expect the policy paralysis that we have seen will continue until one side defeats the other , said geoff blount , managing director at bayhill capital .
gwen ngwenya at the institute of race relations said expectations for sweeping policy change under ramaphosa were overblown .
the ramaphosa of fantasy , the figure of a decisive man of action , has never manifest himself in reality , she said , noting that promises ramaphosa made before becoming deputy president never materialized .
one important consequence of the compromise leadership outcome seen on monday is that it lessens the likelihood of the anc splitting before the 2019 election - which had been raised by analysts as a possibility in the event of a clear victory for the dlamini-zuma faction .
attention now shifts to the makeup of the anc s new national executive committee ( nec ) , a group of around 80 officials which steers the party and will be elected in the coming days .
should the new nec be just as split as the anc s top six , that would make the prospects for major reform even more remote .