united nations ( reuters ) - a top myanmar official appealed on monday for democracy in the country to be given a chance to survive amid international anger over a military campaign against rohingya muslims that the united nations has described as ethnic cleansing .
some 507,000 rohingya muslim have fled to bangladesh since insurgents attacked security posts near the border on aug. 25 , triggering fierce myanmar military retaliation .
myanmar says more than 500 people have been killed , most of them insurgents .
national security adviser thaung tun told reuters that he has spoken with his u.s. counterpart , h.r .
mcmaster , on the phone and visited members of the u.s. congress in washington last week .
he said sanctions were not specifically discussed .
the united states called last week on countries to suspend providing weapons to myanmar s military , but it stopped short of threatening to reimpose u.s. sanctions , which were suspended under the obama administration .
we need to ensure that democracy has a chance to survive in myanmar .
this is a young democracy , thaung tun told reuters in an interview at the united nations , noting that government leader and nobel peace laureate aung san suu kyi has only been in office for 18 months .
suu kyi assumed power following a landslide election win after former military leaders initiated a political transition .
for years , the united states and others imposed sanctions on myanmar in support of suu kyi s campaign for democracy .
we have a lot of challenges and these challenges can not be overcome in a day .
rome wasn t built in a day .
so we can t undo 50 years of challenges , said thaung tun , adding that he hoped to meet in person with mcmaster , president donald trump s national security adviser , to brief him on the current situation .
a trump administration official said last month the violence made it harder for the united states and myanmar to build warmer ties , and there would likely be some easing in the short term , but he did not expect a return to sanctions .
thaung tun said he had not met privately with u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley but had spoken to her briefly on the sidelines of other meetings in new york .
the u.n. security council met publicly last week on myanmar for the first time since 2009 .
haley said the myanmar authorities appeared to be carrying out a brutal , sustained campaign to cleanse the country of an ethnic minority .
she said countries should stop supplying weapons to myanmar until the military has sufficient accountability measures .
thaung tun said action has been taken against a number of policemen who exceeded their bounds in dealing with detainees .
we have very strict instructions for the security forces to carry out their duties within the bounds of the code of conduct , he said .
nobody is above the law .
he said that ethnic cleansing or genocide was not happening in myanmar .
the myanmar government has said that there have no military operations since sept. 5 .
but thaung tun said that since then security forces have responded when attacked .
under the cover of night there have been some sporadic attacks and the police and the security people have been required to respond in self-defense , he said .
the rohingya are denied citizenship and classified as illegal immigrants , despite claiming roots in myanmar that go back centuries , with communities marginalized and subjected to bouts of communal violence over the years .
bangladesh and myanmar agreed on monday to set up a working group to plan the repatriation of those who had fled .
( this story has been refiled to correct national security adviser s name on second reference and thereafter to thaung tun , not tun . )