istanbul ( reuters ) - sixty people including a former military chief faced demands for life jail terms over a 1997 campaign of army pressure , known in turkey as the post-modern coup , that toppled the country s first islamist-led government , state media said on thursday .
coups in 1960 and 1980 and a failed 2016 putsch involved overt army use of force , but the resignation of prime minister necmettin erbakan followed warnings and only a brief appearance of tanks in a provincial town .
it is an action that has long rankled with current islamist-rooted president tayyip erdogan .
in his final opinion on the case , the prosecutor said the army action , which did not result in any direct military rule , constituted a real coup attempt and could not be defined as post-modern , broadcaster ntv reported .
among those facing life sentences are general ismail hakki karadayi , 85 , who was chief of general staff between 1994 and 1998 , and his deputy at the time general cevik bir , state-run anadolu news agency said .
the investigation into the unseating of erbakan , who led a coalition government , is one of a series of court cases that have targeted the formerly all powerful secularist military in recent years .
the army s influence has been curbed drastically under erdogan , who first came to power in 2003 and who was a member of erbakan s welfare party at the time of the government s ouster .
a total of 103 people , mostly retired generals , had been named in the trial s 1,300-page indictment , accused of overthrowing by force , and participating in the overthrow of a government .
while aggravated life sentences were sought for 60 defendants , the prosecutor asked for the acquittal of 39 other defendants , ntv reported .
the four other defendants have died since the court case began in 2013 .
last year , rogue soldiers commandeered warplanes , tanks and helicopters in a failed coup which killed 250 people and which ankara has blamed on u.s.-based islamic preacher fethullah gulen .
he has denied involvement .
erbakan , who died in 2011 , pioneered islamist politics in turkey , a muslim country with a secular state system , paving the way for the later success of erdogan s ak party .