and why wouldn t he ?
the leftist comedy writer/actor with a net worth of $ 800 million , probably needs the money to feed all of the illegal aliens who live with him .
even though we don t have any proof that he has illegal aliens living with him , we re pretty sure every celebrity who speaks out against those who want to close our borders and deport illegals must be taking some personal responsibility for their welfare right ?
not likely comedian larry david is going to be picking up a $ 5,000 bounty for calling billionaire businessman and gop presidential contender donald trump a racist on national tv.earlier in the week , the deplorable group deportracism.com pac offered a $ 5,000 reward to anyone who called trump a racist on-air during saturday night live.during the show s opening monologue with trump flanked by cast members taran killiam and darrell hammond both made up as trump david heckled the blustery businessman from offstage , repeatedly yelling , you re a racist .
trump s a racist .
asked by trump why he was doing it , david replied , i heard if i yelled that , they d give me $ 5000 .
despite being written as part of the opening , deportracism is making good on their promise .
via : raw storyaccording to a press release issued before the show was broadcast on the west coast , luke montgomery , campaign director for deportracism , said the pac was excited to award the money to david.here is a great piece entitled : larry david curbs his enthusiasm : you may know larry david as the writer and producer from seinfeld .
you may know him from curb your enthusiasm .
after his most recent new york times piece , you ll know him as the guy who curbed his intelligence on liberalism : there is a god !
it passed !
the bush tax cuts have been extended two years for the upper bracketeers , of which i am a proud member , thank you very much .
i m the last person in the world i d want to be beside , but i am beside myself !
this is a life changer , i tell you .
a life changer ! to begin with , i was planning a trip to cabo with my kids for christmas vacation .
we were going to fly coach , but now with the money i m saving in taxes , i m going to splurge and bump myself up to first class .
first class !
somebody told me they serve warm nuts up there , and call you mister .
i might not get off the plane ! the first rule of fight club is you never talk about fight club .
the first rule for the wealthy elitist liberal club is you always talk about your money .
the second ?
find a way to feign indignation that the federal government isn t confiscating more of your earnings , without ever mentioning that there s nothing stopping you from turning it over to uncle sam.larry david s thanks for the tax cuts !
is based on the false premise that the rich is a homogenous group of artists , namely successful hollywood actors , writers , and producers who occupy their spare time on liberal guilt trips ( wealthy republicans don t count , as hollywood liberals classify them as monsters ) .larry would rather not think about the countless subchapter s corporations and small mom and pop businesses that benefit from tax cuts because their success is rooted in creating widgets , gadgets , and services the world finds useful ; his came about because he s sharp with sex jokes and awkward situations.americans naturally do not begrudge someone for their success because the track record for the united states is stellar when it comes to upward economic mobility .
hard work , patience , sound judgment , and a pleasant demeanor tends to take americans pretty far , which is why they need to be prompted to believe the rich boogeyman is out to get them .
smug , self-loathing hollywood types like larry david play the part well : this tax cut just might save my life .
who said republicans don t support health care ?
i m going to have the blueberries with my cereal , and i m not talking special k. those days are over .
it s nothing but real granola from now on .
the kind you get in the plastic bins in health food stores .
did someone say organic ? everyone already knows larry has enough disposable income to fill his swimming pool with blueberries , just for a giggle , if he wanted .
however , the point of thanks for the tax cuts !
was to let readers know that higher tax rates would be a pittance to him and his friends .
the point is to rub readers noses in trips to cabo and expensive organic foods they can t afford , in order to stoke the flames of class warfare liberalism needs to survive.it s not working , larry .
see the recent election results for more details.americans are getting wise to resentment peddlers who seek to tax you until the day you die before taxing you and the gifts you sought to pass on to family , one more time as rigor mortis kicks in .
they know that it isn t the successful entrepreneurs and businessmen hurting the future prospects of a great nation , but washington politicians addicted to kamikaze entitlement spending and private property power grabs.the liberal comedian wanda sykes once called larry david ass man .
after witnessing him try to sell tax hikes by inducing resentment , i couldn t agree more.watch larry david call donald trump a racist during the saturday night live show that crushed the ratings .
it s likely one of the high points in his career .
what larry david may not be able to comprehend in his narrow little world , is that if it weren t for donald trump agreeing to host snl , no one would have even bothered to watch the dying show .
larry david should be thanking donald for allowing him to appear on the same stage , instead of walking away from the show smugly pretending he had anything at all to do with the show s astronomical ratings .