how very presidential she s cold calculating .. deceitful but she has a vagina , so that s a good enough reason for women to vote for her .
after all .. it s hillary s turn !
so vote for the wife of a rapist , who laughs about getting child rapists off with plea bargains .
it s been 16 long years without a clinton in the white house let s make america sleazy again ! it s time to make history with the first female president because our first historic black president worked out so well in a newly unearthed audio interview hillary clinton reveals how she managed to get a plea bargain for a man accused of raping a 12-year-old girl and shockingly laughs as she indicated she knew he may have been guilty.during the course of the conversation which dates from the early 1980s , clinton , then 27 , outlines how she used a mistake by the prosecution to get 41-year-old thomas alfred taylor to walk free.indeed , so cavalier is her attitude to securing the freedom of a man suspected of raping a child that the shocking and candid interview may tarnish her role as an advocate for women and children in the united states.the recordings which date from 1983-1987 were discovered by the washington free beacon and are of clinton recalling her role in the most important criminal case of her career.who knew killary had such a strong southern accent ? this is not the first time that the trial has been written about.in 2008 at the height of her primary battle with barack obama , a newsday story focused on clinton s deeply controversial strategy of attacking the credibility of the girl .
rodham , records show , questioned the sixth grader s honesty and claimed she had made false accusations in the past .
she implied that the girl often fantasized and sought out older men like taylor , according to a july 1975 affidavit signed hillary d. rodham in compact cursive , wrote newsday.the girl was a family friend and clinton has acknowledged in her past 2003 memoir , living history , the difficulties the case provided her having just moved to fayetteville .
to run the university of arkansas new legal aid clinic .
this guy was accused of raping a 12-year-old .
course he claimed that he didn t , and all this stuff , says clinton.however , what is most shocking is the breezy manner in which she discusses her clients crime and the offhand way in which she questions his innocence .
i had him take a polygraph , which he passed which forever destroyed my faith in polygraphs , she says with a laugh.indeed , clinton laughs during several different parts of the interview especially when she discusses the forensic lab destroying key evidence which led to taylor getting away with the crime.but , ronald rotunda , a professor of legal ethics at chapman university , told the washington free beacon .
we don t have to believe the client is innocent our job is to represent the client in the best way we can within the bounds of the law .
however , he did raise the possibility that clinton may have breached the attorney-client privilege by discussing the case so openly .
you can t do that , he said .
unless the client says : you re free to tell people that you really think i m a scumbag , and the only reason i got a lighter sentence is because you re a really clever lawyer .
read entire story at : dailymailonline