( reuters ) - democratic presidential hopefuls bernie sanders and hillary clinton are flooding nevada with volunteers ahead of this week ’ s key nominating contest but they face a problem - the addresses , phone numbers and other personal data they need to reach many voters are out of date .
nevada , which is more than a quarter latino , was one of the states worst affected by the 2008 financial meltdown , with hundreds of thousands of families unable to pay their mortgages and forced to move in a crisis that by some estimates hit minorities twice as hard as whites .
with the foreclosed homes often switching hands multiple times - from homeowner to bank to investor and back to another homeowner in just a few years - keeping up with voters who at some point lived in those homes is difficult .
( for a graphic , click here : tmsnrt.rs/20ogmo4 ) the nevada democratic caucus on feb. 20 has emerged as an unusually important test of sanders ’ and clinton ’ s political strength .
clinton is under pressure to keep her wide lead among latinos , while sanders must erode it to show he has a path to the nomination that does not rely mainly on the young white voters who make up the core of his support base .
“ this ongoing ( foreclosure ) crisis makes reaching potential voters more difficult , ” sanders ’ campaign said in a statement emailed to reuters .
the clinton campaign said the voter lists supplied by the democratic party needed “ significantly ” more work to update , forcing them to spend valuable canvassing time building up their own private data .
las vegas , nevada ’ s biggest city , has seen some of the country ’ s highest foreclosure rates since 2008 , hitting no .
1 among more than 200 u.s. metro areas from 2009 to 2011 , according to realtytrac , a provider of real estate data and analytics .
even now , the city and its surrounding area rank no .
17 .
data that might have been corrected in the 2012 general election has , in many cases , already fallen out of date again because the nevada housing market has continued to see wave after wave of foreclosures , the campaigns said .
the democratic party ’ s voter file is based primarily on voter registration records across the country .
but the time between when a person moves and when their voter registration file gets updated can vary because different states and counties have different rules about how to handle those changes , which are not automatic .
“ not just our modeling and turnout operation but our recruitment operation is based on having very clean data , ” said jorge neri , clinton ’ s nevada organizing director .
underscoring the problem , about a fifth of the 1 million voters registered in clark county , where las vegas is located , are tagged as inactive , according to joseph gloria , the county ’ s registrar of voters - meaning their mail has been returned to the county elections office as undeliverable .
latinos make up almost 32 percent of las vegas .
personal information on voters forms the lifeblood of modern election campaigns .
it can be used for just about every aspect of a ground operation - from building the so-called turf packets that volunteers scoop up to go knock on doors , to guiding the thousands of phone calls made by volunteers .
campaign strategy is often based on the voter file , which can tell a campaign everything from where they need to turn up more supporters to what areas they can consider strongholds – or weak points .
clinton staffers first arrived in nevada last april , campaign officials said , targeting the state early because it has the third nominating contest in the presidential race for the democrats .
but because so much of the file was out of date , the clinton campaign had to work harder just to find voters and make sure their information was correct .
door knocking , for example , was often much more time consuming : people listed at certain addresses might have moved , requiring volunteers to engage with new residents from scratch and , perhaps , find out where the previous occupants had gone .
that brand-new information , in turn , created more work as volunteers were forced to spend time inputting the new information into the campaign ’ s own database .
the problem complicated normal operations , neri said .
“ had we had cleaner lists , had we had not such a transient population , we would be focused more on the volunteer recruitment , ” he said .
the sanders campaign is also knocking on doors and phone banking , said joan kato , the state director .
but , she added , the campaign was using community outreach efforts too , such as house parties and speaking to student groups , to gather data from attendees .
kato did not say how much extra work the voter file problem had created for the campaign .
latinos make up about 27 percent of nevada ’ s population and they lean heavily democrat , meaning they are a prize voter bloc for clinton and sanders .
there hasn ’ t been enough polling in nevada recently to show who is ahead among latinos .
but nationally clinton has the advantage : among latinos who describe themselves as democrats , 54 percent support clinton and 37 percent back sanders , according to reuters/ipsos polling from oct. 1 to feb. 12 .
latino decisions , a polling and research firm , said latinos are expected to form up to 20 percent of the voters in nevada this year up from 8.4 percent in 2012 , as tallied by pew research center .
the importance of a good voter file can ’ t be underestimated , according to ethan roeder , who was president barack obama ’ s data director in the 2008 and 2012 elections .
“ you can run a campaign without a voter file .
you just can ’ t run a successful campaign , ” he said .
( additional reporting by chris kahn , editing by richard valdmanis and ross colvin ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .