boston/houston ( reuters ) - shareholder activists will speak with chevron corp ( cvx.n ) next week to request the energy giant use its influence with the government of myanmar to press for a resolution of ethnic violence that has led to a refugee crisis .
joshua brockwell , communications director for azzad asset management , said the firm and other activist investors planned to press chevron executives on oct. 25 to discuss a letter they sent that also asked the company to consider cutting ties with governments complicit in genocide .
chevron , the second-largest u.s.-based oil producer , does business in myanmar through a subsidiary , unocal myanmar offshore co ltd .
it has projects that include a minority interest in natural gas production and a pipeline , according to the company s website .
asked about azzad s concerns , chevron spokesman melissa ritchie said chevron conducts our business in a responsible manner , respecting the law and universal human rights to benefit the communities where we work , including myanmar .
in our experience , peace , stability and the protection of human rights provide the best foundation for the economic development of a region and associated improvement in living conditions for communities , she said via e-mail , confirming that the company would speak to the investors .
more than 536,000 rohingya muslims have fled myanmar since aug. 25 , when coordinated rohingya insurgent attacks sparked a ferocious military response , with the fleeing people accusing security forces of arson , killings and rape .
[ nl4n1mr38g ] in september the united nations top human rights official accused myanmar of conducting a cruel military operation against rohingya muslims in rakhine state , calling it a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
azzad s brockwell said his firm was growing increasingly concerned over the lack of a constructive response from chevron on its requests since the letter was sent , in august .
brockwell said it might also file a shareholder resolution for chevron s next annual meeting , similar to one azzad and others filed for its 2017 meeting in may .
that resolution called for a report evaluating whether chevron should stop doing business with governments complicit in genocide or crimes against humanity .
the resolution received support from 6 percent of shares voted .
in addition to azzad , an islamic finance firm , the other lead filer of the resolution was a catholic religious order , the ursuline sisters of tildonk .
simon billenness , executive director of international campaign for the rohingya , a washington , d.c. , advocacy group , said it planned to send similar letters to other companies doing business in myanmar , signed by shareholders in those companies .