former pussycat dolls singer , kaya jones , has received numerous death threats from liberals over her support for president trump .
according to jones , law enforcement authorities warned that numerous threats against her life over her scheduled appearance at the free speech week event in berkeley , ca , that she and singer joy villa were forced to cancel their part in the event.only one week after the free speech event-goers were attacked by violent leftists and antifa members , country music fans in las vegas found themselves being gunned down from a window on the 32nd floor of the mandalay bay casino and resort in las vegas .
kaya jones , who is also a las vegas resident was one of the entertainers who appeared on the stage at the rt .
91 country music festival .
she posted this video of fans joining together to sing god bless america only one hour before they were fired upon : god bless america 1 hour before the shooting.besties video @ mmeyer50 wanted to share @ johnrich @ bigandrich @ bigkennytv @ seanhannity pic.twitter.com/iyrpwf7j1z kaya ( @ kayajones ) october 3 , 2017yesterday , kaya jones took to twitter to call out the sick people in the music industry who , much like harvey weinstein preyed on her group of young women.my truth.i wasn t in a girl group .
i was in a prostitution ring.oh & we happened to sing & be famous .
while everyone who owned us made the $ kaya ( @ kayajones ) october 13 , 2017twitter user benghazi stacy told kaya that she needs to start calling out names of these predators : kaya , it 's way past time to start calling out the name of these predators .
this is the time to bring their darkness into the light # benghazi stacy ( @ discoveringme40 ) october 13 , 2017jones replied : yes .
i m working on it .
there s more then one name .
kaya ( @ kayajones ) october 13 , 2017jones then went on to tell how bad the abuse really was .
jones claimed it was bad enough that she walked away from her dreams , her bandmates and $ 13 million record deal .
: how bad was it ? people ask-bad enough that i walked away from my dreams , bandmates & a 13 million dollar record deal.we knew we were going to # 1 kaya ( @ kayajones ) october 13 , 2017jones then called out the den mother who she suggests is responsible for the suicide death of her bandmember simone battle : i want the den mother from hell to confess why another 1 of her girl group girls committed suicide ? tell the public how you mentally broke us kaya ( @ kayajones ) october 13 , 2017simone battle killed herself on september 5 , 2014 .
she was loved and respected by many , including x-factor s simon cowell , who got to know simone after she was a finalist on his x-factor show : was the den mother who jones was referring to robin antin , the creator of the pussycat dolls group ? watch antin as she discusses bringing in new faces to the pussycat dolls group to wendy williams in 2009 : jones continued to rant about the abuse on twitter , but refused to name names : to be apart of the team you must be a team player.meaning sleep with whoever they say.if you dont they have nothing on you to leverage kaya ( @ kayajones ) october 13 , 2017she addressed how the vultures in the industry work to get the entertainers hooked on drugs.yes i said leverage .
meaning after they turn you out or get you hooked on drugs they use it against you.correct.victimizing the victim again kaya ( @ kayajones ) october 13 , 2017kaya jones explains why she never outed the people responsible for the horrific abuse : why don t we report it ?
because we are all abused !
i personally have been warned if i tell i will you know end up dead or no more career kaya ( @ kayajones ) october 13 , 2017well killing you or killing your soul what s the difference .
you do it for them.a teenagers go to jail for less .
will hollywood ?
kaya ( @ kayajones ) october 13 , 2017i told press in hollywood about my abuse & they did nothing .
i m still dealing with vegas .
talk about back to back .
vegas & hollywood man kaya ( @ kayajones ) october 13 , 2017she reminded the person or people who are responsible for the abuse , that she kept a journal and it s not over yet.i wonder if any other victims kept a journal like i did ?
oh yes i kept a journal with timelines .
kaya ( @ kayajones ) october 13 , 2017