not only is detroit lions quarterback matthew stafford s wife drop-dead gorgeous , she s also smart , patriotic , and apparently outspoken when it comes to professional athletes who refuse to stand for our national anthem .
we couldn t stop smiling , as we read kelly stafford s passionate and patriotic instagram message to her husband s fellow nfl players.here s what stafford wrote : if you think the country can be better , stand for the ideal .
if you think the answer is people showing unity , stand with them .
the anthem is not the national police song .
the anthem is not the national racists song .
the anthem is an exercise in how this country can endure and rise , how we can agree on its future potential , even while struggling with its present.the anthem s words depict a flag that is suffering through bombs and rockets .
you could easily view those bombs and rockets as the challenges our democracy faces today , and the flag a symbol of rising above them .
-mitch albomi ve been hesitant to talk about this , as i know i will get backlash from it .. but i believe we can stand and show our unity against everything that doesn t represent what this flag stands for.let s stand united against terrorists , against racism , against white supremacists , against killing of cops , against police brutality , against sex slave trafficking .. against anything that is not the ideal for this country.let s unite in the fact that god made us all unique and different and that is something we should cherish .
you can disagree with me and that is totally ok .. let s use this forum to discuss ( not yell at each other ) and listen to one another.here is the actual instagram post : if you think the country can be better , stand for the ideal .
if you think the answer is people showing unity , stand with them .
the anthem is not the national police song .
the anthem is not the national racists song .
the anthem is an exercise in how this country can endure and rise , how we can agree on its future potential , even while struggling with its present .
the anthem s words depict a flag that is suffering through bombs and rockets .
you could easily view those bombs and rockets as the challenges our democracy faces today , and the flag a symbol of rising above them .
-mitch albom i ve been hesitant to talk about this , as i know i will get backlash from it .. but i believe we can stand and show our unity against everything that doesn t represent what this flag stands for .
let s stand united against terrorists , against racism , against white supremacists , against killing of cops , against police brutality , against sex slave trafficking .. against anything that is not the ideal for this country .
let s unite in the fact that god made us all unique and different and that is something we should cherish .
you can disagree with me and that is totally ok .. let s use this forum to discuss ( not yell at each other ) and listen to one another .
# landofthefree # homeofthebrave # illstandwithyou # nfl # standunited # unitedwestanda post shared by kelly stafford ( @ kbstafford89 ) on aug 23 , 2017 at 4:45am pdtmost of the comments stafford received on her instagram post were positive , however , there are always gon na be haters out there , and for the haters , stafford posted a follow up to her original statement ( which also received mostly supportive responses ) : a post shared by kelly stafford ( @ kbstafford89 ) on aug 23 , 2017 at 7:55am pdt