( reuters ) - negotiators from canada , mexico and the united states are meeting for a second round of talks to renegotiate the north american free trade agreement , amid threats by u.s. president donald trump to pull out of the deal .
nafta , first implemented in 1994 , eliminates most tariffs on trade between the united states , canada and mexico .
critics say it has drawn jobs from the u.s. and canada to mexico , where workers are badly paid .
supporters say it has created u.s. jobs , and the loss of manufacturing from the united states has more to do with china than mexico .
key issues facing negotiators include : nafta says in order for a good to be traded duty-free within the three countries , it must contain a certain percentage of north american content , which differs for various products .
the rule of origin is most contentious in the auto industry ; cars must contain at least 62.5 percent american , canadian or mexican content .
the united states wants to increase the content threshold for nafta goods in a bid to return manufacturing jobs to the united states , and the auto industry has conceded that the rules should be updated to account for auto components that did not exist when the original deal was signed .
canada has said it is prepared to discuss some strengthening of rule of origin in the auto sector , but any change must apply equally to all three countries .
mexico is willing to look at strengthening rules , but warns that going too far will make the region less competitive .
the united states has sought to ditch the so-called chapter 19 tool , under which binational panels hear complaints about illegal subsidies and dumping and then issue binding decisions .
the united states has frequently lost such cases since nafta came into effect in 1994 , and the mechanism has hindered it from pursing anti-dumping and anti-subsidy cases against canadian and mexican companies .
washington also argues that chapter 19 infringes on the sovereignty of its domestic laws .
canada has said chapter 19 can be updated , but said a dispute settlement mechanism is its red line and must be part of any updated nafta .
mexico also says dispute settlement mechanisms are a vital part of the deal to give investors security .
u.s. negotiators are seeking to allow u.s. seasonal produce growers to file anti-dumping cases against mexico .
seasonal fruit and vegetable growers in the southeastern united states have come under increasing pressure from year-round mexican imports under nafta and are seeking the ability to pursue anti-subsidy and anti-dumping cases or seek temporary import quotas .
but u.s. retailers and food industry groups argue that american producers could be left open to retaliatory measures if more complaints were to be filed , for instance , against avocados , tomatoes and other produce imported from mexico .
quotas are a feature of nafta in several agricultural commodities including dairy and sugar , but washington is seeking to eliminate non-tariff barriers to u.s. agricultural exports .
most notably , u.s. president donald trump has called canada s restrictions on dairy imports a disgrace .
although dairy was excluded from the original 1994 deal , the united states is seeking to eliminate non-tariff barriers to its agricultural exports .
the united states is seeking a provision to deter currency manipulation .
while washington wants a mechanism to ensure the nafta countries avoid tinkering with exchange rates to gain a competitive advantage , neither canada nor mexico is on the u.s. treasury s currency manipulation watch list .
critics say the u.s. demand is an attempt to get currency manipulation into a global trade agreement to establish a precedent with other trading partners , including china .
the united states is pushing for governments in canada and mexico to open up their tender processes to u.s.-made products but at the same time is defending existing buy american procurement laws .
the buy american provisions have blocked the use of canadian steel to build u.s. bridges , and canada is pushing for a freer market for government procurement .
mexico says it expects government procurement , already included in nafta , to be part of the renegotiation .
investor-state dispute settlement the united states has proposed minor tweaking of the nafta chapter 11 provisions , designed to ensure that firms that invest abroad receive fair and equitable treatment by foreign governments .
as with chapter 19 , opponents of the provisions argue they infringe on sovereignty which benefits multinational corporations .
canada wants to update the mechanism to allow governments to regulate in the interest of the environment or labor , as in the comprehensive economic and trade agreement that canada recently negotiated with the european union .