skip al sharpton s march on washington on saturday , the president of the national black church initiative told members of the network s 34,000 churches friday afternoon.nbci s statement , released a day before sharpton s march , slammed the rev .
for squandering his carte blanche access to the obama white house , claiming that he blew an opportunity to secure critical issues that affect the african american community .
instead of pursuing meaningful changes , al sharpton and his liberal friends took the time to get rich , the news release says.on saturday morning , nbci s president , rev .
anthony evans , explained his opposition to sharpton s march in an interview with heat street .
they re asking our churches to march when they ve had all the power for the past eight years ?
we re not doing that .
that s poppycock .
we re holding sharpton accountable .
we re not participating in sharpton s speech .
we have created our own agenda , evans said.in the past , nbci has said that the democratic party has not met the needs of its black constituents , slamming both sharpton and the national black caucus .
it has also been highly critical donald trump , whom nbci has called the biggest racist since bull connor .
sources interviewed by heat street varied in their assessment of nbci s political influence .
evans said the group s 34,000 affiliate churches together have 15.7 million members , spanning 15 denominations.nbci s takedown of sharpton comes as he has struggled to draw a crowd to his march on washington on saturday.a source at sharpton s march estimated that 2,000 , at most , were there as of noon , adding that the drizzly , chilly weather may be suppressing turnout .
another source put that number below 1,000 .
cpsan is live-streaming the event , and its footage shows a sparse-looking crowd.speaking at the march , sharpton tried to ward off criticism about the low turnout .
they re going to lie tomorrow and say wasn t but 200 of us , but look at this crowd in the rain , sharpton said at around 12:17 p.m. , addressing attendees.for entire story : heat street