our next president is going to have to work with congress to undo all of the excessive tax burdens , government regulations and restrictions , that have been forcing american businesses to go overseas in order to make a profit and compete is donald trump that president ?
video footage has emerged documenting the outrage and desperation of 1,400 american workers as they are informed that their company will be sending their jobs to mexico.as mediaite reports : a cell phone video taken at carrier air conditioner in indianapolis shows the exact moment that the plant and union workers were told that the company had decided to shift production south of the border .
the best way to stay competitive and protect the business for longterm is to move production from our facility in indianapolis to monterrey , mexico , says the company representative at the microphone .
let s quiet down , the company representative says as the american workers of different races and ethnicities begin to shout out after being told that they will soon be out of a job.although the establishment media seems loath to report it , globalist trade deals and the off-shoring of american jobs have become a central focus of the 2016 race as earlier this month president obama s signed what could arguably be one of the impactful trade agreements in modern history , the trans-pacific partnership.the economic policy institute has documented that between 1993 ( before nafta took effect ) and 2013 , the u.s. trade deficit with mexico and canada increased from $ 17.0 billion to $ 177.2 billion , displacing more than 850,000 u.s. jobs .
more than 5 million u.s. manufacturing jobs were lost between 1997 and 2014 , and most of those job losses were due to growing trade deficits with countries that have negotiated trade and investment deals with the united states , the report states.mexico is a member country of the tpp .
the economic policy institute notes , the united states already has a large and growing trade deficit with the 11 other countries in the proposed tpp , which reached $ 265.1 billion in 2014 .
in contrast , the united states had a small trade surplus with mexico in 1993 , before nafta took effect .
in other words , outsourcing to the tpp countries is a potentially much greater threat than it was under nafta with mexico .
donald trump has made his opposition to the trans-pacific partnership a focal point of his campaign.trump said that if he were president , i would call up the head of ford i would say , congratulations .
that s the good news .
let me give you the bad news .
every car and every truck and every part manufactured in this plant that comes across the border , we re going to charge you a 35-percent tax , and that tax is going to be paid simultaneously with the transaction , and that s it if it s not me in the position , it s one of these politicians that we re running against [ then ] here s what s going to happen .
they re not so stupid .
they know it s not a good thing , and they may even be upset by it .
but then they re going to get a call from the donors or probably from the lobbyist for ford and say , you can t do that to ford , because ford takes care of me and i take care of you , and you can t do that to ford .
and guess what ?
no problem .
they re going to build in mexico .
they re going to take away thousands of jobs .
it s very bad for us .
so under president trump , here s what would happen : the head of ford will call me back , i would say within an hour after i told them the bad news and he ll say , please , please , please .
he ll beg for a little while , and i ll say , no interest .
then he ll call all sorts of political people , and i ll say , sorry , fellas .
no interest , because i don t need anybody s money i don t need anybody s money.i m using my own money .
i m not using the lobbyists .
i m not using donors .
i don t care .
via : breitbart news