he was such a nice boy ! where have we heard this bs before ? alleged images of reported knife attacker , 22-year-old dahir adan # stcloudmall # minnesota pic.twitter.com/99irkmk3bj divaknevil ( @ divaknevil ) september 18 , 2016somali-american leaders are expressing shock and sympathy over attacks saturday at crossroads center by a man from their community .
dahir adan attacked several shoppers with a knife in the st .
cloud , minnesota mall designated as a gun free zone .
the mall crossroads center has a code of conduct that forbids firearms or illegal weapons .
there are no reports on whether there were any concealed carry permit holders who were present when the attack occurred but were unable to defend themselves due to mall policy .
however , the attack was stopped by an off-duty officer who carried his gun with him , the gun free policy notwithstanding.breitbart news reported the attack occurred between 8:20 and 9 pm local time .
abc affiliate kstp reports that at least eight people were injured in the attack ; the st .
cloud times notes that one of those eight was admitted to the hospital , while the rest sustained non-life threatening injuries .
the attack ended when the off-duty officer shot and killed the knife-welding attacker.kstp confirms the attacker made references to allah at some point during the attack.they say they are uncertain of motives behind the attack by dahir adan , who was killed during the spree by an off-duty police officer .
religious leaders point out that islam does not condone violence , and one leader is cautioning that the actions should not prompt retaliation .
breitbart news the entire community are shocked by this incident .
the family and the community would like to know the whole picture of this incident , said abdul kulane , a leader in the somali community .
again , our sympathy goes to the families and victims and the entire community .
leaders spoke as representatives for the family .
we have came today to visit the family that was affected by this .
it is really very tragic , kulane said .
st .
cloud and somali community leaders , we would like to express our condolences to the victims and their families , from the incident at crossroad mall .
we would like to offer our sympathies to those affected , their families and the entire st .
cloud community .
he said the family and community are awaiting the full picture of the incident from police .
this is what we do know so far : the alleged suspect is dahir ahmed adan .
we know him in this community as an exceptional graduate from apollo high school .
he graduated with an honor .
he was also a junior student from scsu , st .
cloud state university , kulane said .
while maintaining a high gpa , he worked part-time as a private security officer .
he was helpful to his family and as far as we know , he never had a violent history , as far as his family and the community can remember .
he was a friendly and active community member .
the details of the actual incident are unclear .
all the information circulating in the media are speculations , kulane said .
these are the facts we know : he went to buy an iphone from the crossroads mall , kulane said .
the last time he was seen was 6-6:30 p.m. sctimes