( reuters ) - republicans in the u.s. congress reached a deal on tax legislation on wednesday , clearing the way for final votes next week on a package that , if approved , would be sent to president donald trump to sign into law .
formal language of the legislation , expected to add at least $ 1 trillion to the $ 20-trillion national debt over a decade , has not been released .
the following are known provisions on which house of representatives and senate tax writers have agreed , based on conversations with aides and lawmakers : corporate tax rate : falls to 21 percent from 35 percent .
the house and senate bills , as well as trump , had earlier proposed 20 percent .
going to 21 percent gave tax writers more federal revenue needed to allow the tax cut to take effect immediately .
u.s. corporations have been seeking a large tax cut like this for many years .
pass-through businesses : creates a 20 percent business income deduction for owners of pass-through businesses , such as sole proprietorships and partnerships .
the house had proposed a 25 percent tax rate ; the senate , a 23 percent deduction .
corporate minimum : repeals the corporate alternative minimum tax , which was set up to ensure profitable companies pay at least some federal tax .
clean energy : maintains production tax credit for wind energy and the $ 7,500 electric vehicle tax credit .
the house had proposed repealing the electric vehicle credit and scaling back the wind energy credit .
the senate version did neither .
individual income tax rates : there will be seven brackets , and the top rate falls to 37 percent from 39.6 percent .
the house had proposed maintaining the 39.6 percent top rate and condensing the current seven tax brackets to four .
the senate had proposed cutting the top rate to 38.5 percent and maintaining seven brackets .
permanence : the expectation is that individual tax rates will snap back to current levels in less than 10 years , possibly after 2024 .
the individual tax rates in the house bill were to be permanent .
the individual tax rates in the senate bill were to expire after 2025 .
state and local tax ( salt ) : both the house and senate had proposed scaling back the popular individual deduction for state and local tax payments by limiting it to property-tax payments and capping that at $ 10,000 .
the compromise bill will keep that $ 10,000 cap , but allow for continued deduction of both state and local income tax payments , as well as property tax payments .
mortgage interest : caps the mortgage interest deduction for new mortgages at $ 750,000 in home loan value , down from the current $ 1 million .
the house had proposed a $ 500,000 cap .
the senate bill left it at $ 1 million .
estate tax : roughly doubles the exemption from the federal estate tax on inherited assets to about $ 11 million per person , or about $ 22 million per couple , but leaves the estate tax in place , mirroring the senate proposal .
the house bill had proposed entirely repealing the estate tax over several years .
obamacare mandate : repeals a federal fine imposed on americans under obamacare for not obtaining health insurance coverage .
the house bill did not repeal the obamacare individual mandate .
anwr drilling : allows oil drilling in alaska ’ s arctic national wildlife refuge .
the provision was sponsored by republican senator lisa murkowski of alaska .