tripoli ( reuters ) - at least five african migrants died and more were missing off western libya on monday after a boat carrying about 140 people capsized and then some migrants refused rescue by the libyan coast guard and tried instead to swim to a german rescue vessel .
the migrants rubber boat overturned some 30 miles off the libyan coast , said libyan officials and rescue workers in tripoli to where the coast guard brought some 45 survivors .
a video obtained by reuters showed how , during the rescue operation , some migrants tried jumping off the libyan patrol boat which had rescued them to reach a ship of seawatch , a german non-governmental organization , a few meters away .
some screamed to be allowed to leave the libyan boat as the german vessel came closer .
the libyans tried to discourage the migrants from trying to reach the german boat , seawatch said .
the incident sparked mutual recrimination by seawatch and the libyan coast guard .
at least five migrants had died , including a toddler , due to the violent and reckless behavior of ( the ) libyan coast guards , seawatch said on its twitter feed , adding that 58 had been rescued .
the so-called libyan coastguard forced as many as they could into their vessel to take them back to tripoli , the german group added .
the libyan coast guard said an unknown number of people had died after their inflatable boat had sunk and abu ajala amer abdelbari , a coast guard commander , said the german ngo had undermined its rescue operations by approaching its boat .
the seawatch was approaching while we were rescuing migrants , he said .
this was encouraging the migrants to swim to the seawatch and a ( nearby ) french navy ship .
the survivors brought to tripoli were from west african countries including nigeria and senegal .
i wanted to reach italy .
i don t know what to do now , said dora onoruyi , a 23-year old arts student from the southern nigerian city of benin known as hub for human traffickers to smuggle women to italy where they often end up as prostitutes .
i see no future in nigeria , there are no jobs , she said , standing next to a group of weeping nigerian survivors .
libya is the main departure point for migrants trying to travel by boat to europe .
but numbers crossing to italy have fallen sharply since july due to a drop in people smuggling and increased activity by libya s european-backed coastguard .