just two months shy of the one-year anniversary of rich s death , fox 5 has learned there is new information that could prove these theorists right.rod wheeler , a private investigator hired by the rich family , suggests there is tangible evidence on rich s laptop that confirms he was communicating with wikileaks prior to his death.now , questions have been raised on why d.c. police , the lead agency on this murder investigation for the past ten months , have insisted this was a robbery gone bad when there appears to be no evidence to suggest that.wheeler , a former d.c. police homicide detective , is running a parallel investigation into rich s murder .
he said he believes there is a cover-up and the police department has been told to back down from the investigation .
the police department nor the fbi have been forthcoming , said wheeler .
they haven t been cooperating at all .
i believe that the answer to solving his death lies on that computer , which i believe is either at the police department or either at the fbi .
i have been told both .
when we asked wheeler if his sources have told him there is information that links rich to wikileaks , he said , absolutely .
yeah .
that s confirmed .
wheeler also told us , i have a source inside the police department that has looked at me straight in the eye and said , rod , we were told to stand down on this case and i can t share any information with you .
now , that is highly unusual for a murder investigation , especially from a police department .
again , i don t think it comes from the chief s office , but i do believe there is a correlation between the mayor s office and the dnc and that is the information that will come out [ tuesday ] .the democratic national committee staffer who was gunned down on july 10 on a washington , d.c. , street just steps from his home had leaked thousands of internal emails to wikileaks , law enforcement sources told fox news.a federal investigator who reviewed an fbi forensic report detailing the contents of dnc staffer seth rich s computer generated within 96 hours after his murder , said rich made contact with wikileaks through gavin macfadyen , a now-deceased american investigative reporter , documentary filmmaker , and director of wikileaks who was living in london at the time .
fox5dchere is the tweet announcing the death of gavin macfayden only weeks before the u.s. presidential election : gavin macfadyen was mentor to assange ( and his closest friend in london ) , to wikileaks ' sarah harrison , joseph farrell and many others .
wikileaks ( @ wikileaks ) october 23 , 2016 i have seen and read the emails between seth rich and wikileaks , the federal investigator told fox news , confirming the macfadyen connection .
he said the emails are in possession of the fbi , while the stalled case is in the hands of the washington police department.the revelation is consistent with the findings of rod wheeler , a former dc homicide detective and fox news contributor and whose private investigation firm was hired by rich s family to probe the case .
rich was shot from behind in the wee hours , but was not robbed .
my investigation up to this point shows there was some degree of email exchange between seth rich and wikileaks , wheeler said .
i do believe that the answers to who murdered seth rich sits on his computer on a shelf at the dc police or fbi headquarters .
the federal investigator , who requested anonymity , said 44,053 emails and 17,761 attachments between democratic national committee leaders , spanning from january 2015 through late may 2016 , were transferred from rich to macfadyen before may 21 .
fox newswe reported on this story extensively .
here are some of our stunning findings over the past 10 months .
it s pretty stunning that it took so long to find out about the e-mails on rich s laptop : conspiracy theories have been surrounding the murder of seth rich .
they reached a new frenzy after the hacking of dnc e-mails led to the resignation of its chairwoman , debbie wasserman schultz.rich was beaten , shot and killed early on the morning of july 8 while he was walking home and talking on the phone to his girlfriend .
police have said they haven t determined if his murder was a botched robbery or something else .
the killer or killers appear to have taken nothing from their victim , leaving behind his wallet , watch and phone.wikileaks just confirmed murdered dnc staffer seth rich was the source of the dnc leak.wikileaks released a series direct messages from us alleged russian spy guccifer 2.0 to actress model robbin young ( according to young ) .in the stream of texts the discussion leads to the dnc leaker.his name is seth * * in november julian assange said russia did not hack into the dnc servers .
-h/t gp here s the proof : direct messages from u.s. alleged russian spy @ guccifer_2 to actress-model @ robbin_young ( according to the latter ) https : //t.co/umsb9wgxrq wikileaks ( @ wikileaks ) april 8 , 2017actress robbin young claims she had given this information she received from guccifer 2.0 to the authorities but , no one cared : https : //twitter.com/robbin_young/status/850743524953702404actress robbin young states that guccifer 2.0 told her , i m eager to find facts about seth , i m sure it wasn t just a robbery .
seth was assassinated .
: guccifer 2.0 said , `` i 'm eager to find fact about seth , i 'm sure it was n't just a robbery .
seth was assassinated . ''
# sethrich robbin young ( @ robbin_young ) march 29 , 2017in june 2016 , the hacker guccifer 2.0 claimed responsibility for breaking into the democratic national committee s servers , lifting opposition research the dnc had gathered , including a 200-page document focused on presumptive republican presidential candidate donald trump.the hacker s moniker is an homage to guccifer , the nom de guerre of romanian hacker marcel lazar who claimed a previous hack into hillary clinton s private email server and is now awaiting prosecution for cybercrimes .
rtwhile wikileaks julian assange was being interviewed by john pilger , he brought up the death of seth rich .
watch assange s strange and somewhat cagey reply.here is part of the conversation : julian assange : whistleblowers go to significant efforts to get us material and often very significant risks .
as a 27 year-old , works for the dnc , was shot in the back , murdered just a few weeks ago for unknown reasons as he was walking down the street in washington.reporter : that was just a robbery , i believe .
wasn t it ? julian assange : no .
there s no finding .
so i m suggesting that our sources take risks.watch it again in slow motion below : seth rich s parents explain what happened only moments before his death .
he was the voter expansion data director for the dnc .
his parents say he was , making sure everyone who wanted to vote , had the opportunity : shortly after the killing , redditors and social media users were pursuing a lead saying that rich was en route to the fbi that fateful morning , apparently intending to speak to special agents about an ongoing court case possibly involving the clinton family.more recently , wikileaks s thousands of dnc emails and voice mails have piqued reddit s interest , with redditors combing through years of communications looking for any clue to rich s murder.the theory is apparently based on julian assange s recent itv appearance , where he scoffed at the idea that russian hackers could be responsible for the data dump , and said that anyone within the democrats organization could easily have sent wikileaks the offending messages.given that rich as a dnc staffer presumably would have had some access to its servers , reddit is absolutely positive rich paid the ultimate price for exposing debbie wasserman schultz and the dnc s crusade against bernie sanders .
heatstreetgo here for fascinating timeline of events leading up to the brutal murder of dnc staffer seth rich .