istanbul ( reuters ) - amnesty international s turkey director , freed from four months detention but still facing trial on terrorism charges , said the case against her and other human rights activists was absurd and surreal .
idil eser was one of eight activists freed last week on bail , in a case which has become a flashpoint in turkey s tense relations with europe .
their trial has brought condemnation from rights groups and some western governments concerned by what they see as creeping authoritarianism in the nato member state .
the activists were detained by police in july as they attended a workshop on digital security and information management on an island near istanbul .
the charge against them , of aiding a terrorist organization , is similar to those leveled against tens of thousands of turks detained since a failed military coup by rogue soldiers in july 2016 , in which at least 240 people were killed .
i can not even find words to describe the absurdity , the surreality of the situation .
it s total nonsense , eser said when asked about the charges .
she was speaking to reuters in her first interview since being released .
turkey rejects foreign criticism of the trials and says its judiciary operates independently of the government .
turkey is a state of law and our judges are independent and impartial , deputy prime minister bekir bozdag told reporters earlier this week when asked about the case .
at the time of the activists detention , president tayyip erdogan said the eight had gathered on the island for a meeting that might be considered as a follow-up to last year s failed coup , which he has cast as part of a foreign-backed plot .
erdogan was quoted by several turkish newspapers on thursday as telling reporters on his plane that the judiciary was acting independently in the case .
we can not know how the court will rule in the end , the hurriyet newspaper quoted him as saying .
the indictment also brought charges against swedish national ali gharavi and peter steudtner , a german , prompting an angry response from berlin , which threatened to put curbs on economic investment in turkey and said it was reviewing arms projects .
the day after their release last week , steudtner and gharavi left turkey , but the trial continues on nov. 22 .
prosecutors have sought jail sentences of up to 15 years for all of the defendants .
steudtner and gharavi told the court during the trial that they were shocked by the allegations against them .
they could not immediately be reached for further comment .
authorities have jailed more than 50,000 people pending trial in a crackdown following the abortive coup .
erdogan says the purges across society are necessary to maintain stability in turkey , a nato member state bordering iran , iraq and syria .
european allies fear he is using the investigations to check opposition and undermine the judiciary .
eser said her time in jail had marked a turning point in her life .
less than a week after her release , the 54-year-old made an appointment at a tattoo parlor in central istanbul .
with other defendants , we had decided to go to a turkish bath when we got out , and the other decision was to get a tattoo , she said .
so i started right away .