luxembourg ( reuters ) - spain s finance minister on monday blamed the catalan government for companies moving their headquarters out of the region , while his euro zone colleagues played down the impact of the spanish crisis on the shared currency .
in recent weeks , a stream of catalonia-based firms and banks have moved their legal bases outside the regionas a crisis over a catalonian push for independence from spain deepened .
caixabank , spain s number 3 bank , and banco sabadell , the number 5 , have both moved their head offices out of catalonia last week following an independence referendum that the madrid government attempted to block .
the exit of many companies from catalonia is the consequence of the irrational and radical policies implemented and pursued by the ( regional ) government , minister luis de guindos said as he arrived for a meeting of euro zone finance ministers in luxembourg .
losing catalonia would have a significant impact on spain , as the region makes up a fifth of the country s economic output and more than a quarter of its exports .
some fear it will impact on the euro zone economy , which is slowly recovering from a recession at the start of the decade .
nevertheless , most euro zone ministers declined to get drawn into a discussion on the situation in catalonia , with eurogroup president jeroen dijsselbloem describing it as a domestic issue .
i hope that those prevail in spain , who understand that , as the spanish prime minister has said , law and constitution are the basis on which we operate , german finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said .
european economics commissioner pierre moscovici , asked about the economic impact of the catalan debate , said the spanish constitutional order must be respected .
this situation can not be solved by violence , we have to find a solution through dialogue , this is also true when you consider the economic oint of view , he said .
spain also sought to reassure international investors concerned about the political situation in the country .
the message is crystal clear : catalonian independence is not going to happen , de guindos said .