moscow ( reuters ) - president vladimir putin flew into syria and ordered a significant part of moscow s military contingent there to start withdrawing on monday , declaring their work largely done .
putin , who polls show will be re-elected comfortably in march , made the announcement during a surprise visit to russia s hmeymim air base in syria - his first since russia intervened in the conflict .
he held talks with president bashar al-assad and addressed russian forces .
the first leg in a three-country one-day whirlwind diplomatic visit which sees putin also meeting his egyptian and turkish counterparts , putin is keen to leverage the heightened middle east influence that syria has given him to cast himself as a leader who can do diplomacy as well as military force .
the kremlin first launched air strikes in syria in september 2015 in its biggest middle east intervention in decades , turning the tide of the conflict in assad s favor .
now that it regards that mission complete , putin wants to help broker a peace deal .
in just over two years , russia s armed forces and the syrian army have defeated the most battle-hardened group of international terrorists , putin told russian servicemen .
a significant part of the russian force could now return home .
the conditions for a political solution under the auspices of the united nations have been created , said putin .
the motherland awaits you .
washington was skeptical about putin s statement .
russian comments about removal of their forces do not often correspond with actual troop reductions , and do not affect u.s. priorities in syria , said pentagon spokesman eric pahon .
putin made clear in any case that russia would retain enough firepower to destroy any possible islamic state comeback .
syrian state television quoted assad as thanking putin for russia s help , saying the blood of moscow s martyrs had been mixed with the blood of the syrian army .
it also showed the two men watching what it called a victory parade with russian troops dressed in desert uniforms marching past .
russia s main contribution has been air strikes , and with iran-backed shi ite militias doing much of the fighting on the ground , the partial russian withdrawal may not make a huge difference when it comes to the military situation .
russia s campaign , which has been extensively covered on state tv at home , has not caught the imagination of most russians .
but nor has it stirred unease of the kind the soviet union faced with its calamitous 1980s afghanistan intervention .
the use of private military contractors , something which has been documented by reuters but denied by the defense ministry , has allowed moscow to keep the public casualty toll fairly low .
officially , less than 50 russian service personnel have been killed in the campaign , but the real number , including private contractors , is estimated to be much higher .
russia s mission accomplished moment in syria may help putin increase the turnout at the march presidential election by appealing to the patriotism of voters .
though polls show he will easily win , they also show that some russians are increasingly apathetic about politics , and putin s supporters are keen to get him re-elected on a big turnout , which in their eyes confers legitimacy .
putin , who with the help of state tv has dominated russia s political landscape for the last 17 years , told russian servicemen they would return home as victors .
speaking in front of a row of servicemen holding russian flags , putin said his military had proved its might and that moscow had succeeded in keeping syria intact as a sovereign independent state .
i congratulate you !
putin told the servicemen .
putin is keen to organize a special event in russia - the syrian congress on national dialogue - that moscow hopes will bring together the syrian government and opposition and try to hammer out a new constitution .
when asked about putin s announcement , yahya aridi , spokesman for the syrian opposition in geneva , said it welcomed any step that brought syria closer to real peace .
putin made clear however that while russia might be drawing down much of its forces , its military presence in syria was a permanent one and that it would retain enough firepower to destroy any islamic state comeback .
russia will keep its hmeymim air base in syria s latakia province and its naval facility in the syrian mediterranean port of tartous on a permanent basis , said putin .
both bases are protected by sophisticated air defense missile systems .
putin was told by the military that it had begun withdrawing 25 aircraft , a detachment of russian military police , a detachment of russian special forces , a military field hospital and a de-mining center .
however , russia has announced partial force draw-downs before only to later bring in different capabilities .
we ve seen such announcements before , which turn about to be less significant than they might have initially appeared , said one european diplomat who declined to be named .
the most significant contribution russia can make to advancing peace in syria is to pressure the assad regime to engage seriously in geneva ( peace talks ) .
absent that , the suspicion will be that this announcement may have more to do with russian politics than the syrian situation .