chris cuomo tries to argue with the brilliant sebastian gorka this is epic ! the discussion began on the travel ban and devolved into cnn s rating and fake news cuomo begins : i explain it by you wanting to go with the original model to make it easier to pass because you were mimicking what obama did , and therefore masking your true intention was to not make it about travel , make it about muslims .
and as you well know , not just in your own rhetoric but the president s , he has said time and again that he thinks there s a problem with islam and that he thinks that the muslims may have a problem with us .
as you know , with what we re seeing in the u.k. right now , attachment to the community of muslims is so important , and the concern is that a move like this , trumpeted by the president in the midst of crisis in the u.k. , sends an ugly message to our muslim community here in the united states .
gorka responded with this awesome comment : well , unfortunately , what you ve just spun is classic fake news , haha !
the argument soon turned to one about cnn s ratings : gorka : that s why your viewing figures are in the tank .
cuomo : no , actually we re up over 100 percent year over year .
but don t let the facts get in your way .
you re good at avoiding them .
gorka : unless you re being mandatory in every airport in america , you re in the tank , chris .
cuomo : we re up 100 percent year over year , sebastian .
what you said is foolishly wrong it s not just abusive of fact , but its silly with its own logic .
cnn has benefited so greatly from the current dialogue and the demand for fact and testing power , that it is demonstrable by any metric you want to use .
but i don t care about that .
let s put that to the side .
gorka : chris , you re just comedy now .
it s just comedy .
cuomo : you may think it s comedy , but i want to address things that really matter .
gorka : getting two viewers instead of one is a 100 percent increase , chris .
you know that , right ?
cuomo : excuse me ?
gorka : getting two viewers instead of one is a 100 percent increase as well .
cuomo : that s not the numbers .
those aren t the numbers involved .
but again , that s not the point .
gorka : chris you re playing games .
you re playing games .
cuomo : good try .
good try .
i give you points for that , sebastian .
next time i see you , the meal is on me .
gorka : good spin , chris .
cuomo : but this isn t about cnn s success , because that s obvious .
gorka : no , it s about relevance.gorka is awesome !