honolulu ( reuters ) - hawaii this week will resume monthly statewide testing of cold war-era nuclear attack warning sirens for the first time in at least a quarter century , in preparation for a possible missile strike from north korea , state officials said on tuesday .
a recording of the wailing air-raid siren - familiar to older generations who grew up hearing it on a regular basis - was played at a news conference by governor david ige , civil defense and emergency management officers in the state capital , honolulu .
ige said he believed hawaii was the first in the nation to reintroduce statewide nuclear siren drills .
the announcement , though planned weeks earlier , came hours after north korea s latest test launch of an intercontinental ballistic missile , which flew about 1,000 kilometers ( 620 miles ) before landing in the sea of japan .
the pentagon said the rocket posed no danger to the united states , its territories or allies .
but state emergency management authorities said they decided in recent months to reactivate the state s nuclear attack sirens for the first time since the 1980s after experts deemed some of north korea s missiles were capable of reaching hawaii .
the wailing air raid sirens - distinguished from steady-tone sirens already in use to warn of hurricanes , tsunamis and other natural disasters - were set to return on friday .
both sirens will be sounded in separate 50-second intervals from more than 400 locations across the central pacific islands starting at 11:45 a.m. in a test that will be repeated on the first business day of each month thereafter .
the exercise is being launched in conjunction with public service announcements urging residents of the islands to get inside , stay inside and stay tuned when they hear the warning .
a single 150-kiloton weapon detonated over pearl harbor on the main island of oahu would be expected to kill 18,000 people outright and leave 50,000 to 120,000 others injured across a blast zone several miles wide , state emergency management agency officials have said , citing projections based on assessments of north korea s nuclear weapons technology .
while casualties of that scale would be unprecedented on u.s. soil , an agency fact sheet stressed that 90 percent of hawaii s 1.4 million-plus residents would survive the direct effects of such an explosion .
oahu , home to a heavy concentration of the u.s. military command structure , as well as honolulu and about two-thirds of the state s population , is seen as an especially likely target for potential north korean nuclear aggression against the united states .
in the event of an actual nuclear missile launch at hawaii from north korea , the attack sirens would give island residents and tourists just 12 or 13 minutes of warning before impact , according to the state s fact sheet .
in that case , residents are advised to immediately take cover in a building or other substantial structure .
although no designated nuclear shelters exist , staying indoors offers the best chance of limiting exposure to radioactive fallout .
calling the north korea threat a new normal , ige said , a possibility of attack today is very remote , but we do believe that it s important that we be proactive , that we plan and are prepared for every possibility moving forward .