dubai ( reuters ) - yemen s ex-president ali abdullah saleh appears to have patched up a violent rift with his allies in the armed houthi movement , but the drama has left friends and foe alike wondering anew at the wily political survivor s next move .
forming a surprise alliance with the houthis when they seized the capital sanaa in 2014 , saleh s army loyalists and houthi fighters have together weathered thousands of air strikes by a saudi-led military coalition in 2 1/2 years of war .
fearing the houthis are a proxy for their arch-foe iran , the mostly gulf arab alliance seeks to help the internationally recognized government push up from a base in yemen s south toward sanaa .
saleh s guile has been key to resisting the push .
for 34 years saleh ruled over one of the world s most heavily armed and tribal societies with expertly balanced doses of largesse and force .
he battled the houthis for a decade in office before he befriended them when out of power .
cornered by pro-democracy arab spring protests , saleh wore a cryptic smile when signing his resignation in a televised ceremony in 2012 .
then as now , few could discern his intentions .
but his desire to preserve by any means necessary his influence and that of his family - many of whom occupy top military positions - seems beyond doubt .
his influence has outlived that of other arab leaders left dead or deposed by uprisings and civil wars since 2011 .
as the conflict has wrought a humanitarian crisis , weeks of mutual sniping about responsibility for economic woes in northern yemeni lands that they together rule peaked with a deadly gun battle between houthi and saleh supporters last week .
leaders from saleh s former ruling party and the houthis met and pronounced the split healed .
though they pledged to focus on the war effort against yemen s internationally recognized government that is backed by the saudi-led coalition , the tensions suggest saleh is seeking to stake out his own political strategy as exhaustion sets in on all sides .
saleh wants to capitalize on popular opposition to both the houthis and the government , positioning himself as an alternative , said adam baron , a yemen expert at the european council on foreign relations ( ecfr ) .
the war has killed at least 10,000 people , displaced 2 million from their homes , led to widespread hunger and a cholera epidemic which has left 2,000 people dead .
militias and yemen s powerful al qaeda branch have gained ground in the chaos .
any total breakdown within the alliance between saleh and the houthis would be bloody and pit scores of local leaders , tribesmen and army units cultivated by saleh for decades against others loyal to the fighters .
saleh appeared eager to avoid that showdown in an interview which aired on monday on yemen today , a tv channel he owns .
there is no crisis or disagreement at all except in the imaginations of trouble-makers and sowers of discord at home and abroad , he said .
but the ex-leader , at times referring to himself in the third person , said that imbalances remained in the alliance , suggesting not all wounds had been salved .
analysts say he remains annoyed at the continued existence of a houthi revolutionary committee which ruled alone before its alliance was formalized with saleh s general people s congress party in a governing council where they shared power .
anxiety also flares over appointments of local officials and control over financial policy - both former gpc prerogatives .
beyond local squabbles , the good relations saleh enjoyed with saudi arabia and the united arab emirates during his presidency raise houthi fears of a grand double cross .
saleh s son , ahmed ali , lives under house arrest in the uae where he once served as ambassador before it joined its ally saudi arabia to make war on the houthi-saleh alliance .
a powerful former military chief whom his father appeared to be grooming to succeed him , ahmed ali and the passing of saleh power to the next generation may figure into his calculus .
he certainly wants to secure a place for his family in any post-war order ... the houthis are very paranoid that saleh may cut a deal with saudi arabia and the uae that will leave them out to dry , baron of ecfr added .
saleh has denied seeking to advance his son s political career or any backroom dealing with their enemies .
to salvage their alliance , the houthis will need to convince saleh that despite their violent history , they make for stronger allies than some gpc members - like saleh s successor , president abd-rabbu mansour hadi - who turned on him in the past .
i say to president saleh , out of sincerity and love , beware of these snakes , houthi official hamid rizq wrote on his facebook page on tuesday .
they are the ones who pushed you to fight wars against the honorable and loyal people in your society then abandoned you and called you are a thief and a criminal .