phnom penh ( reuters ) - a cambodian court on saturday charged two journalists with espionage for filing news reports to a u.s.-funded radio station , which can carry a prison term of up to 15 years .
prime minister hun sen , the strongman who has ruled cambodia for more than three decades , has taken a strident anti-american line in an increasingly tense run-up to a 2018 election and there has been a crackdown on critics , rights groups and independent media .
the united states announced it was ending funding for the election , and promised more concrete steps , after the supreme court dissolved the main opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) on thursday at the request of the government , on the grounds it was plotting to seize power .
the party denied the accusation .
the two journalists , uon chhin and yeang sothearin , had in the past worked for the washington-based radio free asia ( rfa ) which broadcast in the khmer language until it shut down in september .
the two were charged with providing information that is destructive to national defense to a foreign state , when they were caught filing stories to rfa , said ly sophana , a spokesman at phnom penh municipal court .
they will be sent to an investigating judge for further procedures , ly sophana told reuters .
rfa has said it had no ties to the two journalists since it shut its phnom penh office in september .
in charging two former rfa journalists with espionage , cambodian authorities have opened the door to more serious forms of intimidation worthy of despots and dictators , rfa spokesman rohit mahajan said in emailed comments .
a lawyer for the two said the charges were too serious and they had merely been doing their jobs as journalists .
this is not dangerous to the country , said the lawyer , keo vanny .
the charges carried up to 15 years in prison if the men were convicted , he said .
hun sen has been fighting a deepening war of words with the u.s. embassy and state department over his government s crackdown on the opposition .
cnrp leader kem sokha was arrested on sept. 3 and charged with treason for an alleged plot to take power with u.s. help .
he denied any such pot .
the u.s. state department called on friday for cambodia to release him and reverse the decision to ban his party .
western countries , which for decades supported cambodia s emergence from war and isolation , have shown little appetite for sanctions in response to the government s crackdown , but the european union has raised the possibility of cambodia losing vital trade preferences .