keep your eye on anita moncreif if knowledge is power she is the democrat party s worst nightmare .
when you re on the left , and all of your friends are leftists , and your parents are leftists , you don t hang around with other people , and you only get the view of folks as what you see on tv , and how they present it to you .
and you guys are seen as racist , angry people .
every time they get a chance , that s the image they push out there on tv .
they try to find that one crazy tea party person and they try to get them to say something , and they make sure they play it on all the black stations .
and you see that and you say , okay , these people are nuts .
so i didn t expect to find any kind of support from the right .
everything anita moncreif believed to be true about the left changed when she took a job with acorn and quickly discovered the democrat party was not really looking out for the interests of the black community or low income neighborhoods .
when she began to understand they would do anything , including breaking the law , to grow the democrat party , she made the decision to expose them .
she quickly found out how the mainstream media will go to any length to keep the truth about the criminal left from the american people.watch her amazing story here : decades after his death , saul alinsky s vision has become reality .
from barack obama to hillary clinton to acorn to black lives matter , alinsky is more alive in his death now than in his four decades of community organizing.anita is asking for the help of conservatives to make this movie a reality .
she needs your help to build momentum for this film.please consider giving whatever you can today .
click here to donate $ 1 , $ 5 , $ 10 , $ 20 or whatever you can afford .
this is an independent fund .
we have no big funders or organizations backing us yet .
that s why we need you .
we need to start shooting now .
reaching our goal will allow us to begin shooting footage at the two party conventions and buy us time to raise awareness to raise the production , administrative , and promotional budgets for this much-needed film.we re going to communicate with you the audience .
some of the footage we ll release before the film s debut .
we ll also communicate some of our successes and our challenges along the way .
together , we can change the way films are produced and promoted.the american left and the right need to see this film and decide where we go from here.if the necessary funds aren t raised on kickstarter , account funds won t be unlocked.eight years after exposing acorn , i have been immersed in training , speaking , and examining the effectiveness of the grassroots on both sides of the aisle .
i felt that my journey was not over , and i had many more truths to tell .
i am finally ready to offer a movement eye view of the legacy of alinsky , and the rise of grassroots movements across the nation .
it s a huge effort , it s expensive , and the stakes are high , so please chip in $ 15 , $ 50 , $ 500 or more to fund our efforts to film at the dnc and rnc conventions in the next few weeks.donate now to the children of alinsky ( phase 1 ) together , we can do great things and the possibility of a documentary filmed and funded by ordinary people determined to implement change will be a major step toward illustrating how bottom-up change is done.your friend , anita moncriefhere is part ii of anita s amazing story :