new york ( reuters ) - new york mayor bill de blasio proposed a retirement plan for private-sector workers and a new light rail system in his state of the city speech on thursday , while indicating that social inequality was decreasing under his administration .
the democratic mayor of the united states ’ biggest city has been in office for a little over two years .
he came to power promising to narrow the inequality gap that he said had created “ a tale of two cities ” after three four-year terms of his predecessor , michael bloomberg .
de blasio pressed that message again in his keynote speech on thursday : “ we see the ‘ tale of two cities ’ transforming into ‘ one new york , ’ ” he said during the speech at a performing arts center in the bronx .
new york has a glamorous reputation but is home to many poor neighborhoods .
rising real estate prices have made the city less affordable for many residents .
a plan to build a $ 2.5 billion light rail system linking brooklyn and queens , leaked to the news media a day earlier , was the boldest element in the speech for a mayor who has tended to favor social policy over infrastructure .
the 16-mile ( 26-km ) track would run from the borough of queens ’ astoria neighborhood , tracing a line along the east river and new york ’ s upper harbor , to link up with brooklyn ’ s sunset park section .
it would pass through popular brooklyn neighborhoods like williamsburg and brooklyn heights .
the mayor also called for the city to develop a retirement system for private-sector employees , addressing the low rate of retirement savings , especially among low-income workers .
“ we absolutely do not accept a status quo where people work all their lives only to be left with nothing , ” said de blasio , echoing previous calls for a better deal for workers .
he also outlined plans to develop governors island , an underutilized area of land in the upper harbor off the southern tip of manhattan that had been used as a military base until the city acquired it in 2010 .
de blasio highlighted his push for a $ 15 dollar minimum wage , a movement that has gained traction with democrats nationally , and called for his initiatives to introduce paid parental and sick leave to be adopted nationally .
de blasio shifted the speech to 7 p.m. ( 0000 gmt ) from its usual daytime spot in the hope of reaching more new yorkers .