united nations ( reuters ) - democratic republic of congo was among 15 countries elected to the united nations human rights council for a three-year term on monday , a moved criticized by britain , the united states and rights groups after the vote by the 193-member general assembly .
while congo was elected uncontested to the 47-member geneva-based council , it still needed majority support .
the country - beset by renewed political and militia violence since president joseph kabila refused to step down in december - won 151 votes .
political repression , civilian attacks , mass graves .
what happened in drc last year makes their election to the human rights council entirely disappointing , british u.n .
ambassador matthew rycroft posted on twitter .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley , who has called for the human rights council votes to be competitive , said congo s election harmed the credibility of the body .
countries that aggressively violate human rights at home should not be in a position to guard the human rights of others , haley said in a statement .
the united states is reviewing its membership in the council .
it is in the first year of a second term , but u.s. president donald trump s administration has called for reforms to eliminate what it called its chronic anti-israel bias .
angola , senegal , slovakia , ukraine , chile , mexico , peru , afghanistan , nepal , pakistan , australia and spain were also elected to the body on monday , while nigeria and qatar won second terms .
their terms start on jan. 1 , 2018 .
to ensure geographical representation , states are nominated in five regional categories .
four slates were uncontested , while there were five candidates for four asia pacific seats in which malaysia lost .
council members can not serve more than two consecutive terms .
the council is able to rebuke governments it deems as violating human rights and to order investigations .
human rights watch called for elections to be competitive .
the democratic republic of congo s election to the human rights council is a slap in the face to the many victims of the congolese government s grave abuses across the country , said louis charbonneau , u.n. director at human rights watch .
the violence in eastern and central congo has displaced over 1.5 million in the past year and revived fears of civil war in a country where conflicts from 1996-2003 resulted in millions of deaths and spawned dozens of armed groups that prey on local populations and exploit natural resources .