palermo , italy ( reuters ) - former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi looked poised on monday for a stunning political comeback as his rightist bloc claimed victory in an election in sicily that puts it in pole position for a national vote due by next may .
the regional sicilian ballot , held on sunday , was seen as a dry run for the nationwide election , with many of the island s problems reflecting those of the country as a whole - high unemployment , a debt mountain and sluggish economic growth .
an influx of migrants , many of whom arrive in sicily after being rescued in the mediterranean , was also a key issue .
with all of the votes counted , a center-right bloc backed by the four-times prime minister was more than 5 percentage points ahead of the anti-establishment 5-star movement , with the center left , which governs at the national level , a distant third .
sicily , just as i asked , has chosen the path of real , serious , constructive change , based on honesty , competence and experience , the 81-year-old said in a video posted on facebook .
nello musumeci , the center right s candidate for governor of the island , had 39.8 percent of the vote , while the 5-star s giancarlo cancelleri had 34.7 percent .
the center left s fabrizio micari was lagging on 18.7 percent .
the result puts berlusconi back on the political map after years of sex scandals and graft allegations which had seemed to have reduced the billionaire media mogul to a spent force .
berlusconi can not run for office due to a 2013 tax fraud conviction .
but he hopes the european court of human rights overturns this ban when it reviews his case later this year , which would pave the way for a possible national challenge .
he returned to the fray after open-heart surgery last year and campaigned actively in sicily .
even if the courts deny him the chance to run , he would be an influential figure should the center right capture power again nationally .
the result on the island deals a stinging blow to another former prime minister , matteo renzi , head of the ruling democratic party ( pd ) , which is locked in feuding with erstwhile leftist partners .
after a raft of vote setbacks in recent years , renzi has many critics inside the pd who may now try to mount a challenge to his leadership .
defiant in its defeat , the anti-system 5-star movement vowed to reach national government next year , and its leader luigi di maio declared the pd politically dead .
opinion polls suggest the center right will win next year s national vote , but a recent change to the electoral law is likely to stop any one bloc winning an absolute majority of seats , resulting in political gridlock .
sicily is traditionally a center-right stronghold which was poached by the pd in 2012 thanks to splits in the conservative bloc .
this time , berlusconi reunited the coalition behind a widely respected leader with a far-right background .
berlusconi s allies , the brothers of italy and the northern league , reaped rewards with anti-immigrant campaigns , suggesting this will remain high on the agenda for the national vote .
from sicily we will demonstrate that this is a winning model that can triumph at a national level , said giorgia meloni , the leader of the right-wing brothers of italy party which is the junior partner in the center-right alliance .
the centre-left government has moved this year to shut down the flow of migrants from libya after more than 600,000 , mainly africans , reached italy over the past four years .
but the issue has dented support for the center left , which has further damaged itself by falling prey to ferocious schisms .
the maverick 5-star , founded by comedian beppe grillo , had campaigned relentlessly for months in sicily , looking to take charge of its first region after a string of successes in municipal ballots in recent years , including in rome and turin .
di maio said the party had been penalized in sicily by low turnout - a record of fewer than half of those eligible cast a vote , showing flagging interest in politics in italy following years of economic downturn .
in two or three months i think many of those who abstained will regret not going to vote , di maio said , insisting that if turnout had been 3 or 4 points higher it could have tilted the result in the movement s favor .
despite losing to the center right , the 5-star movement s result was a leap from 2012 , when its candidate won only 18 percent of the vote in the regional polls .
investors are worried 5-star might win control of the country .
the party bases its appeal mainly on a campaign against corruption and vested interests in italy , but it has pulled back from a pledge to hold a referendum on continued membership of the euro .
markets were little changed on monday .