shanghai/beijing ( reuters ) - when ryb education inc became enmeshed in allegations of child abuse at one of its beijing kindergartens , it touched off an angry online furor in china , a police inquiry and a precipitous fall in the company s new york-listed shares .
barely a week later , the firm appears to have weathered much of the storm , for now .
chinese police said late on tuesday some claims of abuse were unfounded , although one teacher was in custody for using knitting needles to discipline children .
the company s shares closed up 23.33 percent in new york on tuesday , after falling over 40 percent last week when allegations first emerged of abuse that included sexual molestation and forced medication .
however , shares fell over 10 percent in pre-market trade on wednesday after the company said there were parent complaints about other ryb-branded kindergartens and that it was cooperating with police .
it gave no other details .
ryb s actions over the week represented a case of effective crisis management , experts said , rare in the chinese corporate world where companies tend to hunker down in the face of adverse news and allow events to play out .
ryb appeared to have taken some good corrective actions , said james robinson , managing director of communications consultancy apco worldwide s shanghai office , adding a well-oiled response and open channels of communication with government stakeholders were key .
it s essential for companies to respond swiftly , even if it s just to acknowledge they are aware of an issue and are investigating further .
led by chief executive and founder shi yanlai , a vocal proponent for china s early child education sector , ryb appeared to have hit all the right buttons last week .
when i heard the news , i was personally shocked and very angry , shi said in an investors call on friday .
this issue has struck an alarm bell for us , she said , adding the firm would look to speed up the installation of blanket surveillance tools at its schools and day care centres .
ryb announced a $ 50 million share buyback and said it had dismissed a teacher suspected of involvement in the case as well as the head teacher of the beijing school .
shi helped set up ryb in 1998 when her own son was born .
it now has over 1,300 play and learn centres and nearly 500 kindergartens in around 300 cities in china .
most are operated on a franchise model .
as the case became a lighting rod for wider anger in china about a lack of trained teachers , low wages and poor regulatory oversight in the massive and fast-growing private pre-school sector , shi underscored that she was a mother herself and repeated frequently in local media interviews that the children were the top priority .
on wednesday , the kindergarten in beijing was operating as normal , with parents milling around waiting for children to finish class .
a handful of police officers were the only sign of last week s troubles .
at the company s headquarters in southern beijing , an ryb official said the police had only released their preliminary findings and that the firm could not provide comment until the investigation had finished .
shi also refused to comment for this story .
teachers , investors and experts said ryb had so far had got off fairly lightly , with a lot of the anger being aimed at regulators and wider issues in the market .
beijing is sending inspectors to the city s kindergartens , while china s education ministry is doing a broad investigation into the sector .
i m not really surprised , wrote zhang xiaolong , an education sector executive who has half a million followers online , referring to tuesday s recovery in ryb s shares .
after such a serious issue , the government hasn t taken away ryb s license to operate schools , and so it seems like it s being treated like an isolated incident .
teachers in china said the furor over the case - hundreds of millions posted online about it last week - reflected bubbling tensions over the fast development of the private pre-school sector and a lack of resources for teachers .
thresholds for kindergarten teachers getting into the profession are too low ; but also status , social recognition and levels of respect for the role are lacking , said zhong qian , the head of a private kindergarten in chengdu .
increasingly there s a mismatch between the demand from students and the need for teachers .
ryb has survived similar scandals in the past , at another of its beijing kindergartens earlier this year and before that at a nursery in northern jilin province .
before it listed shares in new york in september , its ipo prospectus flagged abuse by teachers as a risk .
teachers and academics , however , said that it was tough to stamp out abuse , especially at franchised , private-sector schools where competition was tough , requirements and checks on teachers were less strict and salaries were low .
it s often one of the poorest paid professions in china , certainly right down bottom of the pay scale , said geoffrey crothall , communications director at china labour bulletin .
schools often just want bodies in there who can supervise kids and pay them as little as possible .
the state-run global times wrote on wednesday that even after the police report , there was still fierce criticism online of the case .
as often is the case when authorities intercede in a case that has touched a nerve about people s welfare , a raging debate has continued to ferment , the newspaper wrote in a commentary .
robinson , the communications consultant , added : for ryb , it seems they ve taken some good corrective actions , but i don t know whether it s enough .
the facts are still emerging .