how would have america reacted if this article was written by gq magazine during barack hussein obama s run for president in 2008 ?
where is the cry of racism from the right for calling one of the most brilliant pediatric neurosurgeons in history stupid .
the double standards and clear hypocrisy of the so called media that american consumers support when they purchase this trash is outrageous !
the real problem with the left is that they just can t get their little minds around the fact that dr. ben carson would suggest he would be willing to risk his own life for the sake of saving several others .
the wussification of america is happening at warp speed and unless every day americans are willing to stand up to these freaks , we are going to lose our country .
screen grab of article published in gq magazine.here is a portion of the repulsive article written by gq : you know , the only thing more alarming than donald trump leading the republican presidential field is the fact that ben carson is the guy right behind him .
while establishment puds like jeb !
bush and marco rubio can t decide if they want to beat trump or emulate him , the good doctor made it clear this week that he is not only willing to replicate trump s signature brand of hot-garbage-spewing , but he ll say even dumber shit .
here is carson from earlier in the week on the oregon shooter : not only would i probably not cooperate with him , i would not just stand there and let him shoot me .
i would say , hey , guys , everybody attack him .
he may shoot me , but he can t get us all .
oh , but he wasn t done yet .
carson knows a goldmine of asinine cannon fire when he sees it , so he went in again : i never saw a body with bullet holes that was more devastating than taking the right to arm ourselves away .
and again : i have had a gun held on me when i was in a popeyes organization .
guy comes in , put the gun in my ribs .
and i just said , i believe that you want the guy behind the counter .
that s right , carson just threw the poor cashier right under the bus .
whatever happened to having everyone attack the gunman , doctor ?
does that strategy get tossed out the window when there s a convenient low-level cashier around to take the brunt of the crossfire ? here s the thing : i don t believe carson when he says any of this .
i bet he wasn t even held up at that chicken joint .
carson is a soft-spoken fella who knows that he has to make even sillier comments than the competition just so that his silly comments are heard .
you saw bobby jindal do the same thing this week when he called out the oregon shooter s father as the main culprit in the massacre.you are now bearing witness to an arms race of stupid , because stupid is in such high demand from the gop base at the present moment .
stupid is what gets you attention , and attention is what gets you better polling numbers.wow just wow !
! for entire story : gq