rome ( reuters ) - the italian chamber of deputies on thursday gave its final approval to a contested electoral law that is likely to penalize the anti-establishment 5-star movement in next year s election .
the bill , which is supported by the ruling democratic party ( pd ) and mainstream center-right opposition parties , was approved in a secret ballot by 375 votes to 215 , and will now move to the upper house senate for further debate .
an election is due by may 2018 .
analysts say the new system looks highly unlikely to throw up a clear parliamentary majority , with opinion polls showing the center-left , center-right and 5-star splitting the vote three ways .
the so-called rosatellum law favors parties which group together ahead of the election .
the 5-star refuses to join any alliance and says the reform could cost it at least 50 seats in the next parliament , hobbling its chances of taking power .
the party , which tops many opinion polls , has held two days of street protests against what it sees as an attempt by its mainstream rivals to scupper its chances at the election .
you are manipulating the foundations of our democratic system and rigging the rules before the game starts , 5-star leader luigi di maio told parliament before the vote .
every single day of the election campaign we will remind people of what you are doing today .
small left-wing and right-wing parties are also against the bill , which is supported by the center-right forza italia ( go italy ! )
and the right-wing northern league .
ettore rosato , the parliamentary party leader of the pd who has put his name to the reform , said it was the best compromise possible among political adversaries and blamed 5-star and leftist parties for refusing to join negotiations .
you always said no to everything that we proposed , he told the chamber .
president sergio mattarella has called for new voting rules because he says the current system is too different for the upper and lower houses , meaning it could conceivably throw up conflicting majorities .
all previous attempts to harmonize the rules have failed , most recently in june when dissident deputies used a secret vote to up-end part of the proposed legislation .
the 5-star and other opponents of the new rules had hoped that the same would happen in thursday s final vote in the chamber , which had already approved the bill in three votes of confidence held with open voting .
the package still needs the approval of the upper house senate , where gentiloni s government does not have a stable majority .
the upper house is expected to begin discussing and voting on the bill next week .