nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan opposition leader raila odinga called for calm on sunday as he visited a slum in the capital that was hit by violence when a political stand-off over a repeat presidential election fed into rising ethnic tensions .
clashes in kawangware and in a village in western kenya following thursday s vote were the first signs that face-offs between odinga supporters and the police might eventually morph into neighbors turning against each other .
a country can not be ruled by the gun .
standing here in this church we want to condemn the militarization of politics in this country , odinga told residents in the nairobi slum .
the veteran opposition leader had boycotted the re-run of an august presidential election that was nullified by kenya s supreme court on procedural grounds , leaving president uhuru kenyatta with an almost free run against six minor candidates .
on friday , a day after the repeat vote was held in most of the country , ethnic violence in kawangware saw dozens of homes and shops torched and one man killed .
most of buildings torched belonged to residents from the kenyatta s kikuyu tribe .
one man from odinga s luo group was killed overnight near koguta village in the west of the country , after residents from two ethnic groups backing different candidates armed themselves .
if such isolated incidents become a trend , it could ignite large swathes of kenya , as happened after a 2007 presidential election when weeks of violence left 1,200 dead .
that sent ripples throughout east africa , which relies on kenya as a trade and diplomatic hub .
in his speech , odinga condemned violence generally and did not single out any particular attack .
we have come here to give consolation to those who were beaten and killed .
we as nasa condemn what happened , he told worshippers at a church in kawangware , referring to his national super alliance , an opposition coalition .
odinga boycotted thursday s vote because he said the contest would not be fair .
instead , he wanted the oct. 26 contest dismissed and fresh elections held within 90 days .
his withdrawal means kenyans are watching the turnout , rather than the result , for an indication of kenyatta s popularity for a second , five-year term .
results published on sunday by the election commission showed that kenyatta had won slightly more than 98 percent of the vote with results in from 244 out of 291 constituencies .
turnout for the constituencies counted so far was 43 percent .
that figure is likely to decrease when it includes returns of 0 from least 23 constituencies where authorities were unable to open even a single polling station because of protests by odinga s supporters .
the election board planned to try to hold elections there on saturday , but postponed the plan amid fears of further violence .