you d think people would be afraid to order a confederate flag after the riot in charlottesville but this alabama flag factory is seeing a huge jump in sales the story of how this single flag manufacturer was started and has flourished is bittersweet alabama flag & banner sales surge ! sales of confederate flags surged at alabama flag & banner , which may be the only company still manufacturing the flags in the united states .
belinda kennedy , the owner , sees the flag as a historical symbol.rebel flag sales are up since charlottesville .
one north alabama shop may be the only flag manufacturer in america meeting the increased demand.alabama flag & banner is located in a small strip near downtown huntsville .
two years ago , the company began manufacturing the confederate flag after retailers pulled it from their shelves in the wake of the mass shooting at the emanuel a.m.e. church in charleston , s.c. in which nine people were killed by a white supremacist who d been photographed holding a confederate flag.the country s major flag manufacturers stopped producing rebel flags .
eventually , said longtime owner belinda kennedy , alabama flag & banner became the go-to manufacturer for hundreds of retailers across the country looking to stock american-made confederate flags .
online orders boomed , too.two weeks ago , after the deadly charlottesville rally sparked a national debate about whether confederate monuments should be removed from parks around the country , flag sales spiked again .
after the church shooting ( in 2015 ) , amazon and walmart stopped selling ( the flag ) and people were afraid they wouldn t be able to buy it , she said .
and then you started seeing streets renamed , schools being renamed , mountains being renamed .
and then people started getting angry .
and then there s another surge ( in sales ) .
since 2015 , alabama flag & banner has sold an average of 600-800 confederate flags a year .
before that , they typically made a handful of special orders per year because they were able to order flags from a larger manufacturer.kennedy said there are now chinese-made flags available elsewhere , and she s seen a handful of individuals online who hand-sew flags to order , but as far as she knows her business is the only one in the country currently manufacturing confederate flags.about half of the confederate flags at her shop are a more labor-intensive appliqued flag which retails for anywhere from $ 93 to upwards of $ 200 .
the rest are a less expensive screen-printed flag , which costs $ 38.50 for a 3 x 5 flag .
everybody s got a different reason ( for buying ) , she said .
by and large , i think people are afraid they may not be able to get it one day .
confederate flags represent only a fraction of her business , she said , and she has not needed to hire any extra help so far .
she has a team of seven or eight seamstresses , some of them hispanic , who work on the manufacturing side , hand-stitching appliqued flags and preparing the screen-printed flags.downstairs in kennedy s office is a double-frame picture of two of her great-great-grandfathers , who fought for the south in the civil war .
i think there is a bigger racial divide in our country than what we ve had in many years , said kennedy .
i think a lot of it is ( because ) we re trying to sanitize history .
you ve got white supremacists , but then you ve got people like me who are history buffs , pushing back and saying , don t change history .
removing confederate monuments is not right , she said .
she echoed president donald trump s remarks about the charlottesville violence , asking where the country should draw the line at removing monuments because founding fathers like george washington and thomas jefferson owned slaves.the confederate flag , in her view , has been co-opted for something it doesn t represent .
she hated seeing it carried by white supremacists in charlottesville .
when you ve got people like the ku klux klan and these neo-nazi groups , the white supremacists , when they hijack the flag , that should be a crime , she said , because that s not what the flag is about .
but that s what makes people so vehemently , adamantly opposed to the flag .
since 2015 , kennedy has been no stranger to attention , though she said she dislikes most of the publicity and news coverage surrounding the confederate flag .
outlets such as cnn and yahoo news have already interviewed kennedy this week as part of coverage of the monument debate.a self-avowed daughter of the confederacy , kennedy does not see herself as a crusader for the confederate cause .
but she doesn t accept that the flag or monuments , for that matter are anything more than a symbol of heritage or history .
when we start trying to rewrite our history , we are forgetting our history , she said .
does anybody really think by taking down monuments and renaming mountains and taking down confederate flags , that we are really going to see racism end ?
that s not going to fix it.read more : al.com