cairo/gaza ( reuters ) - palestinian president mahmoud abbas will not meet u.s. vice president mike pence during pence s visit to the region this month in a snub over the u.s. recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital , the palestinian foreign minister said on saturday .
violence erupted for a third day in gaza in response to president donald trump s announcement on wednesday , which overturned decades of u.s. policy towards the middle east .
israeli air strikes killed two palestinian gunmen on saturday after militants fired rockets from the enclave into israel on friday , which had been declared a day of rage by palestinian factions .
trump s recognition of jerusalem has infuriated the arab world and upset western allies , who say it is a blow to peace efforts and risks sparking more violence in the region .
late on saturday , arab foreign ministers urged the united states to abandon its decision and said the move would spur violence throughout the region .
the arab league , in a statement issued after an emergency session in cairo , called trump s announcement a dangerous violation of international law which had no legal impact and was void .
israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu reacted to critics in a statement before meetings in paris on sunday with french president emmanuel macron to be followed by a meeting with european foreign ministers in brussels .
i hear ( from europe ) voices of condemnation over president trump s historic announcement but i have not heard any condemnation for the rocket firing against israel that has come ( after the announcement ) and the awful incitement against us , netanyahu said .
israel maintains that all of jerusalem is its capital .
palestinians want east jerusalem as the capital of a future independent state .
most countries consider east jerusalem , which israel annexed after capturing it in a 1967 war , to be occupied territory , and say the status of the city should be left to be decided at future israeli-palestinian talks .
the trump administration says it is still committed to palestinian-israeli talks , that israel s capital would be in jerusalem under any serious peace plan , and that it has not taken a position on the city s borders .
it says the moribund negotiations can be revived only by ditching outdated policies .
palestinian foreign minister riyad al-maliki said the palestinians will be looking for a new peace talks broker instead of the united states and would seek a united nations security council resolution over trump s decision .
we will seek a new mediator from our arab brothers and the international community , maliki told reporters in cairo before the arab league meeting on trump s jerusalem decision .
a turkish presidential source said turkish president tayyip erdogan and french president emmanuel macron will work together to try to persuade the united states to reconsider the move .
a possible meeting with pence has also been turned down by egypt s coptic church , mena state news agency reported .
white house and u.s. state department officials did not respond to requests for comment .
palestinian officials said pence had been due to meet abbas on dec. 19 .
trump s adviser and son-in-law , jared kushner , is leading efforts to restart negotiations , though his bid has shown little public progress so far .
palestinian militants launched at least three rockets towards israeli towns from gaza after dark on friday and israel said it responded with air strikes that targeted a weapons depot , a military compound and two weapons manufacturing facilities .
hamas , which controls gaza , confirmed the two men killed in the pre-dawn strikes belonged to the group , which has urged palestinians to keep up the confrontation with israeli forces .
however , palestinian protests on saturday were less intense than on the previous two days .
about 60 palestinian youths threw stones at israeli soldiers across the gaza-israel border and the health ministry said at least 10 were wounded by israeli fire .
in the occupied west bank , palestinians set fire to tires and threw stones and firebombs at israeli troops , who responded with tear gas , water cannons , rubber bullets and , in a few instances , live fire .
the israeli military said one protester was arrested .
in east jerusalem about 60 people demonstrated near the walled old city , where paramilitary border police and officers on horseback tried to disperse the crowd with tear gas .
thirteen demonstrators were arrested and four officers were lightly injured by stones , police spokesman micky rosenfeld said .
on friday , thousands of palestinians took to the streets in protest and two palestinians were killed in clashes with israeli troops on the gaza border .
scores more were wounded there and in the west bank .
across the arab and muslim worlds , thousands more protesters had gathered to express solidarity .
the turkish presidential source said erdogan and macron agreed during a phone call that trump s move was worrying for the region and that turkey and france would make a joint effort to try to reverse the u.s. decision .
erdogan also spoke to the presidents of kazakhstan , lebanon and azerbaijan on saturday , the source said .
on wednesday , he called an urgent meeting of the organization of islamic cooperation in turkey next week .
a senior united arab emirates ( uae ) official said on saturday that trump s move was a gift to radicalism .
radicals and extremists will use that to fan the language of hate , minister of state for foreign affairs anwar gargash said at the manama dialogue security conference in bahrain .