jerusalem ( reuters ) - palestinians seethed with anger and a sense of betrayal over u.s. president donald trump s decision to recognize the disputed city of jerusalem as the capital of israel .
many heard the death knell for the long-moribund u.s.-sponsored talks aimed at ending the israeli-palestinian conflict and establishing a palestinian state alongside israel .
they also said more violence could erupt .
trump wants to help israel take over the entire city .
some people may do nothing , but others are ready to fight for jerusalem , said hamad abu sbeih , 28 , an unemployed resident of the walled old city .
this decision will ignite a fire in the region .
pressure leads to explosions , he said .
jerusalem specifically its eastern old city , home to important shrines of judaism , christianity and islam is at the heart of the israeli-palestinian conflict .
israeli captured arab east jerusalem from jordan in the 1967 middle east war then later annexed it in a move not recognized internationally .
palestinians want it to be the capital of a future independent state and resolution of its status is fundamental to any peace-making .
trump is due to announce later on wednesday that the united states recognizes the city as israel s capital and will move its embassy there from tel aviv , breaking with longtime policy ..
this is insane .
you are speaking about something fateful .
jerusalem is the capital of the state of palestine and neither the world nor our people will accept it , said samir al-asmar , 58 , a merchant from the old city who was a child when it fell to israel .
it will not change what jerusalem is .
jerusalem will remain arab .
such a decision will sabotage things and people will not accept it .
palestinian newspapers also decried the move .
trump defies the world , thundered al-ayyam .
another , al-hayat , roared jerusalem is the symbol of palestinian endurance in a red-letter headline over an image of the city s mosque compound flanked by palestinian flags .
palestinian leaders have also warned the move could have dangerous consequences .
although winter rains dampened protests called for east jerusalem , the occupied west bank and hamas-dominated gaza strip , few doubted fresh bloodshed now loomed .
israeli security forces braced for possible unrest but police said the situation in jerusalem was calm for now .
that could quickly change , given the religious passions that swirl around the old city , where al aqsa mosque , islam s third-holiest shrine , abuts the western wall prayer plaza , a vestige of two ancient jewish temples .
palestinians mounted two uprisings , or intifadas , against israeli occupation from 1987 to 1993 then from 2000 to 2005 , the latter ignited by a visit by then-opposition leader ariel sharon to the shrine area , known to jews as temple mount .
violent confrontations also took place in july when israel installed metal detectors at an entrance to al-aqsa compound after arab gunmen holed up there killed two of its policemen .
four palestinians and three israelis died in ensuing violence .
in the palestinian coastal enclave of gaza , demonstrators chanted death to america , death to israel and down with trump .
they also burned posters depicting the u.s. , british and israeli flags .
youssef mohammad , a 70-year-old resident of a refugee camp , said trump s move would be a test for arab leadership at a time of regional chaos and shifting alliances .
let him do it .
let s see what arab rulers and kings will do .
they will do nothing because they are cowards , the father of eight said .
the jerusalem uproar could affect egyptian-brokered efforts to bring gaza , which has been under islamist hamas control for a decade , back under the authority of u.s.-backed palestinian president mahmoud abbas , who favors negotiation with israel .
hamas spokesman hazem qassem said trump s planned moved showed the united states was biased .
the united states was never a neutral mediator in any cause of our people .
it has always stood with the occupation ( israel ) , he said .
he said abbas administration should rid itself of the illusion that rights can be achieved through an american-backed deal .
( corrects ariel sharon s title to opposition leader )