berlin ( reuters ) - germany s social democrats agreed on friday , under intense pressure , to hold talks with chancellor angela merkel on renewing their outgoing coalition government , but pledged that party members would have the final say on any deal .
the about-turn by the center-left spd , which had said it would go into opposition after suffering its worst result in 70 years in september s election , could help avert a disruptive repeat vote in europe s economic and political powerhouse .
spd leader martin schulz told a news conference the party leadership had reached the decision out of a sense of responsibility to germany and europe after merkel s attempt to form a government with the pro-business free democrats and environmental greens smaller parties collapsed on sunday .
there is nothing automatic about the direction we are moving in , schulz said .
if a discussion results in us deciding to participate , in any form whatsoever , in the formation of a government , we will put it to a vote of party members .
schulz told 300 members of the party s youth wing - who rejected another grand coalition at a conference in saarbruecken - that nothing had been decided .
but he suggested that governing could offer better chances to achieve his primary goal of improving the lives of people in germany and around the world .
from which position is that best possible ?
what is more important ?
the radiance of our decisions , or the improvement of the everyday lives of people ?
schulz told the group .
he said he noted the group s position and thanked them for their support in the september election .
but he said he expected their loyalty and constructive cooperation with whatever path was ultimately decided by the party s leadership .
backing for a new government could mean forming a coalition , agreeing not to obstruct a merkel-led minority government , or other options yet to be explored , spd deputy leader ralf stegner told broadcaster zdf .
rainer haseloff , the premier of the eastern state of saxony-anhalt and a member of merkel s center-right christian democrats ( cdu ) , told reuters : i think opinion is moving in the direction of there being a grand coalition .
he said conservatives would look at the spd s proposals , but the bloc would not agree to any move to replace merkel .
juergin trittin , a senior greens member , told germany s rnd newspaper group it was a question of when , not if the spd would agree to discuss another coalition with conservatives .
stegner , who is skeptical about another grand coalition , told broadcaster zdf the spd would extract a price for any deal .
the spd won t go cheaply , he said , without elaborating .
merkel spoke with reporters after an event in brussels , but declined to answer any questions .
a poll conducted on monday , before the latest spd comments , showed half of germans supported the spd s initial rejection of a new grand coalition , while 44 percent would support renewing the coalition government that has ruled for the past four years .
six out of 10 germans would support a new election , the poll by infratest dimap for broadcaster ard showed .
over her 12 years in power , merkel has embraced a succession of coalition partners who then went on to suffer painful electoral defeats .
a cartoon published by cicero magazine on friday depicted the spd as a mouse being enticed out of its hole by a waiting feline merkel .
german president frank-walter steinmeier will host a meeting with schulz , merkel and horst seehofer , leader of the cdu s arch-conservative bavarian sister party , next thursday .
steinmeier , a former spd foreign minister , has urged his former party to reverse its pledge to go into opposition , having made clear that he saw fresh elections as a last resort .
the crisis has arisen because merkel s conservatives also lost votes in september as the anti-immigrant alternative for germany surged into parliament .
with the spd licking its wounds , an unlikely-looking three-way coalition with smaller parties had appeared the only option for the weakened chancellor .