bamenda , cameroon ( reuters ) - at least 17 people have died in clashes between security forces and protesters in cameroon s english-speaking regions , amnesty international said , as violence broke out in an area where a separatist movement is gathering strength .
the clashes began on sunday after local groups called protests against what they say is their marginalization by the francophone-dominated government of the country s long-time ruler , paul biya .
witnesses said security forces opened fire , often at close range .
ilaria allegrozzi , amnesty international s lake chad region researcher , told reuters that the victims died across several towns in the two anglophone regions bordering nigeria .
the worrying escalation witnessed over the weekend has now reached a crisis point , allegrozzi said .
a local mayor confirmed that one of the victims was a 13-year-old girl who died from bullet wounds .
sisiku ayuk tabe , the leader of the separatist movement called the governing council of ambazonia said the final death toll was likely to exceed 30 .
government officials did not respond to requests for comment .
a daytime curfew was in place in the city of bamenda on monday , where security forces set up barricades along virtually empty avenues .
a reuters witness saw police wearing balaclavas beat and detain a young man who resisted arrest .
cameroon , today an oil and cocoa producer with a population of more than 23 million people , was ruled by germany until the end of world war one , then divided between the french and british victors .
the deep cultural and linguistic divides spurred protests for greater autonomy nearly a year ago and authorities have responded by locking up opponents and cutting internet access .
the government of france on monday called on all sides to reject violence .
but opposition leader john fru ndi , who ran against biya in past elections , said the president might struggle to ease tensions before next year s election .
the 84-year-old biya , who has held power since 1982 , is expected to seek another term .
there were solutions available but he missed his chance , he said in an interview at his home in bamenda on monday .
biya has condemned the latest outbreak of violence .