hong kong ( reuters ) - the former leader of the hong kong university student union on thursday received a court sentence of community service for his role in a campus protest , escaping the fate of a growing list of young activists put behind bars .
the activists , many still university students , have been at the forefront of the former british colony s fight for democracy which peaked during the months-long umbrella movement street occupations in late 2014 .
but after failing to convince beijing to allow full democracy in hong kong , many lost confidence in the city s one country , two systems arrangement , and began to call for total independence .
billy fung , 23 , who helped lead a protest last year by about 200 students seeking talks over the governance structure of the university of hong kong ( hku ) , was given 240 hours of community service for disorderly conduct in a public place , criminal damage and attempted forcible entry .
i understand you have ideals and hope to change what is unjust in society , said magistrate ko wai-hung .
but when you think these ideals are the absolute truth , you may neglect that other people have the right and reasons to hold different opinions .
wearing ties with the university emblem , both fung and another student leader , colman li , 22 , who is to serve 200 hours of community service , looked calm when the sentences were handed down , while about 100 young people in the courtroom applauded .
hong kong returned to chinese rule in 1997 , with the promise of a large degree of autonomy and civil liberties not permitted in mainland china .
in the past few years , police have charged up to 100 activists , most of them young , over anti-government protests , a list compiled by activist groups shows .
fung s sentence came one month after the jailing of youth activist joshua wong , who had helped lead tens of thousands onto hong kong s streets .
the issue of academic freedom has flared in recent weeks , after a campus display of pro-independence banners drew the ire of chinese state media and hong kong officials , triggering heated standoffs between local freedom advocates and pro-china students and groups .
in fung s case , the governance issue drew scrutiny after the university council blocked a prominent hku law school dean and human rights advocate , johannes chan , from taking the post of pro-vice-chancellor .
( this story has been refiled to insert dropped word sentence in headline )