phnom penh ( reuters ) - around half the opposition members of cambodia s parliament have left the country in fear of a crackdown by prime minister hun sen s government , a deputy party leader said .
the leader of the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) , kem sokha , was arrested on sept. 3 and charged with treason for an alleged plot to take power with u.s. help .
the government has said there could be more arrests linked to the alleged plot , which the opposition says is just a ploy to ensure hun sen keeps his more than three-decade hold on power in next year s general election .
hun sen s ruling cambodian people s party ( cpp ) has a slim majority in the 123-member parliament , which voted on sept. 11 to allow the prosecution of kem sokha in a vote boycotted by opposition members .
about half are out of the country in fear , mu sochua , one of three deputies to kem sokha told reuters on friday .
i m taking my chances .
we can not live in fear and let the fear paralyze us .
she said the party was still in contact with those members outside the country as the opposition tries to rally international pressure on the government .
a spokesman for the ruling party said it was an internal issue for the cnrp if its members were abroad .
spokesman so eysan said the cpp believed in a culture of dialogue but kem sokha s criminal act had destroyed it .
the ship has left the port so it s already too late , said sok eysan .
the government has said kem sokha s party could be dissolved if it doesn t drop him as its leader , something the cnrp has said it will not do .
while western countries have condemned the arrest of kem sokha and called for his release , hun sen has support from his close ally china , by far the biggest donor to one of southeast asia s poorest countries .
mu sochua said she was still hopeful that western countries would take stronger action against the government , but did not specify what .
a statement alone is not going to help , she said .
the evidence presented against kem sokha so far is a video from 2013 in which he tells supporters that he has support from unidentified americans for a plan to gain power .
the opposition says it is evidence of an election strategy , not a coup plot .