washington ( reuters ) - republican lawmakers and presidential candidates hardened their positions on sunday on blocking a move by president barack obama to fill the supreme court seat left by the late conservative justice antonin scalia , a lifetime appointment that would help decide some of the most divisive issues facing americans .
the next justice could tilt the balance of the nation ’ s highest court , which was left with four conservatives and four liberals .
the vacancy quickly became an issue in the 2016 presidential race .
“ we ought to make the 2016 election a referendum on the supreme court , ” u.s .
senator and republican presidential candidate ted cruz said on nbc ’ s “ meet the press. ” the normally nine-justice court is set to decide this year its first major abortion case in nearly a decade , as well as cases on voting rights , affirmative action and immigration .
scalia , 79 , died on saturday at a west texas resort .
the cause of death will not be determined for several days , the top official in the county where he died , presidio county judge cinderela gueara , said on sunday in an interview with local tv station wfaa-tv .
obama , a democrat , will nominate someone to fill the empty seat but will wait until the u.s. senate is back in session , the white house said on sunday .
the senate returns from recess on feb. 22 .
“ at that point , we expect the senate to consider that nominee , consistent with their responsibilities laid out in the united states constitution , ” white house spokesman eric schultz said .
the white house declined to give a more specific timeline for obama to announce his nominee .
the nomination will set up a battle with the republican-controlled chamber , which must approve any nominee .
shortly after news of scalia ’ s death , republicans vowed not to act on the vacancy until obama ’ s successor takes office next january .
senate democratic leader harry reid said failure to act would be a “ shameful abdication ” of the senate ’ s constitutional duty .
both sides said history was on their side .
reid said it would be unprecedented to have a vacancy on the court for a year .
in the modern era , the longest supreme court vacancy was 363 days after abe fortas resigned in may 1969 .
republicans cited 80 years of tradition in which no supreme court nominees were approved in presidential election years .
in fact , justice anthony kennedy was approved in 1988 , after a bruising battle in which the senate rejected president ronald reagan ’ s first nominee , conservative robert bork .
supreme court nominations are rare , so neither side has much data to rely on in determining precedents .
history is also an unreliable guide as the nomination process has become significantly more politicized in recent years .
for obama ’ s previous two supreme court picks , elena kagan and sonia sotomayor , he took about 30 days each to announce the elections after their predecessors , justice john paul stevens and justice david souter , respectively , said they planned to step down .
ohio governor john kasich , a moderate among the republicans vying for the white house , said the senate should wait because a battle this year would only deepen divisions in the country .
“ you know how polarized everything is , ” kasich said on abc ’ s “ this week. ” “ what i don ’ t want to see is more fighting and more recrimination. ” democratic u.s .
senator patrick leahy warned that a delay could have consequences in november ’ s election , when voters get to decide who fills one-third of the senate ’ s seats .
“ if the republican leadership refuses to even hold a hearing , i think that is going to guarantee they lose control of the senate , because i don ’ t think the american people will stand for that , ” he said on cnn ’ s “ state of the union. ” democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders said the constitution was clear .
“ the president makes the appointment , senate confirms , let ’ s get on with that business , ” the senator from vermont said on “ fox news sunday. ” one possible contender to replace scalia is an indian-american appeals court judge , sri srinivasan , who has pro-business credentials and a stellar resume .
his nomination could make it more politically challenging for republicans to block anyone put forward by obama .
cruz , a texas lawmaker , who sits on the senate judiciary committee that takes the lead on supreme court nominees , said the vacancy left by scalia made the presidential election even more critical .
he warned that a justice chosen by sanders or his democratic presidential rival , hillary clinton , would mean the second amendment right to bear arms would be “ written out ” of the constitution and abortion on demand would become the law of the land .
republican u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida , another white house candidate , said he would want someone who echoed scalia ’ s “ originalist ” ideology that looks at the u.s. constitution through the lens of its framers ’ 18th-century intentions .
republican presidential front-runner donald trump , appearing on nbc , was more direct when asked what he would want : “ someone just like justice scalia. ” that would mean someone who did not let ideological differences preclude civility or even friendship , former president bill clinton told cnn , citing scalia ’ s bond with liberal justice ruth bader ginsburg .
ginsburg , in a statement on sunday , called her friend “ a jurist of captivating brilliance and wit ” with whom she disagreed “ now and then. ” she cited a duet sung by the two justices in the 2015 opera “ scalia/ginsburg ” titled : “ we are different , we are one. ” she and scalia , ginsburg wrote , were “ different in our interpretation of written texts , one in our reverence for the constitution and the institution we serve. ” ( additional reporting by joan biskupic , alana wise , timothy gardner in washington ; sara vasquez in marfa , texas ; writing by doina chiacu ; editing by jonathan oatis and peter cooney ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .