just when you thought there was nothing barack hussein obama could do to shock you this christian pastor s story is revealed .
how much money does an american who spends 3 1/2 years in an iranian prison leave with ?
enough for a one-way ticket home to the u.s ? iranian president hassan rouhani spoke before the united nations general assembly thursday despite protests from iranian-americans who feel iran s human rights situation has worsened after sanctions were modified earlier this year.pastor saeed abedini , one of four american hostages released from iran in january , shared his disbelief of rouhani s annual speech during an interview with fox business network s trish regan .
i was just telling people that imagine leader of isis come to the united states after 30 years of all the executions that they did and leaders of the world shaking his hand .
it s unbelievable , abedini said.iranian-american pastor saeed abedini , who spent three-and-a-half years in iranian prisons before being released in january , claims that the united states government wouldn t pay for a return flight home even though his family faced serious financial issues.abedini said he and other hostages were left to fend for themselves after flying from iran to germany when they were released after the obama administration s $ 400 million payment to iran.the united states sent iran $ 400 million in debt plus $ 1.3 billion in interest , and the money was disbursed as a ransom payment for four american hostages of the islamic regime , a top iranian commander said wednesday afternoon .
therefore , the u.s. paid the iranian regime $ 425 million dollars per american hostage , according to the commander.after spending a few days in a hospital in germany , adedini was surprised to hear that he needed to buy his own plane ticket home .
we were actually all shocked because i came out ; i just had prison clothes and [ they ] just told us you need to buy your own ticket .
abedini said he was physically and psychologically tortured in the iranian prison to the point where his stomach was bleeding for months from all the beatings .
the whole last three to five years that i was there , it was just torturing , it was so hard , abiding said .
via : downtrend