san juan ( reuters ) - puerto rico on friday said it will default on $ 779 million worth of constitutionally backed debt , its most senior bonds , making good on threats that the island would choose paying essential services for its citizens over obligations to creditors .
debt payments totaling just over $ 2 billion were due on friday .
governor alejandro garcia padilla told reporters on friday that overall the u.s. commonwealth territory will not pay $ 911 million worth of its obligations .
the u.s. territory ’ s finances will soon come under a u.s. federal oversight board after u.s. president barack obama signed into law on thursday a bill giving the island access to a debt restructuring process , and implementing a halt on litigation arising from any defaults on its $ 70 billion debt load .
“ today , puerto rico is protected against creditors ’ actions , ” garcia padilla said .
the general obligation ( go ) debt , or debt that carries a go guarantee , is a category of debt that has not been defaulted upon by any u.s. state in decades .
puerto rico is not covered by chapter 9 u.s. bankruptcy code which applies to municipalities .
puerto rico ’ s government development bank ( gdb ) said on friday the island would have just $ 95 million in cash at the end of the year even after the defaults announced on friday .
puerto rico ’ s benchmark 2035 go bond rose 0.25 points in price to trade at 67.50 points , pushing the yield down to 12.519 percent .
on thursday garcia padilla authorized puerto rico , under a locally written debt moratorium law , to suspend some of the $ 2 billion in debt payments due on friday .
the developments on friday represent the nadir of a decade-long effort by puerto rico to avoid economic collapse .
the island is hamstrung by emigration and a 45 percent poverty rate .
“ even if the commonwealth were to devote every last penny in the ( accounts ) to debt service on july 1 , it would still owe holders of the public debt hundreds of millions of dollars , ” the gdb said in a statement on friday .
some of the debt expected to be defaulted upon such as pba ( public building authority ) ex-series l bonds will be mostly covered by reserve funds held by the trustee bank .
nearly all of the payments due on the puerto rico infrastructure financing authority ( prifa ) bond anticipation notes ( bans ) will be covered by reserve funds as well .
if some of the debt is covered by insurance policies , some creditors could receive a portion of their payments .
the gdb , puerto rico ’ s primary fiscal agent , said the island has only $ 200 million in its operating account , and another $ 150 million in revenue that was redirected in recent months away from other debt payments .
even if the island continues emergency measures like suspending vendor payments and withholding contributions to a pension fund that is already insolvent , the operating account will still run out of cash in 30 to 60 days , the gdb said .
“ we knew this day would come , that they would default , and it is here .
it was a good thing they passed promesa , even at the eleventh hour , ” ted hampton , senior credit officer at moody ’ s investors service , said , referring to the puerto rico oversight , management and economic stability act ( promesa ) .
late on thursday the island ’ s legislature approved an $ 8.9 billion fiscal 2017 budget , which now awaits garcia padilla ’ s signature .
in the wee hours of friday , puerto rico released long-awaited audited financial statements for fiscal year 2014 , more than a year late .
the statements , audited by kpmg , showed , among other things , that puerto rico ’ s largest public pension has exhausted its assets and is now insolvent .
puerto rico ’ s pensions have among the largest funding gaps in u.s. history .
“ when i entered office , puerto rico was property of wall street , ” garcia padilla said , adding : “ today , everybody concludes that we have been telling the truth about puerto rico ’ s fiscal condition . ”