kathmandu ( reuters ) - nepalis began voting in the final round of parliamentary elections on thursday , a key step to complete a near decade-long democratic transition after the abolition of the centuries-old monarchy and the end of a civil war against maoist guerrillas .
the first phase of the election was held on nov. 26 , with final results not expected for about another 10 days because of the cumbersome vote-counting procedure , officials said .
officials said more than 200,000 soldiers and police had been deployed to maintain security at polling centers after one person was killed and dozens wounded in a series of small blasts in the run-up to the polls .
hundreds of activists , including from a splinter group of maoists opposed to the election , have been detained for creating trouble , army spokesman nain raj dahal said .
more than 15 million people were eligible to vote for the 275-member parliament - 165 through first-past-the-post and 110 on a proportional basis in both rounds .
voters will also choose representatives to seven state assemblies for the first time since nepal became a federal democracy under the first republican constitution in 2015 .
the country will achieve political stability after the election ... and will move ahead solidly on the path of economic and social prosperity , president bidhya devi bhandari said in a statement .
nepal has seen 10 government changes in as many years .
instability has given rise to corruption , retarded growth and slowed recovery from a 2015 earthquake that killed 9,000 people .
i voted in hopes for a stable government that can concentrate on development and create jobs so our children don t have to go abroad to work , binita karki , 57 , said after casting her ballots in a kathmandu suburb , where armed soldiers stood nearby .
her son works on a construction site in qatar .
the election pits the centrist nepali congress party of prime minister sher bahadur deuba , who heads a loose alliance that includes the madhesi parties from nepal s southern plains and former royalists , against a tight-knit alliance of former maoists and the moderate communist uml party .
the nepali congress party is considered a pro-india group , while the opposition alliance is seen as closer to china .
nepal is a natural buffer between the two and the outcome could indicate whether china or india gets the upper hand in the battle for influence in a nation rich in hydropower and home to mount everest .
nepal emerged from a civil war in 2006 and abolished its 239-year-old hindu monarchy two years later .