seoul ( reuters ) - south korean guards fired warning shots across the heavily militarized border with north korea on thursday as a soldier from the north defected in thick fog , complicating efforts to ease tensions over pyongyang s nuclear and missile programs .
a south korean defense ministry official said up to 20 warning shots were fired as north korean troops approached too near the military demarcation line at the demilitarized zone ( dmz ) , apparently in search of the missing soldier .
thursday s defection came about five weeks after a north korean soldier suffered critical gunshot wounds during a defection dash across the border .
two north korean civilians were also found in a fishing boat on wednesday and had sought to defect , officials in the south said .
that brings the total number of north koreans who have defected by taking dangerous routes either directly across the border or by sea to 15 so far this year , including two other soldiers .
that is three times the number last year , according to south korean officials .
tensions on the korean peninsula were already high after reclusive , impoverished north korea accelerated testing of its missile and nuclear programs this year in defiance of international pressure and un sanctions .
the defections also threaten to complicate south korea s efforts to ensure the smooth running of the 2018 winter olympics , which begin in pyeongchang in february .
south korean president moon jae-in said on tuesday he had proposed postponing major military drills with the united states until after the games in an attempt to soothe relations , although officials in seoul later said any proposed delay would depend on the north not engaging in any provocations .
in a notice published online , the u.s. military s 8th army said a significant number of north korean propaganda leaflets and cds had been distributed at strategic locations on multiple u.s. military bases in south korea .
the notice called on troops to report any suspicious individuals to help combat potential insider threats that could disrupt military operations .
the united states stations 28,500 troops in south korea , a legacy of the 1950-53 korean war , and north korea says regular u.s.-south korean military drills are a prelude to invasion .
it regularly threatens to destroy the united states and its two key asian allies , south korea and japan .
seoul says more than 880 north koreans have defected to the rich , democratic south so far this year , but the vast majority have taken a less dangerous route through china .
going through china , north korea s neighbor and sole major ally , means they avoid the dmz , which features landmines , barbed wire , surveillance cameras , electric fencing and thousands of armed troops on both sides .
the number of defectors arriving successfully in the south has dropped since north korean leader kim jong un took power in late 2011 , a trend defectors and experts say may be linked to a crackdown by pyongyang .
there was no immediate comment from the secretive north about the latest incidents .
however , the north s state media released a statement sharply denying u.s. allegations this week that pyongyang was behind a number of recent cyber attacks .
washington has publicly blamed north korean hackers for a cyber attack in may that crippled hospitals , banks and other companies .
researchers also say the north was likely behind attacks on virtual currency exchanges .
the military drills with the united states have also complicated relations with china .
the proposed delay in drills was discussed during a summit between moon and chinese president xi jinping last week after the proposal was submitted to washington , an official at the presidential blue house said this week .
china and russia have proposed a freeze for freeze arrangement under which north korea would stop its nuclear and missile tests in exchange for a halt to the exercises , but there has been little interest from washington or pyongyang .
in thursday s defection , a low-ranking soldier crossed the border near a south korean guard post , south korea s joint chiefs of staff spokesman , roh jae-cheon , said .
no shots were fired at the soldier .
surveillance equipment detected him despite heavy fog that limited visibility to about 100 meters ( 110 yards ) , roh said .
south korean guards fired about 20 warning shots at north korean troops near the border presumably searching for the defector about half an hour later , a defense ministry official in the south told reuters .
gunfire from the north was detected later but the target could not be determined , the official said .
south korea s unification ministry also said maritime police had found two north korean men drifting in a small boat off the coast on wednesday .
the pair expressed their willingness to defect , a ministry official said , and their claim for asylum was being investigated .
the north korean soldier who was shot several times during a daring dash across the border on nov. 13 has since been identified as 24-year-old oh chong song and is now in a military hospital south of seoul .
his treatment for gunshot wounds and pre-existing conditions has included two major operations and intelligence officials will begin questioning him soon .