they knew !
can you believe these people ?
fox news reported earlier that the release of this report was delayed twice today .
now we know why they released it late .
these people are sickening !
please never forget these american heroes left to die by this woman .
the u.s. state department told a watchdog group in 2013 that it didn t have any information about former secretary hillary clinton s emails , even though dozens of senior officials knew she was using a private server for all her electronic communications.a report released thursday by the agency s inspector general a powerful and impartial internal investigator described a cavalier culture about transparency inside clinton s agency , saying that 177 requests for documents about clinton are still pending nearly three years after she left office .
the freedom of information act requires federal agencies to respond to requests for information within 20 business days .
the botched foia request , filed in december 2012 just before clinton left office , specifically asked whether or not clinton used an email account other than one hosted at state.gov .
citizens for responsibility and ethics in washington , a liberal group , was reacting to news that former environmental protection agency administrator lisa jackson had used an alias richard windsor to send and receive emails in a way that couldn t be tied to her when foia requests came in .
in may 2013 the state department responded to crew s request , saying it had no records related to what the group asked for .
by then , clinton had spent four years emailing department employees from her private home-brew account , but had never turned the messages over to the state department .
that crew request was filed in december 2012 , just before mrs. clinton left office , and specifically asked whether mrs. clinton used anon-state.gov email account for government business .
at the time the request was received , dozens of senior officials throughout the department , including members of secretary clinton s immediate staff , exchanged emails with the secretary using the personal accounts she used to conduct official business , the office of inspector general concluded .
oig found evidence that the secretary s then-chief of staff was informed of the request at the time it was received and subsequently tasked staff to follow up .
however , oig found no evidence to indicate that any of these senior officials reviewed the search results or approved the response to crew .
the employees responsible for searching the state department s records , the report says , never searched any email records , even though the request clearly encompassed emails .
state has received an unprecedented crush of requests for clinton-related documents 240 in all , a number bigger than those related to secretaries madeline albright , colin powell , condoleeza rice and john kerry combined .
but the inspector general found that the agency cut the number of people processing those foia requests as they poured in .
clinton s emails sat on her private server for years until the state department asked her in 2014 to turn them over .
she deleted more than half of the messages , calling them personal in nature , before complying .
in the meantime , however , her emails were out of reach when federal employees searched for records that might satisfy foia requests.read more : daily mail