read anything stephen henderson has written over the past year and you will be hard pressed to find a single piece where he is not crying about some injustice either he or his fellow black man has suffered .
anyone who reads his whiny drivel for more than a couple of months will likely need some sort of therapy to keep them from wanting to jump off the nearest ledge on a tall building .
henderson is a perfect example of the wussification of the male in the united states .
we ve met and spoken with him before .
henderson is not embarrassed to say he s a hardened liberal .
he blames it on his u of d catholic high school education .
he claims they pumped liberalism and social justice through his veins .
as a catholic , i find this type of rhetoric gut-wrenching , irresponsible and the furthest thing from the type of love and compassion for my neighbor i learned as a young catholic .
if representatives of working citizens who live in the suburbs of detroit , refuse to burden them with hundreds of millions of tax dollars to bail out the failed detroit public schools ( yet again ) , stephen henderson says they should be murdered.stephen henderson , the pulitzer prize-winning editorial page editor of the detroit free press has called for the murder of michigan lawmakers with whom he disagrees.the reason ?
the lawmakers voted for legislation that would give parents more choices to avoid michigan s failing public schools .
detroit s public schools are failing academically and nearly insolvent , the new york times wrote in january .
the detroit news wrote in march that the statewide opinion of k-12 education is downright ugly .
that poll showed residents didn t think throwing money at public-union-controlled schools was the answer , with 63 percent saying it takes more than money to improve education.yesterday michigan s republican legislators voted to bail out detroit s abysmally run schools with $ 617 million in taxpayer funding .
the same bill also fought efforts to constrain charter school choices in detroit .
prior to the vote , stephen henderson wrote on his editorial page : we really ought to round up the lawmakers who took money to protect and perpetuate the failing charter-school experiment in detroit , sew them into burlap sacks with rabid animals , and toss them into the straits of mackinac.that s harsh .
maybe.but isn t that what the romans or greeks or some other early practitioners of democracy used to do with solicitous and unprincipled public officials ? and this legislation that passed the state house of representatives thursday night , the one that bows to the thoroughly debunked theory that a free-for-all , market-based approach to public schooling will produce quality choices for detroit parents ? it is garbage.it is bought-and-paid-for work product from a legislative body whose leader , the maladroit thinker kevin cotter , has sold his caucus political soul to the high-bidding devos family and other charter advocates and told himself it s about belief , not money.in the most crass terms , the house of representatives is telling parents in detroit that the best we deserve is what we have now .
public schools that have been underfunded and torn asunder by depopulation and corruption .
charters opening and closing willy-nilly , many to profit off the traditioal public schools misery , but offering alternatives in name only to the public schools they claim to outperform .
the bragging that charter advocates do about the sliver of daylight between the outcomes of charters and traditional public schools would be roll-on-the-floor funny if it weren t so condescending , and it it didn t heartily embrace the idea of calcified inequality.it is every bit deserving of an old-school retributive response.a sack .
an animal .
a lake.no lover of actual democracy could weep at that outcome.stephen henderson s tweeted his detroit free press article and added this disgusting commentary : gop house harlots deserve worse than hanging for selling out # detroit kids on # dps bills .
https : //t.co/zbpajl81qq stephen henderson ( @ shendersonfreep ) june 3 , 2016