rimini , italy ( reuters ) - the new leader of italy s anti-establishment 5-star movement says it is not a populist party and will make cutting waste and reducing debt its priority .
5-star , which leads most opinion polls ahead of national elections due early next year , has been trying to shed its maverick , populist image and reassure foreign capitals that it can be trusted with power .
luigi di maio , the 31-year-old lawmaker picked on saturday to lead the movement , told reuters on sunday that 5-star stood for post ideological common sense , and was opposed to right-wing and left-wing extremism .
i reject populism as a label for 5-star , he said in an interview on the sidelines of the party s annual gathering in rimini , on the adriatic coast .
5-star , founded by comedian beppe grillo nine years ago as a protest movement , bases its appeal mainly on opposition to corruption and vested interests .
boyish-looking and usually immaculately turned out in suit and tie , di maio presents a more moderate image than grillo , who is famous for raucous tirades against the ruling elite .
he had been groomed for the leadership by grillo , who is 69 and now plans to withdraw gradually from his figurehead role .
di maio said many of the party s proposals , such as a public bank to fund investments , had been adopted with success by mainstream parties in northern europe which he wanted to emulate .
he said that , if 5-star won next year s election , due by may , he would try to negotiate changes to european union fiscal rules to allow italy to invest more to boost its stagnant economy .
however , he said he would also cut waste , arguing that this was the best way to bring down italy s huge public debt , forecast to be just under 132 percent of gdp this year , the highest in the euro zone after greece s. we have brought down debt in every town and city where 5-star governs .
we will do that at the national level too , he said .
5-star has rowed back from a pledge to hold a referendum on italy s membership of the euro and now says this would only be a last resort if the eu rejects any reforms to current budget rules .
di maio , who comes from italy s poor south and entered parliament at 26 five years ago , after mostly doing odd jobs and internet marketing , dismissed the suggestion that he was too inexperienced to be prime minister .
i came from a part of italy with 60 percent youth unemployment , and people who sneer at my background are sneering at thousands of young italians who are trying to create a future for themselves , he said .
the ability to build a competent team was the most important quality for a prime minister , di maio said , vowing to present a full cabinet line-up before the election .
asked to name three priorities that would mark his leadership of the party , di maio listed universal income support for the poor , cutting wasteful public spending and increasing forms of direct democracy .