brian mast scorched the democrats for their lying about the health care bill : i too am a person with preexisting conditions and i believe it s not something i should just do but a responsibility for me to be the staunchest advocate for people out there who have preexisting conditions .
and that is why i m such an ardent supporter of this bill .
i think every american and every person out there with preexisting conditions should be asking themselves , how is it that they have coverage if every single insurance provider has pulled out of the market ?
if there s no entity to go out there and provide insurance , how is it that preexisting conditions could possibly be covered ? https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? time_continue=5 & v=30zhpidmlbqgo get em ! pelosi and usual suspects lie through their teeth about the bill : pelosi held a fear mongering press conference where she claimed republicans would have a scar they would carry with them well , ok she then said republicans will glow in the dark huh ? her hands were shaking the entire speech very bizarre indeedhouse minority leader nancy pelosi , d-calif. , warned that republicans who vote to pass the american health care act today will have a scar they will carry from that vote , and that they will be forever identified with the vote .
they have this vote tattooed on them .
this is a scar they will carry , pelosi said when asked if the house bill could be improved in the senate .
it s their vote , not the senate vote .
it s their vote they are taking .
so that is really a poor choice cowardly , i might add .
why would they vote for it if they don t think it s worthy of support because the senate will change it ?
liz warren people will die !
democratic sen. elizabeth warren called the house gop s plan to repeal and replace parts of the affordable care act a cruel way to enrich the wealthy and cut insurance from many americans.warren said too many republicans are treating the bill like it s a game : this isn t football .
it s not about scoring points .
# ahca will devastate americans healthcare .
families will go bankrupt .
people will die , she tweeted .