mugla , turkey ( reuters ) - a turkish court on wednesday found 42 former soldiers guilty of trying to kill president tayyip erdogan during last year s failed coup , and handed most of them life sentences in the highest profile case related to the attempted putsch so far .
judge emirsah bastog read out guilty verdicts for 42 of the 47 defendants , according to a reuters reporter at the court in mugla , southwestern turkey .
mugla is near the luxury resort where erdogan and his family narrowly escaped a team of rogue soldiers who stormed his hotel during the night of the coup .
the trial , which started in february and included erdogan as a co-plaintiff , is part of a sweeping security crackdown that followed the failed putsch of july 2016 .
it is the biggest such case to reach a conclusion so far .
i hope the verdict today is beneficial to everyone , bastog said as he sentenced 34 of the accused to aggravated life sentences , the harshest punishment possible under turkish law because it lengthens the minimum sentence required for parole .
another six defendants were given life terms while two others were given lesser sentences .
( several ) defendants have been found guilty on the charge of attempting to assassinate the president , bastog told the packed courtroom .
one was acquitted and another was transferred to another court .
no verdict was given for three who were tried in absentia , including u.s.-based muslim cleric fethullah gulen , whom ankara blames for orchestrating the coup .
demonstrators threw eggs and plastic bottles at the defendants as police escorted them from the courthouse .
others waved turkish flags , blared a famous song praising erdogan and called for a return to capital punishment .
the court heard final statements from the defendants just before bastog delivered his verdict .
some of the accused said they did not believe the court could deliver a fair verdict and had been under political pressure .
from the moment i was arrested at the air base on july 16 , i was treated like a criminal , ergun sahin , a former air force lieutenant , told the court .
pictures released in the aftermath of the coup showed some suspected coup plotters - including high-ranking military officers - stripped to their underpants , handcuffed and their faces bruised .
words don t mean anything here as we didn t have a chance of a fair trial , said another defendant , gokhan sen. we are just the grass that elephants trampled on during their fight .
more than 240 people were killed on the night of july 15 , 2016 when putschists commandeered tanks , warplanes and helicopters , attacking parliament and attempting to overthrow the government .
erdogan s lawyer , who was present at the case , said that justice had been served .
had these putschists succeeded that night in the attack against our president , history would have changed , we would be living in a different turkey now , huseyin aydin told reuters .
my son has been avenged , said nihat eker , the father of a police officer who was killed during the coup .
if our president were to present us with a choice , we d all agree to it .
we say , execution , execution , execution .
erdogan has previously said he would be willing to restore the death penalty if parliament passed such a measure .
turkey abandoned capital punishment more than a decade ago as part of its bid to join the european union .
restoring it would all but end its attempt to join the eu .
while turkey has seen a groundswell in nationalism since the coup , the extent of the government s crackdown has alarmed european allies and rights groups .
more than 150,000 people have been sacked or suspended from their jobs and some 50,000 jailed .
investors also worry about erdogan s tightening grip on power and an erosion in the rule of law .
the government blames the network of gulen , a former ally of erdogan , for orchestrating the failed coup .
gulen , who has lived in self-imposed exile in pennsylvania since 1999 , has denied involvement and condemned the coup .
a total of 47 defendants were on trial , 43 of whom have been held in detention during the 7-1/2 month hearing .
gulen was being tried in absentia .
most of the defendants were soldiers .