is there really anything more irresponsible than standing before a large group of people on a stage in south africa and telling them that sex doesn t transmit aids ?
as long as theron s a card carrying hollywood liberal , she gets a pass and anything she says .
after all , her reckless remarks were only for the good of the poor blacks in africa right ? the hiv virus can be spread in plenty more ways than just sex , actress charlize theron asserted while delivering the opening remarks at the 21st international aids conference in durban , south africa on monday .
it is not just aids , she said .
it is the culture that condones rape and shames victims into silence .
it is the cycle of poverty and violence that traps girls into teen marriages and forces them to sell their bodies to provide for their families .
it is the racism that allows the white and the wealthy to exploit the black and the poor and then blame them for their own suffering .
it is the homophobia that shames and isolates lgbt youth and keeps them from life-saving healthcare and education .
hiv is not just transmitted by sex , theron added .
it s transmitted by sexism , racism , poverty and homophobia .
and if we re going to end aids , we have to cure the disease within our own hearts and within our own minds first .
-breitbartthis certainly isn t the first time the rabid anti-gun actress has made the news ( well almost ) for making a completely unfounded and idiotic comment .
in may , 2014 , theron compared the media s coverage of her to rape .
when asked by sky news whether she ever googled herself , theron replied , i don t do that , so that s my saving grace .
when you start living in that world , and doing that , you start , i guess , feeling raped .
critics went wild over her twisted analogy .
but in the end , she s a hollywood liberal and much like their good friend in the white house , they re untouchable .
the sky is the limit when it comes to the ignorant and irresponsible statements they are able to make without ever being held accountable .