moscow ( reuters ) - more than 10 weeks after losing a local council election in western moscow , vladimir putin s party is clinging to power there - by fair means or foul .
the standoff over control of filyovsky park council came to a head when opposition councilor vadim korovin tried to sit in the chairman s seat at a meeting on tuesday .
a councilor from the russian president s united russia cut his microphone cable and then body-checked him as he tried to reach the seat .
this is a violent occupation and seizure of power !
korovin protested to the united russia representative , dmitry prokhorov , who pushed him from his way as a policeman stepped in to prevent a fight .
all four united russia members on the council then walked out .
soon afterwards the electricity in the building , and all the lights , went off .
using flashlights of mobile phones to see , the six opposition members of the 10-seat council continued the meeting .
they elected korovin as deputy chairman and , in effect , caretaker leader , but the united russia members later refused to recognize the vote .
the battle to control the council , witnessed by a reuters correspondent who attended tuesday s meeting , shows how difficult some of putin s allies find it to surrender power when confronted with the unfamiliar experience of an election defeat .
moscow is not typical of russia , as support for putin and his allies across the country is high .
opinion polls suggest he will easily win next year s presidential election if , as is widely expected , he runs .
but putin , 65 , is barred under the constitution from ruling for more than two consecutive terms so the question of who will succeed him , and how his allies will act when he leaves the political stage , will loom large in coming years .
united russia representatives have refused to cede power in 10 districts of moscow where they suffered defeats in local elections on sept. 10 , according to the organizers of the opposition campaign in the russian capital .
dmitry gudkov , a former lawmaker who runs what is known as the united democrats project , said the moscow administration , which controls the building where tuesday s meeting was held , was in a position to play spoiling tactics .
if they want to disrupt our work they will do it , he said .
alexander semennikov , a united russia deputy in the moscow city parliament who heads a commission that deals with relations with local councils , said any decisions made by the six kremlin opponents on the council would have close to zero legitimacy .
he described tuesday s events as part of a stormy stage in the evolution of municipal institutions in moscow , and urged the two sides to reach an agreement to resolve the situation .
a spokesman at the moscow mayor s office referred questions to the city administration s western region , which includes filyovsky park .
a spokesman for the western region declined to comment .
united russia defeated the opposition in a majority of the 125 moscow districts where voting took place on sept. 10 but kremlin opponents increased their share of the vote .
since the election , opposition councillors in some districts have been stymied by contradictory provisions in the legislation that governs how the councils are organized .
the law states that a council s chair stays in the post until replaced after an election and must be elected by a two-thirds majority .
it does not explain what happens if control of the council changes hands but , as in filyovsky park district , no party has a two-thirds majority .
in filyovsky park , a district with 90,000 inhabitants , tigran mkrtchyan , a united russia member who was appointed interim chairman in august , was among officials who lost their seat on sept. 10 .
but because no side has the two-thirds majority required to elect a new chair , mkrtchyan , who runs a shopping mall , has continued carrying out his duties .
official documents issued by the council since the election bear his signature , and the moscow prosecutor s office supported mkrtchyan s stance in october .
a document seen by reuters said former heads of municipal districts can keep running a council until a replacement is elected , even if they have lost their own place on the council .
it cited a 2003 law in support of its argument .
tuesday s meeting , the council s second since the election , had been intended by the opposition council member to break the impasse .
but after leaving the meeting , mkrtchyan told reuters he would keep the position of temporary head of the council until a new leader is elected .
he and his associates still appeared to be in charge on friday .
when reuters placed a call to the council , a member of mkrtchyan s team picked up the phone .