al udeid air base , qatar ( reuters ) - even as tensions between the united states and russia fester , there is one surprising place where their military-to-military contacts are quietly weathering the storm : syria .
it has been four months since u.s. president donald trump ordered cruise missile strikes against a syrian airfield after an alleged chemical weapons attack .
in june , the u.s. military shot down a syrian fighter aircraft , the first u.s. downing of a manned jet since 1999 , and also shot down two iranian-made drones that threatened u.s.-led coalition forces .
all the while , u.s. and russian military officials have been regularly communicating , u.s. officials told reuters .
some of the contacts are helping draw a line on the map that separates u.s.- and russian-backed forces waging parallel campaigns on syria s shrinking battlefields .
there is also a telephone hotline linking the former cold war foes air operations centers .
u.s. officials told reuters that there now are about 10 to 12 calls a day on the hotline , helping keep u.s. and russian warplanes apart as they support different fighters on the ground .
that is no small task , given the complexities of syria s civil war .
moscow backs the syrian government , which also is aided by iran and lebanon s hezbollah as it claws back territory from syrian rebels and islamic state fighters .
the u.s. military is backing a collection of kurdish and arab forces focusing their firepower against islamic state , part of a strategy to collapse the group s self-declared caliphate in syria and iraq .
reuters was given rare access to the u.s. air force s hotline station , inside the qatar-based combined air operations area , last week , including meeting two russian linguists , both native speakers , who serve as the u.s. interface for conversations with russian commanders .
while the conversations are not easy , contacts between the two sides have remained resilient , senior u.s. commanders said .
the reality is we ve worked through some very hard problems and , in general , we have found a way to maintain the deconfliction line ( that separates u.s. and russian areas of operation ) and found a way to continue our mission , lieutenant general jeffrey harrigian , the top u.s. air force commander in the middle east , said in an interview .
as both sides scramble to capture what is left of islamic state s caliphate , the risk of accidental contacts is growing .
we have to negotiate , and sometimes the phone calls are tense .
because for us , this is about protecting ourselves , our coalition partners and destroying the enemy , harrigian said , without commenting on the volume of calls .
the risks of miscalculation came into full view in june , when the united states shot down a syrian su-22 jet that was preparing to fire on u.s.-backed forces on the ground .
u.s. officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , said those were not the only aircraft in the area .
as the incident unfolded , two russian fighter jets looked on from above and a american f-22 stealth aircraft kept watch from an even higher altitude , they told reuters .
after the incident , moscow publicly warned it would consider any planes flying west of the euphrates river to be targets .
but the u.s. military kept flying in the area , and kept talking with russia .
the russians have been nothing but professional , cordial and disciplined , army lieutenant general stephen townsend , the iraq-based commander of the u.s.-led coalition , told reuters .
in syria , u.s.-backed forces are now consumed with the battle to capture islamic state s former capital of raqqa .
more than half the city has been retaken from islamic state .
officials said talks were underway to extend a demarcation line that has been separating u.s.- and russian-backed fighters on the ground as fighting pushes toward islamic state s last major syrian stronghold , the deir al-zor region .
the line runs in an irregular arc from a point southwest of tabqa east to a point on the euphrates river and then down along the euphrates river in the direction of deir al-zor , they said .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis , during a visit to jordan this week , said the line was important as u.s.- and russian-backed forces come in closer proximity of each other .
we do not do that ( communication ) with the ( syrian ) regime .
it is with the russians , is who we re dealing with , mattis said .
we continue those procedures right on down the euphrates river valley .
bisected by the euphrates river , deir al-zor and its oil resources are critical to the syrian state .
the province is largely in the hands of islamic state , but has become a priority for pro-syrian forces .
it also is in the crosshairs of the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) .
sdf spokesman talal silo told reuters last week that there would be an sdf campaign toward deir al-zor in the near future , though the sdf was still deciding whether it would be delayed until raqqa was fully taken from islamic state .