budapest ( reuters ) - u.s. financier george soros on monday denounced a hungarian government campaign against him as distortions and lies designed to create a false external enemy .
soros , 86 , is a hungarian-born jew whose longtime support for liberal and open-border values in eastern europe have put him at odds with right-wing nationalists , in particular the government of hungarian prime minister viktor orban .
orban , who faces elections in april 2018 , last month sent to voters seven statements attributed to soros that , among other things , called for the european union to settle a million migrants a year and pay each of them thousands of euros .
the statements ... contain distortions and outright lies that deliberately mislead hungarians about george soros s views on migrants and refugees , said a statement issued by soros s open society foundations .
with hungary s health care and education systems in distress and corruption rife , the current government has sought to create an outside enemy to distract citizens .
the government selected george soros for this purpose , it said .
the ruling fidesz party s vice chairman said soros was engaged in a frontal assault against hungary .
what soros writes about immigration , in general , is a pro-immigration stance that is open about its disdain for the nation state , gergely gulyas told a news conference .
decisions made in brussels echo that in the field of immigration policy .
days before a recent immigration decision in the european parliament soros was meeting with the rapporteur on the subject as well as five different eu commissioners .
i am not a conspiracy theorist but this holds some clues .
soros said each of the seven statements was a distortion or lie , refuting them one by one .
it said soros proposed admitting an annual 300,000 refugees to the eu only while strengthening european border controls and making migrant relocations within the bloc voluntary , not mandatory as budapest asserted .
it said soros proposed no payments to migrants , rather eu subsidies to member states to help them cope with migration .
to three other proposals attributed to soros - that he wanted milder criminal sentences for migrants , to push national cultures and languages into the background to facilitate easier integration of migrants and sanctions against countries that oppose migration , the open society statement said , nowhere has soros made any such statement ( s ) .
this is a lie .
orban once received a soros grant to study at britain s oxford university but later turned against the billionaire philanthropist , vilifying him as an alleged mastermind of a global agenda to weaken nation states .
the election campaign of orban s fidesz party has built on a series of billboards warning hungarians , don t let soros have the last laugh and showing a laughing soros in black and white .
some of the billboards have had stinking jew scrawled on them .
the billboards , along with calls from orban to preserve hungary s ethnic homogeneity and his endorsement of a world two hungarian leader who allied with nazi germany , drew accusations of anti-semitism earlier this year .
alluding to the billboards and to orban s rejection of immigration , especially from muslim nations , the open society foundations accused budapest of stoking anti-muslim sentiment and employing anti-semitic tropes reminiscent of the 1930s .
fidesz pulled the billboard campaign just before a july visit to budapest by israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu , and orban vowed to fight anti-semitism .
the government has denied its campaign was anti-semitic , and re-launched the billboards in the autumn in promoting a national consultation with voters .
gulyas said it was outrageous that soros called the campaign anti-semitic .
immigration which soros supported was bringing hundreds of thousands of people into europe whose cultural background was inimical to jewsm he said .
it is not us who should be facing anti-semitism charges , he said , adding that fidesz also had nothing against muslim culture but was against mass immigration of people with a different cultural background to hungary s christian roots .