brasilia ( reuters ) - the lower house of brazil s congress will delay a vote on a bill trimming social security benefits until feb. 19 , speaker rodrigo maia said on thursday , pushing a decision on the cornerstone of president michel temer s fiscal reforms into an election year .
temer had said he hoped for a vote by next week , but he has struggled to rally lawmaker support for the unpopular pension cuts , which many investors consider essential to reining in brazil s surging public debt .
brazil s currency , the real , weakened to a seven-month low of 3.34 per u.s. dollar and the benchmark bovespa stock index fell 0.8 percent after maia s comments .
investors fear that failure to streamline social security could weaken brazil s recovery from a deep economic downturn , forcing the central bank to raise interest rates from an all-time low and potentially triggering new sovereign rating downgrades in 2018 .
this raises the possibility that the reform will not be approved next year , given political uncertainty surrounding the presidential elections , said samar maziad , a senior analyst at moody s investors service , calling the delay credit negative .
finance minister henrique meirelles said he plans to meet next week with credit rating agencies to discuss the fate of the legislation , adding that he hoped it could be enacted by march .
the bill would require brazilians to work longer before retiring and cut generous pensions for public-sector employees .
lawmakers may be more reluctant to back that as elections approach in october , but maia suggested they would rise to the challenge .
even though 2018 is an election year , the fiscal crisis is so big that it will be possible to get pension reform approved , he said .
temer s last-ditch effort to sell the bill this year was cut short on wednesday , when he had to fly to sao paulo for surgery to treat a narrowing of his urethra .
his office said the surgery was successful and that he would remain in the hospital until friday to recover .
but it forced temer to cancel meetings to muster votes .
it became clear this week that temer did not have the three-fifths super majority , or 308 votes , needed to pass the bill in the lower house of congress .
while ministers were still working to gather more votes , the government s chief whip in the senate stunned the administration on wednesday by saying the vote had to be put off to february .