it s worth noting that the victims of this horrible terrorist bombing are responsible for their own court parking fees , food and any potential travel and lodging expenses they incur as a result of this trial .
muslim terrorists first it s the obama way the family of the convicted marathon bomber is in america , on your tax dollars , and survivors are outraged after learning the news.as of thursday , family members of dzhokhar tsarnaev have been staying at the hampton inn in revere under very tight security , just one of the things tax dollars are paying for .
fox25 s sharman sacchetti investigated how much this trip is costing you.sources say these family members are being called as witnesses and not only that , at least three agencies are working around the clock to protect and transport them .
this is all part of the defense team s strategy to save tsarnaev .
while it s unclear when their flight started , we know the last part of it came through amsterdam and landed at logan airport and cost nearly $ 2,500 per person.the cost to put them up at the hampton inn at the government rate : almost $ 200 per night , per person .
and a source says at least three agencies , the fbi , us marshal s and revere police are involved in constant protection .
i think you re probably talking about $ 100,000 plus in that neighborhood in terms of security and out of pocket costs associated with travel , former us attorney michael sullivan said.and that s just for this trip.lawyer fees or even what all witnesses during the trial cost is still unclear .
one defense witness , mark spencer of arsenal consulting , charged $ 375 per hour and billing taxpayers for $ 150,000.governor charlie baker said , it s a federal trial , it s a federal case , the feds ultimately need to make the decisions about this .
baker was non-committal about how resources are being used , even state ones.sullivan told sacchetti that while he understands taxpayer outrage , the whole point is to make sure it s done right .
the court wants to make sure that at the end of the day , the defendant gets a fair trial and would not want to add any potential issues on appeal in the penalty phase , prosecutors finished making their case yesterday , he said.judge jeanine has a powerful message for jihadi mom : marathon survivor marc fucarile reached out to us friday night , reacting to this news , saying that he s outraged that tsarnaev s family s expenses are being paid for when myself and some of the other survivors and our families have to pay for our own parking at court , lunch , and we were told that if the trial was moved out of state , we d have to pay for our own travel and lodging , there .
the statement went on to say : why should our country pay for them when that family committed a violent act against our country ?
not to mention , all of the free government services this family previously enjoyed on the backs of the taxpayers including government assistance and a free ride to umass dartmouth .
in contrast , i was denied housing assistance i sought after the bombings , even though i needed a handicapped accessible apartment , and my wife lost her job as a result of the events .
he ended by saying he feels badly for the taxpayers that have to pay for this after they were so generous to all the survivors and the one fund .
the defense team is up next .
and the penalty phase picks up again monday.via : myfoxboston