seoul/washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. military flew two strategic bombers over the korean peninsula in a show of force late on tuesday , as president donald trump met top defense officials to discuss how to respond to any threat from north korea .
tensions have soared between the united states and north korea following a series of weapons tests by pyongyang and a string of increasingly bellicose exchanges between trump and north korean leader kim jong un .
north korea has launched two missiles over japan and conducted its sixth nuclear test in recent weeks as it fast advances toward its goal of developing a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the u.s. mainland .
the two u.s. air force b-1b bombers were joined by two f-15k fighters from the south korean military after leaving their base in guam , south korea s joint chiefs of staff said in a statement on wednesday .
after entering south korean airspace , the two bombers carried out air-to-ground missile drills in waters off the east coast of south korea , then flew over the south to waters between it and china to repeat the drill , the release said .
the u.s. military said in a separate statement it conducted drills with japanese fighters after the exercise with south korea , making it the first time u.s. bombers have conducted training with fighters from both japan and south korea at night .
the u.s. bombers had taken off from the andersen air force base in guam .
in august , pyongyang threatened to fire intermediate-range missiles toward the vicinity of guam , a u.s. pacific territory that is frequently subjected to sabre-rattling from the north .
south korean and u.s. government officials have been raising their guard against more north korean provocations with the approach of the 72nd anniversary of the founding of north korea s ruling party , which fell on tuesday .
trump hosted a discussion on tuesday on options to respond to any north korean aggression or , if necessary , to prevent pyongyang from threatening the united states and its allies with nuclear weapons , the white house said in a statement .
trump was briefed by secretary of defense james mattis and chairman of the joint chiefs of staff general joseph dunford at a national security team meeting , the statement said .
u.s. and south korean wartime operational plans , including a plan to wipe out the north korean leadership , were stolen by north korean hackers last year , a south korean ruling party lawmaker said on wednesday .
some 235 gigabytes of military documents were taken from south korea s defense integrated data center in september last year , democratic party representative rhee cheol-hee said in radio appearances on wednesday , citing information from unidentified south korean defense officials .
in may , an investigative team inside the defense ministry announced the hack had been carried out by north korea , but did not disclose what kind of information had been taken .
the united nations security council , which has imposed a series of ever tighter sanctions on north korea , has banned four ships from ports globally for carrying coal from north korea , including one vessel that also had ammunition .
the vessels are the first to be designated under stepped-up sanctions imposed on north korea by the 15-member council in august and september over two long-range ballistic missile launches and pyongyang s sixth and largest nuclear test .
china , north korea s main ally and trading partner , has consistently argued sanctions alone will not work , urging washington and pyongyang to lower their rhetoric and return to the negotiating table .
china s influential global times tabloid expressed alarm at how far the rhetoric on both sides had gone and how it had increased the risk of a fatal misjudgment .
the international community won t accept north korea as a nuclear power .
north korea needs time and proof to believe that abandoning its nuclear program will contribute to its own political and economic advantage .
this positive process is worth a try , the paper said in an editorial late on tuesday .
war would be a nightmare for the korean peninsula and surrounding regions .
we strongly urge north korea and the u.s. to stop their bellicose posturing and seriously think about a peaceful solution , it said .