swindon , england ( reuters ) - former british prime minister edward heath would have been questioned about claims he sexually abused boys if he were alive today , police said on thursday after a two-year investigation into the allegations .
supporters of heath , who never married , have said the investigation was an expensive , flawed witch-hunt .
heath , who was prime minister from 1970 to 1974 and died 12 years ago , would have been interviewed under caution over seven allegations including raping an 11-year-old boy and indecently assaulting men and other boys , one aged 10 .
the alleged incidents occurred from 1956 to 1992 while he was a member of parliament but not prime minister , said wiltshire police , the force in western england which headed the national investigation named operation conifer .
i am satisfied there were compelling and obvious reasons to investigate allegations made against sir edward heath , wiltshire chief constable mike veale told reporters , adding the report did not suggest or conclude guilt .
the allegations against him were of the utmost seriousness and from a significant number of people .
it would be an indefensible dereliction of my public duty as a chief constable not to have investigated such serious allegations against a former prime minister , even though he is deceased .
in total , 40 individuals came forward with accusations against heath .
of these , evidence undermining the claims were found in 19 cases and three accusers later concluded they were mistaken in naming the ex-prime minister .
but heath would have been quizzed over seven accusations , although police refused to say whether there was other corroborating evidence .
the first occurred in 1961 when heath , who then had the title lord privy seal , is alleged to have raped and indecently assaulted a boy during a paid sexual encounter in a private dwelling .
other claims also related to paid encounters , including one when he was trade minister , as well as during chance meetings .
paul mills , the officer who led the investigation , said no accusations had been made against heath while he was alive and there had been no missed opportunities by police .
heath became prime minister in 1970 and most notably negotiated britain s entry into the european economic community , which later became the european union .
he was ousted from office in 1974 when he lost two elections after a miners strike helped bring down the government .
he then lost the conservative party leadership in 1975 to margaret thatcher , whom he never forgave and repeatedly criticized in what detractors described as the longest sulk in history .
he remained a lawmaker until 2001 and four years later aged 89 .
an artillery officer in world war two , heath was very private and was widely regarded as an awkward , prickly man with little gift for small talk .
he was passionate about music and sailing , owning five racing yachts named morning cloud , and once winning the sydney-to-hobart race .
heath s godson , artist lincoln seligman , said the 1.5 million pound ( $ 2 million ) police investigation had cast a stain on a man who could not defend himself .
if allegations are out there he might easily have been called in for questioning , he told bbc radio .
so , yes , they had to question him , but that tells us nothing .
in a joint statement , robert armstrong , heath s former cabinet secretary , and david hunt , chairman of the sir edward heath charitable foundation , said there should be a judge-led review of the evidence .
they called the police report highly unsatisfactory .
all those who knew sir edward heath or worked with him are , without exception , convinced that the allegations of child abuse will all be found to be groundless , they said .
britain has been jolted by a series of high-profile child abuse scandals in recent years .
the most notable involved the late tv and radio presenter jimmy savile .
a five-year public inquiry is now looking into whether powerful figures in politics , churches , or local government helped hide abuses .