the principal of a fancy new york city private school says the election of president trump is worse than the september 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks.steve nelson , principal of the calhoun school , fired off a hate-filled email to parents blasting the president .
he also said trump s election would be more devastating than vietnam , watergate and the assassination of the rev .
martin luther king , jr .
i walked the complex inner-city streets of cleveland during the racial unrest of the 60 s , he wrote in an email obtained by the new york post .
i was in rural georgia when martin luther king junior was assassinated in tennessee .
i watched every moment of the watergate hearings that led to the resignation of richard m. nixon .
i watched soot-covered new yorkers grimly trudging north on west end avenue on september 11 , 2001 .
i am more troubled now .
the principal would have us believe that he was more disturbed by trump s election than the sight of new yorkers falling from the sky or the twin towers collapsing onto the streets of lower manhattan.just to put this in perspective , the principal believes president trump is worse than the muslim hijackers who flew jetliners into buildings and slaughtered thousands of americans.i do not know principal nelson , but he sounds like a deeply disturbed educator who should not be around impressionable school children.i m rather surprised the principal did not blame trump for sinking the titanic or causing the black plague.as repulsive as his comments might have been , i believe the principal s beliefs are rather mainstream among liberals.- todd starnes , fox newsthe controversial missive roiled some parents of the elite upper west side school , who thought calhoun went too far.but some members of the school community said they had the principal s back .
proud to work at calhoun and for someone like steve nelson , school staffer nahuel fanjul-arguijo in a facebook post .
getting this email yesterday made me a very proud calhoun alumni , posted rachel geisler .
nydnso let s set the record straight.president trump has never waged jihad against americans nor has he assassinated a civil rights leader or napalmed a jungle in vietnam.and to compare those horrific atrocities with the president s desire to make our nation great again is not just offensive it s downright evil .
fnpeople like steve nelson , principal of the calhoun school in nyc , who have so much hate in their hearts have no business anywhere near young and impressionable children .
it really doesn t matter what your political leanings are .
if a person tasked with educating children has so little control over their seething anger after their candidate loses an election that they feel it necessary to drag the parents into their world of pity and hate , why should any parent who have any faith in their mental capacity ?
why would any parent , regardless of their political persuasion , entrust this clearly unhinged man with the safety and well-being of their most precious possessions ?
to have lived in new york city and witnessed the horrific tragedy of 9-11 firsthand should make his email all the more serious for these parents