des moines , iowa ( reuters ) - even in boycotting a debate with his republican rivals for the white house , front-runner donald trump managed to upstage the event on thursday with a typical dramatic flourish .
instead of attending a seventh debate , the former reality tv star held a competing event across town that he said raised $ 6 million for u.s. military veterans .
in doing so , he cast a shadow over his rivals , who frequently tossed barbs his way .
trump ’ s gamble that he could leave the battlefield to his rivals for one night appeared to pay off , with just days to go before iowa holds the first nominating contest of the 2016 election season .
no one appeared to emerge as a central challenger to him during the two-hour face-off in des moines .
trump ’ s refusal to participate in the debate out of anger that fox news anchor megyn kelly was a moderator prompted a flurry of last-minute phone calls with fox news chairman roger ailes that failed to resolve their dispute .
a fox news ( foxa.o ) statement said trump requested that fox contribute $ 5 million to his charities in exchange for his attendance , which the network turned down .
the debate was the type of event republicans would routinely have without the flamboyant trump on stage , and it lacked the electricity that he brings to the party ’ s search for a nominee for the nov. 8 election .
without trump on stage , former florida governor jeb bush and new jersey governor chris christie found themselves with more room to make their case to voters seeking a more mainstream candidate .
both men have an eye on the feb. 9 first-in-the-nation primary in new hampshire , which comes on the heels of the iowa caucuses on monday and where an establishment republican like them might have a better chance of standing out .
senator ted cruz from texas and senator marco rubio from florida , the two top challengers to trump in iowa , engaged in squabbles over immigration and national security and did not appear to threaten trump ’ s lead .
he holds the edge over cruz in polls of iowa republicans .
trump ’ s rivals mocked his decision to sit out the debate and found ways to criticize him .
“ i ’ m a maniac and everyone on this stage is stupid , fat and ugly , and ben , you ’ re a terrible surgeon , ” cruz told his rivals , including ben carson , a retired neurosurgeon , as the debate opened .
his next sentence began : “ now that we ’ ve gotten the donald trump portion out of the way. ” bush , who has been a frequent target of trump ’ s attacks , turned a question about religious tolerance into an attack on trump ’ s proposed temporary ban on muslims entering the united states .
“ donald trump , for example — i mentioned his name again if anybody was missing him — mr. trump believed in reaction to people ’ s fears that we should ban all muslims .
well , that creates an environment that ’ s toxic in our own country , ” bush said .
cruz , after a series of questions , said : “ if you ask me one more mean question , i may have to leave the stage. ” in a swipe at both trump and cruz , rubio chimed in : “ don ’ t worry , i ’ m not going to leave the stage no matter what you ask me. ” with his veterans ’ event drawing live tv news coverage on fox news competitors cnn and msnbc , trump had plenty of media attention .
he clung to his insistence that fox news had treated him badly .
he has complained that kelly insulted him at a debate in august and that a statement from the network earlier this week belittled him .
two other republican candidates , rick santorum and mike huckabee , joined trump on stage after participating in a debate of low-polling candidates .
not so former virginia governor jim gilmore .
“ i ’ m not about to go across town tonight to carry the coat for some billionaire , ” he said at the “ undercard ” debate .
there was initially some mystery as to which veterans ' groups would receive the money raised at the event , which included $ 1 million from trump himself .
his campaign , in a statement , said the funds would go to 22 different groups it listed online ( bit.ly/1otktuj ) .
trump , with just one day ’ s notice on a weeknight , was able to fill to capacity a drake university hall that holds 700 .
“ i didn ’ t want to be here , to be honest , i wanted to be about five minutes away ” at the debate , trump told the crowd .
“ when you ’ re treated badly , you have to stick up for your rights - whether we like it or not. ” trump dominated social media during the debate , leading the entire republican pack in twitter mentions throughout the first half of the debate , according to data from social media analytics firm zoomph .
he was by far the most-searched-for candidate on google during the first half of the debate , at one point outpacing the second-most-searched-for candidate , rubio , by nearly four-to-one , according to google trends data .
trump ’ s support in opinion polls , much of it from blue-collar men , has not wavered for months despite him insulting mexican immigrants and muslims and clashing with republican establishment figures like senator john mccain .