beijing ( reuters ) - china exported no oil products to north korea in november , chinese customs data showed , apparently going above and beyond sanctions imposed earlier this year by the united nations in a bid to limit petroleum shipments to the isolated country .
tensions have flared anew over north korea s ongoing nuclear and missile programmes , pursued in defiance of years of u.n. resolutions .
last week , the u.n. security council imposed new caps on trade with north korea , including limiting oil product shipments to just 500,000 barrels a year .
beijing also imported no iron ore , coal or lead from north korea in november , the second full month of the latest trade sanctions imposed by u.n. china , the main source of north korea s fuel , did not export any gasoline , jet fuel , diesel or fuel oil to its isolated neighbour last month , data from the general administration of customs showed on tuesday .
november was the second straight month china exported no diesel or gasoline to north korea .
the last time china s jet fuel shipments to pyongyang were at zero was in february 2015 .
this is a natural outcome of the tightening of the various sanctions against north korea , said cai jian , an expert on north korea at fudan university in shanghai .
the tightening reflects china s stance , he said .
chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said she didn t know any details about the oil products export situation .
as a principle , china has consistently fully , correctly , conscientiously and strictly enforced relevant u.n. security council resolutions on north korea .
we have already established a set of effective operating mechanisms and methods , she said at a regular briefing on tuesday , without elaborating .
since june , state-run china national petroleum corp ( cnpc ) [ cnpet.ul ] has suspended sales of gasoline and diesel to north korea , concerned that it would not get paid for its goods , reuters previously reported .
beijing s move to turn off the taps completely is rare .
in march 2003 , china suspended oil supplies to north korea for three days after pyongyang fired a missile into waters between the korean peninsula and japan .
it is unknown if china still sells crude oil to pyongyang .
beijing has not disclosed its crude exports to north korea for several years .
industry sources say china still supplies about 520,000 tonnes , or 3.8 million barrels , of crude a year to north korea via an aging pipeline .
that is a little more than 10,000 barrels a day , and worth about $ 200 million a year at current prices .
north korea also sources some of its oil from russia .
chinese exports of corn to north korean in november also slumped , down 82 percent from a year earlier to 100 tonnes , the lowest since january .
exports of rice plunged 64 percent to 672 tonnes , the lowest since march .
trade between north korea and china has slowed through the year , particularly after china banned coal purchases in february .
in november , china s trade with north korea totalled $ 388 million , one of the lowest monthly volumes this year .
china has renewed its call on all countries to make constructive efforts to ease tensions on the korean peninsula , urging the use of peaceful means to resolve issues .
but tensions flared again after north korea on nov. 29 said it had tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile that put the u.s. mainland within range of its nuclear weapons .
meanwhile chinese exports of liquefied petroleum gas to north korea , used for cooking , rose 58 percent in november from a year earlier to 99 tonnes .
exports of ethanol , which can be turned into a biofuel , gained 82 percent to 3,428 cubic metres .
to view a graphic on china 's trade with north korea click on this link tmsnrt.rs/2bdyd1f