barcelona/madrid ( reuters ) - catalonia will move on monday to declare independence from spain after holding a banned referendum , pushing the european union nation toward a rupture that threatens the foundations of its young democracy .
catalan president carles puigdemont said he favored mediation to find a way out of the crisis but that spain s central government had rejected this .
prime minister mariano rajoy s government responded by calling on catalonia to return to the path of law first before any negotiations .
mireia boya , a catalan lawmaker from the pro-independence popular unity candidacy ( cup ) party , said a declaration of independence would follow a parliamentary session on monday to evaluate the results of the oct. 1 vote to break away .
we know that there may be disbarments , arrests ...
but we are prepared , and in no case will it be stopped , she said on twitter .
puigdemont told the bbc he would ask the region s parliament to declare independence following the referendum , which spain s government and constitutional court say was illegal and in which only a minority of catalans voted .
in a televised address on wednesday night , puigdemont said : this moment calls for mediation .
we have received various offers in the last hours and we will receive more .
without specifically mentioning plans for an independence declaration , he added : i am sure that in the next few days we will show the best of our country when the institutions of catalonia will have to apply the results of the referendum .
today we are closer than yesterday to our historic wish .
prime minister mariano rajoy s government replied that puigdemont had wasted an opportunity to put catalonia back on a legal course .
if mr. puigdemont wants to talk or negotiate , or wants to send mediators , he knows perfectly well what he must do first : return to the path of the law , it said in a statement .
participants in the referendum opted overwhelmingly for independence , but turnout was only about 43 percent as catalans who favor remaining part of spain mainly boycotted the ballot .
spain was only restored to democracy following the death in 1975 of military dictator francisco franco , under whom the catalan language and traditions were suppressed .
the constitutional crisis in spain , the euro zone s fourth-biggest economy , has shaken the common currency and hit spanish stocks and bonds .
madrid s borrowing costs have risen sharply and reached their highest since march on wednesday .
the cost of insuring against potential losses on spanish bank debt and spanish , italian and portuguese sovereign debt has also jumped , suggesting an impact on the wider euro zone .
bank stocks were hit especially hard as the ibex stock index .ibex fell below 10,000 points on wednesday for the first time since march 2015 .
in a sign of the nervous public mood , catalonia 's biggest bank , caixabank ( cabk.mc ) , and spain 's economy minister had earlier sought to assure bank customers that their deposits were safe .
puigdemont criticized spain s king felipe vi who on tuesday lambasted the irresponsible behavior of the catalan leaders .
he said the king had disappointed many people in catalonia by failing to call for dialogue and he accused king felipe of endorsing the policies of rajoy , which he said had been catastrophic for catalonia .
the eu executive called again on wednesday for the spanish government and catalan authorities to open a dialogue .
it s time to talk , the european commission s deputy head , frans timmermans , told the european parliament .
various attempts to find a mediated solution to the crisis emerged on wednesday.pablo iglesias , leader of the left-wing podemos party , proposed the spanish and catalan government try to agree on a mediator while the fc barcelona football club said it had joined other groups in catalonia seeking a negotiated solution .
spanish media reports said the catalan regional government had been in touch with senior church figures to sound out the possibility of them playing a mediating role .
but the spanish government rejected mediation .
rajoy told iglesias that puigdemont had to give up the idea of unilaterally declaring independence , a government source said .
that is not negotiable .
you can t deal with people who plan to blackmail the state so brutally , the source added .
rajoy , a conservative who has taken a hard line on catalan independence , is considering the unprecedented step of dissolving the catalan parliament and triggering regional elections , ruling party lawmakers say .
but he is struggling to secure support from across the traditional political divide - a lack of consensus that could compound spain s worst political crisis for decades .
in a sign that spanish police reinforcements sent to catalonia might be there for an extended stay , an army logistics unit sent bunkbeds , kitchens and showers to an army barracks near barcelona in case the police need to use the military base at some point , a ministry of defence spokesman said .
some police staying at hotels in catalonia have come under pressure from local residents to leave .
spain has been jolted by the catalan vote and the spanish police response to it , with batons and rubber bullets used to prevent people voting .
hundreds were injured in scenes that brought international condemnation .
catalans came out onto the streets on tuesday to condemn the police action , shutting down traffic , public transport and businesses , and stoking fears about intensifying unrest in a region that makes up one-fifth of the spanish economy .
as a businessman , as a spaniard and as a person , i am very worried and i am scared by what s going on ( in catalonia ) , said juan roig , chairman of spain s biggest food retailer mercadona .
pro-independence parties that control the catalan government staged the referendum in defiance of a constitutional court ruling that the vote violated spain s 1978 constitution , which states that the country is indivisible .
catalonia has its own language and culture and a political movement for secession that has strengthened in recent years .
outside catalonia , most spaniards appear strongly opposed to its independence drive .
opinion polls conducted before the vote suggested a minority of around 40 percent of residents in catalonia backed independence .
but a majority wanted a referendum to be held , and the violent police crackdown angered catalans across the divide .