( reuters ) - u.s. civil rights activist deray mckesson released his full platform in the race for baltimore mayor on monday , proposals that include a $ 15-an-hour minimum wage and reforming the police department .
mckesson , who was instrumental in the growth of the black lives matter movement , was the last candidate to file paperwork before the campaign deadline this month .
“ it ’ s a plan to change baltimore , to make baltimore a place that works for people , ” the 30-year-old activist said in announcing the plan on the periscope video site .
baltimore , a majority african-american city , was torn by rioting after a black man , freddie gray , died from an injury in police custody in april .
six officers are facing trial in the case .
mckesson , the son of two now-recovered drug addicts , had released police reform proposals this month that included banning arrest and citation quotas .
he also backs ending civil asset forfeiture and “ rough rides ” and chokeholds by police .
the teach for america alumnus and former school administrator called for free wifi and broadband access for all residents .
he backed reviving a proposed light-rail system scuttled by maryland governor larry hogan last year .
mckesson , who rose to prominence during the 2014 protests in ferguson , missouri , over the police killing of an unarmed black teenager , said he would hire more inspectors to reduce sources of lead poisoning in children and would expand opportunities for artists in baltimore .
mckesson has called for a city minimum wage of $ 15 an hour , which would be among the highest in the united states .
he backs a public bank and more requirements for companies to hire locally .
mckesson also is in favor of expanded pre-kindergarten classes .
he advocates changing state funding formulas so that tax breaks for developers do not cut into school funding .
his distinctive blue patagonia vest has been seen everywhere from street demonstrations to the television show “ the late show with stephen colbert. ” twenty-nine candidates , including 13 democrats , are running to replace mayor stephanie rawlings-blake , who is not seeking re-election .
primary voting for candidates will be held on april 26 , with the actual mayoral vote being held on nov. 8 alongside the presidential election .
baltimore has not elected a republican mayor in more than 50 years .