vp candidate mike pence was in norfolk , va holding a rally for donald trump .
the shocking make-up of the crowd was hundreds of democrat union voters who have decided to support donald trump .
two of the attendees made a great case for why they believe trump will be a much better choice in 2016 : vice presidential candidate mike pence made the case for donald trump to a largely working class , veteran population in the virginia shipbuilding community of norfolk on thursday .
the crowd showed real enthusiasm , even after a turbulent week for the campaign which saw a cratering of poll numbers.the audience cheering pence was not made up of your standard conservative demographics .
many shirts with local union decals and a fair amount of young people made up the crowd .
enter cheryl and rick in their us postal service shirts .
they represent an anomaly that has been seen in force in 2016 : lifelong union democrats who are voting for trump.what has animated you to leave the party that has been your home for decades , to vote trump ? cheryl : i ve voted democrat my whole life.rick : my union is lock stock and barrel democrat.cheryl : i worked for the clintons in virginia to elect bill clinton .
i was invited to the inauguration .
we got a christmas card every year from the clintons.rick : we liked hillary in 2008 .
we liked her over obama .
i went out and bought hillary for president t-shirts.cheryl : but we re fed up .
we ve worked our whole life .
last year we lost our healthcare .
we learned that our insurance of 27 years is no longer available because of obamacare .
so we had to get on a different plan .
we had three months to choose a more expensive plan with more expensive deductibles .
and we are now counted as the newly insured just because we have a new plan .
but we had insurance already .
they are playing the numbers and it s our health at stake.rick : it s also the dishonesty.cheryl : yes .
i remember in 2008 when obama said : you can t listen to hillary .
she will say anything to get elected ?
and now all of the sudden , eight years later , she is the most qualified for the job ?
it s the email scandal too , where i think she was dishonest , and also the clinton foundation.rick : 30 years in the union and 9 years in the navy .
how can these democrats possibly vote for hillary and obama .
the union wants us to vote democrat but we have our choice.cheryl : i turned against her years ago when those women came out against bill clinton .
hillary humiliated them , degraded them and destroyed them .
they say republicans have a war on women ?
what about hillary s real war on women ? rick : she is very arrogant.cheryl : all lives matter , not just black lives .
look at the shootings that happened last week alone ?
police officers are being targeted.rick : i served .
i would not trust her to be commander-in-chief .
not after benghazi .
when she turned her back on those soldiers.cheryl : nobody is better off than they were 8 years ago .
the middle class has shrunk.rick : we worked all our lives , we are worried about what we leave to our grandchildren.cheryl : everything they promised we did not get .
my nephew is a navy seal .
obama promised to end the wars in 18 months .
did not happen .
promised healthcare prices would decrease .
it did not happen .
we used to vote for hope and change .
now all we can do is hope for change.via : ijr