harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s president robert mugabe fired emmerson mnangagwa as vice president on monday for showing traits of disloyalty , his information minister said , abruptly removing a favorite to succeed the 93-year-old leader .
mnangagwa s removal provides a boost for mugabe s wife , grace , who has been a vocal critic of the vice president and is also seen as a potential successor to her husband .
the vice president has consistently and persistently exhibited traits of disloyalty , disrespect , deceitfulness and unreliability , information minister simon khaya moyo told reporters .
it had become evident that his conduct in his discharge of his duties had become inconsistent with his official responsibilities .
mnangagwa s top aide christopher gwatidzo said he had not seen the statement by khaya moyo and declined to say whether the vice president had been at his office on monday .
grace , 52 , nicknamed gucci grace for her love of shopping , called mnangagwa a coup plotter and a coward on sunday in a speech that inflamed an already bad-tempered rift in the ruling zanu-pf party .
it followed a speech by mugabe at a rally on saturday where he publicly rebuked his deputy for the first time .
the reaction of the military could be key .
some army generals backed mnangagwa to succeed mugabe and have publicly said they will not allow someone who did not fight in the 1970s independence war to rule .
grace did not fight in that war .
grace made international headlines in august when a south african model said the zimbabwean first lady had whipped her with an electric cable in a johannesburg hotel suite .
grace denied the allegations .
the fight over the future control of zanu-pf has overshadowed an economic crisis marked by chronic shortages of cash and spiraling prices of goods that has raised fears of a return to hyperinflation .
mnangagwa was mugabe s protege and had been at his side through five decades of prison , guerrilla war and then post-liberation government , and questions are being raised about what caused the fallout between the two men .
by firing mnangagwa , mugabe has removed one of his last remaining liberation war comrades who have stood by him since independence from britain in 1980 .
however , grace said on sunday mnangagwa had always been plotting against her husband , even months after independence .
mnangagwa s biggest undoing may well have been his vocal supporters , who kept prodding mugabe to step down .
mugabe has a history of punishing ambition in zanu-pf .
relations also cooled between the two men in august after suggestions by mnangagwa s allies that he had been poisoned by ice cream from a dairy owned by the mugabes .
that mnangagwa s expulsion was announced by a government minister and not the chief secretary to the president and cabinet also spoke to the deterioration in the relationship .
mugabe plans to contest elections due next year and will likely face a weakened and fractured opposition .
his main rival morgan tsvangirai has been in and out of a south african hospital after announcing he had colon cancer in 2016 .