it s clear that some republicans never wanted obamacare to die susan collins of maine , lisa murkowski of alaska and john mccain of arizona killed the republican skinny bill in a 49-51 vote .
mccain could be seen walking into the room with a thumbs down to case his vote .
you could hear shocked reaction in the room sen. john mccain votes no to defeat obamacare : john mccain says he voted to reject a so-called skinny repeal healthcare bill in the senate because it would not accomplish the goal of effectively replacing obamacare .
issuing a statement the senator said he dramatically voted no in the small hours of friday morning because he did not believe in forcing through the changes without at least some democrat support.john mccain statement in full explaining , why he killed donald trump s skinn healthcare repeal bill from the beginning , i have believed that obamacare should be repealed , and replaced with a solution that increases competition , lowers costs and improves care for the american people .
the so-called skinny repeal amendment the senate voted on today , would not accomplish those goals .
while the amendment would have repealed some of obamacare s most burdensome regulations , it offered no replacement to actually reform our health care system and deliver affordable , quality health care to our citizens .
the speaker s statement that , the house would be willing to go to conference does not ease my concern , that this shell of a bill could be taken up and passed at any time .
i ve stated time and time again that one of the major failures of obamacare was that , it was rammed through congress by democrats , on a strict-party line basis without a single republican vote .
we should not make the mistakes of the past , that has led to obamacare s collapse , including in my home state of arizona where premiums are skyrocketing , and health care providers are fleeing the marketplace .
we must now return to the correct way of legislating , and send the bill back to committee , hold hearings , receive input from both sides of aisle , heed the recommendations of nation s governors , and produce a bill that finally delivers affordable health care for the american people .
we must do the hard work our citizens expect of us and deserve .
the defeat of the healthcare reforms dealt a serious blow to donald trump s reform agenda .
senate republicans made clear that , unable to even pass the skinny version of their repeal bill , any kind of healthcare reform might prove impossible .
this is clearly a disappointing moment , said senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , r-ky .
i regret that our efforts were not enough , this time .
it s time to move on , he said .
mr mcconnell put the health bill on hold and announced that , the senate would move onto other legislation next week.mr trump responded on twitter : 3 republicans and 48 democrats let the american people down .
as i said from the beginning , let obama care implode , then deal .
watch !