rome/ankara ( reuters ) - china is financing billions of dollars worth of chinese-led projects in iran , making deep inroads into the economy while european competitors struggle to find banks willing to fund their ambitions , iranian government and industry officials said .
freed from crippling nuclear sanctions two years ago , iran is drawing unprecedented chinese funding for everything from railways to hospitals , they said .
state-owned investment arm citic group recently established a $ 10 billion credit line and china development bank is considering $ 15 billion more .
they ( western firms ) had better come quickly to iran otherwise china will take over , said ferial mostofi , head of the iran chamber of commerce s investment commission , speaking on the sidelines of an iran-italy investment meeting in rome .
the chinese funding , by far the largest statement of investment intent of any country in iran , is in stark contrast with the drought facing western investors since u.s. president donald trump disavowed the 2015 pact agreed by major powers , raising the threat sanctions could be reimposed .
iranian officials say the deals are part of beijing s $ 124 billion belt and road initiative , which aims to build new infrastructure - from highways and railways to ports and power plants - between china and europe to pave the way for an expansion of trade .
a source in china familiar with the citic credit line , which was agreed in september , called it an agreement of strategic intent .
the source declined to give details on projects to be financed , but iranian media reports have said they would include water management , energy , environment and transport projects .
an iranian central bank source said loans under the credit line would be primarily extended in euros and yuan .
the china development bank signed a memorandum of understanding for $ 15 billion , iranian state news agency irna said on sept. 15 .
the bank itself declined to comment , in line with many foreign investors and banks , including from china , who were reluctant to discuss their activities in iran for this story .
the web sites of banks and companies often carry little or no information on their iran operations .
with a population of 80 million and a large , sophisticated middle class , iran has the potential to be a regional economic powerhouse .
but with the risk of sanctions hanging in the air , more and more foreign investors want tehran to issue sovereign guarantees to protect them in case the projects are halted .
economic ties between iran and italy , its biggest european trade partner , have been affected .
italy s state-owned rail company , ferrovie dello stato , is a consultant in the building of a 415-km ( 260-mile ) high-speed north-south rail line between tehran to isfahan via qom by state-owned china railway engineering corp .
the italian firm is separately contracted to build a line from qom west to arak , but it needs 1.2 billion euros in financing .
though backed by the state s export insurance agency , it says it needs a sovereign guarantee .
we are finalizing the negotiations and we are optimistic about moving forward , said riccardo monti , chairman of italferr , the state firm s engineering unit , adding that the financing should be finalised by march next year .
prime minister matteo renzi s promise in tehran last year to oil the wheels of trade with a 4 billion euro credit line from italy s state investment vehicle is effectively dead , a source in italy familiar with the matter said .
cassa depositi e prestiti ( cdp ) risked losing the confidence of its many u.s. bond-holders who could sell down their holdings if the credit line went ahead , the source said .
a few european banks have deepened trade ties with iran this year austria s oberbank ( ober.vi ) inked a financing deal with iran in september .
south korea has also proved a willing investor , with seoul s eximbank signing an 8 billion euros credit line for projects in iran in august , according to chinese state news agency xinhua .
but china is the standout .
valerio de molli , head of italian think tank european house ambrosetti , reckons china now accounts for more than double the eu s share of iran s total trade .
the time to act is now , otherwise opportunities nurtured so far will be lost , de molli said .
iranian officials attending this week s meeting in rome sought to goad european firms and their bankers into action by talking up the chinese financing and investments .
the train is going forward , said fereidun haghbin , director general of economic affairs at iran s foreign ministry .
the world is a lot greater than the united states .
some iranian officials remain concerned that investment could become lop-sided and are looking at creative ways to maintain investment links with the west , however .
the iran chamber is encouraging western firms to consider transferring technology as a way of earning equity in iranian projects rather than focusing on capital .
it was also seeking approval to set up a 2.5-billion-euro offshore fund , perhaps in luxembourg , as an indirect way for foreigners to invest in iran , especially small and medium-sized iranian enterprises , mostofi said .
the fund would issue the financial guarantees that foreigners want in return for a fee , effectively stepping in where banks now fear to tread .
most of the fund s capital would come from iran , mostofi said .
for now , however , big western firms remain stuck .
italian power engineering firm ansaldo energia , controlled by state investor cdp and part-owned by shanghai electric group ( 601727.ss ) , has been in iran for 70 years .
its chairman , giuseppe zampini , told reuters at the rome conference there were many opportunities for new contracts but his hands were tied for now , partly because ansaldo bonds were also in the hands of u.s. investors .
my heart says that we are losing something , zampini said .