new york ( reuters ) - republican presidential front-runner donald trump retweeted an account called `` @ whitegenocidetm '' on friday , prompting a backlash on social media over the real estate billionaire 's sharing of an apparent neo-nazi 's depiction of rival candidate jeb bush .
trump , who is campaigning for the first contests on feb. 1 in iowa and feb. 9 in new hampshire , is known for attacking other candidates competing for the party ’ s nomination to run for the white house in november ’ s general election .
trump retweeted donald trumpovitz , who uses the handle “ @ whitegenocidetm , ” gives the location of the account as “ jewmerica ” and features an image that references george lincoln rockwell , a prominent figure in the neo-nazi movement in the united states .
the tweet read , “ @ realdonaldtrump poor jeb .
i could ’ ve sworn i saw him outside trump tower the other day ! ” and included a photoshopped image of bush holding a “ vote trump ” sign .
tim miller , communications director for bush , tweeted in response on @ timodc : `` the godwin 's double : trump 's anti-jeb retweets now include one from a nazi 's account and another calling jeb a nazi . ''
the trump campaign did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
in november , trump retweeted and then deleted a collage attacking former florida governor bush that featured a swastika .
some on twitter were appalled and perplexed by friday ’ s retweet by trump , who has not sought the backing of white supremacist groups but several say his success has helped them win new supporters .
kris hammond ( @ krishammond ) , who identifies himself as a civil rights attorney on twitter , said : “ # trump retweets account with the words “ white genocide ” in the handle .
plays to # whitenationalism base. ” natalie borden ( @ natalie_borden ) tweeted : “ guy , who likely will be a potus , retweeting a twitter user named “ white genocide ” who says he lives in “ jewmerica. ” what a day ... ” a week ago , a white supremacist group said it had placed thousands of automated phone calls in iowa urging voters to support trump ’ s bid for the republican nomination because “ we don ’ t need muslims. ” the telephone campaign is led by the american freedom party , which on its website says it “ shares the customs and heritage of the european american people. ” ( additional reporting by gina cherelus ; editing by grant mccool ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .