( reuters ) - a u.s. judge on monday blocked indiana governor mike pence ’ s order barring state officials from helping syrian refugees resettle in the state , saying it was discriminatory .
pence was among more than 25 u.s. governors , mostly republicans , who called on president barack obama to stop resettling refugees fleeing syria ’ s civil war after november attacks by militants in paris that killed 130 .
governors have cited concerns that some refugees could be associated with islamic state , which claimed responsibility for the attacks .
the suit brought by the american civil liberties union on behalf of exodus refugee immigration inc was among the first challenging governors ’ moves to block resettlement .
“ the state ’ s conduct clearly discriminates against syrian refugees based on their national origin , ” u.s. district judge tanya walton pratt said in a ruling granting the preliminary injunction .
she added that withholding federal grant money from exodus did not advance indiana officials ’ assertions that they were barring refugees for safety reasons .
indiana attorney general greg zoeller plans to appeal the decision and will seek a stay of pratt ’ s order , a spokesman for the attorney general ’ s office said in a statement .
the aclu had contended that decisions on immigration and refugee resettlement were exclusively the province of the federal government and could not be dictated by state officials .
indiana had argued that exodus , a nonprofit that gets federal money to resettle refugees , lacked standing to assert refugees ’ rights .
the u.s. state department said in november that a refugee family that had been headed to indiana was relocated to connecticut , but did not specify the family ’ s country of origin .
after the paris attacks , the obama administration stood by its pledge to admit some 10,000 refugees to the united states over the following year .
refugee advocates have noted that candidates for resettlement go through extensive background checks , taking up to two years , before reaching the united states .