prague ( reuters ) - a far-right party whose leader wants to quit the eu and urged czechs to walk pigs near mosques and stop eating kebabs , performed surprisingly well in an election , potentially giving it a chance to influence how the next government is formed .
the freedom and direct democracy ( spd ) party rode a wave of far-right sentiment in europe in an election that ravaged the more established political parties and looked set to hand power to maverick tycoon andrej babis .
the spd was set up in 2015 by tomio okamura , a half-japanese entrepreneur who made his name by creating an off-beat travel agency for cuddly toys before entering politics .
we want to stop any islamisation of the czech republic , we push for zero tolerance of migration , okamura told reporters after his party won just under 10.7 percent of the vote , almost neck-and-neck with two other parties who were runners-up to babis s ano party .
okamura was first elected to the lower house for the dawn party , which fought to install direct voting for most political posts and won 6.9 percent in the 2013 election , he was later ousted in a spat over irregularities in party finances .
this time around , okamura pounced on anti-foreigner feeling that has soared in the nation of 10.6 million , despite record-low unemployment , growing wages and relatively little immigration .
i voted for spd because their opinions are close to mine , i am also against migrants arriving here , said pavel , an unemployed worker , leaving a polling station in prague .
okamura has also played on euroscepticism among many voters and attacked the roma minority .
the european union can t be reformed .
it only dictates to us .
we refuse the multicultural european superstate .
let s leave the eu , okamura said at a party leaders debate just before polls opened on friday .
born to a czech mother and japanese father , okamura grew up in both the czech republic and japan .
he later sold popcorn at cinemas in japan and ran a travel agency which took clients plush toys around the sights of the czech republic .
he was not always on the extreme right .
political analysts say he began courting voters with more hardline views after forming the spd in 2015 .
in 2011 , okamura was on a jury at the miss expat beauty pageant , featuring immigrants to the country .
two years later he posted a picture of his czech girlfriend wearing islamic dress to enter a mosque in london as he praised the assistance she received there , calling it a fine experience .
when he ( okamura ) established his first party , he based it on direct democracy and punishment for bad politicians .
only after his ousting did he add the cheapest thing , the virtual threat of migration , said pavel saradin , political science lecturer at the palacky university in olomouc .
saradin called the threat virtual as the czech republic was bypassed by the immigration wave seen elsewhere in europe in the last two years and has only a tiny muslim minority .
but the anti-immigrant message okamura seized on has had wider backing in the czech society , with all major political parties rejecting a quota system for redistributing migrants that have arrived in the european union .
president milos zeman , formerly leader of the pro-european center-left social democrats , shared the podium with far-right anti-immigration activists during the 2015 celebrations of the country s democratic revolution .
this weekend s election winner babis , himself a rich businessman , will need partners to form a government .
given that he faces fraud charges which he says are trumped-up several mainstream parties have already rejected being in government with him .
this could potentially make an opening for the spd which could supply its votes to back babis s administration in return for policy concessions .