because getting something for nothing is all the rage with this president and the professors who spew this type of garbage to our children earning a living is a totally foreign concept to this generation that is being taught it s better to receive than to give of one s self begin transcriptrush : did you hear what obama said ?
this happened when i was away .
when this happened , when i heard about this , i almost got on the plane and flew 12 hours back here .
i could have done it on the phone but i don t trust it.obama in his commencement speech at howard university , do you remember what he said ?
here s what he said to the class of 2016 at howard university : yes , you ve worked hard , but you ve also been lucky , and that s a pet peeve of mine .
people have been successful and don t realize they ve been lucky , that god may have blessed them .
it wasn t nothing you did !
quote/unquote , barack obama , right out of the elizabeth warren playbook .
hey , you didn t build that !
which obama also has said.can you imagine telling college graduates , you ve worked hard , but you ve been lucky , and so s every other successful person out there .
they ve been lucky , and they don t realize it .
wasn t [ any ] thing you did .
and that nothing .
nothing .
and that is how they lay the case for big government .
to redistribute , to make things fair , to determine equality of outcomes , because it s just luck.dick gephardt , the successful are winners of life s lottery .
i ll tell you , the american left , progressives , democrats , are the greatest enemies of human greatness that we have to deal with .
they really stand in the way of individual , group , whatever , human greatness , by disparaging it , by impugning it , by denying it .
it s bad enough you think it , but to run around and send college graduates from a black university out into the world thinking that what they ve just accomplished was luck ?
( sigh ) that s the kind of thing , you know , you walk out of a speech , people saying things like that .
via : rushlimbaugh.com