( reuters ) - michigan treasurer nick khouri urged state lawmakers on tuesday to move quickly on legislation to restructure the financially ailing detroit public schools ( dps ) before the district runs out of money .
“ sometime this spring or early summer , unless legislation passes in some form , the district will not be able to make payroll , will not be able to pay vendors .
essentially they will be out of cash , ” khouri told the michigan senate ’ s government operations committee .
the committee has been holding hearings this month on bills supported by republican governor rick snyder to create two entities - the detroit community district to run the schools , and the current detroit public schools to retire debt .
khouri said the legislation presents a better option for dps and michigan than a bankruptcy which would “ not make sense ” given much of the district ’ s debt is owed to the state .
he added that bankruptcy could also take a year at a cost of as much as $ 100 million .
unlike the city of detroit ’ s bankruptcy , a dps filing would put the state on the hook for $ 1.45 billion over 11 years to pay off bonds issued for dps through michigan ’ s school bond loan fund , according to written testimony khouri submitted to the committee .
under the governor ’ s plan , the new community school district would be provided with $ 715 million in additional state funding over 10 years to offset local property taxes , which would be tapped by the old district to pay off debt .
another $ 240 million in dps pension debt could be shifted onto other school districts in the state-wide teachers ’ retirement system .
detroit exited the biggest-ever municipal bankruptcy in december 2014 , shedding about $ 7 billion of its $ 18 billion of debt .
the senate committee , which will continue its hearing on the legislation next week , also heard from teachers ’ union officials and parents who contended michigan should be responsible for paying off debt accumulated by dps since it was placed under state oversight in 2009 .
they also called for an elected board to be in control of the schools .
the legislation would create a financial oversight commission for the district .