beijing ( reuters ) - a former chinese justice minister has been expelled from the ruling communist party following an investigation by the anti-corruption watchdog , the first time the government has announced that she was in trouble .
wu aiying , 65 , was justice minister from 2005 until february this year , according to her official resume , and one of only a handful of senior female officials in china .
in a statement released late on saturday following a four-day meeting of the party s central committee , the largest of its elite ruling bodies , wu s name was listed as one of a number of officials to have been expelled from the party for graft .
while the other names listed , including former chongqing city party boss , sun zhengcai , had been announced earlier , wu s name had not been mentioned by the party in connection with any investigation .
the central commission for discipline inspection found that wu had serious discipline problems , the communique said using a euphemism for corruption , but gave no other details .
it was not possible to reach wu or a representative for comment .
wu had spent most her career working in the eastern province of shandong , where she rose to become a deputy provincial party chief , before moving to beijing in late 2003 to work at the justice ministry .
china s legal authorities have been one of the focuses of president xi jinping s crackdown on deep-rooted corruption , with powerful former domestic security chief zhou yongkang , and many of his allies and former associates , jailed .
it is not clear if wu had any direct connection with zhou .
the wechat account of the state-run beijing news , political matters , said that wu was known to be a no-nonsense straight talker , once shouting at an underling when a mobile phone rang in the middle of a meeting .
the announcement about wu comes a few days before the party opens a key , once-in-five-years congress on wednesday , which will see xi strengthen his power and promote key allies and aides .