cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - rohingya muslims in bangladesh were skeptical on tuesday about their chances of ever going home to myanmar , even though the government there has given an assurance it would accept people verified as refugees .
more than half a million rohingya have fled from a myanmar military crackdown in rakhine state launched in late august that has been denounced by the united nations as ethnic cleansing .
myanmar denies ethnic cleansing , saying it is fighting rohingya terrorists who have claimed attacks on the security forces .
the government has said anyone verified as a refugee will be allowed to return under a process set up with bangladesh in 1993 .
bangladesh and myanmar agreed on monday to work on a repatriation plan , and a myanmar government spokesman confirmed it would go along with it , provided people could verify their status with paperwork .
but many refugees in camps in bangladesh are scornful .
everything was burned , even people were burned , said a man who identified himself as abdullah , dismissing the chances that people would have documents to prove a right to stay in myanmar .
at the root of the problem is the refusal by buddhist-majority myanmar to grant citizenship to members of a muslim minority seen by a mostly unsympathetic , if not hostile , society as interlopers from bangladesh .
though myanmar has not granted rohingya citizenship , under the 1993 procedure , it agreed to take back people who could prove they had been myanmar residents .
but a day after bangladesh and myanmar announced apparent progress , a bangladeshi foreign ministry official appeared resigned to a difficult process .
this is still a long procedure , said the official , who declined to be identified as he was not authorized to speak to media .
there were already nearly 400,000 rohingya refugees in bangladesh before the latest exodus , but myanmar had said it would only accept , subject to verification , those who arrived after october 2016 , when a military offensive in response to rohingya insurgent attacks sent 87,000 rohingya fleeing to bangladesh , the bangladeshi official said .
we said that many rohingya refugees have no documents , so this process should be flexible .
myanmar said they will decide who will get involved in the verification , the official said , adding that bangladesh wanted international agencies to be involved .
myanmar s government spokesman said under the 1993 pact , even a hospital record was enough to prove residency , but it was only myanmar , not bangladesh , that could verify citizenship .
we have a policy for the repatriation process and we will go along with that , the spokesman , zaw htay , told reuters .
but even if refugees have documents , many are wary about returning without an assurance of full citizenship , which they fear could leave them vulnerable to the persecution and curbs they have endured for years .
amina katu , 60 , laughed at the thought of returning .
if we go there , we ll just have to come back here , she said .
if they give us our rights , we will go , but people did this before and they had to return .
last month , anwar begum told reuters she had fled from myanmar three times .
the first time was to escape a 1978 crackdown , and she returned the following year .
she fled again in 1991 and returned in 1994 .
i don t want to go back , the 55-year-old added .
i don t believe the government .
every time the government agrees we can go back , then we re there and they break their promise .
investigators appointed by government leader aung san suu kyi and led by former u.n. secretary-general kofi annan recommended in august that myanmar review a 1982 law that links citizenship and ethnicity and leaves most rohingya stateless .
u.n. high commissioner for refugees filippo grandi told a meeting in geneva on monday that the link between statelessness and displacement was nowhere more evident than with the rohingya .
denial of citizenship is a key aspect of the discrimination and exclusion that have shaped their plight , he said .
grandi called for a two-track approach to tackle issues of citizenship and rights and inclusive development to stamp out poverty in rakhine state .
separately , the u.n. refugee agency and bangladesh authorities are working to contain an outbreak of diarrhoeal diseases in the camps , unhcr spokesman andrej mahecic told a briefing in geneva .
refugees are still crossing into bangladesh , though at a slower rate , a spokesman for the international organisation for migration said .
a reuters photographer saw smoke plumes on the myanmar side of the border but it was not clear what was alight .
rights groups say more than half of more than 400 rohingya villages in the north of rakhine state have been torched .
myanmar officials have said they have attempted to reassure groups of fleeing rohingya but they could not stop people who were not citizens from leaving .