the insatiable 24/7 news cycle bolstered by cellphones , body cameras and a ubiquitous social media fed us grainy , sketchy videos of police shooting citizens and citizens shooting police in never-ending mobius loops .
from this year s media coverage , you d think police-citizen relations were at a low not seen since the civil unrest of the 60s and 70s an era with its own turmoil .
seventy-six percent of americans have a great deal of respect for police up 12 percent from last year among conservatives 85 percent respect police a great deal compared to 69 percent last year among liberals , a great deal was selected by 71 percent , compared to 50 percent last year whites who respect police a great deal rose 11 points up to 80 percent from 69 percent last year among nonwhites , the rise was more dramatic up 14 points from 53 percent to 67 percent the 18-34 age group had the highest jump , going from 50 percent in 2015 to 69 percent in 2016 the 35-54 group went from 61 percent to 77 percent a 16 percent increase the 55-and-older crowd rose 4 percent from 77 percent to 81 percentgallup has asked this question nine times since 1965 .
a solid majority of americans have said they respect their local law enforcement in all the polls .
the percentage who say they respect the police is significantly higher now than in any measurement taken since the 1990s and is just 1 point below the high of 77 percent recorded in 1967.this is great news for police and citizens , which is probably one reason it gets little to no news or social media coverage .
it means police-citizen relations aren t controlled by what the media chooses to publicize to garner revenue or popularity .
adn.comthe war on cops that was started by barack obama , his former ag eric holder and al sharpton created a massive racial divide in our nation .
the most serious result of obama s war on cops was the creation of the black lives matter terror group that incited so much hate for cops that it inspired the killing of innocent cops across america .
here are 4 inconvenient facts you need to know about cops killing blacks thanks to the superb research of heather macdonald:1 .
cops killed nearly twice as many whites as blacks in 2015 .
according to data compiled by the washington post , 50 percent of the victims of fatal police shootings were white , while 26 percent were black .
the majority of these victims had a gun or were armed or otherwise threatening the officer with potentially lethal force , according to mac donald in a speech at hillsdale college.2 .
more whites and hispanics die from police homicides than blacks .
according to mac donald , 12 percent of white and hispanic homicide deaths were due to police officers , while only four percent of black homicide deaths were the result of police officers.3 .
black and hispanic police officers are more likely to fire a gun at blacks than white officers .
this is according to a department of justice report in 2015 about the philadelphia police department , and is further confirmed that by a study conducted university of pennsylvania criminologist greg ridgeway in 2015 that determined black cops were 3.3 times more likely to fire a gun than other cops at a crime scene.4 .
blacks are more likely to kill cops than be killed by cops .
this is according to fbi data , which also found that 40 percent of cop killers are black .
according to mac donald , the police officer is 18.5 times more likely to be killed by a black than a cop killing an unarmed black person .
daily wire