sydney ( reuters ) - australian prime minister malcolm turnbull on saturday appointed his foreign minister as acting prime minister as he tried to stem the fallout of a citizenship crisis that has cost his government its parliamentary majority .
turnbull delayed until monday a long-planned trip to israel and held an emergency cabinet meeting to shore up support after australia s high court ruled on friday that his deputy , barnaby joyce , and four other lawmakers should be expelled from parliament because they held dual nationality .
the court s shock decision had immediate ramifications , stripping the coalition government of the one-seat majority it holds in the lower house , forcing it to call a by-election in joyce s seat and sending the australian dollar lower .
the opposition labor party has said it is considering a legal challenge to every decision made by joyce since last year s election .
turnbull said on saturday that the deputy position would remain vacant until after the dec. 2 by-election for joyce s seat .
the position normally goes to a member of the national party , the junior partner in the coalition government .
foreign minister julie bishop , a member of turnbull s liberal party , would instead be acting prime minister when he travels to israel on monday , three days behind schedule .
government goes on , good government goes on , turnbull told reporters in sydney , dismissing suggestions that the inability to agree on a deputy indicated tensions within the coalition .
when times get tough , that s when you put your arms around your mates .
turnbull now needs the support of one of three independent lawmakers to keep his minority government afloat , with two sitting weeks of parliament left until it recesses for the year .
at least two independent lawmakers have promised initial support , but noted that it may be conditional .
turnbull is under particular pressure after refusing demands from the opposition to remove joyce , who has renounced his new zealand citizenship , from the cabinet while the court decided his fate .
turnbull said the court s interpretation of the constitution , which bars dual citizens from parliament in a bid to prevent split allegiances , was very strict and very hard .
he added that he was considering whether to recommend a change to the constitution , noting that more than half of the country s population of 24 million was either born overseas or has a parent who was born overseas .
our objective is to ensure parliament is open to everybody , he said .
a referendum would be needed to change the constitution .
the high court ruled on seven lawmakers , some of whom had already resigned .
all seven accepted that they were dual nationals at the time of their election but claimed they were unaware of their status .
some were conferred a second nationality by birth , others by descent .
the others dismissed were all senators in the upper house and their seats can be assigned to party-appointed alternatives .