glasgow , scotland ( reuters ) - britain s opposition labour party is poised for a resurgence in glasgow , raising its hopes that a recovery from a disastrous election performance in scotland two years ago can help its socialist leader jeremy corbyn win power in london .
a labour stronghold for decades until it rejected the party in 2015 in favor of the pro-independence scottish national party ( snp ) , scotland s largest city is showing signs of returning to its political roots .
with a 41.5 percent share of the overall british vote in recent opinion polling , corbyn sees himself positioned to form a government if prime minister theresa may s divided conservatives falter over britain s exit from the european union .
winning back some of scotland s 59 parliamentary seats is key to his plan .
with this in mind , corbyn toured target scottish constituencies after june s national election left may s conservatives severely weakened .
there are still many people who need to be persuaded to put their trust in the labour party once again , corbyn told a meeting in the highlands ski-resort of aviemore last month .
but this is the beginning of the rebirth of scottish labour .
scotland , where the snp lost seats to labour in the west and to the conservatives in the northeast in june , is shaping up to be a major battleground in the next british election , due in 2022 .
labour winning in glasgow , a city of one million people that backed secession from britain in a referendum in 2014 , would make the arrival of prime minister corbyn more likely and reduce the chances of scottish independence by damaging the snp .
labour policies , such as renationalization of the railways and more funding for public services , appeal to scots on the left though they may scare off more conservative voters with higher taxes and controls over the free market .
scottish labour announces a new leader on saturday , after a contest between trade unionist richard leonard , whom many see as favorite because his views align with corbyn , and more centrist anas sarwar , the glasgow-born son of the uk s first elected asian lawmaker .
margaret young , a 50-year-old nurse , lives in glasgow east , a central district which , until the 1960s , was an industrial powerhouse and is now one of scotland s poorest areas .
once the site of massive steel-works it is home to a shopping center called the forge , and around half of residents here are classed by the government as income-deprived .
in june , young switched her vote to labour from the snp , because she thinks corbyn will loosen the government s purse strings .
the snp held glasgow east by just 75 votes , down from 10,000 two years ago .
young blames may s conservatives in london for poor public services and the snp for failing to mitigate spending cuts .
austerity is definitely what is hurting us , she told reuters , saying it was disgusting that struggling families on welfare were being penalized .
of a dozen people interviewed by reuters in east glasgow , 10 said they would vote for labour or consider it seriously .
east glasgow and seven other seats in the glasgow area are among 21 scottish constituencies held by the snp that would need a swing of less than 5 percent for a labour win , according to pollster survation .
at present labour has 7 scottish seats .
with just a handful more votes in each marginal area , scotland could make the difference between a minority and a majority labour government in britain s 650-seat house of commons .
as most of scotland s budget is controlled by the government in london , young believes only corbyn can bring real change .
scots like young now seem to blame the snp , in power in the devolved scottish parliament for a decade , rather than the uk government in london for not sending enough money to scotland .
glasgow , an industrial center on britain s northwestern coast , was a hub of left-wing radicalism and a lynchpin of labour s political success nationwide for nearly a century .
under tony blair and gordon brown , the party took a centrist direction and labour started to fall out of favor in the north .
labour was spurned by scottish voters when it campaigned with the rival conservatives to defend the 300-year-old union of england and scotland in the 2014 referendum .
scots rejected independence , but in a british election eight months later , labour lost all but one of its 41 seats in scotland .
a lot of people who voted yes during the referendum did so because they wanted a sense of change , said kate watson , the labour candidate in glasgow east .
jeremy s given us permission to be heard again .
corbyn avoids mention of blair and brown and namechecks labour s first leader keir hardie as a mentor , appealing to old party values which play well here .
rebecca hynam , 30 , is a primary school teacher who says politicians would be shocked by shortages of staff and materials in schools .
she backs corbyn .
in maths , we don t have enough calculators for my class .
glaswegians interviewed seemed to overlook the weaknesses of scottish labour : its flip-flops on the independence question and its wobbles on what it wants from brexit .
nevertheless many trust corbyn , whose personal style reminds some people of a kindly schoolteacher , to make amends .
one is andrea , a 55-year-old secretary who voted labour for the first time in june .
he seems like a neighbor next door , that s what i like about him .
he seems to speak from the heart .
( this version of the story was refiled to add dropped word seats in paragraph 6 )