winston-salem , n.c. ( reuters ) - transgender people barred under a new north carolina law from choosing bathrooms consistent with their gender identity filed a federal lawsuit on monday , arguing the measure was discriminatory and threatened their personal safety .
north carolina last week became the first state to enact a measure requiring people to use bathrooms or locker rooms in schools and other public facilities that match the gender on their birth certificate , according to the national conference of state legislatures .
“ by singling out lgbt people for disfavored treatment and explicitly writing discrimination against transgender people into state law , ( the state ) violates the most basic guarantees of equal treatment and the u.s. constitution , ” said the lawsuit , which was filed by the american civil liberties union and lambda legal .
the state ’ s republican-dominated legislature passed the law during a one-day special session called to repeal a charlotte city ordinance that would have allowed bathroom choice based on gender identity versus sex at birth .
state lawmakers also voted to prohibit local governments from enacting anti-discrimination protections based on sexual orientation and gender identity .
the actions drew swift criticism from lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender advocacy groups and companies including american airlines , apple and google .
in response to the law , the mayors of san francisco and seattle as well as new york governor andrew cuomo have barred non-essential , publicly funded government travel to the state , saying the law is discriminatory .
north carolina senate leader phil berger and house speaker tim moore , both republicans , said they were confident the law would be upheld in court .
“ this lawsuit takes this debate out of the hands of voters and instead attempts to argue with a straight face that there is a previously undiscovered ‘ right ’ in the u.s. constitution for men to use women ’ s bathrooms and locker rooms , ” they said in a joint statement .
state lawmakers have warned of the dangers that could result from men sharing bathrooms with women and young girls .
but transgender plaintiffs said they would be vulnerable because making known they are transgender puts them at high risk of violence .
“ this is about more than restrooms .
this is about my job , my community and my ability to get safely through my day , ” said joaquin carcano , a 27-year-old university employee who is a plaintiff in the suit .
chase strangio , a staff attorney with the national aclu ’ s lgbt project , said on monday the new law on bathroom access has “ no clear enforcement mechanism. ” opponents of the law criticized republican governor pat mccrory , who is seeking re-election in november , for signing the sweeping legislation on the same day it was introduced .
they noted the weeks of debate and review given to a georgia measure that sought to strengthen legal protections for gay marriage opponents before republican governor nathan deal signaled on monday he would veto it .
“ by contrast , what happened here in north carolina was a farce , ” said chris brook , legal director for the aclu of north carolina .