tick tock .
america will now wait until conservative news sources release his motive.update : the man who attempted to breach the cockpit has been identified as a turkish man .
flight attendants , an off-duty los angeles police officer and other passengers were able to stop the man and secure him in a seat .
it was all kind of surreal , said penny lorenzen , a passenger on the flight.her husband was among those who got up to try to stop the man .
it took seconds , said lee lorenzen , of orange county , calif .
he was pushing against the cart and a bunch of guys grabbed him .
they found some duct tape .
there were pillows and blankets .
and they taped him to his chair .
hawaii news now a man was subdued after he tried to breach the cockpit of an american airlines flight to honolulu , a source familiar with the situation told abc news.american airlines said in a statement that law enforcement met the plane upon landing in honolulu following a disturbance on the flight .
the plane was escorted by two f-22 fighter jets for the duration of the flight following the disturbance , u.s. pacific command said in a statement .
abc newsa source at the tsa told abc news that the man was waiting for the bathroom near the cockpit when a flight attendant asked him to sit down .
he had a laptop with him and appeared to try the cockpit door before he was subdued , the source said.the man , whose identity was not immediately available , was escorted off american airlines flight 31 , after it landed safely at 11:35 a.m. hawaii standard time , according to a statement from the airline.a government source confirmed that he had been loitering near the restroom and was carrying a laptop .
flight attendants asked him to return to his seat and he refused.he then seemed to lunge towards the cockpit door .
that s when several passengers subdued him.he was arrested on the ground by the fbi.the flight , which originated from los angeles , was to arrive in honolulu about noon .
the flight departed from los angeles international airport at 8:34 a.m. local time .
nbc los angeleslatest : 2 f-22 fighter jets escorted american airlines flight 31 to honolulu int l airport due to disturbance on board , pacific command says pic.twitter.com/ee8ztg4pn3 abc news ( @ abc ) may 19 , 2017