beirut ( reuters ) - a top iranian official and lebanon s saad al-hariri gave conflicting accounts on tuesday of a key meeting they had held right before hariri quit as prime minister , a move he attributed to regional meddling by iran and its lebanese ally hezbollah .
the shock resignation has thrust lebanon back onto the front line of a power struggle between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran - a rivalry that has also buffeted syria , iraq , yemen and bahrain .
hariri flew to riyadh on nov. 3 , after meeting in beirut ali akbar velayati , the top foreign policy adviser to iranian supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei .
hariri claims that in our meeting he asked iran to stop interfering in the lebanese affairs , but he did not say such a thing , velayati was quoted as saying by iranian state television s website on tuesday .
our meeting was not tense or violent at all .
these are all lies , he said .
velayati said iran hoped hariri would return to lebanon , accusing riyadh of fanning the flames of tension as it could not tolerate the strategic friendship between tehran and beirut .
hariri denied velayati s account that the lebanese leader had offered to mediate between iran and saudi arabia .
prime minister hariri did not offer mediation between any countries , a statement from his press office said .
he presented to velayati his point of view about the need to stop iranian interventions in yemen as a gateway and a precondition for any improvement in ties between ( iran ) and the kingdom , it said .
a long-time saudi ally , hariri had first mentioned the velayati meeting in a television interview on sunday night , his first public comments since quitting .
he warned lebanon was at risk of gulf arab sanctions because of regional meddling by shi ite hezbollah and said he would return to lebanon within days .
in his resignation speech in a broadcast from saudi arabia on nov. 4 , hariri said he feared assassination and accused iran along with hezbollah of sowing strife in the arab world .
top lebanese government officials and senior politicians close to hariri believe saudi arabia coerced him into quitting and has been holding him against his will since , though hariri and riyadh have denied this .