geneva ( reuters ) - the mediator of u.n.-led syrian peace talks in geneva will assess next week whether either side is trying to sabotage the process , he said on thursday , after president bashar al-assad s negotiators said they would turn up five days late .
we shall assess the behavior of both sides , government and opposition , in geneva , u.n. envoy staffan de mistura said .
and based on that we will then decide how this ... can be a building up or not , or a sabotage of geneva .
if either side were seen to be sabotaging the process it could have a very bad impact on any other political attempt to have processes elsewhere , he said .
he said the geneva rounds of talks were the only peace process backed by the u.n. security council , although there were many other initiatives being planned .
he did not elaborate , but russian president vladimir putin , who is seeking re-election next year , has suggested holding a syrian congress in the russian city of sochi early in 2018 .
diplomats see putin s plan as a bid to draw a line under the war after seven years of fighting and to celebrate russia s role as the power that tipped the balance of the war and became the key player in the peace process .
opposition negotiator basma kodmani told reporters the government side had wasted the chance for a week of direct negotiations , while the opposition was doing all it could .
i think we are showing , through our presence , our behavior , the number of documents we have submitted , the issues we are raising with the u.n. , that we are here for a very constructive engagement with the united nations , and that we have no partner so far to talk to , she said .
they are physically not here .
the absence of the government delegation , led by chief negotiator bashar al-ja afari , has effectively halted a peace process which has made little progress in eight rounds .
the latest round began last week with de mistura hoping to discuss an agenda including constitutional and electoral reform .
but ja afari arrived a day late and left after two days , saying the opposition had mined the road to the talks by insisting that assad could not play any interim role in syria s political transition .
the delegation returned to damascus to consult and refresh , but ja afari initially threatened not to come back , which the opposition said would be an embarrassment to russia .
de mistura said on thursday that ja afari s delegation had confirmed it would return on sunday , five days later than expected , for another stretch of talks lasting until dec. 15 .