kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian lawmakers on thursday shelved a draft law that critics say would have undermined the independence of anti-corruption institutions , which ukraine s foreign backers this week said were under attack from vested interests .
reformists welcomed the removal of the bill from parliament s agenda as a win at a time when ukraine s western-backed corruption fight faces pushback on several fronts .
but the victory was swiftly tempered by a separate vote later to dismiss the european union-backed head of parliament s anti-graft committee yegor sobolev .
the international monetary fund and the world bank earlier said the authorities must protect the anti-graft bureau known as nabu , following similar warnings from the united states and eu .
the criticism helped persuade mps to drop the law , which would have given parliament the power to dismiss the heads of anti-corruption institutions , lawmaker mustafa nayyem said .
they have retreated , he said in a post on facebook .
the clear heads of individual politicians , the reaction of the public , the media and personal contacts of many activists in international organizations played an important role in this story .
the united states , eu and canada have thrown financial and diplomatic support behind the leadership that took power in kiev after the 2014 maidan protests ousted the kremlin-backed president viktor yanukovich .
but perceived backsliding on reform commitments has delayed billions of dollars in imf loans and tested the patience of ukraine s allies even as kiev pushes for closer eu integration and more foreign investment .
we are deeply concerned by recent events in ukraine that could roll back progress that has been made in setting up independent institutions to tackle high-level corruption , imf chief christine lagarde said in a statement .
later on thursday parliament voted to dismiss sobolev , a member of the opposition samopomich faction , which helped the committee drive key reforms through parliament .
the leaders of political forces no longer feel untouchable .
they don t feel they are above the law .
that is the reason for my dismissal , sobolev said .
ukraine s backers are concerned too about actions by prosecutors that they say threaten the independence of nabu , set up after the maidan protests and which has been at loggerheads with other law enforcement bodies .
lagarde called on ukrainian authorities and parliament to safeguard the independence of nabu and repeated a call for the creation of an independent anti-corruption court .
parliament s failure to pass legislation to set up such a court has delayed the disbursement of an imf loan tranche under a $ 17.5 billion aid-for-reforms program .
president petro poroshenko urged parliament to speed up the process .
if at the beginning of next week i don t see progress , i ll independently prepare and submit the relevant draft law , he said in a statement .