united nations/abidjan ( reuters ) - the united states has promised up to $ 60 million to support the group of five sahel states ( g5 sahel ) joint force s counter-terrorism efforts , the state department said on monday .
the force - which will eventually comprise nearly 5,000 troops units from mali , niger , burkina faso , chad and mauritania - is meant to counter a growing jihadist threat in west africa s arid sahel region that includes groups linked to al qaeda and islamic state .
the u.s. support for the g5 force falls short of an expectation by france and others that washington would back direct funding from the united nations .
we believe that the g5 force must be , first and foremost , owned by the countries of the region themselves , said the u.s. ambassador to the u.n. nikki haley in remarks to the security council , following news of the new cash commitment .
we expect that the g5 countries will take on full regional ownership of the force within a period of three to six years , with continued u.s. engagement , she said .
a non-u.s. security council diplomat said , however , the u.s. is keen on continuing to look for some kind of direct u.n. involvement in supporting the g5 force .
an ambush by unidentified militants this month in niger killed four u.s. special forces troops and threw a spotlight on american involvement in counter-terrorism operations in the region .
the funds pledge , which must now be discussed with congress , will bolster the u.s. s regional partners in their fight against islamic state and other terrorist networks , secretary of state rex tillerson said in the statement .
washington is wary of funding the g5 through the united nations at a time when the trump administration is aiming to cut u.n. expenditures on peacekeeping operations around the world , and has indicated it prefers to support the force on a bilateral basis .
the g5 countries have set a first-year operating budget of just under $ 500 million , and about a quarter of that was committed before the u.s. announcement .
a donors conference will be held in brussels in mid december .