on march 6 , newly-minted secretary of housing and urban development ( hud ) , dr. ben carson , gave a speech before employees of the organization .
during the speech , he made a controversial remark , referring to african slaves as immigrants .
here are a few of the vile tweets celebrities posted for everyone to seen twitter : actor , radical leftist and obama cheerleader samuel l. jackson apparently had not yet gotten the memo that obama said almost the exact same thing only one year ago .
there s always the very real possibility that jackson was just too ignorant to understand what dr. carson was saying here s jackson s vile tweet : ok ! !
ben carson .i ca n't !
immigrants ?
in the bottom of slave ships ? ? ! !
muthafukka please ! !
! # dickheadedtom samuel l. jackson ( @ samuelljackson ) march 6 , 2017there s nothing like a has been rapper calling the most brilliant pediatric neurosurgeon in america a dumbf * ck lol !
christopher jackson played george washington in hamilton .
being an actor in hamilton apparently makes him the authority on all things black , including the meaning behind the comments made by dr. ben carson .
our ancestors did n't have a `` choice '' you idiot ! ! ! !
ben carson , you are hopelessly ignorant .
again , kids look the other way please .
christopher jackson ( @ chrisissingin ) march 7 , 2017jackson has this tweet pinned to the top of his twitter account .
apparently telling other people to love your neighbor makes you somehow a better person .
and it also apparently gives you immunity when you act like a bully when you tell others to , stand up to the bully .
love your neighbor .
make your cause known to them .
stand up to the bully .
speak for those with no voice .
this work is just beginning .
christopher jackson ( @ chrisissingin ) november 9 , 2016these people are such utter phonies and have no idea what it means to be tolerant of anyone who hold a view that is in opposition to theirs.on tuesday , the washington free beacon published a side-by-side video featuring ben carson s remarks alongside those made during a 2015 speech by then-president barack obama and they were eerily similar : watch : daily wireinstead of apologizing for his ignorant remarks , ice t makes lame attempt at blaming trump for his hateful and racist remarks : in the past year or so of politics .. twitter and all of social media has shown the true divide of the people ..
it s sad but its real .
ice t ( @ finallevel ) march 8 , 2017