kabul ( reuters ) - a suicide bomb attack in the afghan capital near a meeting of supporters of an influential regional leader on thursday killed at least nine people and wounded many , the interior ministry said .
islamic state claimed responsibility , according to amaq , its official news agency .
the taliban denied involvement .
atta mohammad noor , governor of the northern province of balkh and a leader of the mainly ethnic tajik jamiat-i-islami party , was not at the meeting at the time of the attack , members of the party said .
political tensions are rising as politicians have begun jockeying for position ahead of presidential elections expected in 2019 and thousands of civilians have been killed in attacks this year .
the bomber approached the hotel hosting the gathering on foot but was spotted by a police official , sayed basam padshah , as he neared a security checkpoint , an interior ministry spokesman said .
the attacker triggered his explosives vest before he could get any further , kabul police chief basir mujahid told reuters .
padshah was among the seven policemen and two civilians killed .
he saved many lives by sacrificing his life , mujahid said .
the northern-based jamiat-i-islami was for years the main opponent of the taliban , who draw their support largely from the southern-based ethnic pashtun community .
a witness to thursday s bombing said : we are proud to be martyred because of our country and our rights .
this gathering was for the sake of our country to raise our voice .
in june , a suicide bomber attacked a meeting of jamiat-i-islami leaders , including chief executive abdullah abdullah .
abdullah , who is supported by ethnic minority leaders including noor who fought against the taliban s hard-line islamist regime in the 1990s , formed a coalition government with president ashraf ghani after a disputed 2014 presidential election .
ghani on wednesday sacked the chairman of the independent election commission , raising doubts over whether parliamentary and council ballots scheduled for next year will take place as planned .