the article below is from politico this article is a perfect example of the main stream media s bias combined with barack hussein obama s lies and spin of the truth .
first of all , it s pretty ironic that supposedly obama plans to protect muslims from people like donald trump who threaten their religious liberties .
who the hell is threatening any muslim s religious liberties ?
the irony in all this is that christian religious liberties are being threatened every day around the world !
christian persecution is happening everywhere yet you hear nothing from this jackwagon of a president !
obama also says he will continue to bring muslim refugees despite the voices that seek to divide us ?
what the heck is he talking about ?
americans have welcomed and paid for over one million muslim immigrants and refugees since 2001 : twelve years after the september 11th hijackers were invited into the country on temporary visas , the u.s. decided to admit 280,276 migrants from muslim countries within a single fiscal year.to put these numbers into perspective , this means that every year the u.s. admits a number of muslim migrants larger in size than the entire population of des moines , iowa ; lincoln , nebraska ; or dayton , ohio.the rate of muslim immigration has been increasing since september 11 .
between 2001 and 2013 , the united states permanently resettled 1.5 million muslim immigrants throughout the united states .
unlike illegal immigrants , legal immigrants granted lifetime resettlement privileges will be given automatic work permits , welfare access , and the ability to become voting citizens .
via : breitbartthis year , we ve welcomed over 1,000 refugees with only two being christian !
only two !
entire towns have been transformed into little iraq with the call to prayer five times a day ringing in the ears of welcoming and tolerant americans .
we ve literally bent over backwards to bring in all these refugees at our own expense ! donald trump was so right when he called for a moratorium on muslim refugees !
this has nothing to do with anything other than protecting our own people !
we have every right to do so ! please read the article below on obama s message and you ll be sickened by his attitude and support of one community over all others : president barack obama had a message for muslim americans preparing to observe the beginning of ramadan on sunday : he ll protect them from people like donald trump who threaten their religious liberties.in an official statement , obama said america would continue to welcome immigrants and refugees , despite the voices that seek to divide us .
obama s official statement on the start of ramadan , a monthlong holiday observed by muslims through fasting during daylight hours , did not mention trump by name , but the president s remarks clearly seemed to be a swipe at the presumptive gop nominee .
i stand firmly with muslim american communities in rejection of the voices that seek to divide us or limit our religious freedoms or civil rights , the president said in the statement .
i stand committed to safeguarding the civil rights of all americans no matter their religion or appearance .
i stand in celebration of our common humanity and dedication to peace and justice for all .
obama said he looks forward to hosting muslims at the white house as the monthlong observation concludes in july .
trump on sunday suggested that a muslim judge may be biased against him in a trump lawsuit because of his calls for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states.read more : politico