in case you missed it , cnn anchor don lemon went on a drunk , alcohol-fuelled tear this past new years eve , drinking tequila shots during cnn s nationally televised show .
it was a shocking scene , even by cnn standards .
after making a show of himself , the 50 year-old lemon then got a free pass from cnn executives , and the next day he was back to work on set as if nothing had happened .
things only got worse from there on wednesday , shocking reports surfaced of what appears to be both a politically and racially motivated attack , where four black youths from chicago kidnapped and tortured a mentally disabled white man ( pictured above ) , in an ordeal which lasted over 24 hours .
the perpetrators live-streamed the abuse on facebook s live.later that evening , host don lemon assembled a panel of cnn regulars , most of whom appeared to downplay the political and racial nature of the attack despite having the video evidence right there , clearly showing the captors ill intentions.the kidnappers could be heard shouting at their victim , f * * * trump !
and f * * * white people !
as they proceeded to humiliate and torture the mentally disabled man , including taking a knife and scalping a lock of his hair and drawing blood in the process.aside from the political and racist overtones , the fact that the victim was a helpless disabled man added another dimension to the cruelty .
the fact that this was a vulnerable person who was probably duped into going along with them .
it appears it is someone who is mentally disabled , i think makes it even more sickening , said cnn guest matt lewis .
but at the end of the day , you just try to wrap your head around evil .
that s what this is , it s evil .
it s brutality .
that s when cnn s don lemon stepped in , trying to steer the conversation towards being sympathetic towards the four black assailants , with lemon stating , i don t think it s evil .
i think these are young people and i think they have bad home training.lemon s obvious cognitive dissonance is clearly on display here , as the troubled anchor claims he can not image such criminal behavior , even as four people conspire and broadcast the torture right in front of lemon s eyes .
i say , who is raising these young people ?
i have no idea who s raising these young people .
because no one i know on earth who is 17 years old or 70 years old would ever think of treating another person like that .
watch lemon s shameful gatekeeping episode here : lemon s racial and political bias was trumped only by cnn s flippant black activist and democratic party surrogate , symone sanders , who tried selling the idea that this incident wasn t a hate crime even though all aspects of an anti-white racist hate were on full display .
the democratic party worker then infers that donald trump is to blame for creating the conditions for the attack , as she callously tries to downplay the event as merely stupid on the part of the black kidnappers.one could easily argue based on their commentaries , both don lemon and symone sanders have a clear bias because of the racial identities of the assailants , and are thus incapable of covering this story with any level of normal objectivity.see also : don lemon hits back at fake information that he s making excuses for torture gang democratic party operative and black lives matter supporter symone sanders ( image : cnn ) in a separate segment , # blacklives matter supporter and cnn panelist angela rye , attempted to divert the conversation away from the racist aspects of the crime by attacking the blaze radio host glenn beck who tweeted earlier and blamed the militant activist george soros-funded militant group black lives matter for the incident.you are right .
stand up with me and demand justice in chicago for the beating of a disabled trump supporter by blm https : //t.co/ap79pknha1 glenn beck ( @ glennbeck ) january 5 , 2017it is not yet clear whether any of the four black assailants were members or supporters of the black lives matter movement.mainstream media : institutional double standards it goes without saying that had the racial identities been reversed in this case , then it would have sparked national outrage and certainly organized rioting in dozens of cities across america as well as any white-on-black crime being blamed on president-elect donald trump.read more cnn news at : 21st century wire cnn filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv