amman ( reuters ) - palestinian billionaire sabih al-masri , jordan s most powerful businessman , returned to amman on tuesday after his release in saudi arabia secured when he agreed to pay an unspecified amount of money , sources close to the matter said .
masri was detained for questioning last week over his alleged links with saudi business partners among royals , ministers and officials who were rounded up last month in an unprecedented anti-corruption purge .
masri , chairman of amman-based arab bank , jordan s largest lender , was taken into custody just before he was planning to leave saudi arabia after chairing meetings of saudi companies he owns , informed sources said .
he is at his home now in amman , said a family source .
masri later held meetings in the bank with senior officials .
arab bank shares , which account for almost a quarter of the $ 24 billion market capitalization of the amman exchange , ended 1.48 percent higher as investors reacted favorably to the news of his return .
masri has since taking the helm at arab bank in 2012 helped boost confidence in one of the arab world s largest private financial institutions .
the bank , first established in jerusalem in 1930 and one of the major middle east financial institutions , has a balance sheet of more than $ 45 billion and has earned a reputation of resilience in the face of regional political turmoil .
masri , a saudi citizen , said from his home in riyadh on sunday after his release that the saudi authorities had accorded him all respect .
[ l8n1oh05j ] saudi officials have not commented on his detention .
jordanian authorities privately said king abdullah intervened to secure his release .
a source familiar with the matter said masri was freed after reaching a settlement to return an unspecified amount of money .
there was no comment from the masri family .
there is no way masri has been freed without agreeing to some settlement .
the saudis are telling anyone who has made huge sums of money that they have to pay back some of that wealth , the source said .
another source said riyadh saw these settlements not as blackmail but an obligation to reimburse money taken illegally from the world s top oil producer over several decades .
saudi authorities have already succeeded in reaching financial settlements with dozens of royal family members , senior officials and wealthy businessmen in the crackdown spearheaded by powerful crown prince mohammad bin salman .
around 200 people in total have been questioned in the crackdown , authorities said last month .
saudi authorities estimate they could eventually recover around $ 100 billion of illicitly held funds .
they have been working on reaching agreements with suspects detained at riyadh s luxurious ritz carlton hotel , asking them to hand over assets and cash in return for their freedom .
masri s detention unnerved business circles in jordan and the palestinian territories as well as many arab magnates across the middle east who have made fortunes in saudi arabia , according to several investors who asked not to be named .
his multi-billion-dollar investments in hotels and banking in jordan represent a cornerstone of the economy of the kingdom and he is by far the biggest investor in palestinian areas .
a member of a prominent merchant family from nablus in the israeli-occupied west bank , masri amassed a fortune by joining with influential saudi royals in a catering business to supply troops during the u.s.-led military operation to retake kuwait from iraq in the 1991 gulf war .
confidants said masri had been warned not to travel to the saudi capital after mass arrests of saudi royals , ministers and businessmen in early november .
officials and businessmen had warned of the reverberations of the crisis on an aid-strapped jordanian economy already plagued by high debts .
saudi arabia is a major donor .