kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - dissent surfaced again in the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) after malaysia disavowed a statement issued by the bloc s chairman , the philippines , as misrepresenting the reality of an exodus of 430,000 ethnic rohingya from myanmar .
the grouping of 10 nations in one of the world s fastest growing regions has long struggled to reconcile conflicting interests in tackling issues such as china s claims over the south china sea and the crisis facing the muslim rohingya .
the philippines , as chair , tolerates the public manifestation of dissenting voices , the philippine foreign ministry said in a statement on monday .
the move showed a new level of maturity in pushing asean s principle of consensus when dealing with issues affecting national interests , it added .
malaysia had made its position clear in several asean meetings in new york , the ministry said , adding that it had to also take into account the views of other members , however .
on sunday , malaysia disassociated itself from the asean chairman s statement on the grounds that it misrepresented the reality of the situation and did not identify the rohingya as one of the affected communities .
myanmar objects to the term rohingya , saying the muslims of its western state of rakhine state are not a distinct ethnic group , but illegal immigrants from bangladesh .
senior diplomats and foreign ministers of asean nations discussed the contents of the statement on the sidelines of the united nations general assembly in new york before it was published , the philippine department of foreign affairs ( dfa ) and malaysian government sources said .
no consensus was reached by the asean foreign ministers , however , said two malaysian government officials aware of the discussions .
the chairman s statement released by the philippines did not reflect malaysia s concerns , said one of the officials , who asked not to be named due to the sensitivity of the issue .
malaysia has objected once before to a similar statement on the crisis in myanmar s western rakhine state , but sunday s response was unexpected , as the grouping has an overriding policy of non-interference in domestic matters .
myanmar must halt atrocities which have unleashed a full-scale humanitarian crisis , malaysian foreign minister anifah aman urged on sunday .
viable and long-term solutions to the root causes to the conflict must be found , he said in a statement .
malaysia s dissent , however , only reflects strained ties in asean , said shahriman lockman , a senior analyst with the institute of strategic and international studies in the country s capital .
what s truly exceptional here is not malaysia s move to dissociate itself from the statement , he told reuters .
it s the failure of the philippines to attempt to reflect the views of all asean member states .
in the statement , the foreign ministers condemned the attacks on myanmar s security forces and all acts of violence which resulted in loss of civilian lives , destruction of homes and displacement of large numbers of people .
more than 400 people have died and 430,000 rohingya muslims have fled rakhine , where an aug. 25 attack on military and police outposts by rohingya militants provoked a military offensive the united nations calls ethic cleansing .