prague ( reuters ) - czech police have requested parliament lift the immunity of prospective prime minister andrej babis to allow prosecution in a case involving alleged fraud in tapping european union subsidies , the lower house s press office said on tuesday .
babis , whose ano party was the runaway winner in a parliamentary election in october on pledges to run the state better and fight corruption among traditional parties , denies any wrongdoing and has called the charges politically motivated .
police suspect the billionaire businessman hid ownership of the stork s nest farm and convention center almost a decade ago to get a two million euro eu subsidy that was part of a program aimed at small businesses .
lawmakers already voted in september to allow his prosecution , but babis won immunity again with his re-election .
he said on tuesday the new request to lift immunity was further evidence of a campaign against him .
the speed at which they are coming after me again only shows what huge fear the corrupt system has ; how much this old system is afraid of me and how tenaciously they are trying to get me , babis was quoted by ctk news agency as saying .
president milos zeman has tasked babis with forming a government , but the case has hurt his chances of assembling a coalition as almost all of the other eight parties in the lower house have refused to work with him if he faces police charges .
babis instead is aiming for a minority cabinet , which may be appointed in the coming weeks , but still faces the prospect he may lose a vote of confidence in the 200-seat lower house .
his party won 78 seats in the election and he has not found other support than possible tolerance from the communist party with 15 seats .
a failure to win confidence would trigger two more attempts to form a cabinet , which could take months , while babis s team would hold office in the meantime .
most parties have said they would vote to lift immunity again but it was not clear if a majority would be found .
the case also involves ano s deputy chairman jaroslav faltynek , who has denied wrongdoing .
babis entered politics in 2011 and had sat in the outgoing center-left government .
he moved his holding in his business empire - valued at $ 4 billion and comprising numerous companies in food processing , agriculture , chemicals and media - to trust funds earlier this year .