london ( reuters ) - britain s government said on thursday it would use legislation to fix the time and date of the country s european union exit , addressing concerns of brexiteers who fear slow negotiations and opposition to the divorce could cause delays .
the government said it was proposing a change to the eu ( withdrawal ) bill currently making its way through parliament to set the exit for 2300 gmt on march 29 , 2019 .
we ve listened to members of the public and parliament and have made this change to remove any confusion or concern about what exit day means , brexit minister david davis said in a statement .
the date has previously been implied by a fixed two-year negotiating period triggered on march 29 , 2017 , but not explicitly stated in law .
prime minister theresa may and her team are battling to keep exit negotiations with the eu moving , amid growing concern that talks have yet to begin on a transitional deal to smooth the exit for businesses or the complex terms of a future trade deal .
at home , may s government is facing a rough ride in parliament on the withdrawal bill , which forms the central plank of her brexit strategy .
after losing her parliamentary majority in an ill-judged election in june , may has to unite a conservative party deeply split over leaving the eu and rely on the support of a small northern irish party to get the bill through without defeats .
the decision to define the date of brexit in law came with a clear statement that the government is prepared to consider other concessions - even those proposed by political opponents .
this important step demonstrates our pragmatic approach to this vital piece of legislation , davis said .
where mps ( members of parliament ) can improve the bill , whatever their party , we will work with them .
the bill will begin the latest stage of its journey through parliament on tuesday and wednesday , when lawmakers will debate and vote on some of the 186 pages of changes that have so far been proposed .
the bill is at an early stage , and is expected to take months to make its way through both houses of parliament .