washington ( reuters ) - u.s .
senator john mccain on thursday urged the senate foreign relations committee to hold a hearing on the possible sale of lockheed martin corp f-16 fighter jets to pakistan , as more lawmakers expressed concern about the deal .
mccain , chairman of the senate armed services committee , told reporters he was concerned about the timing of the obama administration ’ s decision to approve the sale of the fighter jets to pakistan , and the potential consequences for u.s. relations with india .
“ i would rather have seen it kicked over into the next administration , ” mccain said .
a hearing would help senators decide what to do about the proposed sale , he said , noting he was very “ conflicted. ” the u.s. government announced on feb. 12 that it had approved the sale to pakistan of up to eight additional f-16 fighter jets , as well as radars and other equipment in a deal valued at $ 699 million .
the deal drew immediate criticism from india .
separately , u.s .
senator rand paul said thursday he had introduced a resolution of disapproval seeking to halt u.s. arms sales to pakistan ’ s government .
if passed , the measure would stop the f-16 sale .
u.s. lawmakers have until march 12 to block the sale .
such action is rare since deals are usually well vetted before any formal notification , and it remained unclear if lawmakers would thwart the deal .
state department spokesman david mckeeby said the proposed sale of f-16s would assist pakistan ’ s counterterrorism and counterinsurgency operations and was in the interests of pakistan , the united states , nato and the region .
“ pakistan ’ s current f-16s have proven critical to the success of these operations to date .
these operations reduce the ability of militants to use pakistani territory as a safe haven for terrorism and a base of support for the insurgency in afghanistan , ” he said .
mckeeby said the department was aware of congressional concerns and would continue to consult and engage with lawmakers .
senate foreign relations committee chairman bob corker allowed the obama administration to proceed with the deal , but said he would not approve using u.s. funds to pay for the planes through the foreign military financing ( fmf ) program .
corker told secretary of state john kerry in a letter earlier this month that he was concerned about pakistan ’ s ties to the haqqani network , a militant group that u.s. officials have said is behind attacks in afghanistan .