edinburgh ( reuters ) - scotland s brexit minister believes there is a pretty strong chance britain will leave the european union with no deal , but that the uk government could collapse before then .
michael russell said the devolved pro-independence scottish administration is trying to prepare for brexit , despite scots having voted against it , but possible outcomes are legion .
i think the chances ( brexit ) happens without an agreement are still pretty strong , that there will a crashing out , russell , who is heading scottish brexit talks with the uk government , told reuters .
it is also distinctly possible ( ... ) that the government will fall and there will be another election or another government will come in , he added .
british prime minister theresa may is running a minority conservative government , kept in power by a northern irish protestant party .
russel said it was unclear what any new government might do .
will it start negotiations afresh , what will be its mandate , what will it be negotiating for ?
russell said , describing his frustration with the process and its uncertainty .
britain s vote to leave the eu has divided the main parties over what new relationship it wants with the trading bloc after 40 years of shared ties .
it has also strained the ties of the uk s four nations , because scotland and northern ireland voted to keep eu membership while wales and most-populous england voted to leave .
on key issues , such as the set-up of powers devolved beyond london s parliament after brexit and the need for fluid eu immigration , edinburgh s scottish nationalist administration is at loggerheads with the conservative uk government in london .
earlier on wednesday , britain s first secretary of state damian green said britain believes no deal is very unlikely but was readying contingency plans just in case .
as recently as tuesday , the uk s brexit minister david davis said britain was ready to walk away with no deal .
if we leave without a deal , we have to look at whether there will be democratic legitimacy in that , how would that be confirmed .
would ( britain s parliament ) accept that we leave without a deal ?
i think that s unlikely in its present composition , said russell , whose formal title is minister for uk negotiations on scotland s place in europe .
russell described brexit as the existential threat to scotland s future and said his government was preparing , to the extent that it could , for all options regarding brexit .
for that reason , he argued , scotland should be offered a new choice which might include independence from the uk rejected by scottish voters in 2014 by a 10 percentage point margin once it is clear what brexit means .
at some stage the people of scotland will have to be asked whether they want to stay with something which is completely disastrous and will not produce a good result , of that i have no doubt , or whether we do something else , he said .
in a june general election russell s scottish national party suffered heavy losses - albeit from a very high level - and was forced to withdraw its offer of a new independence referendum as a result .