the big wigs of business are all in on the resettlement of muslim refugees all over america .
there are 20 cities that have been chosen for their welcoming grant .
this is soros money and corporate money to replace the american worker with foreign labor .
it s legal and illegal workers who re provided sanctuary .
is your town on the list ? bob iger , rupert murdock , michael bloomberg and bill marriott are just a few of the corporate execs working to help cities become sanctuaries for migrants legal and illegal while offering money to propagate a rosy view of immigrants impact on the economy .
the corporate honchos led by bloomberg and disney s iger have teamed up with the nation s mayors in an organization called the partnership for a new american economy.pnae announced march 29 it has picked 20 cities from among dozens of competing applications for a grant program based on their welcoming attitude toward immigrants , refugees and other new americans .
the 20 cities awarded the gateways for growth award are : akron and summit county , ohio anchorage , alaska birmingham , alabama brownsville , texas columbus , ohio detroit fargo , north dakota houston indianapolis kansas city , kansas/missouri lancaster , pennsylvania los angeles macomb county , michigan nashville , tennessee new orleans phoenix and the state of arizona pittsburgh san jose , california salt lake county , utah upstate new york region ( syracuse/buffalo ) at least half are already considered sanctuary cities and the others will be moving in that direction based on their willingness to compete for a grant that requires greater inclusiveness and cultural diversity.to be eligible for the grants a nonprofit had to partner with either a local government or chamber of commerce .
the grants are to be used primarily for educating the public on the merits of expanded immigration.pnae works with the george soros-funded groups national immigration forum and welcoming america to educate americans about the wonders of mass immigration .
they say it creates economic growth and vitality and the more immigrants and refugees that flow into a city , state or county the more prosperity they can expect to enjoy .
these communities are leaders in the broader and growing trend to be more inclusive , countering the narrative often heard in the mainstream news , says david lubell , who started welcoming america in nashville several years ago with seed money from soros .
inclusive economic growth strategies that take into account both u.s. and foreign-born communities make cities more vibrant , attractive places for all residents to live , work , and thrive .
lubell s organization is hosting a national strategy session april 19-21 in atlanta in which it will share techniques on how to build welcoming community campaigns .
read more : wnd