tokyo ( reuters ) - japan s struggling opposition democratic party elected former foreign minister seiji maehara to lead the party on friday as it tries to raise its single-digit ratings and fend off a challenge by a new group with ties to popular tokyo governor yuriko koike .
maehara , 55 , a conservative on security who shares prime minister shinzo abe s desire to revise the post-war , pacifist constitution , takes over amid speculation that abe may call a snap general election later this year to refresh his mandate .
maehara previously held the democrats top post from 2005-2006 .
if i were to refer now to a change in government , the people would say , whatever are you talking about ?
but we must change this dangerous political situation where there are no choices except the ( ruling ) liberal democratic party or hopes for something whose form is not yet known , maehara told his fellow party members .
the party , an often fractious mix of conservatives and liberals , had to pick a new chief after its first female head , renho , who goes by one name , quit having failed to capitalize on abe s sagging ratings , eroded by suspected cronyism scandals and a perception he was complacent after 4-1/2 years in office .
abe s support has since rebounded off lows of under 30 percent in some polls , touching 46 percent in a survey by nikkei business daily in late august .
the novice democratic party surged to power in 2009 , ousting the long-ruling ldp with promises to put individuals ahead of companies and address social inequalities .
but many voters still have bad memories of its rule , which was plagued by infighting , policy flip-flops and unkept promises .
abe led the ldp to a huge victory in december 2012 .
the democrats could face a new threat if efforts by backers of former ldp lawmaker koike to create a new nationwide opposition party bear fruit .
her tokyo citizens first party dealt the ldp a historic defeat in a metropolitan assembly election last month , spurring talk it could evolve into a japan first party to field candidates in a general election that must be held by late 2018 .
speculation is simmering that abe could call a snap election as early as october , to take advantage of opposition disarray , though he d risk losing the ruling bloc s super majority in the lower house .
maehara defeated liberal rival yukio edano , a former chief cabinet secretary during the democrats days in power .