nanterre , france ( reuters ) - who are you and what do you want ?
seeking to rebrand itself and bounce back from electoral defeat , france s far-right national front on tuesday sent a questionnaire to party members asking them whether it should change its name and policies .
six months after party leader marine le pen suffered a crushing defeat against centrist emmanuel macron in the presidential election run-off , the poll is part of the 45-year-old national front s ( fn ) efforts to relaunch itself .
we need to ask ourselves why we didn t win the presidential election and how we can improve our political offer , said fn lawmaker sebastien chenu .
we want to win elections , we owe it to our members .
the fn s 81,000 cardholders - which includes those up to a year late on party dues - are asked to say what type of job they have and where they get their news from .
more crucially , they are asked if they want to ditch the euro and hold a referendum on france s membership of the european union and if they think the party should focus less on immigration .
opposition to the euro and immigration have long been at the heart of the party s policies , but in the six months since her defeat , le pen has progressively watered down her anti-eu stance , which is unpopular and widely considered to be one of the reasons why the fn does not win major elections .
party officials will use the results of the questionnaire to help prepare a party congress to be held in mid-march .
members are also asked if they want to change the party s name .
while the fn is a well-known brand throughout france , it is largely associated with le pen s father jean-marie , the party founder , who was several times convicted for incitement to racial hatred .
while the fn got more votes than ever in the presidential election , the lower-than-expected second round score as well as the parliamentary election that followed were a huge disappointment for the party and its cardholders .
opinion polls over the past months have shown le pen s popularity has taken a hit even among party members and it is the far-left france insoumise ( france unbowed ) , not the fn , that voters see as macron s strongest opponent .
le pen said the party needed to learn from its errors and rebrand itself .
her willingness to water down her opposition to the euro lead to the eviction of florian philippot , who had been her closest aide since she took over the party in 2011 and an architect of her policy plans .