madrid ( reuters ) - shortly after the catalan government defied madrid and held a referendum on independence , jaume vives held his own vote on whether to separate his central barcelona balcony from this catalonia of madmen .
using a megaphone , the 25-year-old journalist declared the nine votes cast by his assembled friends and family were really 2.4 million - a slightly inaccurate reference to the 2.3 million who voted for a break with spain .
then he suspended the decision just as catalan president carles puigdemont had done with his oct. 10 decision to pursue independence in the catalan parliament .
a video of the stunt has been watched 890,000 times on youtube as people on both sides of the independence divide turn to satire to break the tension of a real-life drama that is both dividing and maddening the nation .
the drama s two main actors - puigdemont and spanish prime minister mariano rajoy - are the butt of most jibes .
the anti-independence camp has aimed its jokes at puigdemont and what they see as his reluctance to be decisive and his flip-flop statements on the independence question .
in recent weeks , he has declared independence then suspended his declaration , accepted an invitation to address the senate then declined it , and called for an independence vote in catalan parliament and then deferred it .
one bar in barcelona recently put up a sign that declared free beer for all - but then , tongue-in-cheek , said the measure was immediately suspended pending talks with the beer company .
one mock tv game show presented a puzzled puigdemont considering his answer to the final question of an episode of who wants to be a millionaire ?
what is catalonia right now ? , the question read on the screen , with the four possible answers listed as : a - a region ?
b - neverland ?
c - a republic ? , or d - a circus ?
on the other side , satirists have homed in on prime minister rajoy and his insistence that puigdemont renounce independence as a condition of negotiations .
in one online parody , rajoy is shown with u.s. president donald trump s hair and a caption saying : i will build a wall , - and catalonia will pay for it .
at a recent pro-independence demonstration in barcelona he appeared on a poster kissing spanish dictator francisco franco - historically a hate figure in catalonia - on the lips amid a burst of pink heart shapes .
another , shared hundreds of thousands of times on whatsapp , shows rajoy embracing puigdemont and saying , he stays , in a parody of a famous tweet from fc barcelona defender gerard pique announcing that brazilian star neymar would not leave the club .
neymar signed for paris saint germain days later .
the satire highlights the fatigue that both sides feel .
barcelona has buzzed for the past two months with repeated , large-scale protests , mostly for independence but also including one rally of more than 300,000 against secession .
humor has become a means of escape from the seemingly endless tension .
from his balcony in the upmarket residential neighborhood of sarria-sant gervasi , vives described his lone anti-independence as a smiling counter-revolution .
we are reducing to absurdity the absurd reality we are living , and the lies they tell us , vives said .
doing this reduces the tension in the atmosphere .
jokes don t feed hatred .