benghazi , libya ( reuters ) - libya s eastern-based parliament voted on tuesday to approve some u.n. proposals aimed at unifying the divided north african nation , although major obstacles remain for a deal to stabilize the oil producer .
the u.n. launched a new round of talks in september to end years of turmoil in libya following a 2011 nato-backed uprising and unite the rival governments and parliaments in tripoli and the east .
choosing the members of the presidency and the government , and settling the question of military leadership are seen as the biggest hurdles to any deal .
only a minority of members of the house of representatives in benghazi took part in tuesday s vote , so it is unclear to what extent it will advance the latest push for a political deal .
opposition in the house had been a key obstacle to previous u.n. peace efforts .
a rival assembly in tripoli is also meant to approve the proposals .
the u.n. talks were suspended in october , but the organization has been working behind the scenes .
its envoy ghassan salame said last week that delegations from rival assemblies were close to a consensus .
on tuesday , a majority of about 75 members of the house present approved u.n. proposals regarding the broader structure of a future government , said fathi al-marimi , an adviser to house speaker agila saleh .
an unspecified number were flown in by saleh on a private plane , he said .
the house session had originally been planned for monday but was postponed when a u.n. flight carrying some deputies based in western libya was prevented from landing .
the u.n. proposals are aimed at relaunching a deal signed in december 2015 , which produced a u.n.-backed government in tripoli that has struggled to assert its authority and never been accepted by factions that control the east of the country .
salame said last week that he was planning to hold a national conference in february to agree how to finalize a transition , and that the u.n. was working to establish the right conditions for holding new elections .