gaza ( reuters ) - a decade on , rawda al-zaanoun is at last willing to forgive the gunmen who killed her son during the civil war that split palestine .
it has been painful , but she says it is time .
he was hit with a bullet in the back .
he was a martyr , the 54-year-old said at an event in gaza city to mark the public reconciliation of families of people killed in the war .
the decision was not easy because the blood of our son is precious .
but we have given amnesty .
her son ala , a married father of two and an officer in the palestinian authority security forces , was killed in june 2007 after he rushed out of his house in gaza city , having heard that his uncle was injured in clashes between rival palestinian factions hamas and fatah .
since that war a decade ago , fatah , led by the secular heirs of yassir arafat , has run the west bank , headed the internationally recognized palestinian authority and been responsible for all negotiations with israel .
its rivals , the islamist group hamas , an offshoot of the muslim brotherhood , drove fatah out of gaza and has run the tiny coastal strip that is home to 2 million people , nearly half of the population of the palestinian territories .
the schism is set to end on monday , when hamas hands over control of gaza to a unity government .
although it agreed to the arrangement three years ago , the decision to implement it now marks a striking reversal for hamas , which is considered a terrorist group by israel , the united states and most of the most powerful arab countries .
hamas has made big concessions , and every coming concession will be stunning and surprisingly bigger than the one that passed , so that we can conclude reconciliation and this division must end , the chief of hamas in gaza , yehya al-sinwar , said during a meeting this week with social media activists .
if hamas has swallowed a bitter pill by ending the feud , perhaps bitterest of all is the role played by exiled former gaza security chief mohammed dahlan , once hamas s fiercest foe who is now a leading player in regional efforts to pull gaza back into the palestinian mainstream .
officials on both sides of the palestinian divide and in other arab countries say dahlan , based since 2011 in the united arab emirates , is behind an influx of cash to prop up gaza , and a detente between hamas and arab states including egypt .
his office did not respond to a reuters request for comment .
dahlan s return to prominence could have consequences for palestinian politics as profound as the reconciliation itself .
as hated as he once was in gaza for trying to uproot hamas , he is perhaps even more reviled by the fatah leadership in ramallah for challenging the authority of president mahmoud abbas .
ambitious and charismatic , he has long been suspected of harboring designs to succeed the 82-year-old abbas .
among the initiatives dahlan has promoted in gaza is the reconciliation program of families like the zaanouns and 19 others , who each accepted a $ 50,000 blood money payment from an egyptian-emirati charity fund in return for publicly renouncing the demand to avenge the deaths of their sons .
old wounds will be hard to salve .
activists on both sides hold memories of their enemies shooting out kneecaps or torturing each other in partisan prisons .
zaanoun said her family took the decision to reconcile , despite their intense grief over the loss of their son , for the sake of preventing bloodshed , for the sake of blockaded gaza and for the sake of palestine .
dahlan has raised millions more , financing mass weddings for hundreds of young couples and distributing cash aid for several thousand needy families .
he has also used a close relationship with egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi in particular to regain his influence .
sisi , who took power by toppling a president from hamas s muslim brotherhood allies , controls gaza s only non-israeli frontier and the keys to its prosperity .
dahlan worked hard , together with his contacts in egyptian intelligence and sometimes with direct intervention from sisi , a gulf source who asked not to be named told reuters .
the strategy may be gaining him good will : an opinion poll last week by the west bank-based palestinian center for policy and survey showed that those who still support fatah in gaza are shifting their loyalty to dahlan .
his popularity among gazans , the survey said , has risen over the past nine months from nine to 23 percent .
the handover of gaza suggests dahlan s allies in egypt and the uae realize that any bid to put the palestinian house in order , for now at least , needs unity .
every time anyone speaks to ( israeli prime minister ) netanyahu , he would say how can you reach a solution when the palestinians are splintered ?
the gulf source added .
the reconciliation is an effort by several like-minded countries looking for a comprehensive solution , he added .
short of funds and friends , hamas may have few options but to make concessions .
for years it had modest but stable economic backing by islamist-leaning turkey and the wealthy gulf arab state of qatar , where hamas houses its headquarters .
but in recent months its friends , especially qatar , have been on the back foot .
egypt , saudi arabia and the uae have imposed an economic and diplomatic boycott on doha over alleged support of terrorists , including , in their reckoning , hamas .
three conflicts with the jewish state left many civilian neighborhoods in gaza pulverized .
rebuilding has been thwarted by the israeli-egyptian blockade , which sisi has the power to ease .
hamas figures blame abbas , fatah and dahlan for encouraging egypt and other arab countries to keep the economic pressure on , forcing hamas to agree to the reconciliation .
one of our reasons was to spare our people this suffering which this time was made by palestinian hands , hamas official sami abu zuhri told reuters .
senior fatah official nasser al-qidwa praised hamas s reconciliation moves and chalked up the group s sudden change of tack to the governance crisis that hamas is living through and the crisis of foreign alliances , as well as the difficult conditions of some of hamas traditional allies .
imposing its writ over policing gaza and its borders will be the main challenge for the non-partisan cabinet of technocrats as it seeks to make this month s unity initiative a reality .
setting out a hard line , prime minister rami hamdallah said in a statement on tuesday that hamas must eventually cede all crossings , security and government departments .
gaza bristles with hundreds of rockets belonging to hamas s armed wing , and the movement insisted that the arsenal it says is essential to confronting israel will never be given up .
hamas deputy political chief musa abu marzooq conceded in an interview this month with pan-arab newspaper al-hayat that decisions to fight or make peace with israel should be in future agreed jointly with fatah .
but the movement , he suggested , would keep its finger on the trigger : the subject of the resistance s weapons ... will not be on the table for dialogue .