nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s main opposition leader said on thursday that anger over last month s presidential election ran so deep it threatened to tear the country apart .
raila odinga boycotted the oct. 25 election because he said it would be unfair , leaving president uhuru kenyatta to win with 98 percent of the vote .
the supreme court called the poll after it annulled a first presidential election held in august on procedural grounds .
mainstream kenyans feel so deeply cheated they are openly toying with the idea of secession , odinga told an audience in washington , d.c. his speech to the center for strategic and international studies , a think-tank , was broadcast live on kenyan television .
the biggest problem in kenya right now is exclusion ... unless they ( the problems ) are addressed they will tear the country apart , he said .
as things stand now , anger and radicalization is growing by the day .
a small number of politicians in odinga s opposition alliance have discussed the idea of his strongholds seceding from kenya but the idea has not gained wide popularity .
odinga s supporter base is concentrated along kenya s coast , in city slums and in his western strongholds , areas that have traditionally felt excluded from political power and the opportunities for patronage it offers .
odinga s supporters are currently boycotting three companies they say are backing the government .
the opposition has called for protests on friday .
in his speech , odinga noted kenya s four presidents since independence had all come from the kikuyu or kalenjin communities , even though the country had 44 recognized ethnic groups .
kenyatta is a kikuyu and his deputy , who has made clear his intention to run in the next election , is a kalenjin .
earlier this week , odinga told reuters he wanted a caretaker government for six months while preparations were made for new elections .
government officials reject the idea , saying odinga had his chance to compete in october .
the supreme court is due to start hearing petitions on the legality of the october elections next week .