beijing ( reuters ) - china sentenced a prominent rights activist to eight years in jail for subversion on tuesday , his lawyer said , the harshest sentence passed in a government crackdown on activism that began more than two years ago .
in a separate case , a rights lawyer avoided criminal punishment despite being found guilty of inciting subversion , because he admitted his crimes , the chinese court trying him said .
wu gan , a blogger better known by his online name super vulgar butcher , plans to appeal against the eight-year sentence handed down by the tianjin municipality s no .
2 intermediate people s court , his lawyer , yan xin , told reuters .
the harshness of the sentence prompted the german embassy in beijing to issue a statement expressing disappointment .
wu regularly championed sensitive cases of government abuses of power , both online and in street protests .
he was detained in may 2015 and charged with subversion .
the activist criticized china s political system online and used performance art to create disturbances , as well as insulting people and spreading false information , according to a statement from the court posted on its website .
he carried out a string of criminal actions to subvert state power and overthrow the socialist system and seriously harmed state security and social stability , the court said .
before his arrest , wu used his platform to cast doubt on the official version of events in an incident in early may 2015 , in which a police officer shot a petitioner in a train station in northern heilongjiang province .
wu s refusal to bow to pressure or admit guilt likely explains his harsh sentence , said kit chan , hong kong-based director of china human rights lawyers concern group .
wu gan is being punished for his non-conformity , she said .
his sentence is the most severe in what rights groups have called an unprecedented attack on china s rights activists and lawyers , known as the 709 crackdown , which began in full force on july 9 , 2015 .
the hardline approach to rights activism has shown no sign of softening as chinese president xi jinping enters his second five-year term in office .
in the other case concluded on tuesday , rights lawyer xie yang received no punishment after being found guilty of inciting subversion and disrupting court order , the changsha intermediate people s court said on social media .
the court released a video of the proceedings , in which xie said he accepted the outcome and would not appeal .
he also thanked authorities and said he will be a law-abiding citizen .
xie had worked on numerous cases deemed sensitive by chinese authorities , such as defending supporters of hong kong s pro-democracy protests .
in may , he confessed to the charges against him in what rights groups called a scripted sham trial .
in january , xie s wife and lawyer released detailed accounts of torture suffered by xie at the hands of the authorities , which were widely reported on in the international media .
chinese state media branded those reports fake news and said the accounts were concocted as a means of gaining attention .
xie s lawyer told reuters he stands by the account .
in both cases these have been serious concerns about violations of due process of law , the german embassy in beijing said in a statement .
the decision to hand down both sentences the day after christmas , when there would likely be less attention from diplomats and international observers , reeks of cynical political calculation , said patrick poon , hong kong-based researcher for amnesty international .
asked about the verdicts , china s foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying told a regular briefing that amnesty is biased when it comes to china and should not be believed , adding that china abides by the rule of law .