rusape , zimbabwe ( reuters ) - the last time white zimbabwean farmer rob smart left his land it was at gunpoint , forced out in june by riot police armed with tear gas and ak-47 assault rifles .
he returned on thursday to ululations and tears of joy from former workers and their families who were also kicked out - a jubilant return and the first sign that the president who has replaced robert mugabe is making good on a vow to stop illegal land seizures and restore property rights .
scores of jubilant black zimbabweans nearly knocked the 71-year-old off his feet as he and his two children stepped out of their car and onto their land for the first time in six months .
smart s case was taken up by emmerson mnangagwa , zimbabwe s then vice-president who heard of smart s violent eviction while at an investment conference in johannesburg .
mnangagwa became president last month following a de facto coup that ended 93-year-old mugabe s rule .
in the latter half of his 37 years in power , zimbabwe s economy collapsed , especially after the seizure of thousands of white-owned commercial farms under the banner of post-colonial land reform .
land ownership is one of zimbabwe s most sensitive political topics .
colonialists seized some of the best agricultural land and much of it remained in the hands of white farmers after independence in 1980 leaving many blacks effectively landless .
twenty years later , mugabe authorized the violent invasion of many white-owned farms and justified it on the grounds that it was redressing imbalances from the colonial era .
white farmers complained that well connected people used state security forces to force them off their farms , sometimes in the middle of harvesting , even after the mugabe government indicated , some four years ago , that land seizures were over .
we are overjoyed , over the moon .
we thought we would never see this day coming , smart s son , darryn , told reuters .
getting back to the farm has given not just us , but the whole community hope that it s a new zimbabwe , a new country .
rob smart , whose father said he started the farm from virgin bush in 1932 , expressed confidence in the new government s pledge to protect the commercial farming sector , a mainstay of the struggling economy .
it s early days but so far what they ( the new government ) said they are going to do they are doing , he told reuters .
we just hope this whole incident will give hope to other farmers , who ve had the same situation .
mnangagwa , who is under pressure to revive the economy ahead of elections next year , said on thursday that he was resolute about the changes he was introducing .
there is no business as usual .
things have changed , it s a new era , he said at a meeting with business leaders in south africa .
i m from the military .
if it s left turn then it s left turn .
if it s right turn it s right turn .
no confusion .
mnangagwa s new agriculture minister , perrance shiri , last week ordered illegal occupiers of farms to vacate the land immediately , a move that could ultimately see some white farmers who say they were unfairly evicted return to farming .
shiri , a military hardliner who was head of the air force before being picked for the crucial ministry this month , called for unquestionable sanity on the farms .
for 83-year-old anna matemani , whose late husband worked on the farm , smart s return was long overdue .
i m so happy he is finally back .
he always helped us and the farm provides jobs for many of our young people , said the grandmother of 15 , who grew up and raised her children on the farm and witnessed rob s birth , wiping away tears .
some of the smarts joy subsided as they walked into their ransacked farmhouses .
the occupiers had looted property , including clothes , the children s toys , three guns , bottles of 100-year-old wine and smart s late father roy s medals from when he served with the police reserve air wing in the former rhodesia .
i m sad about my grandfather s medals , darryn smart said , surveying a ransacked room .
you can buy tables and chairs , you can t buy that family history .
but thank goodness we re here .