the district of columbia has won back-to-back miss usa titles.kara mccullough , a 25-year-old chemist working for the u.s. nuclear regulatory commission , was crowned sunday at the mandalay bay convention center on the las vegas strip .
she will go on to compete on the miss universe contest.the runner-up was miss new jersey chhavi verg , a student at rutgers university studying marketing and spanish .
the second runner-up was miss minnesota meridith gould , who is studying apparel retail merchandising at the university of minnesota.fifty-one women representing each state and the nation s capital participated in the decades-old competition.mccullough was born in naples , italy , and raised in virginia beach , virginia .
she said she wants to inspire children to pursue careers in the fields of science , technology , engineering and mathematics.last year , district of columbia resident deshauna barber became the first-ever military member to win miss usa.the top five finalists where asked different questions that touched on the pros and cons of social media , women s rights and issues affecting teenagers .
mccullough was asked whether she thinks that affordable health care for all u.s. citizens is a right or a privilege .
mccullough said it is a privilege.later in the competition , the mccullough , verg and gould were asked to explain what they consider feminism to be and whether they consider themselves feminists .
miss district of columbia said she likes to transpose the word feminism to equalism .
watch : abc newshttps : //youtu.be/mus063ienikmany americans were cheering her response on twitter : miss usa is a wonderful role model !
leave it to the nasty , sneering left to attack her b/c she does n't fit their narrative .
@ foxandfriends pic.twitter.com/cfmvdivtke kristin tate ( @ kristinbtate ) may 15 , 2017https : //twitter.com/ten_gop/status/864121879837241345but many on the left were not as happy with the newly crowned miss usa kara mccullough.this twitter user tells mccullough she doesn t deserve miss usa 2017 title because she s not towing the liberal line : # missusahealthcare = privilege !
loose a job , ok to die bcs you do n't deserve helpyou dont deserve miss usa 2017 !
homes by sylva ( @ sylvalisko ) may 15 , 2017twitterthis twitter user thought the results were rigged and should be decided by a democracy lol ! retweet if you think # missusa was rigged ! ! ! ! !
omg should n't miss usa be decided by a democracy ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
pic.twitter.com/tjxp0u5yl4 sarah lauren ( @ sarahmlauren ) may 15 , 2017when mccullough said she d like to replace feminism with equality the triggered left immediately turned that comment into a negative , insisting that she doesn t believe in equality for women.miss usa 2017 is a no for me she said she 's against feminism and healthcare being a right ?
pic.twitter.com/ihpgbsln7h jon snow ( @ justkriistel ) may 15 , 2017