new york ( reuters ) - donald trump speaks volumes in what he doesn ’ t say .
the republican presidential hopeful often fails to finish his thoughts during his speeches , abruptly breaking off a sentence or substituting a vague word for a more precise one .
those half-finished sentences aren ’ t throwaways .
they ’ re enthymemes , a rhetorical device at the heart of a persuasive speaking style that has helped catapult the billionaire to the top of national polls ahead of the november 2016 election .
to his supporters , trump is a politician who doesn ’ t sound like one : he says what he thinks , happily insults rivals and can appear unscripted , particularly when he leaves his thoughts to trail off unfinished or peppers sentences with ambiguities .
take his comments during a recent republican debate in which he defended his call for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states : “ i talked about muslims , ” he said .
“ we have to have a temporary something , because there ’ s something going on that ’ s not good. ” it was left up to the listener to decipher what trump was saying .
what this means in practice is that supporters can tailor his statements to their own beliefs , rhetoric professors said .
it also allows trump , consciously or not , to avoid boxing himself in with quotes that rivals can use against him .
strictly speaking an enthymeme is a form of argument in which at least one premise remains unstated .
the concept isn ’ t new - it was described by the greek philosopher aristotle - and has been used in american politics in the past .
in practice , enthymemes come in various forms , including dramatic pauses , unfinished sentences and the place-filling “ somethings ” trump employs , according to the experts , who study u.s. public and political speech .
in each case , listeners fill in the blanks .
trump has used enthymemes when taking on fox news anchor megyn kelly and one-time rival carly fiorina ; he has used them in describing his opposition to a new york city mosque ; he routinely uses them in speeches when talking about subjects ranging from immigration to trade wars .
in the case of kelly , trump , recounting a heated exchange between them during a televised debate , said she had “ blood coming out of her eyes , blood coming out of her - wherever. ” his statement caused a furor among many who concluded trump had meant kelly was menstruating and hormonal and therefore irrational .
trump denied it and supporters came to his defense , pointing out he had never spoken the words .
trump ’ s habit of leaving listeners to fill in the blanks isn ’ t new ; it ’ s apparent in recorded interviews done well before his presidential bid .
and it ’ s not clear whether he does it consciously .
his spokeswoman , hope hicks , called it a symptom of a racing mind .
“ people have said mr. trump ’ s speeches are like a game of chess - an intricate web of great genius , ” she said .
enthymemes can have a potent effect on listeners , said baylor university rhetoric professor martin medhurst .
“ you have involved them psychologically and helped to persuade them by having them persuade themselves. ” but the rhetorical device carries risks , especially in instances where the unfinished thought is so vague that listeners can complete it with either a positive or a negative statement .
in a jan. 29 speech , for example , trump described his views that china is exploiting the united states .
“ they ’ ve taken our jobs , they ’ ve taken our base , they ’ ve taken our money , and i love china , they get along great with me , i told you i have all these people , i do business with china , they agree with me .
they can ’ t —. ” a clip of the statement was shown by reuters to a group of students in a public policy class at new york ’ s hunter college , who disagreed among themselves about what trump ’ s next words would have been .
one student , alexandre alvalade ximenes , a freshman studying political science and philosophy , completed trump ’ s unfinished thought this way : “ they can ’ t believe how intellectually inferior we are. ” another , matthew locastro , also a political science major , filled in the blank with , “ there ’ s no way they can disagree with him because of his working relationship with them. ” trump isn ’ t alone in using enthymemes to effect .
in an interview last september with rolling stone , trump mocked the looks of fiorina .
“ look at that face .
would anyone vote for that ?
can you imagine that , the face of our next president ? ” to some listeners , trump was communicating that he thought fiorina was ugly .
trump later denied he meant that .
fiorina responded with her own enthymeme : “ i think women all over this country heard very clearly what mr. trump said . ”