to think that huma abedin had access to top secret state department documents is frightening .
she and her family have super shady connections to radical muslim groups .
it s interesting that the local muslim community would have such a controversial person in to make an appearance in michigan .
the denial continues but the facts are there that prove abedin had no business being an insider in the state department or the white house !
as revelations broke in recent weeks regarding her role in a radical muslim journal laced with anti-gay and anti-female comments , huma abedin quietly slipped in to michigan for a visit to dearborn dearborn has the largest population of muslims in america.the radical muslim journal also employed her mother , and was funded by the saudis according to the arab american news : huma abedin , vice chair for the hillary for america campaign , met with arab and muslim american leaders on aug. 11 , to discuss issues that matter to the community.community representatives included heads of organizations , small business owners , doctors , lawyers and other professions .
u.s. rep. debbie dingell ( d-dearborn ) and the retired dean of congress , john dingell , were also present at the discussion at habib s cuisine.abedin was joined by farooq mitha , national director of muslim outreach for hillary for america.abedin praised the muslim and arab american communities for their political engagement .
she highlighted the contrasts between clinton and trump.she said the republican nominee uses divisive and inflammatory rhetoric against muslims to divide our country , while clinton embraces the values and contributions immigrants make to our country.if she s calling make america safe again divisive and inflammatory rhetoric then so be it !
there is nothing wrong with making america safe from terrorists and those who don t hold our beliefs .
abedin praised the patriotism and heroism of muslims across the country , including the khan family , a muslim gold star family whose son , captain humayun khan , was killed in iraq while protecting his fellow service members.the truth on the khan family that huma abedin claims embrace our values : hillary s khan man : who is khizr khan ?
the shocking truth about his job , his ties to hillary , saudi arabia and the muslim brotherhoodabedin also discussed ways to strengthen communities , including making college more affordable ( who pays for this ? )
, ensuring small businesses have the resources and support needed to succeed and building an economy that works for everyone , not just those at the top ( redistribution of wealth doesn t work !
we ve had 8 years with obama !
) .abedin answered individual questions from the audience .
abedin s publication is full of controversial statements.according to the new york post : headlined women s rights are islamic rights , a 1996 article argues that single moms , working moms and gay couples with children should not be recognized as families in a separate january 1996 article , abedin s mother who was the muslim world league s delegate to the un conference wrote that clinton and other speakers were advancing a very aggressive and radically feminist agenda that was un-islamic and wrong because it focused on empowering women she seemed to rationalize domestic abuse as a result of the stress and frustrations that men encounter in their daily lives .
while denouncing such violence , she didn t think it did much good to punish men for it .
via : wmp