paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron will go to the athens hill considered the birthplace of democracy to urge fellow europeans to tackle the democratic crisis he believes the continent faces , his aides said on tuesday .
macron , who swept to power on a pro-eu platform last may , has made reforming the euro zone and eu institutions battered by a series of crises - from the economy , to immigration and brexit - a priority of his mandate .
it s a symbol of a new chapter ( for europe ) , a french presidency official said of the speech macron plans to give on thursday evening on the hill of pnyx , where ancient greeks gathered to host popular assemblies .
we have gone through a financial crisis and a sort of confidence crisis , greece knows that , it suffered from them .
the president wants to show that europe must be rebuilt democratically , the official said .
macron will promote his campaign proposal to launch democratic conventions - or public debates - in european countries to discuss the future of the eu .
the president , whose popularity ratings have slumped at home following a series of unpopular measures including proposals to cut public spending and welfare benefits , also wants to make institutions governing europe s single currency more democratic .
he wants a euro zone finance minister to manage a common budget that would be accountable to a euro zone parliament , but that proposal has met with robust resistance abroad , notably in berlin .
during a two-day trip ending on friday , macron will be accompanied by around 40 french business leaders , including from blue-chip firms total , l oreal , sanofi , engie and vinci .
after a german-french consortium won a majority stake in thessaloniki port last june , france is keen to push its companies to invest in greek infrastructure , energy and the agri-food business .
french officials also want to avoid more strategic sectors of the greek economy from falling into non-european hands after china s cosco shipping bought a 51 percent stake in piraeus port , greece s biggest , for 280.5 million euros .
it poses a sovereignty problem , it s kind of a european failure , the french official said .
in june , macron urged the european commission to come up with a system for screening investments in strategic sectors from third countries , something some other western european nations have supported .
but smaller eastern and southern european economies that have benefited from chinese investments have rejected any steps against beijing .