chelsea clinton thought she was quite clever when she cited the story of lucifer to support her argument for removing confederate statues .
what is it about the clinton s citing anything to do with faith to support their argument that makes everyone cringe ? the story of lucifer-who rebelled against god-is part of many christians ' traditions .
i 've never been in a church with a lucifer statue .
chelsea clinton ( @ chelseaclinton ) august 18 , 2017we all know that the clinton s have no boundaries when it comes to making up lies to fit their narrative , but after chelsea attempted to convince twitter users that she is a regular church-goer , we couldn t help but remind everyone what chelsea openly admitted while she was pregnant with her second child : because every 6-year old makes the decision to leave a church over their views on abortion right ?
and every pregnant mother reminisces about leaving the church over their defense of killing unborn babies right ? but you left church when you were 6 because you supported abortion , remember ?
https : //t.co/unkp979zly golden gnome ( @ memealchemy ) august 18 , 2017 fairy sweet dee delivered a left hook to the phony chelsea , as she reminded her twitter followers what democrats really believe : .prob not but i 'm sure you would have tried to coerce mary into aborting since she was a low income unwed mother .
https : //t.co/5p4tnjgxlv sweetest dee ( @ ihate_everyone2 ) august 18 , 2017twitter users really came at chelsea hard .
much like her crooked mother , crooked chelsea continued to make up stories to prove her point .
honky tonk jew told chelsea that she doubted she d ever been in a church , period .
: i doubt you 've ever been in a church , period honky tonk jew ( @ honkytonkjew ) august 18 , 2017chelsea tried desperately to recover after she was outed for saying she left the church when she was six years old because they didn t believe in aborting babies .
she made several attempts to make it appear as though she and her unemployed husband spend a great deal of their time while traveling ( likely on the clinton foundation s dime ) .twice this week .
in addition to be fortunate to attend services at l'abbaye de saint-beno t-du-luc , we also visited nearby st. aidan 's .
chelsea clinton ( @ chelseaclinton ) august 18 , 2017several twitter users provided the all-knowing chelsea with various photos of lucifer statues in church : statue of lucifer in holy trinity church marylebone , westminster pic.twitter.com/bhvzwvbo8d gay lynn westover ( @ uberpt ) august 18 , 2017satan on the bottom .
it is n't odd that you are unaware of authentic christian iconography .
pic.twitter.com/nshj9wpmgw andrew e. malone ( @ dukenaltum ) august 19 , 2017there are churches & cathedrals throughout the world that depict satan as he is a necessary part of understanding the history of the bible pic.twitter.com/0wubmrjgww ( ( ( darth kitteh ) ) ) ( @ eloracnasus ) august 18 , 2017here s chelsea , once again talking about her next vacation , where she hopes to visit another church : while i 've been to belgium , i 've not visited li ge .
hopefully , i will be lucky enough to visit the city & st. paul 's cathedral in the future chelsea clinton ( @ chelseaclinton ) august 18 , 2017oops !
even one of chelsea s supporters is forced to set the record straight on lucifer in the church , especially the church chelsea claims she d like to visit in the future : @ maumota i agree with what you mean .
but there is a lucifer statue in st paul ' cathedral in liege , belgium .
pic.twitter.com/yokyqsjtig thomas jamet ( @ tomnever ) august 18 , 2017this black twitter user gives chelsea a much needed history lesson : but you 're part of a party that supported segregation and slavery .
should democrats change their name ?
mike ryals ( @ michaelryals ) august 19 , 2017the clinton s , most especially chelsea and her unemployed husband , have been doing quite a bit of traveling this summer .
angie suggested that perhaps chelsea could use some of that haiti money .
that they stole from the impoverished haitians after promising donations the clinton slush fund collected from around the world would be used to help them , and instead were primarily used to line their pockets.maybe you can use some of that haiti money .
angie ( @ kachninja ) august 18 , 2017and finally , the icing on the cake : ouch ! you were raised by lucifer in a pantsuit .
jwf ( @ jammiewf ) august 18 , 2017and ouch again !
`` check out the # rapist statue of your dad .
trust me , he was lucifer to the women he abused . ''
@ realjameswoods trump world ( @ trump_world ) august 19 , 2017when are we taking down your dad 's statues ?
we ca n't have statues of a pervert around .
it 's discriminatory against sexually abused women .
but-it's-my-turn ( @ fernandocarnal ) august 19 , 2017oh like this one ? ? ?
of your # rapiststepfather ? ? ! ! !
pic.twitter.com/g2g47uiezk rinosout2018 ( @ txluvsnobstrump ) august 20 , 2017