seoul ( reuters ) - a seoul court on friday found lotte group chairman shin dong-bin guilty of breach of trust and embezzlement and sentenced him to 20 months in prison , suspended for two years , leaving him free to try and revive the conglomerate after steep losses in china .
the seoul central district court cleared the executive of some counts of breach of trust and one embezzlement charge .
i apologize to the public , shin said as he left court , without commenting further .
prosecutors had sought a ten-year jail term for shin on charges of embezzlement and breach of trust after a probe since 2016 into the retail-to-chemicals group .
the ruling will come as a relief to lotte at the end of a tough year during which it became the highest-profile corporate victim of a beijing-seoul spat over south korea s installation of a u.s. missile defense system .
south korea s fifth-largest conglomerate said , we respect the court s decision .
lotte group executives and employees will further unite to contribute to economic progress and do our best to meet our social responsibility .
the prosecution did not have an immediate comment .
legal experts said the prosecution was likely to appeal .
shin is the subject of another ongoing trial related to a bribery scandal involving former president park geun-hye .
prosecutors are seeking a four-year jail term and a fine of 7 billion won ( $ 6.49 million ) .
in the meantime , friday s ruling means lotte , with 110.8 trillion won worth of assets , avoids a leadership vacuum for the time being as it navigates mounting china losses and an uncertain recovery .
shunned in china , its key market , after it was pressed by seoul to provide land for the thaad missile defense system , lotte s third-quarter china hypermarket sales were nearly wiped out to about $ 278,000 from around $ 264 million a year earlier .
nearly all lotte mart stores in china have been shut for much of the year with local authorities citing fire safety issues , and the group has now put the business up for sale .
but the sale is likely to be delayed past the end-2017 deadline lotte had sought , lotte corp official choi min-ho said , without giving a reason .
lotte s businesses in south korea , including its major duty-free operations , that had counted on big-spending chinese tourists , remain under pressure amid curbs on chinese tour groups traveling to the country .
south korea s credit rating agencies have downgraded or cut their outlook for corporate bonds of the group s flagship retailer lotte shopping and hotel lotte [ htlot.ul ] , citing hurdles in improving their financial stability .
lotte , which shelved plans for an estimated $ 4.5 billion ipo of hotel lotte amid the investigation , is now battening down the hatches as a difficult year draws to an end .
lotte shopping has frozen wages for its department store business this year for the first time since 2009 , three lotte officials said this week , declining to be identified as the matter was sensitive .
while lotte confirmed wages had been frozen , the retail-to-chemical conglomerate declined further comment .
however , one of the officials from the department store business said : wages have been frozen due to various factors , but the thaad issue was one of them .