london ( reuters ) - the trilateral meeting between iran , russia and turkey in the russian resort of sochi this week was a right step , at the right time for stability in syria , iranian president hassan rouhani told syrian counterpart bashar al-assad .
russia s vladimir putin won the backing of turkey and iran on wednesday to host a syrian peace congress , taking the central role in a major diplomatic push to finally end a civil war all but won by assad .
sochi summit was a right step at the right time , rouhani was quoted as saying by state news agency irna on saturday in a phone call with tehran s main regional ally .
he said a national congress to hold face-to-face talks between government and opposition could be a step towards stability and security of syria .
iran has signed large economic contracts with syria , reaping what appear to be lucrative rewards for helping assad in his fight against rebel groups and islamic state militants .
tehran is ready to have an active role in reconstruction of syria , rouhani added .
the chief commander of iran s revolutionary guards , who has sent weapons and thousands of soldiers to syria to prop up assad s regime , also said on thursday that their forces were ready to help rebuild syria and bring about a lasting ceasefire there .
syria s six-year civil war has killed hundreds of thousands of people and forced millions to flee in the worst refugee crisis since world war two .
in a joint statement in sochi , the three leaders called on the syrian government and moderate opposition to participate constructively in the planned congress , to be held in the same city on a date they did not specify .
saudi arabia , iran s arch rival in the middle east , also sponsored a meeting on wednesday at a luxury hotel in riyadh for the syrian opposition groups .
regional tensions have risen in recent weeks between sunni muslim monarchy saudi arabia and shi ite iran .
saudi crown prince called the iranian supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei the new hitler of the middle east in an interview with the new york times published on thursday .
israel also views iran as the main threat in the region , and a cabinet minister said this month israel has had covert contacts with saudi arabia .
it is very odd that a regional country considers iranian nation as its enemy and the zionist regime as its friend , rouhani told assad in the call .
the next round of u.n.-backed peace talks in geneva aimed at ending the syrian civil war will begin on nov. 28 .