islamabad ( reuters ) - an unexplained dispute between pakistan s interior minister and an elite paramilitary unit under his command is adding to political confusion in islamabad , prompting questions about a rift in ties between civilian leaders and the powerful military .
the spat comes at a moment of heightened concern over the feverish political climate in nuclear-armed pakistan , which the united states seeks to include in its new strategy for south asia .
interior minister ashan iqbal was taken by surprise when the elite rangers unit , which provides security around parliament , withdrew its guards without explanation on wednesday .
i was told the rangers have unilaterally withdrawn from the important installations where they were on duty , which , for us , was shocking , iqbal told domestic television channel dawn news .
this was a gross violation .
outside parliament on thursday , the frontier constabulary was on guard instead .
a police official on duty confirmed the rangers were no longer stationed there .
the order for them to leave did not come from the interior ministry , it must have come from somewhere else , said the official , who asked not to be identified because of the sensitivity of the topic .
the pakistan army s public relations wing denied any military involvement in the incident , attributing it to poor coordination .
it was a local miscoordination , that got a lot of hype .
i don t think there is a clash of institutions , major general asif ghafoor said at a press briefing .
the army will do what it needs to do within the constitution .
but to create a perception that the army wants to impose martial law , these are things which are not even to be talked about , he added .
rangers officials could not immediately be reached for comment .
iqbal did not immediately respond to reuters telephone calls to seek comment .
pakistan s military has ruled the country for 33 of the 70 years since independence from britain in 1947 .
since 2008 , there have been democratically elected governments , but the army retains sweeping influence and any hint of discord stirs worries among advocates of a strong civilian government .
the rangers had this week denied iqbal entry to a court building where matters relating to an anti-graft case against sharif were being heard , prompting him to threaten to resign , saying he refused to be a puppet interior minister .
the moves follow july s supreme court disqualification of former prime minister nawaz sharif , which he blamed on a conspiracy against him , feeding speculation about a rupture in civilian-military ties .
senior leaders from sharif s pakistan muslim league nawaz ( pml-n ) party pointed fingers at the country s military after his disqualification for not declaring a source of income .
the army denies playing a role .
but the rangers departure from the area around parliament points to a persistent disagreement between civilian and military leaders , one analyst said .
they can t just leave their posts , said zeeshan salahuddin , communications and strategy director of the islamabad-based centre for research and security studies .
if they have done so without orders , that clearly shows the continuing rift between the two , and the displeasure of the military .
we have concerns about the future of pakistan s government too , in terms of them we want their government to be stable , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said , following a meeting with pakistan s foreign minister on wednesday .
the government will take action after completing an inquiry into the withdrawal , iqbal added .
the rangers are a force subordinate to the ministry of the interior and when they are deployed , they are supposed to work under the civil administration , he said .