( reuters ) - a coalition of some of the largest u.s. latino organizations on thursday will lay out a raft of policies that , they say , presidential candidates and other politicians must heed to earn the votes of the growing group of voters .
the national hispanic leadership agenda ( nhla ) , which includes 40 national and regional groups , will recommend policies on everything from economic security , education and comprehensive immigration reform to the environment and health .
for latino communities and the politicians seeking their votes - including candidates in the november 2016 presidential election - the agenda is a “ road map , ” said hector sanchez , the chairman of the nhla .
“ for the next four years , this is our guide for collaborating with congress and collaborating with the white house , ” he added .
the agenda underscores the growing power of latinos as a part of the electorate , as presidential candidates have sought to win over those voters on the way to the white house .
latinos are among the nation ’ s fastest growing ethnic groups , and , because of lower voter turnout levels in the past , represent a potential pool of previously untapped voters .
the campaigns of both democratic contenders for the presidency , for example , have recently argued over who actually won the hispanic vote at last week ’ s nevada caucus .
while former secretary of state hillary clinton won the state overall , vermont senator bernie sanders said that entrance polls show he won hispanics .
the clinton campaign disputes those numbers .
the nhla ’ s agenda recommends expanding job opportunities , improving retirement security and increasing support for homeownership .
under immigration , the group wants to see comprehensive immigration reform - a hot button issue in this year ’ s election .
the group wants a path to citizenship , protections for immigrant workers and family reunification provisions , among other items .
“ the nhla also supports addressing the root causes of forced migration and opposes efforts that call into question the citizenship of persons born in the united states , ” the group wrote in the 2016 hispanic public policy agenda .
billionaire businessman donald trump , the republican front-runner for his party ’ s nomination , has repeatedly taken a hard line against illegal immigration , calling for the construction of a wall on the border with mexico .
trump angered a number of activists , latinos and others when , in launching his campaign last year , he suggested that mexican immigrants were rapists and criminals .
but the criticisms have done little to stop him , with trump now having won three of the four earliest nominating contests among republican contenders .
( reporting by luciana lopez in new york ; editing by lisa shumaker ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .