beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon has set a date of may 6 next year to hold its first legislative election in nearly a decade , potentially transforming the politics of a country caught in a confrontation between saudi arabia and iran .
interior minister nohad machnouk signed a decree setting the date on friday , allowing the vote to go ahead at last .
the election has been postponed three times since the last vote in 2009 , with politicians citing security concerns , political crisis and a dispute over the election law .
prime minister saad al-hariri s coalition government , which took office a year ago , agreed on the new election law in june , but setting the date was held up while officials debated technical details and registered lebanese citizens abroad .
lebanon s political landscape has shifted dramatically since the last election .
hariri s pro-western , saudi-backed political alliance has split up .
for the past year he has led a power-sharing government which includes the heavily armed , iran-backed shi ite movement hezbollah , despised by his saudi allies .
hariri sparked a political crisis last month by announcing his resignation while in riyadh and denouncing hezbollah and iran .
he stayed abroad for two weeks before returning , and finally withdrew his resignation last week .
lebanon has a complex electoral system designed to maintain civil peace in a country where sunnis , shi ites , christians and druze fought numerous civil wars since independence in 1943 .
the 128-seat parliament includes 64 christians apportioned among seven denominations , and 64 muslims , including equal numbers of sunnis and shi ites .
the country is divided into districts that each vote for multiple lawmakers according to strict religious quotas .
the president must be a maronite christian , the prime minister a sunni muslim and the parliament speaker a shi ite muslim , representing the three biggest groups in parliament .
the international community has repeatedly stressed the importance of lebanon holding timely elections to restore confidence in its institutions and maintain stability .
machnouk said lebanese abroad would be able to vote on april 22 and 28 .