here s the wikileaks link to all references to tom perez : tom perez wikileakshere s one email to john podesta from perez via wikileaks : from : tomperez1 @ verizon.net to : john.podesta @ gmail.com , maya @ mayalharris.com date : 2016-02-05 03:10 subject : observations from the roadjohn and maya nice job two nights in a row by hrc .
congrats on iowa as well .
a win is a win .
they said high turnout would hurt us and we won nonetheless .
i was in nh on sunday and nevada on monday and tuesday for hrc and thought i would give you some observations from the field .
1 .
i was super impressed with the field staff that i met in both places .
really impressive group everywhere.2 .
i dont think i can add more on new hampshire bc you are there and probably dont need someone else from the peanut gallery .
i think people will be surprised at how she is able to close the gap .
i like the vote with your head and your heart line , and i like the comeback on the establishment stuff .
i also liked how she let her guard down a bit last night in the town hall format .
she humanized herself.3 .
i wish she would talk about the issues she cares about through the prism of more human stories .
logos , ethos , pathos .
she has met so many people with so many gut wrenching stories of grit and determination , struggle followed by success .
i wish there were more pathos , or more real stories behind her really sound policy proposals .
whenever i talk about aca , i talk about through the prism of real people for whom the aca saved their lives .
the stories are incredible .
in my hrc advocacy , i now say how these people dont have the time to wait for senator sanders to complete his quest for the perfect health care system , or the perfect immigration reform bill ; it gets alot of good nods , especially when i talk about kennedy mccain immigration and how bernie opposed this , and immigrants are still suffering the consequences of inaction.4 .
i spent two days in nevada and i am a huge huge fan of emmy , the state director .
she is whip smart , passionate , organized , and knows nevada inside and out .
i have been with her twice now .
she is a huge asset , as is michelle , one of her top aides .
jorge is a top flight comms guy who knows nevada well from harry reid days .
best field organizer i have met so far is a young man named henry who is about an hour from las vegas .
i spoke in this remote town at 10 am on tuesday to hrc volunteers , and he had 50 people there incredibly diverse !
great team.5 .
i think nevada is the firewall on a number of levels , and the most important thing i want to communicate in this email is my strong belief that hrc should travel to nevada asap after new hampshire .
i think she should be in nevada no later than thursday or friday of next week.6 .
nevada is an opportunity to fight back on so many levels .
first , the current storyline is that she does not connect well with young voters .
given that nevada is far more demographically representative of america , i am confident that hrc can do well with all african americans , latinos , and asian americans ( dont forget the sizeable population of asian americans in nevada , including filipinos . ) .
emmy and the team have a good plan to attract all minority voters .
when we do well there , then the narrative changes from bernie kicks ass among young voters to bernie does well only among young white liberals that is a different story and a perfect lead in to south carolina , where once again , we can work to attract young voters of color .
so i think nevada is a real opportunity , and i would strongly urge hrc to get out there within a couple days of nh.7 .
nevada has a greater unity density than new hampshire or iowa , and this also presents an opportunity .
i spent alot of time with union folks in nevada .
of those who have endorsed , i think there are varying levels of enthusiasm .
i spent alot of time giving passionate pep talk about how nevada is labor s biggest and best opportunity thus far to send a strong message to the country that organized labor remains strong and relevant .
they could use additional stroking .
teachers are fine .
trades have some great folks ( todd koch for instance ) and some seemingly more tepid folks .
president clinton i am told is coming out there very soon and i hope he can speak with labor and close the deal.8 .
i went and met with jim murren at mgm .
a great guy as you know .
the caucus system is really tough on shift workers , and he is a huge ally .
we can reach out to him often enough to say thanks .
i am glad i saw him.9 .
the major latino publication in las vegas will be endorsing next week .
jorge has major street cred with them .
we had a good meeting .
they adore hrc and will endorse with enthusiasm.10 .
the caucus system out there is so screwy , and the challenges for shift workers sufficiently significant , that i do worry about turnout .
this is why i hope hrc can get there asap .
anyway , wanted to give you my thoughts .
let me know how i can be of further assistance .
i believe i am heading to milwaukee next thursday to help with debate spin .
tom perez