( reuters ) - retired neurosurgeon ben carson signaled on wednesday he was quitting the republican presidential race , leaving three candidates facing donald trump as the party establishment struggled to find a way to halt the outspoken businessman .
carson , a conservative who briefly led opinion polls among republicans earlier in the campaign , said he did not “ see a political path forward ” after performing poorly in this week ’ s super tuesday nominating contests .
he said he would not participate in a republican debate on thursday .
despite a push by some mainstream republicans to try to block trump from winning the nomination , the billionaire industrialist koch brothers will not deploy their $ 400 million political arsenal to attack him in the presidential primary campaign .
as a conservative black republican , carson , 64 , stood out in the mostly white republican party , but his campaign foundered amid staff infighting and questions about carson ’ s familiarity with foreign policy .
his departure is unlikely to have a major impact on the fight among republicans to become the party ’ s candidate in the nov. 8 election to succeed democratic president barack obama .
reuters/ipsos polling last month showed carson supporters would mostly likely be split if he dropped out between trump and u.s .
senators marco rubio of florida and ted cruz of texas .
trump consolidated his lead in the republican race with a string of victories on tuesday that moved him closer to becoming the nominee .
the 69-year-old new york real estate tycoon won seven states from massachusetts to the conservative deep south .
his victories compounded the problem for a party whose leaders are critical of many of trump ’ s positions and values and skeptical he can defeat the likely democratic nominee , former secretary of state hillary clinton .
trump has showered insults on rivals and is facing strong party disapproval over his ideas to build a wall between the united states and mexico , deport 11 million illegal immigrants and temporarily bar muslims from entering the country .
the 2012 republican nominee , former massachusetts governor mitt romney , plans to deliver a rebuke of trump on thursday in a speech in utah , sources familiar with his thinking said .
it will be a high-profile display of establishment republican unease .
romney ’ s speech comes on the same day that trump and his remaining rivals , rubio , cruz and ohio governor john kasich share a debate stage in detroit , hosted by fox news .
the koch brothers , the most powerful conservative mega donors in the united states , “ have no plans to get involved ” in the republican primary process , james davis , spokesman for freedom partners , the brothers ’ political umbrella group , told reuters .
donors and media reports have speculated that the brothers would launch a “ trump intervention , ” a strategy that would involve deploying the kochs ’ vast political network to target trump in hopes of removing him from the race .
trump has reached out to house of representatives speaker paul ryan , the most senior republican in congress .
the trump campaign contacted ryan ’ s office late on monday , a day before the speaker publicly admonished trump over his failure to repudiate the backing of his candidacy by a white supremacist group .
trump responded with a warning to ryan .
among trump ’ s rivals , cruz , 45 , won three states on tuesday , bolstering the conservative senator ’ s argument that he has the best chance of stopping former reality tv star trump .
the republican establishment ’ s favored 2016 candidate , rubio , only won one super tuesday state , taking minnesota .
anti-trump republicans have yet to coalesce around a single strategy to halt him , but the conservative group club for growth claimed credit for slowing trump in some primary states by running attack ads .
it said it would air a new advertisement in florida as part of a $ 1.5 million ad buy .
some party donors - including hedge-fund manager paul singer and meg whitman , the hewlett-packard enterprise chief executive - organized a phone call on tuesday to get funding for an anti-trump effort , the new york times reported .
but one of trump ’ s former rivals in the 2016 race , mike huckabee , admonished republicans for not respecting the will of the voters .
“ the establishment republicans are all bed-wetting over this and they don ’ t seem to understand that we have an election , ” the former arkansas governor said on fox news .
“ let ’ s remember that we have an election process , not a selection process. ” trump responded to the furor against him , saying in a tweet on wednesday : “ the special interests and people who control our politicians ( puppets ) are spending $ 25 million on misleading and fraudulent t.v .
ads on me. ” trump later unveiled proposals for reforming u.s. healthcare that included repealing obamacare , allowing prescription drugs to be imported , and turning the medicaid program for the poor into block grants to states .
democrats pounced on the republican campaign infighting .
senate minority leader harry reid called trump a “ monster ” the republicans spawned with their years of rancorous opposition to all major obama administration initiatives .
“ republicans created him by spending seven years appealing to some of the darkest forces in america , ” reid said on the senate floor .
in the democratic race , clinton , 68 , took big steps on tuesday toward securing her party ’ s nomination , the 2016 campaign ’ s biggest day of state-by-state nominating contests .
clinton ’ s rival , u.s senator bernie sanders , 74 , won his home state of vermont along with colorado , minnesota and oklahoma .
( reporting by john whitesides in washington and steve holland in detroit ; additional reporting by ginger gibson , richard cowan , doina chiacu , megan cassella and eric walsh in washington and michelle conlin in new york ; writing by doina chiacu and alistair bell ; editing by frances kerry and peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .