ottawa ( reuters ) - morneau shepell inc ( msi.to ) , the human resources management company at the heart of conflict-of-interest allegations against canadian finance minister bill morneau , said on friday it would not benefit from pension or tax legislation proposed by the liberal government .
canadian prime minister justin trudeau s government has been badly shaken by the conflict-of-interest controversy about his finance minister , who is the multimillionaire former chief executive officer of morneau shepell .
some have questioned whether morneau , whose father founded morneau shepell , would be forced to resign .
morneau shepell , a major provider of pension administration services to private companies and government agencies , said it is not involved in the consultation for either changes to the small business tax code or to the pension reform .
if passed , ( the pension reform ) would allow federally regulated pension plans the option to implement target benefit pension plans .
they would not be required to do this , the company said in a statement .
several provinces have already enacted similar enabling legislation for pension plans that they regulate , but in practice , very few employers have adopted it , morneau shepell said .
the company said it severed all contact with morneau upon his election to the house of commons in october 2015 .
morneau resigned as executive chairman of morneau shepell shortly after his election .
morneau , who was named finance minister shortly after his election to parliament , said last week he would put his assets in a blind trust and divest his stockholding in the family business in response to criticism that his proposals for pension or tax reform could benefit his company and his personal finances .
on thursday , morneau said he will donate to charity any profit that his morneau shepell shares have made since he was elected .
the company s stock , currently trading at c $ 21.17 , closed at c $ 15.77 in the session before the election , which would put the potential profit for the 1 million shares morneau has said he holds at c $ 5.4 million .
morneau told reporters on thursday he did not know what the difference in the value of the shares will be .
opposition parties from both the political left and right have seized on the ethics scandal , trying to tie trudeau s team to what they say is an entitled liberal party that has previously faced corruption charges .