hillary clinton used a cnn interview on friday to completely embrace the democrats claim that white people and cops must change to help reduce the number of african-americans killed in tense exchanges with cops .
breitbart newslet s face it , hillary needs votes from the black community come november .
what better way to do it than to continue the false narrative that obama has been using for so long.the facts are just too inconvenient for the black community and the politicians who pander for their votes .
the truth is never spoken for fear of being called a racist or for fear of losing votes .
the black community needs some tough love and that involves honesty .
here s a bit of truth that hillary and obama choose to ignore : african-american communities have a role in reducing police-encounter deaths , which usually occur in tense engagements between a few cops and a few suspects with extensive criminal histories.in general , young african-american men are far more likely to commit crimes than young white men , young asian men or young latino men .
a november 2011 report by the justice department showed that young african-american men are just 1 percent of the population , yet are responsible for a disproportionate percentage of murders in the nation.clinton suggested that people who disagree with her agenda are racists .
there is so much more to be done we can t be engaging in hateful rhetoric or incitement of violence , we need to be bringing people together we need more love and kindness .
white americans need to do a better job of listening when african americans talk about the seen and unseen barriers you face every day.- hillary clinton ( @ hillaryclinton ) july 8 , 2016hillary clinton used a cnn interview on friday to completely embrace the democrats claim that white people and cops must change to help reduce the number of african-americans killed in tense exchanges with cops .
i will call for white people , like myself , to put ourselves in the shoes of those african-american families who fear every time their children go somewhere , who have to have the talk , about , you now , how to really protect themselves [ from police ] , when they re the ones who should be expecting protection from encounters with police , clinton told cnn s wolf blitzer .
i m going to be talking to white people , we re the ones who have to start listening to the legitimate cries coming from our african-american fellow citizens , she said .
we ve got to figure out what is happening when routine traffic stops , when routine arrests , escalate into killings clearly , there seems to be a terrible disconnect between many police departments and officers and the people they have sworn to protect , she said.federal policing guidelines are needed because we have 18,000 police departments [ some of which need more training to ] go after systemic racism , which is a reality , and to go after systemic bias , she said .
we ve got to start once again respecting and treating each other with the dignity that every person deserves , she said.via : breitbart