harrisburg , pa. ( reuters ) - the city council of allentown , pennsylvania , voted unanimously on wednesday to approve a resolution expressing “ no confidence ” in mayor ed pawlowski and urging him to resign as an fbi corruption investigation swirls around city hall .
the move followed guilty pleas by three members of pawlowski ’ s administration to federal charges stemming from what prosecutors say was a pay-to-play scheme benefiting the mayor , who has held the top job in pennsylvania ’ s third-largest city for 10 years .
however , the vote by all seven members of the allentown city council is non-binding , meaning that they can not force pawlowski from office .
“ no , he doesn ’ t have to resign , ” city councilman julio guridy said before the meeting .
“ he can stay there until they arrest him. ” pawlowski did not attend the meeting but a spokesman has previously said he did not intend to resign .
“ it is disappointing that the city council has chosen to be politically opportunistic rather than do the job they have been elected to do , ” pawlowski ’ s attorney , mark schamel , said in a statement issued after the vote .
“ the mayor has not been charged with anything .
it is a political stunt. ” schamel said pawlowski remained committed to serving the city as mayor and urged the public to be patient with the judicial process .
removing an elected official in pennsylvania is relatively difficult unless that official is convicted of a serious crime .
only the state legislature can remove a mayor through impeachment .
allentown residents spoke on both sides of the issue .
“ crime is down everywhere in allentown except in one place , city hall , where we are , ” businessman chris cocca said , calling the resolution “ the right thing to do. ” antiques dealer paul fuhrman said the council was making a mistake : “ this is some kind of vendetta. ” dale wiles , a former assistant city solicitor , pleaded guilty in december to withholding documents from the fbi .
gary strathearn , the former finance director , and mary ellen koval , the former city controller , pleaded guilty this month to fraud charges .
all three are awaiting sentencing .
court papers identify the purported master of the scheme as “ public official # 3. ” the city council resolution says pawlowski is the only city official who fits the description .
pawlowski needed campaign funds in 2014 for an abortive run for governor , and in 2015 for an announced bid for the u.s. senate that ended when the fbi raided city hall on july 2 , 2015 .