london ( reuters ) - the head of the democratic unionist party ( dup ) in the british parliament urged the british government on thursday to institute direct rule of northern ireland in the very near future , saying otherwise its economy would be left to drift .
the british government took a step towards imposing direct rule for the first time in a decade on wednesday by announcing preparations to set northern ireland s budget from london after talks on forming a regional executive collapsed .
while prime minister theresa may is reluctant to impose full direct rule for fear of antagonizing the irish government and northern ireland s large irish nationalist minority , her government is dependent on the dup s 10 votes in parliament to remain in power .
and many fear a move to direct rule for the first time since 2007 would further disturb a political balance between pro-british unionists and irish nationalists , already upset by britain s vote to leave the european union .
a move to direct rule would sideline the dup s main rival sinn fein , which seeks a united ireland with no british governing role in the north .
the party does not take up its seats in the london parliament .
at some point in the very near future we will need to have ministers , and if they are not northern ireland executive ministers ... then it would have to be ministers from here , nigel dodds told the british parliament .
and they will have to take decisions because we can not allow the economy to drift and we can not allow northern ireland to drift , he said .
the dup , he said , had been urging the british government to impose a budget .
direct rule would likely create a conflict with dublin , which says northern ireland s good friday peace deal gives it the right to a role in the running of northern ireland in the event of direct rule .
irish prime minister leo varadkar told may in a phone call overnight there could be no return to direct rule as it existed prior to the good friday agreement , his office said .
may s office did not mention the demand in a statement about the call .
irish nationalists sinn fein and the pro-british dup have shared power in northern ireland for a decade under the terms of the 1998 peace agreement , which ended three decades of violence that killed 3,600 people .
but sinn fein pulled out in january , complaining it was not being treated as an equal partner , and on wednesday blamed the dup for the collapse of talks on forming a new executive .
dodds said sinn fein was to blame for introducing a series of unacceptable preconditions that were not included in a deal between the parties last year .