phnom penh ( reuters ) - an outspoken deputy of cambodia s detained opposition leader fled the country on tuesday , saying she feared for her safety after prime minister hun sen threatened further arrests of opposition politicians .
kem sokha , leader of the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) , was arrested on sept. 3 and charged with treason in a widening crackdown on critics of hun sen , which his opponents say is a ploy to win an election next year .
without a true opposition and with the wide level of fear , there s no hope for free and fair elections in 2018 , mu sochua , 63 , told reuters after leaving cambodia , adding that she did not feel safe .
democracy in cambodia is very rapidly eroding to a point where no other opposing forces are left to fight dictatorship , she said .
government spokesman phay siphan said mu sochua had left of her own choice and he did not know whether authorities had planned to arrest her .
known internationally for campaigns to fight sex trafficking and assert women s rights , mu sochua had been among the most vocal opposition politicians in cambodia since kem sokha was arrested and accused of plotting to take power with u.s. help .
she told reuters last week that around half the cnrp s members of parliament had fled the country in fear .
hun sen , who has ruled for more than three decades , threatened more arrests of opposition politicians on monday , attacking them as rebels in the city bent on staging a colour revolution despite past failures .
western countries have condemned the arrest of kem sokha and called for his release , saying the credibility of next year s election is in doubt , but they have given no sign of taking measures against the government .
meanwhile , china has voiced support for the government of hun sen , 65 .
he is a former commander in the khmer rouge who later defected from the group whose genocide devastated cambodia in the 1970s .
strong gains by the cnrp at local council elections in june had pointed to a tough battle for hun sen in next year s general election .
despite years of annual economic growth of around 7 percent that have helped transform cambodia from a failed state , popular anger has grown over inequality and accusations of cronyism .
in his first comments since his arrest , kem sokha said in a facebook posting on monday that he was seeking positive change in cambodia through the ballot box and not through revolution as charged .
one of his three deputies remains in cambodia .
the evidence presented against kem sokha so far is a video from 2013 in which he tells supporters that he has support from unidentified americans for a plan to gain power .