the fun s already begun at the republican leadership conference on mackinac island in michigan .
a well known political adviser to rand paul , the very snarky john yob , was punched by marco rubio s deputy campaign manager last night.here s a post that appeared on john yob s facebook page this morning .
in his post , john yob has this to say about the alleged perpetrator , he isn t relevant in our political world .
that s likely because it s been our personal experience that no one is relevant in john yob s political world .
he is famous for helping the faux conservative governor snyder to win his first election .
to the best of our knowledge , he has failed miserably at every campaign he s headed up since then .
is it possible he was intentionally agitating rubio s campaign manager for pr ?
we wouldn t put it past him patty and i are on our way to the mackinac event to report back any interesting political happenings so we ll keep everyone updated on this rubio incident .
a huge republican political gathering on mackinac island got under way thursday night with a barroom incident in which a top official for presidential candidate sen. marco rubio allegedly threw a punch at a michigan consultant working for sen. rand paul of kentucky.the alleged incident took place at horn s bar , a popular nightspot on mackinac island , which hosts the mackinac republican leadership conference , which is held every other year and has drawn six gop presidential hopefuls this year.john yob , a grand rapids political consultant who is national political director and chief michigan strategist for the rand paul campaign , said on facebook friday morning that he was punched in the face inside the bar by rich beeson , who is deputy campaign manager for rubio , a florida senator .
i ran into a guy named rich beeson , who frankly i didn t even know who it was at first because he isn t relevant in our political world , yob said .
he literally physically assaulted me by punching me in the face .
the state police are looking for him .
i have it on video , from multiple angles .
this will play out in the national media in the next few hours .
an officer at the mackinac island police department early friday would neither confirm nor deny that the incident took place .
he said there would be no comment until the chief of police arrives at the station later this morning .
beeson did not immediately return a phone message seeking comment.an incident involving alcohol , a punch and horn s bar is already part of michigan political lore.in 2003 , at the detroit regional chamber s annual policy conference on mackinac island , u.s. rep. mike bishop , then a state senator , got punched as he attempted to board a carriage in an early morning incident near horn s bar .
the clarkston man who threw the punch was arrested and convicted.paul is expected to be on the island to speak at the conference .
rubio is not .
the conference , hosted by the michigan republican party , runs until sunday morning.via : dfp