austin , texas ( reuters ) - a former gun industry lobbyist and budget-hawk republicans are leading what might seem to be an unlikely hard-right campaign - trying to sway conservatives in places like utah and kansas that they should be the first republican-held state in four decades to ban the death penalty .
the push from the political advocacy group conservatives concerned about the death penalty and lawmakers in places such as nebraska would have been unthinkable a few years ago when it would have been conservative heresy to end capital punishment , a program seen as bedrock issue of the law-and-order policies embraced by the party .
but those leading the campaign say the death penalty is a costly , inefficient and heavily bureaucratic program that runs counter to their core conservative values of limited government .
“ this is not an issue just for bleeding heart liberals .
this is an issue that pragmatic conservatives are getting on board with , ” said marc hyden , a coordinator of conservatives concerned about the death penalty , a network of political and social conservatives who say capital punishment does not align with their values .
republican support for the death penalty remains strong at 76 percent in 2014 , but that number is down from 85 percent in 1994 , according to gallup .
the conservative push against the death penalty is in its early phase but has led lawmakers in nebraska last year to be the first republican-dominated state in more than 40 years to approve an execution ban .
the measure now needs approval from voters in november to take effect .
in march , lawmakers in red-state utah came close to passing a similar ban .
“ this is a bipartisan issue that anyone can get on board with , ” said hyden , who served as a campaign field representative for the national rifle association .
the death penalty is legal in 31 u.s. states .
but executions have been on the decline for years , in part due to court battles and a scramble to secure execution drugs after a sales ban a few years ago imposed by mostly european manufacturers who said it was immoral for their products to be used to kill inmates .
hyden ’ s group is expanding its efforts in kentucky , missouri , montana , nebraska , north carolina and washington to build bipartisan support in legislatures where rancor between parties has stymied scores of other bills .
but despite the momentum with conservative lawmakers , gaining support among the public in republican-controlled states may be a hurdle too high .
a death penalty repeal bill in missouri , which has executed 86 people since the u.s. supreme court reinstated capital punishment in 1976 , was placed on this year ’ s informal calendar , a wasteland for legislation without the votes to pass .
in red-state utah , which has nine men on death row , the republican-led bill to end the death penalty cleared the senate and a house committee before dying without obtaining a vote .
it likely will come up again in a session next year .
utah state senator steve urquhart , a republican , said he won supporters among senate colleagues by highlighting capital punishment ’ s high costs , lengthy appeals and exonerations in other states , which underlined its fallibility .
“ the death penalty makes absolutely no sense in 2016 , ” he said in an interview .
“ it costs an awful lot of money to execute a prisoner compared to holding that prisoner in jail for the rest of his or her life. ” a state study found that utah pays about $ 1.7 million more to fund items such as appeals , public defenders and carrying out executions for death penalty convictions than it would to incarcerate the same inmate for life .
but advocates of capital punishment balk at the idea that expense should be a factor when deciding punishment for the gravest crimes .
“ the death penalty should not be a utilitarian issue in terms of weighing the costs against the benefits but rather an issue simply of justice , of who deserves it , ” said robert blecker , a professor at new york law school .
the six states before nebraska to abolish the death penalty since 2007 have been left-leaning or left-center maryland , connecticut , illinois , new mexico , new jersey and new york .