great britain s buckingham palace announced yesterday that prince harry , the youngest son of diana , princess of wales , had gotten engaged .
a royal engagement is always big news in the united kingdom , but this one also hit home in the united states too , because harry s now-fiance is american actress meghan markle , best known for her roles as rachel zane in the legal drama series suits , as well as special agent amy jessup in the sci-fi thriller fringe.the british royal family no longer holds anywhere near as much clout as it once did , now essentially relegated to mere tabloid fodder , but while many were expressing their happiness online for one of the windsor s most beloved members , quite a few trump supporters expressed their dissatisfaction at the prince s choice .
you see , markle is biracial , her father being caucasian and her mother african-american , and in the minds of many deplorables , this is a bad thing.it s completely irrelevant that prince philip , the duke of edinburgh and husband of the reigning queen elizabeth ii , is half-greek , because that is pretty much white .
however , when news broke of prince harry s engagement to markle , white supremacists from across the united states and around the globe took to twitter , because in their twisted minds , disturbing the racial purity of the british royal family is not a good thing , despite the fact the fact it has been going on for centuries .
here is but a mere sample : it 's all smiles on tv but in private the # queen is figuring out how to stop # princeharry from destroying the # royalbloodline with mixed race # royalwedding # godsavethequeen $ fb $ twtr $ goog # maga $ penny king ( @ groman100 ) november 27 , 2017totally unsuitable as a royal bride .
prince harry is marrying a left wing dindu .
by royal princess standards she s practically a prostitute .
https : //t.co/ukrkemavno romper stomper ( @ votadini1 ) november 27 , 2017 # princeharry is the biggest cuck in britain he is gon na marry an avarage-looking chick that rode the kok-carousel throughout her 20s what a loser prince harry royal wedding royal family kensington palace western highlander ( @ thegreatwork3 ) november 27 , 2017prince harry is marrying a half breed , down with the crown .
troy williams ( @ troywilliams67 ) november 27 , 2017the bastard cuck is marrying an older half african woman # meganmarkle # princeharry # 14words we must secure https : //t.co/nzixam0sgc pic.twitter.com/ppirhaigw8 doema fadir ( @ doemafadir ) november 27 , 2017prince harry to marry this average ass chick .
man they 're lucky i 'm not the prince i 'd have 500 concubines from all over the world .
i 'd bring back the british empire with this big d. from south africa to the usa baby england owns this shit .
harry is a cuck .
andrew tate ( @ kingcobratate ) november 27 , 2017prince harry the race traitor loves the dindus https : //t.co/9rfpcysq93 n e w g u a r d ( @ whowantstobeano ) november 22 , 2016but when it comes to the american racists letting their opinions be known , is it the princess-to-be s color that is the issue , or is it the fact that their idol has been snubbed from any royal celebration that is causing the real pain ?
that s right , prince harry has made it quite clear that president donald trump is not welcome at his wedding , despite the bride being a united states citizen .
barack and michelle obama , on the other hand , will more than likely be welcomed with open arms.both harry and especially his mother , princess diana , are well-known for their humanitarian work and according to a close source , the prince is not a fan of trump .
harry thinks the president is a serious threat to human rights , the source continued , but there might be a lot more to it than just that.when princess diana split from her husband , prince charles , in 1992 , a palace aide claims that trump was relentless in his pursuit of diana , a claim backed up by british tv journalist and friend of the princess , selina scott .
scott said that trump bombarded diana at kensington palace with massive bouquets of flowers , adding that he gave diana the creeps , a fact trump representatives obviously deny .
then there were these tweets from donald trump when princess kate middleton , wife of harry s brother , prince william , was illegally photographed by paparazzi sunbathing topless in her backyard in 2012 : kate middleton is great but she should n't be sunbathing in the nude only herself to blame .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) september 17 , 2012who would n't take kate 's picture and make lots of money if she does the nude sunbathing thing .
come on kate !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) september 17 , 2012meghan markle has also been a critic of the president , calling him misogynistic and once even threatened to leave the us if he became president , so she would most likely be fine with trump s non-attendance at her wedding , but his supporters won t take too kindly to him being shunned.featured image via chris jackson/getty images for the invictus games foundation