tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - the honduran opposition battling president juan orlando hernandez over a disputed presidential election proposed on tuesday that a run-off be held if authorities would not recount the entire vote .
tv star salvador nasralla , who claimed victory in the nov. 26 election after early results put him ahead of hernandez , has been locked in a bitter row over the vote count since the process broke down and suddenly swung in the president s favor .
the dispute has sparked deadly protests and a night-time curfew in the poor , violent central american country .
on tuesday , nasralla said the electoral tribunal should review virtually all the voting cards .
if you don t agree with that , let s go to a run-off between ( hernandez ) and salvador nasralla , he said on twitter .
former president manuel zelaya , who was ousted in a 2009 coup and now backs nasralla , said that the opposition was seeking a total recount of the vote , or legislation to permit a run-off , which is not used in honduras .
hernandez , who has been praised by the united states for his crackdown on violent street gangs , indicated later on tuesday that his party might be willing to check all votes .
we re open to checking , that there s a review of one , two , three , however many , he said .
they talk about 5,000 ( polling stations ) , of more , of less ; there s no problem , but it has to be under the procedures established by honduran law .
hernandez has not claimed victory in broadcast comments in recent days , but said on tuesday that there will soon be time to celebrate , and praised his center-right national party for containing itself during the turmoil that has followed the vote .
that doesn t mean it s not a vigorous party , and when they see it in the street , they ll see something extraordinary they haven t seen yet , he added , without elaborating .
authorities took a week to count votes in the nation of 9 million people , but the organization of american states ( oas ) said results were marked by irregularities and errors .
the tribunal has not declared an official winner , but the results gave a 1.60 percentage point advantage to hernandez over nasralla , who says tally sheets from ballot boxes were altered and has declared himself the rightful winner .
on tuesday , the top official at the electoral tribunal , david matamoros , invited the opposition to compare their copies of voter tally sheets with the official body s versions .
matamoros also said the tribunal would extend a deadline for legal challenges to friday from wednesday .
street protests in favor of nasralla that began last week continued on tuesday afternoon .
dozens of people , including police officers , gathered at the tegucigalpa headquarters of honduras elite police force yelling out , joh , referring to hernandez s initials .
some rebel police officers had refused to crack down on demonstrations on monday , urging the government to resolve the political deadlock .
but the police force said on tuesday it had agreed to a deal under which it will not be asked to repress legitimate protest .
if demonstrators are caught breaking curfew , their cases will be reviewed , but police officers will also accompany them home , a spokesman said .
nasralla s center-left alliance bloc previously demanded a recount of nearly a third of tally sheets , a request that was backed by the oas and european union election observers .
the alliance is also expected to formally contest the results .
early last week , nasralla , a 64-year-old former sportscaster and game show host , appeared set for an upset victory , gaining a five-point lead with more than half of the ballots tallied .
the count halted for more than a day , and began leaning in favor of hernandez after resuming .