so is anyone else wondering why the cop-hating , racist , bernie sanders supporter tommy dimassimo wasn t arrested and charged with a felony ?
republican presidential candidate donald trump s campaign rallies have become a fixture in the 2016 election season as much for the candidate s rambling speeches as for the frequent interruptions of said speeches.demonstrators have filed in to trump rallies across the country , shouting their anti-trump messages and promptly being ridiculed by rally-goers and led out by law enforcement.on saturday , trump began to call for the arrest of protesters as he was repeatedly interrupted , raising questions about the legality of protest and whether trump can press charges against demonstrators .
so what are the answers ? the short answer is , no.according to h.r .
347 ( signed into law by barack hussein obama in february , 2012 ) it is illegal under current federal to protest of any type , in an area under protection by the u.s. secret service.because donald trump is under secret service protection ( as is hillary clinton , bernie sanders ) and has been since november of 2015 , it is a federal crime to protest at campaign rallies , and is in fact , punishable by imprisonment.free speech isn t covered at any trump , clinton , sanders ( or cruz , rubio , kasich ) rally because protests are considered to be knowingly impeding or disrupting the orderly conduct of an official federal function .
law enforcement has simply tossed out protesters at trump rallies , but h.r .
347 states that they could be imprisoned for up to a year for trespassing.demonstrators are technically relegated to free speech zones much like the ones seen on college campuses.such zones are often used to keep dissenters away from media attention , according to the american civil liberties union.at a recent trump event at valdosta state university , in georgia , the two designated free speech zones were not in sight of the arena where the rally was held .
one was a quarter mile away.trump can call for the arrest of whomever he wants , but he can t do the arresting.he has said , however , that he is going to start pressing charges against protesters as a way to intimidate them into thinking twice about demonstrating at his rallies.based on the change to h.r .
347 in 2012 , he may have grounds to press for trespassing charges against any protester who walked into the rally knowing it was a restricted area , according to the aclu .
via : mashable