kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian president petro poroshenko on friday said he hoped an anti-corruption chamber would be created next month , but expressed doubt that an independent court as envisaged by the international monetary fund could be set up before 2019 .
under its $ 17.5 billion aid-for-reforms program , the imf wants ukraine to set up a special court to focus on tackling corruption , which remains entrenched .
but poroshenko said it would take time to establish this kind of institution .
i hope we create an anti-corruption chamber next month and then , if an anti-corruption court would be created in 2019 , 2020 - welcome ! , poroshenko said at the opening of the annual yalta european strategy ( yes ) conference .
the proposal of an anti-corruption chamber in existing courts has previously been criticized by reform activists , who say the body would not be sufficiently independent .
poroshenko s comments are at odds with the views of the imf s first deputy managing director , david lipton , who visited kiev this week to meet the authorities and said an anti-corruption court should be a priority .
we certainly agree that the creation of an anti-corruption court is an important next step .
we encourage the government to do that , lipton was quoted on friday as telling newspaper ukrainska pravda in an interview .
ukraine has received $ 8.4 billion from the imf , helping it recover from a two-year recession following the annexation of crimea by russia in 2014 and the outbreak of a russian-backed insurgency in its industrial east .
but further disbursements depend in part on the adoption of pension reform , a review of gas prices and the creation of an anti-corruption judicial body .
some of these requirements face stiff opposition from populist lawmakers .
there are risks of going backwards , lipton said , referring to ukraine s progress under the imf program .
he said it was too early to forecast when ukraine could receive the next tranche of loans .
first , we need to see the reforms that are needed for this review to be implemented .
he said the focus of this review was pension reform and measures to speed up privatization and ensure concrete results in anti-corruption efforts .
fiscal and energy sector policies must remain consistent with the program also .