this last year could be the most devastating year for america with obama s attempt at tackling unfinished business .
gun control , closing gitmo and so many other things obama s got in store for us .
while congress does absolutely nothing !
please remember this and vote accordingly ! honolulu ( ap ) president barack obama is returning to the rancor of the nation s capital after two weeks of fun and sun in his native hawaii , saying he s fired up for his final year in office and ready to tackle unfinished business.at the top of obama s priority list is executive action that is expected to expand when background checks are required for gun purchases .
obama is meeting with attorney general loretta lynch on monday to discuss a three-month review of what actions he could take to help reduce gun violence.the actions , which are staunchly opposed by republicans and likely to spark a legal fight , underscore obama s desire to keep up an aggressive agenda in 2016 , even as the public s attention shifts to the presidential election.obama spent much of his vacation out of the public eye , playing golf with friends and dining out on the island of oahu with his family .
he also worked on his final state of the union address , scheduled for jan. 12.the address to congress is a high-profile opportunity for the president to try to reassure the public about his national security stewardship after the terrorism attacks in paris and san bernardino , california .
advisers say obama will also look for other opportunities to keep security issues at the forefront as he tries to ease americans concerns.despite his deep differences with republicans , obama has cited two agenda items for 2016 that have bipartisan support : a free trade agreement with 11 other nations called the trans-pacific partnership and changes in the criminal justice system that would reduce incarceration rates for nonviolent offenders .
he often points out that the u.s. accounts for 5 percent of the world s population and 25 percent of its inmates.read more : ap