a new report from harvard kennedy school s shorenstein center on media , politics and public policy analyzes news coverage during the 2016 general election , and concludes that both hillary clinton and donald trump received coverage that was overwhelmingly negative in tone and extremely light on policy.this is the final report of a multi-part research series analyzing news coverage of candidates and issues during the 2016 presidential election .
the study tracks news coverage from the second week of august 2016 to the day before election day.negative coverage was the order of the day in the general election .
not a week passed where the nominees coverage reached into positive territory .
it peaked at 81 percent negative in mid-october , but there was not a single week where it dropped below 64 percent negative.the press s negative bent is not confined to election politics ( see figure 4 ) .
[ 2 ] in recent years , when immigration has been the subject of news stories , the ratio of negative stories to positive ones has been 5-to-1 .
in that same period , news reports featuring muslims have been 6-to-1 negative .
news stories about health care policy , most of which centered on the 2010 affordable care act , have been 2-to-1 negative .
although the nation s economy has steadily improved since the financial crisis of 2008 , one would not know that from the tone of news coverage .
since 2010 , news stories about the nation s economy have been 2-to-1 negative over positive.the real bias of the press is not that it s liberal .
its bias is a decided preference for the negative .
as scholar michael robinson noted , the news media seem to have taken some motherly advice and turned it upside down .
if you don t have anything bad to say about someone , don t say anything at all .
[ 3 ] a new york times columnist recently asserted that the internet is distorting our collective grasp on the truth .
[ 4 ] there s a degree of accuracy in that claim but the problem goes beyond the internet and the talk shows .
the mainstream press highlights what s wrong with politics without also telling us what s right.it s a version of politics that rewards a particular brand of politics .
when everything and everybody is portrayed as deeply flawed , there s no sense making distinctions on that score , which works to the advantage of those who are more deeply flawed .
civility and sound proposals are no longer the stuff of headlines , which instead give voice to those who are skilled in the art of destruction .
the car wreck that was the 2016 election had many drivers .
journalists were not alone in the car , but their fingerprints were all over the wheel.the research is confined to the election coverage in the print editions of five daily papers ( the los angeles times , the new york times , the wall street journal , the washington post , and usa today ) and the main newscasts of five television networks ( abc world news tonight , cbs evening news , cnn s the situation room , fox s special report , and nbc nightly news ) .
in the case of the newspapers , the analysis covers all sections except sports , obituaries , and letters to the editor .
op-eds and editorials are included , but letters from the public are not .
for television , the analysis covers the full daily content of each network s major newscast .
network talk shows are not included.trump s general election news coverage fit the pattern of earlier stages of the campaign in several respects but not all .
the major departure was that his general election coverage was overwhelmingly negative in tone .
in our earlier reports , we documented the positive coverage trump received during the nominating stage of the campaign , a pattern largely attributable to the press s tendency to highlight the horserace in the pre-primary and primary periods .
as trump rose from single digits in the polls and then won key primaries , he got favorable press .
it was a story of growing momentum , rising poll numbers , ever larger crowds , and electoral success .
the fact that the horse race is the most heavily covered aspect of the nominating phase magnified trump s favorable coverage.trump s general election coverage was a stark contrast .
his coverage was negative from the start , and never came close to entering positive territory ( see figure 8 ) .
during his best weeks , the coverage ran 2-to-1 negative over positive .
in his worst weeks , the ratio was more than 10-to-1 .
if there was a silver lining for trump , it was that his two best weeks were the ones just preceding the november balloting .
trump s coverage was negative in all the news outlets in our study , even those that typically side with the republican nominee ( see figure 9 ) .
fox provided trump his most favorable coverage , but it was still nearly 3-to-1 negative over positive .
the wall street journal was his next best outlet , but its coverage ran 4-to-1 negative .
the most negative coverage was carried by cbs at 9-to-1 , but trump s coverage was nearly as negative in most other outlets.compare to hillary s coverage : to be sure , changes in journalism are not the only reason that campaigns have become more negative .
the party polarization that has seeped into american politics during the past three decades has been accompanied by rising levels of partisan attack .
but to claim that party polarization explains the media s negative bent is to ignore the fact that the press s negativity is not confined to party politics .
there s barely an aspect of public life that is not subject to intense criticism.a healthy dose of negativity is unquestionably a good thing .
there s a lot of political puffery , ineptitude , and manipulation that needs to be exposed , and journalists would be shirking their duty if they failed to expose it .
yet an incessant stream of criticism has a corrosive effect .
it needlessly erodes trust in political leaders and institutions and undermines confidence in government and policy.negative news has partisan consequences .
given that journalists bash both sides , it might be thought the impact would be neutral .
it s not .
for one thing , indiscriminate criticism has the effect of blurring important distinctions .
were the allegations surrounding clinton of the same order of magnitude as those surrounding trump ?
it s a question that journalists made no serious effort to answer during the 2016 campaign .
they reported all the ugly stuff they could find , and left it to the voters to decide what to make of it .
large numbers of voters concluded that the candidates indiscretions were equally disqualifying and made their choice , not on the candidates fitness for office , but on less tangible criteria in some cases out of a belief that wildly unrealistic promises could actually be kept.for entire story and study : harvard kennedy school shorenstein center on media , politics and public policy