jerusalem ( reuters ) - in the 50 years since israel captured jerusalem , the rhetoric of leaders in the middle east has reflected the deep division over the fate of the city .
jerusalem remains at the heart of the conflict in the region .
here are some of the statements made since 1967 : * anwar sadat , egyptian president from 1970 to 1981 , in a speech to the israeli knesset in jerusalem in 1977 : there are arab lands which israel occupied and continues to occupy through armed force .
we insist on the complete withdrawal from them , including arab jerusalem ...
it is inadmissible that anyone should conceive the special status of the city of jerusalem within the framework of annexation or expansionism .
* golda meir , prime minister of israel from 1969 to 1974 , to time magazine in 1973 : arab sovereignty in jerusalem just can not be .
this city will not be divided - not half and half , not 60-40 , not 75-25 , nothing .
the only way we will lose jerusalem is if we lose a war , and then we lose all of it .
* yasser arafat , palestinian president and chairman of the palestine liberation organization until his death in 2004 , said more than once : jerusalem is the eternal capital of the palestinian state .
whoever accepts this , fine .
whoever does not , let him drink from the sea at gaza .
there is absolutely nobody among us who will surrender one grain of the soil of noble jerusalem .
* yitzhak rabin , prime minister of israel , in a speech to the knesset in 1995 , the year of his assassination : i said yesterday , and repeat today , that there are not two jerusalems ; there is only one jerusalem .
from our perspective , jerusalem is not a subject for compromise .
jerusalem was ours , will be ours , is ours and will remain as such forever .
* benjamin netanyahu , prime minister of israel from 1996 to 1999 and its current leader , in a 2010 speech to the american israel public affairs committee ( aipac ) in washington : the jewish people were building jerusalem 3,000 years ago and the jewish people are building jerusalem today .
jerusalem is not a settlement .
it s our capital .
in a may 2017 event marking 50 years since east jerusalem s capture , he said : fifty years ago , we didn t occupy , we liberated ; by the heroism of our warriors and the love of our people , jerusalem was liberated .
i say to the world with a clear voice : jerusalem was and always will be the capital of israel .
the temple mount and the western wall will always remain under israeli sovereignty .
in another speech , he said : we will continue to ensure that jerusalem is an open city accessible to all religions ; a city where jews and arabs , christians and muslims co-exist and enjoy freedom of religion and access to religious sites .
* mahmoud abbas , current palestinian president , in a speech to the 2007 annapolis peace conference in the united states : we want east jerusalem to be our capital - a capital where we will have open relations with west jerusalem and where we will guarantee for believers of all religions the freedom to practice their rituals .
in another undated speech , he said : unless it is written in thick and clear letters that jerusalem is the capital of the state of palestine , there shall be no peace with them .
* khaled meshaal , former leader of the palestinian islamist movement hamas , in a 2010 speech : jerusalem belongs to its people , to the arab and muslim people of palestine .
it s the gate to heaven and it is not fitting to make jerusalem a gate to surrender and sellout .
no palestinian , arab or muslim leader , regardless of his stature , can sign a deal that gives away jerusalem , or provide cover for such a deal .
* ayatollah ruhollah khomeini , leader of the 1979 islamic revolution in iran , in a 1981 address marking al-quds day ( jerusalem day ) , which he declared as falling on the last friday of the muslim holy month of ramadan : in order to liberate al-quds ( jerusalem ) , machineguns relying on faith and the power of islam must be used , and political games redolent of compromise and keeping the superpowers happy laid aside .