deir al zor , syria ( reuters ) - u.s.-allied militias in northern syria announced on saturday the formation of a civilian council to govern the oil rich eastern province of deir al zor where they are racing with the syrian army to capture territory held by islamic state .
the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , which includes arab militias but is dominated by the powerful kurdish ypg militia , launched an operation in deir zor province which borders iraq earlier this month which captured its northern countryside and advanced east of the euphrates river .
on saturday they seized a major gas field in deir al-zor province from islamic state militants in rapid advances that preempted the syrian government that was also heading in that direction .
in a separate offensive , syrian army and iranian backed militias with russian air power had also this month broke a years-long islamic state siege of government-held parts of deir al-zor on the other side of the euphrates river .
the advances against islamic state have brought u.s.-backed forces and the syrian government side , backed by russia and iran , into close proximity .
the assaults by the russian-backed syrian army and the u.s.-backed sdf have at times raised fears of clashes that could stoke tensions between the competing world powers .
the sdf appointed one hundred tribal figures to meet and elect a council to run the province on sunday .
in a final communique the council said its priority was the return of tens of thousands of displaced residents of the province who fled during the conflict and restoring basic utilities .
it urged the u.s. led coalition to provide aid to the war-torn province .
we want to cement ties among the people of the province , the statement of the newly formed deir al-zor civil council said .
the extent of kurdish control in the eastern province that lies at the heart of arab tribal area is sensitive both for residents and for ankara , which has fought a three-decade kurdish insurgency inside turkey and fears growing ypg ascendancy just over the border in northern syria .
many local arab tribes from the region also complain they are marginalized in decision making and blame the ypg for discrimination against them , including the forced conscription of their youths .
the ypg denies these allegations .
the establishment of a local council effectively run by the sdf expands a sphere of kurdish influence that has grown in northern syria during the multi-sided conflict .
it would mirror governing arrangements put in place in other towns after the sdf repelled islamic state .