london ( reuters ) - britain commissioned a report on thursday on the economic impact of foreign students , part of an increasingly heated debate over whether they should be included in the government s target of reducing migration to the tens of thousands .
prime minister theresa may has been under pressure to drop international students from britain s immigration figures , which have remained stubbornly high despite her pledge as interior minister seven years ago to reduce them to under 100,000 a year .
high rates of immigration into britain were a major reason for the vote to leave the european union last year .
but many officials argue that foreign students contribute to the economy .
there is no limit to the number of genuine international students who can come to the uk to study , and the fact that we remain the second most popular global destination for those seeking higher education is something to be proud of , interior minister amber rudd said in a statement .
we understand how important students from around the world are to our higher education sector , which is a key export for our country , and that s why we want to have a robust and independent evidence base of their value and the impact they have .
immigration has long been a sensitive topic in britain .
the expansion of the european union to take in some eastern european countries saw rates jump , which critics said put pressure on public services such as hospitals .
but others argue that immigration helps the economy and a provides a much-needed workforce .
by including students in the immigration figures , they say , britain is failing to acknowledge the contribution they make or that most leave after finishing their studies .
international students make up around a quarter of total immigration , according to official figures .
data released on thursday showed that net migration to britain in the year to march 2017 fell by 81,000 to 246,000 people .
more than half of those who left were eu citizens .
in a separate report on what s happening with international student migration ?
, the office for national statistics said : there is no evidence of a major issue of non-eu students overstaying their entitlement to stay .
of the 1.34 million nationals from outside the european economic area who held visas that expired in 2016/17 , 96.3 percent departed before the visa expired , the ons said in another report .
another 0.4 percent departed after their visa had expired .
just 3.3 percent were not initially identified as having departed after their leave expired .
we have always been clear that our commitment to reducing net migration to sustainable levels does not detract from our determination to attract international students from around the world , immigration minister brandon lewis said .
since 2010 we have clamped down on abuse , while increasing the number of genuine students that come to the uk from around the world .