cairo ( reuters ) - former egyptian prime minister ahmed shafiq , an ex-air force pilot and former presidential candidate , said on wednesday he intended to run in the presidential election early next year and would return to cairo in the coming days .
but shafiq later told pan-arab tv channel al jazeera that the united arab emirates , a close ally of egypt s where he is currently living , had barred him from traveling .
i was surprised that i was prevented from leaving the uae for reasons i do not understand , shafiq said , adding that he thanked the uae for its hospitality but wished to depart .
anwar gargash , the uae minister of state for foreign affairs , denied on his official twitter account that any obstacles had been placed to his travel , saying the uae hosted him despite strong reservations about some of his positions .
in a video declaration sent earlier to reuters as well as a telephoned statement , shafiq said he would run in the election planned for around april , when president abdel fattah al-sisi is widely expected to seek a second term .
i m honored to announce my will to run in the upcoming presidential elections in egypt as a choice to be president of the country for the next four years , he said in the statement from the uae in which he highlighted his time in the air force .
shafiq would be among a small number of candidates to announce their intentions for 2018 .
he lost against mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood in the first presidential election after egypt s 2011 uprising toppled autocrat hosni mubarak .
sisi , who as a military commander led the army s ousting of mursi in 2013 before his own landslide election a year later , has yet to announce whether he will run again .
he says he will follow the will of the people .
his supporters regard sisi as the key to stability following the prolonged , violent upheaval that followed the 2011 revolt .
his government is fighting a stubborn islamist militancy in the north sinai and has also enacted painful austerity reforms over the last year that critics say have dented his popularity .
after his defeat , shafiq fled overseas .
he formed a political party and led it from abroad but it failed to make significant gains in a 2015 parliamentary election .
shafiq has faced various corruption charges but was either acquitted or had cases against him dropped in most instances .
a year ago , his lawyer said he was removed from airport watchlists , clearing his way to return home .