buenos aires ( reuters ) - three argentine judges ordered that a key official in former president cristina fernandez s government be detained on tuesday as part of a probe into an alleged case of fraud .
the request to detain former planning minister and current lawmaker julio de vido comes five days before the country s parliamentary elections in which fernandez is seeking a senate seat .
de vido , who as planning minister was in charge of running energy infrastructure projects , is under investigation in a case involving the patagonian coal mine rio turbio , which prosecutors say is underproducing despite receiving multi-million dollar investments from the state .
reuters was not able to reach de vido for comment .
in july , he gave an interview to a radio station in which he denied any wrongdoing in the case .
in an official ruling , the judges said de vido should be jailed because of the risk of him fleeing or interfering with the case .
his imprisonment is the only viable alternative for ensuring the success of the investigation , the ruling said .
de vido can not be arrested unless congress agrees to strip him of his parliamentary immunity .
past efforts to strip lawmakers of parliamentary immunity have mostly proved futile in argentina .
fernandez , who governed the country from 2007 to 2015 , remains the main force of opposition to center-right president mauricio macri .
polls show her coming a close second ahead of an oct. 22 senate race in argentina s largest province of buenos aires , behind macri s preferred candidate .
that result would still guarantee her a senate seat and immunity from arrest , but is seen lessening her chances of making a new run for the presidency in 2019 .
the former president s time in office has been peppered with corruption accusations , some of which have involved de vido .
fernandez , the subject of corruption investigations herself , has acknowledged there was likely corruption during her government but denies personal involvement .