hong kong ( reuters ) - authorities in the chinese territory of macau have ramped up security measures following the deadly las vegas shooting this month and unveiled plans for a series of mock attacks and crisis training to safeguard the world s largest gambling hub .
the new recommendations were laid out in a government statement following a meeting on monday between macau s gaming regulator , the judiciary police and representatives from the six licensed casino operators which include wynn macau and sands china .
the former portuguese colony of macau had seen heady gang violence and bombings until china took control in 1999 .
since the handover , booming casino revenues have propelled the tiny enclave of 600,000 people to one of the world s richest cities .
macau had a relatively lower risk of attack , said chau wai kuong , director of macau s judiciary police , although he cautioned the special administrative region must be vigilant .
the las vegas attack on october 1 was the deadliest mass shooting in modern u.s. history after gunman stephen paddock opened fire from his hotel room on more than 20,000 concertgoers at an outdoor venue .
a total of 59 people were killed , including paddock who shot himself .
a simulation of attacks should be conducted in the short term ... so that the frontline workers of casinos are more skilled in handling emergency incidents , the statement from macau authorities said .
other measures included setting up a special action team with protective equipment and additional physical training for frontline staff to help reduce any casualties in any potential situations before police arrive .
casinos will also install metal detectors at all entrances and place a ban on luggage on the casino floors .
operators also need to train their employees to identify suspicious people and increase overall security procedures .
paulo martins chan , the head of macau s gaming regulator , said all operators had purchased permanent metal detectors which would help to reduce and dispel criminals .
macau s casino operators wynn macau , sands china , mgm china , melco crown , sjm and galaxy entertainment had already been on alert following an attack in june at a manila casino where a lone gunman started a blaze that killed more than 30 people .