bogota ( reuters ) - the commander of colombia s marxist eln rebels on friday ordered his fighters to begin a ceasefire this weekend as the group struggles through complicated peace talks with the government aimed at ending five decades of war .
nicolas rodriguez , known by his war alias gabino , told the national liberation army ( eln ) guerrillas to begin their part in a bilateral ceasefire agreement with president juan manuel santos government starting on sunday and running through mid-january .
the eln is in talks in ecuador to end its part in a conflict involving government troops , leftist rebels , criminal gangs and right-wing paramilitary groups .
since negotiations began in february , the eln has continued to take hostages for ransom and stepped up bomb attacks in recent weeks on oil companies .
it wasn t easy to reach this agreement but finally we achieved it .
since talks began with santos s government we have insisted on the urgency of this ceasefire because it stops offensive actions and brings important humanitarian relief to the colombian population , rodriguez said in a video message .
during the ceasefire , agreed on sept. 4 , the insurgent group has pledged to suspend hostage taking , attacks on roads and oil installations , the use of landmines and the recruitment of minors .
in turn , the government agreed to improve protection for community leaders and conditions for about 450 jailed rebels .
colombians , we must never stop seeking peace .
i hope this temporary ceasefire ... can be extended and become the first step to peace with the eln , santos said in a national address on friday .
the center-right president signed a peace deal with the larger revolutionary armed forces of colombia in late 2016 after negotiations in cuba that lasted four years .
founded by radical roman catholic priests in 1964 , the eln has sought peace with the government before but made little progress .
this would be the first ceasefire with the eln .
the eln is considered a terrorist group by the united states and european union .