oslo ( reuters ) - the nobel peace prize winner s campaign to ban nuclear weapons will not make the world more peaceful , the u.s. embassy in norway said , confirming its top diplomat will not attend next month s award ceremony .
on wednesday , the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons ( ican ) accused the united states , britain and france of snubbing its disarmament work by planning to send only second-rank diplomats in a coordinated move .
ican , a little-known organization that was a surprise choice for the prize , has been campaigning for the u.n. treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons , which was adopted by 122 nations in july this year .
but the treaty is not signed by - and would not apply to - any of the states that already have nuclear arms : the united states , russia , china , britain and france , as well as india , pakistan and north korea .
north korea said it had successfully tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile on wednesday in a breakthrough that puts the u.s. mainland within range of its nuclear weapons .
the u.s. embassy in oslo said it planned to send its acting deputy chief of mission instead of its acting ambassador to the dec. 10 ceremony , attended by king harald and queen sonja and the highlight of the diplomatic calendar in norway .
this year s nobel peace prize to ican for its efforts in support of the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons , comes at a time of increased danger of nuclear proliferation , the embassy said in the statement to reuters on thursday .
this treaty will not make the world more peaceful , will not result in the elimination of a single nuclear weapon , and will not enhance any state s security , it said .
this treaty ignores the current security challenges that make nuclear deterrence necessary , and risks undermining existing efforts to address global proliferation .
last month , u.s. president donald trump nominated kenneth braithwaite to the post of ambassador in oslo , currently held by an acting ambassador .
while britain and france will do the same as the united states in sending lower-ranking diplomats to the ceremony , the other two permanent members of the u.n. security council are taking different approaches .
the russian embassy said it would send its ambassador to the ceremony .
the ambassador is planning to attend , said russian embassy spokeswoman olga kiriak .
the chinese embassy said the ambassador was unavailable and that it had no plans to send someone else instead of him .
we can not be sure about the ambassador s schedule at this time .
he is on holiday , said a press officer at the chinese embassy , who did not give her name .