washington ( reuters ) - secretary of state john kerry urged congress on thursday not to rush to renew the iran sanctions act ( isa ) , a broad u.s. law imposing sanctions over iran ’ s nuclear and missile programs that expires at the end of the year .
“ i wouldn ’ t advise that for a number of reasons , ” kerry told the house of representatives foreign affairs committee at a hearing on the state department ’ s budget .
many lawmakers have been pushing to renew the isa quickly , to send a message to tehran that congress is still taking a hard line over its nuclear program , missile development and human rights record .
the effort could set up another showdown over iran between the administration and the republicans who control congress .
every republican in congress , and several of president barack obama ’ s fellow democrats , opposed the agreement announced in july in which tehran agreed to curb its nuclear program in exchange for sanctions relief .
house republicans early this month passed legislation to restrict obama ’ s ability to lift sanctions under the nuclear pact .
the senate has not taken it up and obama has threatened a veto , and lawmakers are discussing alternatives .
“ if the administration isn ’ t supportive of this renewal ( of the isa ) , not only are we preventing the possibility of a snapback , but from the standpoint of myself and many of the members of this committee , we ’ re also giving relief on missiles , ” said representative ed royce , the republican committee chairman .
iran tested ballistic missile technology in october , prompting the united states to impose new sanctions in january , but many members of congress want a stronger response .
kerry said lawmakers should allow more time to see how iran responds to the international nuclear agreement , which went into effect only last month .
he argued that sanctions can be imposed quickly if iran is found to violate terms of the nuclear deal or other agreements .
kerry was asked about reports that iran will enjoy a windfall of up to $ 150 billion from the nuclear agreement as money frozen under the sanctions regime is released .
he said the total likely would be about one-third of that level , and currently is far lower .
“ our estimates are it ’ s somewhere in the vicinity of $ 50 to $ 55 billion at some point in time but it ’ s way below that right now. ” kerry said .
“ and in fact , they are complaining about the slowness with which there has been a process of repatriation . ”