tunis ( reuters ) - the united nations migration agency is stepping up the rate at which it flies migrants home from libya , aiming to evacuate up to 15,000 in the final month of the year .
the acceleration of returns is an attempt to ease severe overcrowding in detention centers , where numbers swelled after boat departures for italy from the smuggling hub of sabratha were largely blocked this year .
it also followed a cnn report showing migrants being sold for slave labor in libya , sparking an international outcry and calls for migrants to be given safe passage from the country .
the international organization for migration ( iom ) has already flown back more than 14,500 migrants to their countries of origin so far this year as part of its voluntary returns program .
nigeria , guinea , gambia , mali and senegal have seen the highest numbers of returns .
migrant flows through libya surged from 2014 .
more than 600,000 crossing the central mediterranean to italy over the past three years , but departures from libya s coast dropped sharply in july when armed groups in sabratha began preventing boats from leaving .
after clashes in the western city in september , thousands of migrants who had been held near the coast surfaced and were transferred to detention centers under the nominal control of the u.n.-backed government in tripoli .
numbers in about 16 centers rose to nearly 20,000 , from 5,000-7,000 previously , leading to a worsening of already poor conditions .
we are seeing an increasing number of migrants wishing to return home especially after what happened in sabratha , it s all linked to sabratha , said ashraf hassan , head of the iom returns program .
in the aftermath of the cnn report and an african union visit to libya , some countries of origin have begun accepting charter flights returning migrants from libya for the first time .
the iom has shortened procedures for screening migrants libya , collecting less statistical data and focusing on trying to ensure that migrants will not be put at risk by returning , hassan said .
the agency hopes to have three charter flights leaving per day by dec. 11 , increasing that to five flights by dec. 15 .
on tuesday nearly 400 migrants were flown back to nigeria on two flights from tripoli , the capital , and from the western city of misrata .
( this story has been refiled to fix typo in 9th paragraph . )