washington ( reuters ) - public pension funds in at least seven u.s. states have invested millions of dollars in an investment fund that owns a new york hotel and pays one of president donald trump ’ s companies to run it , according to a reuters review of public records .
that arrangement could put trump at risk of violating an obscure constitutional clause , some legal experts say .
the trump soho hotel and condominium in manhattan is an upscale 46-story property owned by a los angeles investment group , the cim group , through one of its real estate funds .
( read the most recent amendment to the trump soho ’ s offering plan : tmsnrt.rs/2q3hjh8 ) the possible problem for trump lies in the fact that state- and city-run pension funds have invested in the cim fund and pay it a few million dollars in quarterly fees to manage their investments in its portfolio , which includes the trump soho , according to state investment records .
in return for marketing and managing the hotel-condo , cim pays trump international hotels management llc 5.75 percent of the soho ’ s operating revenues annually .
that payment chain merits closer scrutiny because it could put trump at risk of falling foul of a little-known constitutional rule prohibiting the flow of money from states to the pockets of a sitting president , five ethics and constitutional law experts interviewed by reuters said .
( graphic on trump soho payment chain : tmsnrt.rs/2pfkz40 ) no other public pension fund investments in trump-affiliated businesses have been reported .
the white house referred comment to the trump organization , the parent conglomerate for trump ’ s businesses , which did not respond to repeated calls and emails for comment .
while trump turned over management of the trump organization in january to a trust controlled by his two elder sons , he still earns revenue from the soho .
that ’ s because he still owns the businesses in the trump organization , including trump international hotels management llc .
article ii of the u.s. constitution bars the president from receiving additional payments beyond his salary from state governments .
this so-called “ domestic emoluments clause ” prohibits “ any other emolument from the united states , or any of them. ” this clause and a “ foreign emoluments clause ” prohibiting similar payments from foreign governments have been thrust to the fore because of trump ’ s vast , complicated network of businesses , which ethics experts say has created unprecedented conflicts of interest .
a group of constitutional and ethics experts have filed a lawsuit alleging trump was violating both clauses by letting his hotels and other businesses accept payments from public officials .
trump said the suit was without merit .
the lawsuit does not refer to the cim fund .
the group ’ s april complaint cited dozens of violations , including foreign government leases and purchases at trump ’ s properties in the united states , which have resulted in unknown amounts being paid to trump since he was inaugurated .
the soho hotel-condo management contract is a significant revenue generator for trump through his hotel management company .
in 2015 and the first five months of 2016 , trump international hotels management llc drew at least $ 3.1 million from the soho , and trump received $ 3.3 million in income from the hotel management company , hotel records and campaign filings show .
( read the 2014 and 2015 financial statements for the trump soho : tmsnrt.rs/2q3vnjp ) cim said its policy is not to comment on its private funds , agreements , or the operations of its funds ’ investments .
the state- or city-run pension funds are in california , new york , texas , arizona , montana , michigan and missouri .
they have more than 5 million members - from state lawmakers in california to teachers in texas and police officers in new york .
they include the california public employees ’ retirement system , the nation ’ s largest public pension fund .
the pension funds ’ money accounts for about half of the total capital cim raised from its investors to invest in the properties in the fund , including the trump soho , according to the pension funds ’ financial records and sec filings .
cim declined to disclose how many properties are in the fund .
some of the 11 pension funds contacted by reuters declined to comment on the payment chain between them and trump .
others referred the question to cim , saying their investment in the cim fund does not give them control over its asset acquisitions .
reuters presented its findings to six lawyers with expertise in constitutional law and emoluments issues .
one of the lawyers , david rivkin jr. , associate white house counsel during the george h. w. bush administration , said the public investments do not put trump at risk of violating the constitution .
payments clearly related to non-official activities that “ have nothing to do with the discharge of duties in office ” are not emoluments , rivkin said .
three , however , said if trump financially benefited from a business whose owner drew millions of dollars in fees from u.s. states - in this case cim - this presented a serious argument for a domestic emoluments violation .
“ if you take a step back and look at this transaction , it ’ s a payment chain from state pension funds to president trump , ” said jed shugerman , a law professor at fordham university .
“ this looks like an emolument to me. ” two other lawyers said the arrangement raised significant questions , but all depended on how broadly a court interpreted the constitutional clause .
“ we ’ re in largely uncharted territory on that front given that past presidents have gone to great lengths to avoid the kinds of issues we ’ re now confronting , ” said brianne gorod , chief counsel at the constitutional accountability center , a washington research organization and public advocacy law firm .
none of the 11 pension funds contacted by reuters said they were prepared to divest from the cim fund .
for instance , the teacher retirement system of texas , which has invested $ 225 million in the cim fund , said it was “ not our practice to comment on questions of this nature. ” one member of the texas teachers ’ pension fund , byron hildebrand , 61 , state secretary for the association of texas professional educators , however , said he would alert teachers across his state to the pension fund ’ s exposure to the trump hotel and call on the state to consider divesting .
divesting from the cim fund would likely force the public pension funds to sell their cim shares at a loss , said tom lopez , the chief investment officer of the los angeles fire and police pensions , one of the pension funds in the cim fund , which is also known as a real estate partnership .
even though the partnership ’ s returns on investment are overall quite strong , trying to sell interest in a 10-year-old partnership is like “ trying to sell a used car , ” he said .
lopez noted that all the public funds invested in the cim fund long before it acquired the soho – and long before anybody thought trump would become president .