washington ( reuters ) - supporters of donald trump , the presumptive u.s. republican presidential nominee , see refugees arriving from iraq and syria as one of the greatest threats to the united states , according to a study released on thursday by the pew research center .
eighty-five percent of respondents who said they supported trump saw the refugees fleeing the islamic state militant group as a threat , compared with 74 percent of republicans overall , said the study .
only 40 percent of democrats viewed the refugees from the region as a major threat .
trump ’ s campaign said in a statement last december that he was “ calling for a total and complete shutdown of muslims entering the united states until our country ’ s representatives can figure out what is going on. ” his comments followed fatal attacks in paris claimed by islamic state and a deadly shooting spree in san bernardino , california , by a muslim couple who the fbi said had been radicalized .
u.s. president barack obama ’ s promise to admit 10,000 syrian refugees by the end of the year has sparked a backlash from republicans , concerned that violent militants could come into the united states posing as refugees .
more than 30 governors have tried to block refugees from their states .
there are nearly 5 million registered syrian refugees according to the united nations , a result of a war in which more than 250,000 people have been killed .
the pew report , based mostly on telephone interviews with about 2,000 u.s. adults from april 12 to 19 , found that 65 percent of trump supporters also saw the u.s. involvement in the global economy in a negative light .
there were also contradictions among americans when asked about u.s. defense spending and foreign military action .
although 35 percent of all respondents said they were in support of increasing defense spending , the highest level of support since the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks , almost 60 percent said other countries should deal with their own problems .
respondents overall saw islamic state as the top foreign policy concern , followed by cyber attacks and global economic instability , according to the report .