marawi city/clark , philippines ( reuters ) - the philippines on monday announced the end of five months of military operations in a southern city held by pro-islamic state rebels , after a fierce and unfamiliar urban war that has marked the country s biggest security crisis in years .
offensive combat operations were terminated after troops put a stop to the last stand of rebel gunmen who clung on inside several buildings in the heart of marawi , and refused to surrender .
artillery and automatic gunfire were still heard on monday and reuters journalists saw flames behind a mosque .
the bodies of 40 fighters and two of their wives were found there and in two buildings close by .
ernesto abella , spokesman for president rodrigo duterte , said the philippines had prevailed against the most serious threat of violent extremism and radicalism in the philippines and in southeast asia .
defence secretary delfin lorenzana said the security forces had nipped the budding infrastructure of extremist groups .
in crushing thus far the most serious attempt to export violent extremism and radicalism in the philippines and in the region , we have contributed to preventing its spread in asia , lorenzana said in clark at a meeting of regional defense ministers .
the rebel occupation stunned a military inexperienced in urban combat and stoked wider concerns that islamic state loyalists have gained influence among local muslims and have ambitions to use the island of mindanao as a base for operations in southeast asia .
those fears are compounded by the organization of the militant alliance and its ability to recruit young fighters , lure foreign radicals , stockpile huge amounts of arms and endure 154 days of ground offensive and air strikes .
the authorities said 920 militants , 165 troops and police and at least 45 civilians were killed in the conflict , which displaced more than 300,000 people .
the center of the picturesque lakeside town is now in ruins due to heavy shelling and aerial bombing .
the deputy task force commander in marawi , colonel romeo brawner , said troops would secure the city from militant stragglers who might still be alive .
if we find them and they will attack our soldiers or even the civilians , then we will have to defend ourselves , he told reporters .
after months of slow progress , the military has made significant gains in retaking marawi in the week since isnilon hapilon , islamic state s emir in southeast asia and omarkhayam maute , a leader of the maute militant group , were killed in a nighttime operation .
another leader and possible bankroller of the operation , malaysian mahmud ahmad , was likely killed also , the military said .
military spokesman , major general restituto padilla , confirmed there was still gunfire ongoing , but there were no more terrorists and the army s last battles were with an enemy decimated by the loss of its leadership .
they were formless , they had no place to run , he said .
duterte had declared marawi city liberated six days ago , even though fighting was not actually over .
on sunday , he said it was important to be vigilant because no country could escape islamic state s clutches of evil .
i m not trying to scare you , but let s just be prepared for any event , he said .
lorenzana said six battalions of troops would remain in marawi and though the battle had been won , the enemy s radical ideology had not been completely annihilated .
he thanked the united states , australia , singapore and china for providing weaponry and technical support , including surveillance aircraft , and said the conflict would be a catalyst for closer international cooperation against extremism .
the government estimates the rebuilding of the heart of marawi could cost in excess of $ 1 billion .