washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama wants to boost u.s. aid to colombia to help remove landmines and implement the government ’ s peace accord with a leftist rebel group , the white house said on tuesday .
obama would discuss the plan with colombian president juan manual santos during a white house visit on thursday , and invite u.s. lawmakers to participate in two events aimed at showing support for the potential deal that would end latin america ’ s longest war .
the fight between the colombian government and the revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) has killed more than 220,000 people and displaced millions more since it began in 1964 .
three previous attempts at a peace accord failed .
after almost four years of talks , an elusive peace deal may finally be in sight , said bernard aronson , the u.s. envoy to the negotiations .
“ i think there ’ s a real prospect for success and signing of a peace accord this year , hopefully within the first half of this year , ” aronson told reporters on a conference call .
under the deal , farc rebels would disarm , and the government would need to expand health and education services into areas of the country that had been controlled by the group - two areas where expanded u.s. financial aid could help , said mark feierstein , a senior director at the white house national security council .
“ one of the biggest challenges will be to demobilize the farc and ensure their reintegration into society as constructive members , ” feierstein said .
feierstein declined to comment on how much additional aid obama would propose .
the united states has long been a donor to colombia , providing almost $ 10 billion in aid between 2000 and 2015 through a program called plan colombia , according to the congressional research service .
colombia ’ s government on tuesday warned the country ’ s second-largest rebel group , the national liberation army ( eln ) , that time is running out to begin peace negotiations to end five decades of war .
any eln talks would be independent of those with the farc .
on thursday , santos meets with vice president joe biden and a group of u.s. senators at biden ’ s residence to talk about the peace process and the future of u.s. support for colombia , before later meeting obama in the oval office .
obama and santos were also expected to discuss ways the two countries can work together to fight the zika virus , feierstein said .