maybe florida isn t as pro-amnesty as jeb bush and marco rubio had hoped .
that s gon na leave a mark for the first time this year , donald trump tops a state poll of gop presidential candidates in florida.a st. pete polls survey released on wednesday shows the new york businessman with 26 percent support , with jeb bush in second place with 20 percent.wisconsin governor scott walker is in third place with 12 percent , and marco rubio is in fourth place with 10 percent .
he s followed by dr. ben carson at 5 percent , ted cruz and john kasich at 4 percent , and rand paul at 3 percent .
16 percent are unsure or are supporting another candidate not named in the survey.when it comes to the gop senate race , however , there is no clear front-runner at all , some 13 months before the primary election.among those who actually have an opinion , pinellas county congressman david jolly gets 10 percent support , with lieutenant governor carlos lopez-cantera and jacksonville area congressman ron desantis right behind him , essentially tied at 9 percent .
lopez-cantera gets 9.2 percent support , desantis 8.9 percent.former combat veteran and businessman todd wilcox gets 5 percent support ( 5.2 % ) , tying him with north florida congressman jeff miller ( 4.9 % ) , who is not officially in the race.but an overwhelming 61 percent say they are undecided.that s a change from a similar poll taken two weeks ago , where jolly garnered 22 percent support , 10 percent more than miller.in terms of the reliability of this survey , matt florell of st. pete polls said his firm has had an impressive run the past three years , with several of its polls coming with the margin of error with final election results .
the polling almost always predicted the eventual winner of the election , florell said , citing the recent jacksonville mayoral election and many of the general election races in 2014 .
but related to this specific poll , he added , i would refer back to our 2014 democratic primary poll and how close we were to the final results for both governor and attorney general .
the poll of 1,902 florida likely republican primary voters was conducted from saturday , july 18 , 2015 to tuesday , july 28 , 2015 .
it was made up of a sampling of registered republican party voters from the state of florida , and has a 2.2 % margin of error at a 95 % confidence level.via : st. peters blog