bogota ( reuters ) - colombia s farc rebel group included footwear and orange juicers in the list of assets it will hand over for victim reparations , drawing ire on thursday from officials who maintain the guerrillas have extensive criminal wealth and sparking the government to announce a special verification commission .
the revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) agreed under a 2016 peace deal with the government to hand over all funds and property to pay reparations to victims of forced disappearance , rape , displacement , kidnapping and land mines .
the group has for decades extorted landowners and business people , earned ransoms from hostage takings and sold coca , the base ingredient in cocaine , to drug traffickers .
officials said on thursday that the list , which was originally given to the united nations and has not been made public , included many items that have little or no monetary value and made a mockery of victims .
pots , orange juicers , lemon juicers , plates , boots , which will be depreciated and don t have a commercial value and which above all will not be a source of reparation for victims , attorney general nestor humberto martinez told journalists .
martinez added the full list should be released .
the list will be reviewed by a special commission in a bid to find missing assets , verify their origin and decide how they will be managed , the government said later on thursday .
those assets which have not been inventoried and are later discovered will obligatorily mean punishment and an ordinary justice procedure against members of the farc , justice minister enrique gil said .
all assets will be directed toward victims reparation , interior minister guillermo rivera added , and not to reintegration programs for the farc fighters themselves .
colombian officials have previously accused the farc of possessing large amounts of cash , as well as ranches , businesses and luxury homes , including some located abroad .
a lawyer representing the farc , enrique santiago , told local radio that the group had not earned an income in years and had to spend extensively to maintain its more than 7,000 fighters , after calling off kidnappings and extortion during peace talks .
the rebels finished handing over more than 8,000 weapons to the u.n. , which oversaw their demobilization , earlier this month .
on sunday the group will kick off a conference that looks set to cement its transition into a political party .