dubai/riyadh ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron held hastily scheduled talks in riyadh on thursday with saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman amid rising tensions between saudi arabia and iran , notably over lebanon and yemen .
macron , who flew in from a visit to the united arab emirates , had earlier declined to discuss a wave of high-level arrests for corruption in saudi arabia , but said it was vital to work with the kingdom for the stability of the region .
the first face-to-face talks between the two men focused on regional questions , in particular yemen and lebanon , and ensuring the preservation of stability in the region , the french presidency said in a statement after the meeting .
two top lebanese government officials said on thursday that riyadh was holding lebanon s saad al-hariri captive and a third told reuters that the saudi authorities had ordered hariri to resign while he was in riyadh last weekend , and put him under house arrest .
saudi arabia has denied that he is under house arrest , but hariri himself has not denied that his movements are being restricted .
france has close ties with lebanon , a former colony , and with hariri , who has a home in france after spending several years in the country .
macron said at an earlier news conference in dubai there had been informal contacts with hariri , but no request to transfer him to france .
they discussed the situation in lebanon following the resignation of prime minister hariri , the french presidency said .
president macron reiterated the importance france attaches to lebanon s stability , security , sovereignty and integrity .
the statement made no mention on whether macron had spoken with or seen hariri while in riyadh .
in recent years , france has been able to nurture new links with the sunni-ruled gulf arab states due to its tough stance on iran in nuclear negotiations , and the broad similarity of their policies on conflicts across the middle east .
however , the 32-year-old saudi crown prince has emphasized closer ties with u.s. president donald trump at a time when macron has in turn sought to improve relations with iran , saudi arabia s shi ite rival for regional influence .
macron has said he will travel to iran in 2018 , potentially becoming the first french president to travel there since 1971 .
in yemen , the saudi-led military coalition fighting the houthi movement said on monday it had closed all air , land and sea ports to stem the flow of arms to the houthis from iran .
the united nations said the move risked causing the largest famine the world has seen for many decades , with millions of victims .
the french presidency said macron underlined his concerns regarding the humanitarian situation .
on iran , macron repeated earlier in dubai that he wanted to keep the landmark 2015 nuclear deal , which trump has challenged .
but he said he was very concerned by iran s ballistic missile program , mentioning a missile fired from yemen and intercepted by saudi arabia on saturday , and raised the prospect of possible sanctions with regard to those activities .
there are extremely strong concerns about iran .
there are negotiations we need to start on iran s ballistic missiles , he said .
like what was done in 2015 for the nuclear activities , it s necessary to put a framework in place for iran s ballistic activities and open a process , with sanctions if needed , of negotiation that would enable ( that ) .
iran has denied providing ballistic missiles to yemeni houthi rebels and says its missile program is purely defensive and should not be linked to the nuclear deal .
macron reaffirmed his intention to go to iran as part of efforts to talk to all the actors in the region , but warned about decisions that could destabilize the region further .
we need to have a truthful dialogue , he said .
it s not about showing any naivety toward iran , it is about standing beside our allies , in particular the united arab emirates , but it is also about not having a diehard policy that could create imbalances or even conflicts in the region .