beirut ( reuters ) - syrian troops seized a suburb of the eastern city of deir al-zor on sunday , tightening the noose around islamic state , a syrian military source said .
the army pushed into the city this month with the help of russian air power and iran-backed militias , breaking an islamic state siege of an enclave there that had lasted three years .
on sunday , the syrian army and allied forces captured al-jafra district on the western bank of the euphrates river , the military source said .
they have no outlet except crossing the euphrates towards the eastern bank and fleeing towards the desert , or ( the towns ) al-bukamal and al-mayadin , the source told reuters .
moscow and washington are backing separate offensives in the oil-rich province of deir al-zor bordering iraq .
both have advanced from opposite sides of the euphrates which bisects the province , islamic state s last major foothold in syria .
russian- and u.s.-backed offensives against islamic state have mostly stayed out of each other s way , with the euphrates often acting as the dividing line .
but the pentagon accused russia this week of bombing u.s.-backed forces on the river s eastern bank .
russia s defence ministry rejected the allegations on sunday .
moscow had warned the united states well in advance of its operational plans and its jets only targeted islamic state militants , it said .
russia s ria news agency cited an unnamed source as saying the syrian army had cut islamic state s main supply line in deir al-zor city .
the british-based syrian observatory for human rights said government forces took al-jafra near the city s air base overnight , though islamic state militants still hold nearly a third of the city .
russian jets pounded movements across the river as islamic state fighters tried to escape in ferries , and many civilians , including families of the militants , had also tried to flee across the river in recent days , it said .
separate air strikes by russia and by the u.s.-led coalition killed more than 34 people , including children , across deir al-zor province over the past day , the war monitor said .
islamic state controls much of the desert region around deir al-zor city , where its fighters are also under attack from the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) alliance .
with jets and special forces from the u.s.-led coalition , the alliance of kurdish and arab militias is battling islamic state in the northern parts of deir al-zor province .
the sdf said it had taken 14 villages and farms , two towns , and some factories on the eastern bank of the euphrates since launching its assault last week .