tokyo ( reuters ) - japan s dentsu inc was fined just 500,000 yen ( $ 4,400 ) after a tokyo court ruled it had made employees work overtime beyond legal limits - a case that followed a high profile death from overwork at the advertising giant .
labour practices at dentsu , renowned for its hard-driving work culture , came under scrutiny after employee matsuri takahashi committed suicide in 2015 at the age of 24 .
the government later ruled she died of karoshi - literally death by overwork .
the case prompted national soul-searching and helped spur government plans for sweeping reforms of labor laws .
even so , the problem of karoshi has once again been thrust into the spotlight this week , with public broadcaster nhk disclosing that a 31-year-old reporter died four years ago of overwork .
prosecutors had charged dentsu for making takahashi and three others work overtime beyond limits agreed with the company s labor union between october and december 2015 .
but current japanese law only allows for relatively small fines for breaches relating to overtime .
we are hoping for legislative change so that stiffer penalties can be imposed when a worker dies , takahashi s mother yukimi said in a statement after the ruling .
it s not just my daughter - tragic cases like this are happening throughout japan , across all industries and irrespective of whether firms are large or small , she added , noting the death of the nhk reporter .
matsuri takahashi had worked 105 hours of overtime in october 2015 after which she fell into depression .
she jumped to her death from a company dormitory on christmas day , leaving behind a trail of public grievances on social media about her relentless working hours and boss s verbal abuse .
we take this ruling very seriously , and extend our deepest apologies to stakeholders and the general public for the concern we have caused , dentsu said in a statement , adding that ceo toshihiro yamamoto will take a 20 percent pay cut for six months .
japan had 191 deaths which authorities have ruled as related to overwork in the past financial year - an increase of two over the previous year , the government said in an annual report on friday .
nhk , which has covered the dentsu case and the problem of karoshi in japanese society extensively on air , said it had decided to disclose its own case to ensure thorough reform within the company .
the reporter died of congestive heart failure after clocking 159 hours of overtime in the month before her death .
prime minister shinzo abe s administration this year endorsed an action plan for sweeping reforms of employment practices , including caps on overtime and better pay for part-time and contract workers .
the moves , while widely welcome , also come at a time when japanese companies are also grappling with a deepening labor shortage as the nation s population rapidly ages .
despite pledges of reform by many companies , some japanese workers were skeptical .
my company says it s promoting work reform , but i am doing as much overtime as before .
i even work on saturdays , said a 38-year old female employee at a japanese bank .
unless the bank cuts down our total workload , overtime can not be reduced , she said , declining to give her name or identify her company out of fear of upsetting her employer .