kampala ( reuters ) - legislators from ugandan president yoweri museveni s party on tuesday agreed to introduce a law to remove an age limit from the country s constitution , potentially allowing him to extend his rule , two lawmakers told reuters .
the east african country s existing constitution bars anyone over 75 from standing as a presidential candidate .
museveni , 73 , is already one of africa s longest-serving rulers and has been in charge for more than three decades .
the next elections are due in 2021 .
oil-rich uganda is a staunch western ally and receives substantial aid and support for its security forces , partly for sending troops to somalia as part of an african union peacekeeping mission .
when he first came to power , museveni was lauded for helping restore stability after two murderous dictators known to use torture and extrajudicial executions widely , and for directing the suppression of a brutal insurgency known for mutilating civilians and kidnapping children .
but over the years , criticism has mounted over the suppression of the political opposition , widespread corruption and a poor human rights record .
simeo nsubuga , a legislator from museveni s ruling national resistance movement ( nrm ) party , told reuters the move to amend the constitution was agreed in a special meeting of the party s house members .
we agreed that a private member should come up with a constitutional amendment bill to remove the age limit , nsubuga said , adding the bill would be introduced on the floor next week .
in july , uganda s deputy attorney general said cabinet was planning to introduce similar legislation .
most ugandan laws are introduced by the government via cabinet ministers .
but kafuuzi jackson karugaba , another nrm legislator , told reuters they had decided to take the option of a private member s bill because cabinet was moving too slowly .
in 2005 , nrm legislators changed the constitution and removed a limit of two five-year terms , allowing museveni to extend his reign .
independent observers said that last year s presidential election lacked transparency and that the poll body lacked credibility .
the ageing leader has himself not stated whether he intends to seek another term , and officials have said the proposed constitutional change was not specifically to benefit the incumbent but all of uganda s future leaders .