donald trump went on a tirade on friday morning because republicans in congress are not stripping healthcare from millions of americans fast enough.for months , trump has failed to get an obamacare repeal bill on his desk because americans overwhelmingly oppose it because they now realize that the affordable care act keeps them insured , and in many cases , alive.the trumpcare bill that has been hitting roadblock after roadblock in congress strips healthcare from millions of americans , drops coverage for people with pre-existing conditions , makes healthcare premiums more expensive , and takes away vital care for women and children among a slew of other important provisions , all so that the wealthy can get a massive tax cut.while in france on bastille day , trump whined on twitter that republicans are not moving fast enough to repeal healthcare.republicans senators are working hard to get their failed obamacare replacement approved .
i will be at my desk , pen in hand !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 14 , 2017so impt rep senators , under leadership of @ senatemajldr mcconnell get healthcare plan approved .
after 7yrs of o care disaster , must happen !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 14 , 2017after all of these years of suffering thru obamacare , republican senators must come through as they have promised !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 14 , 2017 .
@ vp mike pence is working hard on healthcare and getting our wonderful republican senators to do what is right for the people .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 14 , 2017again , trump s healthcare policy would actually kill people , but he is demanding that republicans jam it through congress as quickly as possible.and americans were not thrilled about it and told trump as much on twitter.how about crafting a good healthcare plan first ?
or maybe improving obamacare ?
don t just push through a bill for the sake of it !
jules suzdaltsev ( @ jules_su ) july 14 , 2017so you want them to rush through an act that may kill millions just to get obamacare erased ?
you re demented .
resign .
lesley abravanel ( @ lesleyabravanel ) july 14 , 2017why not improve what s already in place ?
why not include dems in the process ?
why keep working to divide us all ?
why won t you lead ?
cd harrison ?
( @ cdharrison ) july 14 , 2017yeah .
because 22 million losing their insurance is really going to make it better .
kelly scaletta ( @ kellyscaletta ) july 14 , 2017isn t it more important to take your time to develop something that actually works to keep americans healthy ?
sally hawker ( @ sallyhawker12 ) july 14 , 2017so cruel .
.
trying to take away healthcare from millions all for a tax break for billionaires .
warren buffet doesn t want your tax break .
maureen o brien ( @ boru2308 ) july 14 , 2017from the man who said , nobody knew that health care could be so complicated the word disaster is meaningless .
bill adler ( @ billadler ) july 14 , 2017i wish that you were a better person .
i wish that you worked as hard for every citizen of the u.s.a. as hard as you do at your golf game .
robin d. ashe ? ? ?
( @ vampwritergrrl ) july 14 , 2017featured image : win mcnamee/getty images