conform or pay the ultimate price police seized ten children from an off grid homeschool family in kentucky on wednesday after receiving an anonymous tip about the family s traditional lifestyle.the nightmare story began when sheriff s officers set up a blockade around joe and nicole naugler s rural property before entering the premises .
eight of the kids were out with their father but nicole and two of her oldest children were at home .
nicole attempted to drive away but was subsequently stopped and arrested for resisting ( attempting to prevent officers from taking her two boys away ) .the sheriff then demanded joe naugler turn over the other eight children by 10am the next day or face felony charges , an order with which he complied .
they are an extremely happy family , said family friend pace ellsworth , who asserts that the nauglers were targeted because of their back to basics life and their decision to homeschool their children.friends reported no concerns about how the children were being treated by the parents , who follow an educational model called unschooling where the children decide their own curriculum based on the subjects that interest them and what their strengths are .
this is the natural way to live , said ellsworth .
it s actually a growing movement .
they want to have a personal education and not a factory education .
they are completely open about their life .
everyone is learning by living .
they are all extremely intelligent .
the family s facebook page entitled my blessed little homestead , is a charming testament to their way of life .
the naugler children are obviously living a blissful free range lifestyle amongst 26 acres of land in breckinridge county .
they frequently post pictures and videos of their children , animals and their off-grid life , reports off the grid news .
a may 5 post showed a video of a toddler , mosiah , learning to walk .
an april 24 post showed a happy family , gathering around a campfire , roasting marshmallows .
the family have set up a gofundme page to try and raise money for legal expenses.a website for the family spells out their plight with the heart-wrenching words ; this kentucky family of 12 people , 6 dogs , 2 farm cats and a few random farm animals was just torn apart .
their crime : living a simple , back to basics life .
this shocking story once again illustrates how families attempting to simply get on with their lives in a traditional manner are being treated as extremists by other americans , snitched on , and targeted by authorities.here is a facebook link to the nagger family business : blessed little grooming company , llcvia : infowars