( this version of the november 8 story corrects 1st and 8th paragraphs to add other minsk signatories ) by andrea shalal and sabine siebold berlin ( reuters ) - an international security organization called on the parties in eastern ukraine s conflict to pull back tanks and other heavy weapons , after five people were injured and a nine-year-old child was killed over the weekend .
a shaky ceasefire between ukraine and the region s pro-russian separatists is regularly violated , and violations have spiked in recent weeks , alexander hug , principal deputy chief monitor for the organisation for security and co-operation in europe s mission in ukraine , said in an interview .
the osce s 503 monitors in the region are now seeing a weekly average of 220 incidents involving heavy weapons , up from around 40 a week after a harvest ceasefire , with a total of 3,877 such weapons spotted this year in violation of the ceasefire .
the warning signals of this uptick have been out there , hug said .
we have been warning through our reporting that the situation is gradually deteriorating again .
if some of these military technical issues are not tackled now ... we may see an increase in violence towards the end of this year , hug said .
once the ground froze in the region later this month , he said , it would be easier to move around tanks , heavy artillery and other equipment .
heavy weapons are the main cause of death in the conflict , which first broke out in 2014 and has claimed 75 lives and injured 346 so far this year , up some 3 to 5 percent from last year , hug said .
over 10,000 have died since 2014 .
kiev accuses moscow of sending troops and heavy weapons to the region , which russia denies .
hug urged the sides to implement decisions already made in the minsk ceasefire agreement to withdraw heavy weapons from along the 500-kilometre ( 300 mile ) line of conflict and disengage opposing forces , which are often staring at each other just 10 meters apart .
all along the 500-km contact line where the fighting takes place , they are standing basically next to each other , and that is of course a recipe for more of the same , he said .
both sides were violating the ceasefire , hug said .
returning fire is also a violation of the agreements .
there is no exception to the non-use of weapons , he said .