geneva ( reuters ) - the international committee of the red cross ( icrc ) said on wednesday it was making a stop-gap purchase of fuel so as to provide clean water to one million people in the yemeni cities of hodeidah and taiz for one month .
the fuel shortage in yemen has become critical under the saudi-led coalition s blockade , partially lifted this week , leaving water systems in nine cities without fuel to run pumps , icrc spokeswoman iolanda jaquemet said .
as a last resort and in light of the large and urgent needs ... we are purchasing fuel to supply the urban water corporations in hodeidah and taiz with fuel , enough to operate their water pumps for one month , jaquemet told reuters .
the icrc is buying 750,000 liters of fuel for the two cities , she said , calling it an exceptional stop-gap measure .
the lack of fuel has a cascading impact on several vital sectors - water and sanitation as well as health and food , as prices have risen sharply , she said .
fuel is needed to transport goods and run hospital generators and maintain cold chains for vaccines and medicines .
saudi arabia and its allies closed air , land and sea access to the arabian peninsula country on nov. 6 , to stop what it calls a flow of arms to the houthis from iran .
the action came after saudi arabia intercepted a missile fired towards its capital riyadh .
iran has denied supplying the houthis with weapons .
a first aid ship , carrying 5,500 tonnes of flour docked in the houthi-controlled port of hodeidah on the red sea on sunday .
humanitarian aid has started coming in and it s a very welcome first step but we need commercial imports , jaquemet said .
icrc trucks have brought medical material into yemen this week , mainly badly needed dialysis material , she said .
a shipment of kits for treating trauma patients is expected to berth in aden shortly , she added .
these war-wounded kits will enable surgeries for over 400 people and are to be distributed to 10 hospitals and 15 field hospitals across north and south yemen .
the icrc is stepping up assistance to combat an outbreak of diphtheria in ibb governorate , including protective equipment for hospital staff to avoid spread of the highly-infectious respiratory disease , she said .
some suspected cases and 20 deaths have been recorded in 13 governorates , more than 80 percent in ibb , the world health organization ( who ) said on tuesday .
yemen is also reeling from a cholera epidemic , with 960,065 suspected cases and 2,219 deaths reported since april , according to the latest who figures .