paris ( reuters ) - far-right leader marine le pen has said it is possible to improve the lives of french citizens without leaving the single european currency , in a marked shift from the anti-eu stance she pushed during her failed presidential bid .
le pen s national front party has been in turmoil since her heavy defeat to emmanuel macron in may s presidential election , split by deep internal divisions over its view on europe that forced the departure of le pen s deputy last month .
in numerous areas it is possible to improve the daily life of the french without quitting europe or the euro currency , le pen told weekly magazine valeurs actuelles in comments to be published on thursday .
we have heard the french people , she said .
her remarks are the clearest indication yet that the national front will focus on policies around immigration and national identity , and soften the anti-eu rhetoric that cost her dear in the election .
while public discontent toward brussels has fueled nationalist sentiment in france , in particular in rural and low income areas , opinion polls show there is little appetite for france to follow britain out of europe , or to drop the euro .
the departure of florian philippot , for years le pen s closest aide and a staunch advocate of an anti-euro , protectionist line , split the national front but also paved the way to a policy change as the far-right party seeks to rebrand itself .
during her election campaign , le pen promised a referendum on eu membership .
after suffering a bruising defeat to macron in the may run-off vote , le pen s national front won just eight seats in the national assembly , leaving it with a weak voice and unable to form a parliamentary group .
last month , already toning down her language , she said that national sovereignty would be a mainstay of the party s struggle .
we will continue to fight the european union with all our soul because it is an instrument for the impoverishment of people , she said in the wake of philippot s resignation .