while the mainstream media was salivating over the indictment of paul manafort by dirty cop robert mueller , for crimes he allegedly committed years before he worked on trump s campaign , a bombshell was being dropped by the author of clinton cash , peter schweitzer about hillary clinton and how her dirty dealings while acting as obama s secretary of state have compromised our national security.watch : hillary 's clinton foundation took in 145 million frm 9 different share holders frm russian uranium co. and did not report it .
podesta pic.twitter.com/rsp09spylt stock monster ( @ stockmonsterusa ) october 19 , 2017the national review recently published a great article explaining how the clinton crime family laundered money through their crooked foundation while putting our national security at risk : the fbi had gathered substantial evidence that russian nuclear industry officials were engaged in bribery , kickbacks , extortion , and money laundering designed to grow vladimir putin s atomic energy business inside the united states , the hill s john solomon and alison spann report .
they add that an eyewitness , with corroborating documents , indicates that , starting in 2009 , russian nuclear officials had routed millions of dollars to the u.s. designed to benefit former president bill clinton s charitable foundation during the time secretary of state hillary clinton served on a government body that provided a favorable decision to moscow .
even after this skullduggery was discovered , the federal committee on foreign investment in the united states on which hillary sat decided that rosatom , the russian government s atomic-energy company , could capture 20 percent of america s uranium supply , by purchasing a mining company called uranium one .
rosatom announced its acquisition plans on june 8 , 2010 .
while hillary weighed this deal , bill scored $ 500,000 for his address that june 29 to renaissance capital , a kremlin-tied bank that endorsed rosatom s move .
before , during , and after cfius s deliberations , nine uranium one investors gave the clinton foundation some $ 145 million .
ultimately , cfius approved the kremlin s transaction , on october 23 , 2010.even worse , despite lacking an export license , uranium one reportedly shipped uranium out of america .
destination : unknown .
remember : uranium is a main ingredient in atomic bombs .
why would the obama-clinton administration let russia have even a firecracker s worth of american uranium ?
this is the $ 145 million question .
i was unaware of this criminal probe concerning bribery , says peter schweizer , who first uncovered uranium one in clinton cash , his best-seller on america s most powerful crime family.for entire story : national review