this is such a sad , tragic and misunderstood story by so many .
was the now deceased father of 11 , lavoy finicum simply defending his rights as defined in the u.s. constitution , or did he cross the line ? oregon protest leader ammon bundy and seven others were arrested tuesday night .
protester lavoy finicum was killed in the confrontation with police and the fbi.video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvideo playerthe daughter of malheur refuge occupation spokesman lavoy finicum , reportedly killed by federal agents during a traffic stop north of burns , said wednesday her father was a loving man and loved freedom more than his life.finicum s daughter thara lynn tenney posted a message on her facebook page last night asserting that her father had already surrendered before he was gunned down .
i want the world to know how my father was murdered today .
his hands were in the air and he was shot in the face by the american authorities .
ammon bundy reported there are 6 witnesses to this evil , wrote tenney.her testimony was echoed by another eyewitness , victoria sharp , who was in the car with finicum when the group were pulled over by cops and federal agents .
sharp claims that finicum put his hands out of the car window and asked the police to allow the women to leave the car .
they shot at him , but they missed him , said sharp , adding that the group then attempted to drive away in the car but were shot at again by police .
when we crashed and stopped for a second , he got out of the car , he had his hands in the air , he s like just shoot me then .and they did , they shot him dead , said sharp.challice finch said she is heading back to arizona from her home in texas to be with her family.finch s father reportedly was killed by federal agents during a traffic stop on highway 395 in harney county , law enforcement officials are quoted as saying.the traffic stop led to the arrest of ammon bundy and several militia members , who appeared in u.s. district court in portland wednesday afternoon.lavoy finicum had told reporters he would die before he would go to prison.finicum , a rancher from colorado city , arizona , traveled several hundred miles to join the bundy militia at the refuge.now there s video the fbi released video of lavoy finicum s shooting .
he had his hands up .
he s a great man , and just because he s dead doesn t mean his fight will not go on .
he s now a martyr , finch said.nevada assemblywoman michelle fiore tweeted my heart and prayers go out to the lavoy finicum s family .
he was just murdered with his hands up in burns , or .
ryan bundy has been shot in the arm .
federal agents say all in the two obeyed orders to surrender , except for two people , finicum and ryan bundy.finch said her father texted her hours before leaving to meet with the grant county sheriff glenn palmer on tuesday , a trip interrupted by the fateful traffic stop .
he sent me a text to just check on me , making sure that i was doing good and to remember to pray and to let me know that he was thinking of me , and that he loved me and was praying for me every day .
finch said.on wednesday cliven bundy , father of ammon bundy , told reporters his son told him the fbi murdered militia spokesman lavoy finicum with his hands up .
lavoy finicum was murdered .
cold-blooded murder .
they shot him with his hands up .
https : //youtu.be/kkiw2f6cfeovia : gateway pundit