watch npr employee and afghanistan refugee ( who was eventually arrested ) join others as they block our newly appointed secretary of education betsy devos from entering a school in dc on her first day on the job : back in 2011 , newt gingrich was running for president , and he proposed a radical idea to help schools cut costs : fire the janitors and pay students to do the cleaning.needless to say , the idea to turn students into moonlighting janitors had about as much support as gingrich s presidential campaign.but ask kim de costa and she ll say there isn t anything radical about asking students to clean up after themselves .
at her school , there are no janitors .
instead , students in grades 6-12 meet in teams once or twice a week to clean assigned areas.de costa is the executive director of the armadillo technical institute .
it s a public charter school in phoenix , ore. , a few miles from the california border.for 30 minutes after lunch , students sweep , mop , take out the trash and even clean the bathrooms but responsibilities rotate so no one is stuck scrubbing toilets more than two or three times a year.de costa says it s easy to encourage students to respect their environment when they re the ones responsible for preserving it .
we really wanted a school where the students took ownership and made it their own , says de costa , who helped found ati in 1999.the school still has maintenance staff for the difficult or dangerous work .
but for the most part , students at ati handle the daily upkeep .
and with a little help from peer pressure , the school stays clean.eden cox , a 10th-grader , says that recently she had to confront a classmate after he left a mess behind .
i got on to him and said , can you please throw your trash away so i don t have to , cox recalls .
after all , it s our school , she says , with an emphasis on our .
places like ati that build cleanup into the curriculum are rare in the united states.but in japan , there s a long tradition of students cleaning their own schools.there , school is not just for learning from a book , says michael auslin a former english teacher in japan .
it s about learning how to become a member of society and taking responsibility for oneself , says auslin , who is now a resident scholar and director of japan studies at the american enterprise institute.to make cleaning easier , japanese students put on slippers before entering the classroom to prevent dirt from being dragged into the room.many hands make light workat brentwood academy outside nashville , tenn. , keeping the school spick-and-span is just part of the daily routine for students.each day before p.e. , students at the private prep school report for 10 minutes of clean-up duty in their assigned areas.susan shafer , the school s director of communications , considers clean-up an additional component of the school s mission of educating the whole person .
we re trying to train them for life , says shafer .
they re all going to go to college .
no one is going to clean their dorm room for them .
maddie jarrard , an 11th-grader , is responsible for dusting a classroom every day .
she says even after sports games , brentwood players are expected to stay behind to pick up any trash left in the stands .
they re not only trying to keep the place clean , says jarrard , referring to brentwood s staff .
but they re also trying to build character in each student .
while some parents might balk at the idea of a school taking time away from class to make students push a broom , educators at both ati and brentwood both say that parents have shown overwhelming support .
npr