as a wellesley graduate , i was shocked and dismayed by hillary clinton s commencement address .
actually , that is # fakenews .
i was neither shocked nor dismayed by mrs. clinton s speech ( but i did graduate from wellesley with honors ! )
it was exactly the kind of self-pitying , leaden and all-about-me performance that i would have expected from the entitled former democrat candidate and now sore loser.watch a few of hillary s greatest hits during her commencement speech at wellesley college : also , it revealed this : hillary hasn t learned a thing .
as her friend mike bloomberg recently told an audience of harvard business school grads hillary lost the election because she had absolutely no message .
she still doesn t.in addition , she is utterly lacking in self-awareness .
she spoke at length about what she sees as a full-fledged assault on truth and reason , telling the graduating seniors that the future of america , indeed the future of the world , depends on brave , thoughtful people like you insisting on truth and integrity right now every day .
this , from a woman who ran for our nation s highest office while distrusted by nearly two-thirds of the country , with good reason.as long as mrs. clinton and her loyalists blame james comey , vladimir putin , sexism and the alt-right for her loss , democrats will never rebuild their bridges to the working class americans who elected donald trump.in her remarks , hillary criticized people aka trump followers , presumably on social media for sowing division at a time when we desperately need unity , and then proceeded to give a highly partisan and divisive speech.did she ever consider that there might be families in the audience who voted for her opponent ?
that they might not enjoy her taking veiled potshots at president trump , and that this was their daughters day too ? echoing the liberal media , hillary went after president trump through innuendo and clich s , talking about the dangers of fomenting fear and of alternative facts .
good thing there was no q & a ; someone might have wanted further clarification of how she came under sniper fire in bosnia , or how a video caused the benghazi attack or how the monica lewinsky scandal stemmed from a vast right-wing conspiracy and not bill clinton s unruly libido.hillary trod dangerous pathways as she remarked , when people in power invent their own facts and attack those who question them , it can mark the beginning of the end of a free society .
she is correct , of course , but a cursory review of her multiple dodges and lies about her mishandling of classified information and efforts to destroy evidence reveals a woman who fully earned her low trustworthiness ratings from americans.the election is over , but hillary can not let it go .
this is good news for republicans .
as long as mrs. clinton and her loyalists blame james comey , vladimir putin , sexism and the alt-right for her loss , democrats will never rebuild their bridges to the working class americans who elected donald trump.hillary clinton missed an opportunity at wellesley .
she could have delivered a message of unity , and helped our anxious country begin to heal .
her followers need to see her putting country above politics ; they need to see her as she briefly appeared at the inauguration , supporting the peaceful and legitimate transfer of power .
apparently , that is just too heavy a lift for mrs. clinton .
she is happier nursing her wounds , and continuing to inflict them on the country.the former first lady could also have talked about the dramatic changes taking place in our economy , and how women are thriving as entrepreneurs .
she could have talked about the founders of rent the runway , or sarah blakely , who created spanx , or essie weingarten , who bet her life s savings on a new idea and created a nail polish empire sold to l oreal in 2010 .
these women are inspirational ; they didn t shatter glass ceilings , they ignored them .
it is true we need women in politics , and running ngos , but we also need women making money and boosting the economy .
that s where the funding for free college tuition and refugee services comes from a lesson hillary may never have learned.the new york times tells us that the students cheered mrs. clinton thunderously .
of course they did .
they have been weaned on courses like love and intimacy in the women s and gender studies department or changing gender constructions in the modern middle east in the history department .
there s nothing wrong with those studies , unless they crowd out learning how the progressive policies of bernie sanders and mrs. clinton have failed in france , for instance , leading to a stagnant economy with few opportunities for progress .
or how capitalism has delivered billions from poverty , including in communist china , where the growth miracle of recent decades was facilitated by policies that encouraged entrepreneurship and private enterprise.hillary clinton missed some history lessons too , apparently .
she alluded to nixon s presidency which would eventually end in disgrace with his impeachment for obstruction of justice .
that isn t true , of course ; nixon resigned from office .
it was her husband bill who was impeached .
amazing she would get that wrong , in delivering what was sure to be a much-reviewed address .
maybe a little too much of that chardonnay , mrs. clinton ?
fox newsfor more visit lizpeek.com .
follow her on twitter @ lizpeek .