some day , when things calm down , i 'll tell the real story of @ joenbc and his very insecure long-time girlfriend , @ morningmika .
two clowns !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 22 , 2016fox news host sean hannity exposed the rabid liberal anti-trump vitriol that msnbc hacks spew daily on their show .
hannity offered to pay for therapy for one year for both of them , as a way to help them cope with trump s presidency : today , president donald trump turned his ire on msnbc s joe scarborough and his fianc mika brzezinski once again , branding them with new nicknames and dishing embarrassing details about their relationship.trump called scarborough psycho joe on twitter thursday morning and labeled his co-host brzezinski low i.q .
crazy mika .
i heard poorly rated @ morning_joe speaks badly of me ( do n't watch anymore ) .
then how come low i.q .
crazy mika , along with psycho joe , came .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 29 , 2017he recalled that the television couple both wanted to join him during a new year s eve party at his mar-a-lago club , but he refused .
to mar-a-lago 3 nights in a row around new year 's eve , and insisted on joining me .
she was bleeding badly from a face-lift .
i said no !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 29 , 2017trump again insisted that he did not watch their show anymore but was told that the couple speaks badly of me .
prior to trump s tweets , the pair sneered mockingly at trump because of his healthcare bill and started ridiculing the president because of a fake time magazine cover spotted in his golf club.brzezinski mocked the photo of the cover , calling trump s hands teensy and said he was lying every day and destroying the country : first lady melania trump s office also reacted to the news .
as the first lady has stated publicly in the past , when her husband gets attacked , he will punch back 10 times harder , the statement from the first lady s office read.in january , news of scarborough s visit to trump s club leaked , prompting mockery from fellow journalists .
in response , an outraged scarborough insisted he was not there to spend time with trump socially but wanted to set up an interview .
breitbartpaul joseph watson of infowars responded brilliantly to critics of president trump s tweet : same media that viciously attacked trump over his appearance ( hair , hands ) for 2 years is whining over trump 's tweet about mika 's appearance paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) june 29 , 2017it 's ok to lie about melania doing porn or to mock barron for being autistic , but do n't you dare say mika brzezinski had a facelift .
paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) june 29 , 2017watson also ( rightly ) points out in another tweet that there is more outrage from the left over trump s tweet about the msnbc hack team , than about the attempted massacre of republicans only a few weeks ago : there 's more outrage over trump 's mika brzezinski tweet than the attempted massacre of republicans .
that 's not a clich .
there genuinely is .
paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) june 29 , 2017