caracas ( reuters ) - three dozen opponents of venezuela s socialist government were released from prison and reunited with their families on sunday as part of a wider christmas release , a local rights group said .
lambasted by critics at home and abroad for holding around 270 activists in prison , president nicolas maduro s administration said on saturday it was freeing 80 of them with alternative sentences like community service .
thirteen were paraded in front of tv cameras at a meeting with a senior official , delcy rodriguez .
she harangued them for violence and subversion , but also wished them a happy christmas .
alfredo romero , whose penal forum group tracks the detention of activists and protesters , said 36 political prisoners had been freed by sunday morning .
but he criticized the government for not giving a blanket amnesty .
they should release not just some but all of them , and not imprison any more , he said .
the best-known among the released prisoners were former provincial mayor alfredo ramos , opposition electoral adviser roberto picon and a dozen policemen who worked for the opposition-run chacao district of caracas .
i m happy to be free .
i m with my family , ramos was quoted as saying in local media .
it was a tough ordeal , very difficult .
it was an arbitrary detention , unjust .
i didn t commit any crime .
maduro , the 55-year-old successor to hugo chavez , refutes the term political prisoners , saying all of the jailed activists were there on legitimate charges of plotting to overthrow his government and promoting violence .
some 170 people died during two rounds of anti-maduro street protests in 2014 and earlier this year .
opponents say they are fighting for freedom against a dictatorship that has destroyed the opec nation s economy and democracy .
maduro accuses them of being part of a global right-wing plot to topple him in a coup .
u.s. lawmaker ileana ros-lehtinen , a fierce critic of both venezuela and cuba s communist government , called the pre-christmas releases in venezuela a hypocritical gesture .
maduro in venezuela cynically releases 80 political prisoners who were actually innocent , parades and humiliates several on state tv ... and expects thanks for christmas mercy , tweeted the republican u.s. representative from florida .
what a cruel farce .
nevertheless , the releases could inject life into stuttering mediation talks between venezuela s government and opposition due to resume in the dominican republic in early january .
the releases concretely demonstrate the revolution and president nicolas maduro s firm desire for dialogue , foreign minister jorge arreaza said .
let s hope the opposition knows how to interpret this and isolate its violent factors .
venezuela s best-known detained politician is leopoldo lopez , who remains under house arrest in caracas , accused of spearheading violence in 2014 .
though they have turned his house into a jail , i know his mind is strong and he will keep fighting tirelessly for a better venezuela , said his mother antonieta lopez , lamenting he was spending a fourth christmas detained .