nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan authorities said on friday they would indefinitely delay further attempts to hold a repeat presidential election in some areas due to the risk of violence , as the opposition rejected the re-run as a sham and said the polls should be canceled .
the east african nation had been due to hold elections on saturday in four western counties , after residents blocked roads and clashed with police on during an attempt to hold the polls there on thursday .
but those plans have been largely put on hold , the election board said .
opposition leader raila odinga pulled out of the contest earlier this month , saying the contest against president uhuru kenyatta was not going to be fair .
he urged supporters not to take part in the vote and polling stations were unable to open in his strongholds in the west of the country on thursday .
in the rest of kenya , most polling stations were able to open , but turnout was below 35 percent and there were clashes in nairobi slums and in the coastal city of mombasa .
kenyatta has won over 97 percent of votes counted so far , according to a local media tally , but the poor turnout has damaged his second-term mandate .
pockets of violence continued on friday , with police saying they shot dead one man , bringing to five the number of confirmed deaths since voting began on thursday .
all were killed in the west of the country , which supports the opposition .
in the nairobi slum of kawangware , a reuters witness saw nearly 100 youths armed with machetes in red t-shirts - the color of the ruling party - as a group of opposition supporters clashed with police .
a large fire burned nearby .
it s only fire , everything is burned down , the fire is spreading more and more - my neighbors homes , businesses are all burnt , said a tearful rosalind njeri , 28 .
the vote has exposed kenya s deep political and ethnic divisions as violence flares and court cases drag on .
it is being closely watched as kenya is a regional trade and logistics hub and powerful security ally for western nations .
kisumu election officials , who have had to cower behind locked doors while the popping sounds of tear gas and live gunfire echoed nearby , said they were very relieved not to have to try to open polling stations .
the ( election board ) officers in nairobi were not taking consideration of our lives , one said .
this is better .
musalia mudavadi , a senior opposition leader , had earlier accused authorities of ethnic profiling and having militarised elections as they beef up security ahead of the plan to hold voting in homa bay , kisumu , migori and siaya counties on saturday .
we advise the people not to walk into this trap of death , he told reporters on friday .
kenya s first election , in august , was annulled by the courts because of procedural irregularities , denying kenyatta a simple victory over his political rival .
turnout in that election was 80 percent .
if the expected legal challenges fail to clear a path out of the crisis , including a possible order for another re-run , the result will be a protracted and economically damaging political stalemate between the kenyatta and odinga camps .
unless the courts annul the election , kenyatta will move forward without a clear mandate and odinga will pursue a protest strategy whose chances of success in the circumstances are not very high , international crisis group analyst murithi mutiga said .
the division was neatly captured in local media , with the standard , a leading tabloid , headlining its front page : one kenya , two faces .
the election commission said more than one in 10 polling stations failed to open due to security challenges .
its chairman , wafula chebukati , tweeted overnight that 6.55 million ballots had been cast - just 34.5 percent of registered voters .
a tally of results announced at the constituency level compiled by the nation media group showed kenyatta had won over 96 percent of the vote with 200 of 292 constituencies announced .
figures released by the election commission showed turnout in kenyatta s rift valley and central region strongholds was similar to levels seen in august .
however , the boycott call was heeded by voters on the coast , which is far from his western homeland and saw little violence but has overwhelmingly supported odinga in previous polls .
around 50 people have been killed , mostly by security forces , since the original aug. 8 vote , raising fears of sustained violence only a decade after 1,200 people were killed in serious ethnic fighting triggered by another disputed vote .
( for a graphic on 'map of election-related deaths immediately following the aug. 8 polls ' click tmsnrt.rs/2lajbuv ) ( for a graphic on ' a timeline of political events ' click tmsnrt.rs/2lblwfn ) ( for a graphic on 'chart of results showing official results from last three elections ' click tmsnrt.rs/2hvlgv3 ) ( for a graphic on 'kenya 's presidential election re-run ' click tmsnrt.rs/2fbg3yg )