bogor/jakarta , indonesia ( reuters ) - few villagers living near a half-built golf course in indonesia ’ s west java province know the name donald trump , and fewer still are aware that one of his firms will be managing a six-star hotel and luxury resort in their backyard .
but in the capital jakarta , a growing number of indonesians want the u.s. presidential candidate and his businesses banned from the world ’ s most populous muslim-majority nation after trump pledged to temporarily bar muslims from entering the united states if elected .
the anger simmering across the pacific is a likely preview of the strained relations a trump presidency could expect not only in indonesia , but from the rest of the muslim world .
indonesia , whose more than 200 million muslims largely practice a moderate form of islam , has close relations with the united states .
many indonesians think highly of president barack obama , who spent part of his childhood in jakarta .
“ if ( trump ) continues his racist position , it will bring danger to american assets , ” hasanuddin , a parliamentarian who is also a member of the assembly ’ s commission overseeing foreign policy , told reuters .
“ donald trump ’ s arrogance could be harmful for u.s. citizens around the world. ” fadli zon , the deputy speaker of the house , told reuters he would seek restrictions on u.s. trade and investment if trump became president .
the united states is indonesia ’ s second-largest export market , worth about $ 16 billion last year , and is a popular study destination with children of the elite .
an online petition , set up anonymously , is urging indonesian president joko widodo to ban the billionaire and his businesses from the country and has received more than 45,000 signatures .
“ donald trump doesn ’ t want muslims of the world to enter the united states ... so we should do the same to him , ” signatory ayu dyah wrote on the petition website .
“ condemn , refuse and boycott every donald trump business and his affiliations ... we should prove that we have power. ” widodo has not responded to the petition .
trump ’ s comments on muslims have already provoked strong reactions elsewhere , with british politicians in january debating barring the real estate tycoon from entering the country , where he also has business interests .
the hostility toward trump could threaten his company ’ s expansion efforts into southeast asia ’ s largest economy , indonesian lawmakers and government officials said .
“ it ’ s just his statement hurts many people in this muslim-majority country , ” edy putra irawady , indonesia ’ s deputy chief economic minister , told reuters .
“ surely it will be a black shadow for his business. ” representatives for donald trump did not respond to requests for comment .
trump hotels collection last year announced a partnership with indonesia ’ s pt media nusanta citra ( mnc ) to manage new luxury hotels on bali and in west java , the trump unit ’ s first foray into asia .
in bali , one of asia ’ s most popular holiday destinations , trump hotels will operate a six-star hotel built atop a cliff overlooking the indian ocean and tanah lot , a popular sea temple located on a small rock formation .
mnc , which will be building both resorts , declined to comment on trump ’ s politics .
“ business is business .
the implication for wider indonesia , we have to see later , ” said syafriel nasution , corporate secretary of mnc group , adding that he had not seen any damage to the company ’ s brand due to its relationship with trump .
mnc group is controlled by billionaire hary tanoesoedibjo , indonesia ’ s 28th richest person , who also owns four national television stations and last year launched a new political party .
a senior member of muhammadiyah , indonesia ’ s second-largest muslim organization , said protests were possible if trump becomes president , though none were yet planned .
“ indonesian muslims are very strongly united , ” said abdul mu ’ thi , the group ’ s secretary general .
“ if he is elected , there will be a strong reaction from indonesian communities to any business that is run by donald trump. ” in west java , near where trump ’ s golf resort will be built , one villager said he had never heard of trump and wouldn ’ t be protesting against him .
“ if we protest , he will likely close his business , ” said agus , who owns a small mobile phone shop .
“ and for the time being , earning money is hard. ” ( additional reporting by kanupriya kapoor , hidayat setiaji , gayatri suroyo and yuddy cahya in jakarta ; editing by lincoln feast ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .