yangon ( reuters ) - myanmar should respond to a crisis over its muslim rohingya community in a calibrated way without excessive force , a panel led by former u.n. chief kofi annan said on thursday , adding that radicalization was a danger if problems were not addressed .
the treatment of approximately 1.1 million rohingya has emerged as majority buddhist myanmar s most contentious human rights issue as it makes a transition from decades of harsh military rule .
annan s commission - appointed last year by leader aung san suu kyi to come up with long-term solutions for the violence-riven , ethnically and religiously divided rakhine state - said perpetrators of rights abuses should be held accountable .
security deteriorated sharply in the western state on the border with bangladesh last october when rohingya militants killed nine policemen in attacks on border posts .
in response , the myanmar military sent troops fanning out into rohingya villages in an offensive beset by allegations of arson , killings and rape by the security forces which sent 87,000 rohingya fleeing to bangladesh .
the situation in the state deteriorated again this month when security forces began a new clearance operation with tension shifting to a township , rathetaung , where buddhist rakhine and rohingya communities live side-by-side .
while myanmar has every right to defend its own territory , a highly militarized response is unlikely to bring peace to the area , the nine-member commission said in its final report .
whatever action is taken , we should make sure that the population do not suffer and ( that ) they have access to support and necessary humanitarian needs they require , said annan at a news conference in yangon .
annan added that he discussed the military operation in rakhine s mayu mountains with army chief min aung hlaing , who told him that the risk of a negative impact on the civilian population was small due to the remoteness of the area .
nevertheless , the commission said that a nuanced and comprehensive response was needed to ensure that violence does not escalate and inter-communal tensions are kept under control , it said .
the commission warned that if human rights were not respected and the population remain politically and economically marginalized northern rakhine state may provide fertile ground for radicalization , as local communities may become increasingly vulnerable to recruitment by extremists .
the rohingya are denied citizenship and classified as illegal immigrants from bangladesh , despite claiming roots in the region that go back centuries , with communities marginalized and occasionally subjected to communal violence .
annan has visited myanmar three times since his appointment , including two trips to rakhine .
on thursday , he presented his findings to suu kyi and min aung hlaing .
the united nations said in a report in february security forces had instigated a campaign that very likely amounted to crimes against humanity and possibly ethnic cleansing .
that led to the establishment of a u.n. fact-finding mission a month later .
but myanmar s domestic investigation team criticized the u.n. report this month and rejected allegations of abuses .
myanmar declined to grant visas to experts appointed by the u.n. and instead the government said it would comply with recommendations by the annan team .
but annan s panel - which has a broad mandate to look into , among other things , economic development , education and healthcare - said it was not mandated to investigate specific cases of alleged human rights violations .
it said that the government should ensure based on independent and impartial investigation that perpetrators of serious human rights violations are held accountable .
the commission made a host of other recommendations , ranging from a faster and more transparent citizenship verification process to equal access to healthcare .