( reuters ) - millennnials in the west of the united states showed the strongest support for president barack obama ’ s final state of the union address , according to data provided by yik yak , a location-based mobile app that is popular with young people .
an analysis of yik yak posts that specifically discussed tuesday ’ s speech , showed that 47 percent of millennials — defined as those aged between 23-35 — approved of obama ’ s address , while 23 percent disapproved and 30 percent were neutral .
in the west , however , those numbers jumped , with 68 percent showing their love for his address .
the highest level of disapproval was in the midwest , with 28 percent .
that same region showed 40 percent of millennials approving of the speech .
many young posters were already expressing nostalgia for the president , who will leave office next january after november ’ s presidential election .
a recurring theme among those posting was the wish for another term for the democrat , and recognition that obama had been president for as long as they could remember .
“ i ’ m going to miss obama when he ’ s no longer president .
i know a lot of you disagree with him , but we grew up with him and it ’ ll be weird when he ’ s gone ” ‘ wrote an anonymous yik yak user from the university of virginia .
yik yak said five percent of all its posts during the address were about the speech .
elsewhere on social media , the conversation focused largely on key campaign issues for the presidential election .
the top-tweeted moment under the # sotu hashtag was obama saying , “ i stand here as confident as i have ever been that the state of our union is strong , ” according to twitter data .
among the issues most tweeted about during the address were foreign affairs , energy and the environment and the economy , in that order .
on facebook , the top issues discussed during the state of the union address were iran , islam , muslims and isis , according to a spokesperson for the social media site , using a common acronym for the islamic state militant group .
according to facebook , users in maryland , virginia , georgia , new york and north carolina were the most engaged on the social media site during the speech .
facebook saw a spike in engagement , said the spokesperson , when obama criticized anti-muslim sentiment .
in what appeared to be a slap at republican presidential frontrunner donald trump , obama said insulting muslims hurt the united states and “ betrayed ” its identity .
twitter data showed that trump , and the two main rivals in the fight for the democratic nomination , hillary clinton and bernie sanders , were the three most tweeted about presidential candidates during the state of the union .
sanders was the only one present in the chamber , those three candidates also gained the most twitter followers during the speech .