kampala ( reuters ) - south sudanese opposition groups tried to forge a united front on monday ahead of an expected resumption of peace talks , in the first such meeting since the start of their country s civil war nearly four years ago , attendees told reuters .
south sudan s civil war , triggered by a feud between president salva kiir and his former deputy , has plunged parts of the world s youngest nation into famine and forced a third of the population - some four million people - to flee their homes .
representatives of south sudan s many armed and unarmed opposition groups met in the kenyan town of nyahururu , said kosti manibe , a former government minister who was briefly jailed and represents a group of ex-political prisoners .
i call it like-minded groups who are opposed to the policy that the regime of salva in ( south sudan s capital ) juba is pursuing , manibe said .
the gathering , expected to last three days , comes after diplomats from the regional bloc igad held talks with kiir in juba at the weekend to press the government to participate in the planned peace talks in december .
the opposition is speaking in a cacophony of voices .
there is a need to harmonize these voices , said majak d agoot , another member of the former prisoner group .
manibe said kenya s government had graciously allowed the opposition groups to meet in their country , without elaborating .
kenyan foreign affairs ministry spokesman edwin limo said he was not aware of the meeting .
the united nations says south sudan s civil war has resulted in ethnic cleansing and other war crimes .
a western-backed peace deal between kiir and his former deputy riek machar collapsed last year , spawning the creation of new armed and political groups opposing the government .
machar s spla-io rebel group , the country s largest which still controls swathes of territory in the south and northeast of south sudan , declined to attend the nyahururu meeting , according to nathaniel oyet , a senior member of the group , saying it may distract from the december talks .
oyet also cited security concerns in kenya where spla-io officials have disappeared in the last year , including machar s spokesman who was arrested and deported to juba in 2016 .
among those attending monday s meeting in kenya were representatives of former army general thomas cirillo , who is waging an insurgency in the southern region of south sudan , and other former government officials lam akol , gabriel changson , and joseph bakosoro , all of whom live in exile .
south sudanese government officials were unavailable for comment on the kenya meeting .