manila ( reuters ) - the parents and lawyers of a philippine high school student shot dead last week filed a murder complaint on friday against three anti-narcotics policemen amid rare public outrage about the country s war on drugs .
the death of 17-year-old kian loyd delos santos on aug. 16 in a rundown area of manila has drawn huge domestic attention to allegations by activists that police have been systematically executing suspected users and dealers , a charge the authorities deny .
the head of the public attorney s office ( pao ) and the parents of the slain youth submitted the complaint against the three policemen at the justice department , calling for them to be charged with murder and breaches of a law on torture .
the pao , a government agency , provides indigent litigants free legal assistance .
delos santos was found dead in an alley with a gun in his left hand .
police said they killed him in self defense , but his family said he had no weapon , was right-handed and had no involvement in drugs .
security cameras showed the officers aggressively escorting a man matching delos santos description in the direction of the spot where he was killed .
the three policemen admit they were the people shown in the video , but that they were escorting another suspect , not delos santos .
pao and police pathologists who did separate autopsies told a senate hearing that delos santos was shot from above , from close range .
it was cold-blooded murder , he was shot while kneeling down , pao chief persida acosta told news channel anc .
we are here for truth and justice so we have to file this immediately .
the complaint , if accepted , would follow at least two cases filed last year against police over president rodrigo duterte s war on drugs , which has killed thousands of filipinos , outraged human rights groups and alarmed western governments .
most filipinos however support the campaign , according to opinion polls , and domestic opposition has been muted .
several police commanders relieved of their duty over the student s killing told a senate inquiry on thursday that delos santos was not the target of their operation , and his links to drug were known to them only the day after his death .
officers said they learned of his suspected links to drugs from another drug suspect , a cellphone and chatter circulating on social media .
delos santos was among more than 90 people killed last week in three nights of intensified raids dubbed one time , big time , which had duterte s steadfast support .
the term refers to a coordinated police drive to stamp out crime in a particular district .
the teen s killing puts focus on duterte s repeated promises to police administering the crackdown that he would insulate them from any legal consequences .
critics say his rhetoric is tantamount to giving police a license to kill .
duterte took a softer tone on wednesday , telling police to arrest suspects and kill only if their lives were in danger , adding that he would not protect those who killed unarmed people .