washington/seoul ( reuters ) - u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson offered to begin direct talks with north korea without pre-conditions , backing away from a key u.s. demand that pyongyang must first accept that giving up its nuclear arsenal would be part of any negotiations .
tillerson s new diplomatic overture comes nearly two weeks after north korea said it had successfully tested a breakthrough intercontinental ballistic missile ( icbm ) that put the entire united states mainland within range of its nuclear weapons .
let s just meet , tillerson said in a speech to washington s atlantic council think tank on tuesday .
the white house later issued an ambiguous statement that left unclear whether president donald trump - who has said tillerson was wasting his time pursuing dialogue with north korea - had given his approval for the speech .
the president s views on north korea have not changed , the white house said .
north korea is acting in an unsafe way ... north korea s actions are not good for anyone and certainly not good for north korea .
in beijing , chinese foreign ministry spokesman lu kang said china welcomed all efforts to ease tension and promote dialogue to resolve the problem .
china hopes the united states and north korea can meet each other halfway and take meaningful steps on dialogue and contact , he told reporters .
ahead of tillerson s speech , north korean leader kim jong un vowed to develop more nuclear weapons while personally decorating scientists and officials who contributed to the development of pyongyang s most advanced icbm , state media said on wednesday .
kim said on tuesday the scientists and workers would continue manufacturing more latest weapons and equipment to bolster up the nuclear force in quality and quantity , the kcna news agency said .
while reiterating washington s long-standing position that it can not tolerate a nuclear-armed north korea , tillerson said the united states was ready to talk any time they re ready to talk , but there would first have to be a period of quiet without nuclear and missile tests .
united nations political affairs chief jeffrey feltman , who visited pyongyang last week , said senior north korean officials did not offer any type of commitment to talks , but he believed he left the door ajar .
time will tell what was the impact of our discussions , but i think we have left the door ajar and i fervently hope that the door to a negotiated solution will now be opened wide , feltman told reporters after briefing the u.n. security council on tuesday .
not everyone is ready for talks .
japan has advocated a strategy of pressuring north korea through sanctions to give up its nuclear weapons .
tokyo and washington are in 100 percent agreement on that stance , chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga said on wednesday , when asked about tillerson s comments .
a former japanese diplomat said that , while a diplomatic solution was the only acceptable solution , now was not the time for talks .
we have to see the effects of sanctions on life in north korea , the former diplomat , who asked not to be identified , told reuters .
i heard that they are having a serious impact on everyday life .
let s wait and see .
if we were to hint anything for dialogue , we d be losing clout .
south korea continued military exercises with the united states to check military readiness , exercises the north describes as preparation for war .
the south s army said separately on wednesday it conducted a successful air-to-air missile firing drill from apache helicopters .
tillerson also disclosed the united states had been talking to china about how to secure north korea s nuclear weapons in the event of a collapse of the government in pyongyang .
he said beijing had been given assurances that if u.s. forces had to cross into north korea they would pull back across the border into the south .
chinese spokesman lu would not directly answer a question about those comments , but said china had always clearly told all its interlocutors on the issue that there can be neither war nor chaos on the korean peninsula .
tillerson made clear that the united states wants to resolve the north korea standoff through peaceful diplomacy and , in terms far more tempered than trump s recent threats against pyongyang , offered to hold exploratory talks .
we can talk about the weather if you want , he said .
we can talk about whether it s going to be a square table or a round table .
then we can begin to lay out a map , a road map , of what we might be willing to work towards .
tillerson - whose influence has appeared to wane within the administration - said trump has encouraged our diplomatic efforts .
trump said on twitter in october that tillerson was wasting his time trying to negotiate with little rocket man , using his derisive nickname for kim .
north korea , for its part , has made clear it has little interest in negotiations with the united states until it has developed the ability to hit the u.s. mainland with a nuclear-tipped missile , something most experts say it has still not proved .
tillerson also said the united states was working to tighten enforcement of international sanctions against north korea , especially further measures that china can apply , and that washington had a full menu of military options if such a response was needed .
daryl kimball , executive director of the non-partisan arms control association , said tillerson s proposal was overdue but added , in order to get to such talks going , the u.s. side as well as north korea must demonstrate more restraint .
for multimedia cover on north korea : www.reuters.com/north-korea/