cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - rohingya refugees in bangladesh could die due to a lack of food , shelter and water , given the huge numbers fleeing violence in myanmar , an aid agency warned on sunday , as authorities began moving people to camps to streamline the distribution of help .
nearly 410,000 members of the rohingya muslim minority fled from myanmar s western rakhine state to bangladesh to escape a military offensive that the united nations has branded a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
many people are arriving hungry , exhausted and with no food or water , mark pierce , bangladesh country director for the save the children aid agency said in a statement .
i m particularly worried that the demand for food , shelter , water and basic hygiene support is not being met due to the sheer number of people in need .
if families can t meet their basic needs , the suffering will get even worse and lives could be lost .
bangladesh has for decades faced influxes of rohingya fleeing persecution in buddhist-majority myanmar , where the rohingya are regarded as illegal migrants .
bangladesh was already home to 400,000 rohingya before the latest crisis erupted on aug. 25 , when rohingya insurgents attacked police posts and an army camp in the western state of rakhine , killing a dozen people .
pierce said the humanitarian response needed to be rapidly scaled up .
that can only be done if the international community steps up funding , he said .
rights monitors and fleeing rohingya say myanmar security forces and rakhine buddhist vigilantes responded to the aug. 25 insurgent attacks with what they say is a campaign of violence and arson aimed at driving out the muslim population .
myanmar rejects that , saying its security forces are carrying out clearance operations against the insurgents of the arakan rohingya salvation army , which claimed responsibility for the august attacks and similar , smaller , raids in october .
the myanmar government has declared the group a terrorist organization and accused it of setting the fires and attacking civilians .
bangladesh border guards said the flow of refugees leaving myanmar had eased off over the past day , apparently because bad weather had discouraged people from taking to boats to reach bangladesh .
heavy rain has turned roads into mud , with refugees huddling under shelters of bamboo and plastic sheets beside them .
bangladeshi authorities said they had started moving an estimated 100,000 rohingya living by the roads to camps designated as aid points .
we re not allowing any distribution to anyone from the side of the road , said district government official kazi abdur rahman .
we want to convince them there s everything in the camp and nothing here .
a big new camp is planned but it is unclear how long it would take to build .
people are living in these muddy , awful conditions .
you have to get them to some sort of space where aid can be delivered , said chris lom of the international organization for migration .
clean water and sanitation can only be delivered in a structured environment .
there is no sign that violence has stopped in myanmar , with smoke , apparently from burning villages , seen as recently as friday , meaning more refugees are likely to cross .
human rights watch said satellite imagery showed 62 rohingya villages had been torched since the violence erupted .
myanmar says more than 430 people have been killed , most of them insurgents , and about 30,000 non-muslim villagers have been displaced .
myanmar government leader and nobel laureate aung san suu kyi has faced a barrage of criticism from abroad for not stopping the violence .
the military remains in full control of security policy and there is little sympathy for the rohingya in a country where the end of army rule has unleashed old animosities , and the military campaign in rakhine state is widely supported .
suu kyi is due to make her first address to the nation on the crisis on tuesday .
her foreign supporters and western governments that backed her campaign against military rule , and see her as the best hope for myanmar s future , will be hoping to see her make a commitment to protect the rights of the muslim minority .
suu kyi s supporters at home could be disappointed if she is perceived to be caving in to foreign pressure and taking the side of a muslim minority blamed for initiating the violence .
the united states has called for the protection of civilians and a deputy assistant secretary of state , patrick murphy , is due in myanmar this week .
he will travel to sittwe , the capital of rakhine state , to meet government officials and representatives of different communities , including rohingya , but he is not seeking to travel to the conflict zone in northern rakhine state .
the military has called for unity on the issue .
the political party founded by retired officers and trounced by suu kyi s party in the 2015 election , could be expected to take heart to see her support eroded by the crisis .