colombo ( reuters ) - the united nations on friday urged the sri lankan government to urgently implement reforms to end war-time arbitrary detention and strengthen independent monitoring of tough legislation .
sri lanka has used the 1979 prevention of terrorism act ( pta ) to pursue a tough line to prevent aiding and abetting terrorism in the island nation s long conflict with tamil tiger rebels .
that legislation gives wide powers to police to arrest a suspect without informing the immediate family , restricts access to lawyers and allows detention of up to 18-months without charging .
the war ended in 2009 , but the government has not repealed pta , though it had promised to end arbitrary detentions .
many ethnic minority tamils who have been arrested under the pta have complained of years of detention without being charged .
the u.n. is now asking sri lanka to repeal the draconian law and introduce an internationally acceptable law .
the government says it has begun moves to replace the pta and is in the process of introducing new legislation .
there are no effective safeguards against arbitrariness in this context and there is an urgent need to strengthen mechanisms for independent monitoring and oversight , leigh toomey , a member of the un working group on arbitrary detention told reporters in colombo after concluding a 11-day mission .
she said they had identified significant challenges to the right of personal liberty in sri lanka , resulting in arbitrary detention across the country .
the working group also said their attention had been drawn to a loss of liberty among the socially vulnerable , such as children , women , elderly people , people with psycho-social problems and the poor .
sri lanka is under criticism from the rights groups over its slow progress on the commitments it made to the un human rights council following a u.n. resolution that called for post-war reconciliation and an investigation of all alleged war crimes .
sri lanka ended a 26-year-civil war crushing the separatist liberation tigers of tamil eelan in 2009 .
the united nations and rights groups have accused the military of killing thousands of civilians , mostly tamils , during the final weeks of the conflict .
the tamil tigers were also accused of widespread abuses during the war , such as using child soldiers and targeting civilians with suicide bombers .
in november european lawmakers said they were disappointed about sri lanka s slow roll-out of human rights reforms that it had promised in exchange for trade concessions .
a u.n. rights watchdog in 2016 called on sri lanka to investigate documented allegations of torture and rape of detainees by security forces and to rein in broad police powers .
the u.n. committee against torture described continuing reports of abductions , deaths in custody , poor conditions of detention and the use of forced confessions in court .