london ( reuters ) - business is booming for paul murphy s recruitment agency in northwest england .
clients are rolling in with more jobs in restaurants , bars and hotels than ever before , but finding workers to fill them has become tricky .
britain s vote to leave the eu has complicated life for murphy .
a steady stream of continental europeans who for years have taken up hundreds of thousands of positions in the hospitality business and other industries has started to dry up .
it s definitely getting worse .
the lead time to fill a chef vacancy at the moment ... could be anything between two and six months , said murphy , whose knight benton recruitment agency is based in the small town of cleator moor .
by contrast finding a chef last year would take two months at most , he told reuters .
citizens of the remaining european union states - from italians and spanish to poles and romanians - face losing their automatic right to live in britain when it leaves the bloc in march 2019 .
murphy believes the government must produce an alternative immigration regime that ensures employers get the workers they need .
without a proper plan in place , they could crash the economy , he said .
the hospitality sector , like farming and construction , has relied heavily on europeans , and particularly on people from the poorer ex-communist states which began joining the eu in 2003 .
citizens of other eu countries could make up as much as a quarter of the 3 million workers in hospitality , according to a kpmg report based on a survey of british hospitality association ( bha ) members .
that includes 75 percent of waiting staff , 37 percent of housekeepers and 25 percent of chefs .
last june s referendum has affected both the supply of labor and demand for it .
european workers are starting to leave britain or having second thoughts about coming in the first place , worried about their uncertain status after brexit .
on top of this , the pound has fallen more than 15 percent against the euro and about 21 percent against the polish zloty since the referendum .
that means europeans sterling pay does not stretch nearly so far when they send money home , encouraging them to seek work elsewhere .
but murphy s clients need more staff .
cleator moor lies on the edge of the lake district national park , a top tourist draw .
the weak pound has encouraged many britons to holiday at home and attracted growing numbers of foreign visitors to places like the lake district .
they need feeding and accommodating .
smaller firms are particularly affected .
some are paying agencies to recruit for roles they used to fill easily themselves , raising salaries and offering more part-time hours .
at a national level , big brands like the pret a manger sandwich chain and pizza restaurant group franco manca have warned about the impact on their businesses .
hospitality alone accounts for around 4.3 percent of the british economy , the bha estimates , but the problem is wider .
numerous recruitment and sentiment surveys have suggested that firms across the economy are struggling to fill vacancies .
prime minister theresa may s government has to balance these concerns with those of the many britons who say they voted for brexit primarily to clamp down on migration from the eu .
the government wants to keep the right of irish citizens to work in britain , an arrangement which long pre-dates the eu .
but a leaked document last week showed it is considering restricting migration from other eu states to all but the highest skilled workers .
the government has said only that it would set out its proposals later this year .
employers fear too hard a line will make matters worse .
already they raised salaries at the fastest pace for two years in august as the fall in eu migration aggravates the labor shortage , according to a survey by the recruitment and employment confederation .
hospitality needs to recruit 200,000 people every year to make up for natural staff turnover and power its growth , according to the bha .
without any new eu migration or an increase in applications from britons , it estimates the industry could face a shortfall of more than 60,000 jobs every year .
since 2003 the number of people born in other eu states living in britain has jumped from 1.26 million to 3.68 million in 2017 , according to oxford university s migration observatory .
eastern europeans accounted for almost all the increase .
but that trend has slowed sharply .
in the 12 months to march , net migration from all countries was 246,000 , down 81,000 from the previous year , official data show .
more than half that drop was due to eu citizens leaving and fewer arriving since the brexit vote .
the biggest fall was among citizens of eight eastern european countries .
up-market fast food chain leon , which runs 52 restaurants mostly in london and southeast england , is feeling the consequences .
what we ve seen this year , particularly in the last quarter , is a significant drop in applications from eu nationals , said marco reick , the firm s people director .
with staff from other eu states making up around 60 percent of leon s 1,000-strong workforce , the firm has responded by splitting full-time roles into part-time positions .
while more expensive initially , this makes them more attractive to british candidates who tend to want more casual work .
indian fine-dining restaurant group mw eat says job applications from eu nationals are down around 80 percent since the referendum .
we ve had to increase wages by in excess of 10 percent , said chairman ranjit mathrani .
even then , the group is taking on less qualified candidates , raising training costs .
as a result , it is having to increase menu prices .
finding british replacements isn t easy .
mathrani said mw eat would prefer to hire more locally-born workers , but many see hospitality as an unattractive career choice .
on top of that unemployment is its lowest in decades , at 1.46 million people or 4.3 percent of the workforce in the three months to july .
peter gowers , chief executive of the travelodge budget hotel group , says there simply aren t enough available britons .
even if the hotel industry recruited virtually every person on the unemployment register there wouldn t be enough people to fill all the roles needed in the 10 years following brexit , he told the mail on sunday newspaper .
gowers called on the government to consider a guest worker program to avoid price rises and investment cuts .
other large firms say they have avoided the impact so far .
one such is the gordon ramsay group , which operates restaurants under the name of one of britain s most outspoken celebrity chefs .
ceo stuart gillies said that with two thirds of its workforce from other eu states , the firm has brought forward steps to retain staff including offering more flexible shifts .
the government s ambition is to cut annual net migration to the tens of thousands .
for some employers , the prospect of further falls in migration is unsettling .
that really makes me very uncomfortable , because we re struggling as it is , said reick .