this is expected from this lefty college will it trickle out to other colleges ?
participants were able to move in before most other students .
privilege much ?
victimhood translates to doing exactly what the so called victims fought against .go figurethe university of california , berkeley invited certain special populations of new students to move in a day early to attend racially-exclusive orientation sessions.according to a guide to the new golden bear orientation program , the school offered a special programming on monday for a variety of populations , including hispanic students , black students , native american students , and asian american/pacific islander students .
we want all our students to make it to orientation and to have an accessible and equitable experience .
tweet this most other students , meanwhile , spent the day moving into their residence halls and preparing for the main freshman orientation program , which runs from august 15-22.the black student orientation aimed to address the specific transitional and community needs of african american/black students at the university with community building activities , academic and campus life workshops , and a resource fair .
as part of the black student orientation , students participated in a black world tour in which they were taken around the surrounding area for a showcase of black owned businesses .
[ related : black harvard grads to hold separate commencement ceremony ] similarly , a familia orientation was offered for chicanx and latinx students on august 13 , while an asian american pacific islander student orientation was reserved for responding to the specific transitional and community needs of asian american , pilipinx , and pacific islander students .
a final special population orientation was provided for native students enrolled at the elite institution , who were encouraged to show up early to map locations of your classes , get to know campus , meet continuing cal native students and other new native students , and have a little fun before classes start .
in fact , the native american student development office touts on its website that another bonus of attending the exclusive orientation was being eligible for early move-in , a benefit that the african american student development center similarly advertises on its website , noting that participants were able to move in before most other students .
read more : campus reform