berlin ( reuters ) - if angela merkel becomes german chancellor again , nearly half of voters would want her to quit her term early , according to a poll offering a rare sign that domestic support for europe s most influential leader may be waning .
merkel s conservatives won a national election in september , setting her up for a fourth stint in office .
but they bled support to the far right , and talks on a three-way coalition with the greens and the pro-business free democrats collapsed in november .
merkel is now pinning her hopes on cutting a deal with the center-left social democrats ( spd ) , who finished second in the election but have so far given a lukewarm response to the idea of renewing the grand coalition that governed germany between 2013 and 2017 .
the yougov survey , commissioned by germany s dpa agency and published in wednesday s die welt newspaper , showed 47 percent of respondents wanted merkel to step aside before 2021 , when her fourth term would end - up from 36 percent in a poll taken at the beginning of october .
by contrast , 36 percent want her to serve a full four years , compared to 44 percent three months ago .
the spd , which lost ground among voters after the coalition with merkel , has been reluctant to commit to a re-run as it looks to keep a skeptical rank and file on board .
spd foreign minister sigmar gabriel , a former leader of the party , adopted a tough tone on wednesday in top-selling daily bild .
if the chancellery continues to reject all the proposals for eu reform , there will be no coalition with the spd , he told the paper .
the spd s current leader , martin schulz , has championed deeper euro zone reform , calling for a united states of europe by 2025 .
gabriel also said the conservatives needed to reform the health system to close the gap between private and state care .
an insa poll in bild put merkel s conservatives up 2 points at 33 percent and the spd down 0.5 percent at 20.5 percent .
the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) which , capitalizing on voters fears about growing inequality and the impact on germany of europe s migrant crisis , entered parliament for the first time in september , was down 1 point at 13 percent .
many commentators have suggested the afd would make gains if new elections were held due to a failure on merkel s part to form a government .
merkel s conservatives and the spd have said they will start exploratory coalition talks on jan. 7 .