such a nice young man .
he was just hearing voices in his head .
you mean like mohamed s voice ?
of course cair says he was likely just showing off because that s how muslim men who live in america show off ? ? ? ?
not only did this dearborn muslim plot to shoot up a detroit church , but he kept a sword in his car and said that it was his dream to behead someone .
khalil abu-rayyan said he wanted to burn people alive , tie them up , cut their tongues .
as for the church shooting , abu-rayyan said , honestly , i regret not doing it .
if i can t go do jihad at the middle east i would do a jihad over here .
but abu-rayyan will not be prosecuted for terrorism ; not in dearborn , he won t. to prosecute him for terrorism would be islamofauxbic .
any time a jihadi gets caught plotting mass murder of the kuffar , it s the fbi that gets the blame : entrapment .
the case against abu-rayyan has focused on his alleged threats of violence and has raised questions , including whether the government successfully thwarted abu-rayyan s alleged plan for a terrorist attack on a metro detroit church , or whether the fbi s undercover agent radicalized a vulnerable young man with no criminal past until 2015 .
shooting and death makes me excited .
i love to hear people scream and beg .
i wish i had my gun , abu-rayyan told the fbi undercover agent in a text message.the fbi is being accused of radicalizing this savage .
not the islamic texts and teachings that incite to jihad , not his muslim brothers waging holy war in the cause of islam the fbi.wait , it get worse .
the fbi is being criticized for arresting him , as opposed to pursuing other options , such as going to the family.asked whether they explored other options before arresting abu-rayyan , u.s. attorney spokeswoman gina balaya said : although intervention with a family is appropriate in some cases , when a defendant poses a specific threat of violence , we need take action that protects public safety .
go to the family ?
the family is usually in on it .
look at san bernardino .
khalil plotted to shoot up a church .
there are no other options but arrest .
how can the fbi do its job when it is expected to adhere to sharia law and sanction jihad ? via : pamela gellar