naypyitaw ( reuters ) - china called for a ceasefire in myanmar s rakhine state so that rohingya muslim refugees can return from bangladesh , proposing a three-stage approach to the crisis as diplomats from 51 mostly asian and european countries gathered in myanmar on monday .
more than 600,000 muslim rohingya have fled to bangladesh since late august , driven out by a military clearance operation in buddhist majority myanmar s rakhine state .
amid a burgeoning humanitarian catastrophe , rights groups have accused the myanmar military of atrocities , while foreign critics have blasted aung san suu kyi , the nobel peace prize winner who leads a civilian administration that is less than two years old , for failing to speak out more strongly .
on monday , suu kyi opened an asia-europe meeting for foreign ministers that had been scheduled in myanmar before the outbreak of the crisis .
speaking in the capital of naypyitaw on sunday , having arrived from dhaka , china s foreign minister wang yi said china believed myanmar and bangladesh could work out a mutually acceptable way to end the crisis .
the first phase is to effect a ceasefire on the ground , to return to stability and order , so the people can enjoy peace and no longer be forced to flee , china s foreign ministry said in a statement , citing wang .
with the hard work of all sides , at present , the first phase s aim has already basically been achieved , and the key is to prevent a flare-up , especially that there is no rekindling the flames of war .
during a meeting on sunday , the ministry said , wang told myanmar president htin kyaw , as a friend of both myanmar and bangladesh , china is willing to keep playing a constructive role for the appropriate handling of the rakhine state issue .
visiting myanmar last week , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson made many of the same points , but he also called for a credible investigation into reports of atrocities .
once a ceasefire is seen to be working , wang said talks between myanmar and bangladesh should find a workable solution for the return of refugees , and the final phase should be to work toward a long-term solution based on poverty alleviation .
myanmar and bangladesh officials began talks last month to settle a repatriation process for rohingya refugees , which bangladesh expects to take to the next level in coming days .
speaking on the sidelines of the asem meeting , european union foreign policy chief federica mogherini said , we believe that stopping the violence , the flow of refugees and guaranteeing full humanitarian access to rakhine state , and safe , sustainable repatriation of refugees are going to be key .
mogherini , who also visited bangladesh over the weekend , said , there s a real possibility of myanmar and bangladesh reaching a memorandum of understanding and agreement for the safe repatriation of refugees to myanmar .
the european bloc was ready to help with the process , she added .
it was unclear , however , whether a safe return was possible , or advisable , for the thousands of rohingya women and children still stranded on the beaches trying to flee hunger and instability in rakhine .
myanmar intends to resettle most refugees who return in new model villages , rather than on the land they previously occupied , an approach the united nations has criticized in the past as effectively creating permanent camps .
besides restoring peace for rohingya to return , myanmar also had to resolve the issue of their citizenship , having treated them as stateless for decades , the u.n. high commissioner for refugees , filippo grandi , told a news conference in tokyo .
the unhcr was ready to assist both countries with repatriation , he said , adding that it could help myanmar with the citizenship verification of the rohingya .
until now it has not been invited to participate in either .
much as resources are needed in bangladesh to respond to the crisis , the solutions to this crisis lie in myanmar , grandi said .
the crisis erupted after the military launched a brutal counter-insurgency operation against the militants after attacks on an army base and 30 police posts in rakhine on aug. 25 .
myanmar s military has said that all fighting against the rohingya militants died out on sept.5 .
the group behind those attacks , arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) , had declared a one-month ceasefire on sept.10 , which was rejected by the myanmar government .
but there have been no serious clashes since .
the united states and other western countries have become more engaged with myanmar since it began a transition to civilian government after nearly 50 years of military rule .
myanmar s generals retain autonomy over defense , internal security and border issues in the current power-sharing arrangement .
china , with close ties to both myanmar and bangladesh , has long been a key player in lawless borderlands where rebel ethnic groups have battled myanmar s government for decades in a conflict driving thousands of refugees to seek shelter in china .