palermo , italy ( reuters ) - police in the sicilian capital of palermo scooped up 25 suspected mobsters on an array of charges on tuesday , including a woman accused of filling in as boss for her imprisoned husband .
more than 200 police , two helicopters and five canine units took part in the early morning roundup of the suspects .
they are accused of extortion , handling stolen goods , vandalism and being mafia members , according to the arrest warrant seen by reuters .
with extensive use of wiretaps and ambient recordings , police reconstructed territorial divisions in the city and the internal power struggle that made maria angela di trapani , 49 , a powerful figure inside one of the city s historic clans .
her husband , salvatore salvino eyes of ice madonia , who is in jail for murder .
police said she carried messages from her husband to clan members and organized monthly payments to the families of imprisoned mobsters .
she also designated who should be running the mob family s business , or who should be acting boss , on behalf of her husband .
in one wiretap , an accused clan member refers to her as the mistress of the house , and the police statement on the arrests said she was the real boss of the resuttana neighborhood .
for all intents and purposes , she acts like a real man , a turncoat told investigators , according to the court documents .
the sicilian mafia , or cosa nostra , has been hurt by a series of arrests in recent years , weakening the crime network , especially compared to the calabrian ndrangheta .
with many bosses in jail , their wives have begun to play larger roles .
while cosa nostra has been much weakened by the result of judicial investigations , this case shows the continuing ability to use violence , intimidation , and the mafia code to force business and shop owners to pay extortion , the warrant reads .
during the two-year investigation , police documented 33 separate crimes and 22 attempts , many successful , to extort shops and businesses , police said .