welcoming a pro-life , pro-marriage leader at the white house with a crowd of abortion and gay rights activists , is as classy as hosting an alcoholics anonymous meeting with an open bar .
mike huckabee said tuesday that barack obama pretends to be a christian , after the president s guest list for pope francis white house welcome ceremony included a short list of catholics and other christians who haev visibly parted with church doctrine .
huckabee told newsmax tv that he is concerned about a guy that believes he s a christian , and pretends to be and then says he is , but does things that makes it very difficult for people to practice their christian faith .
i m disappointed if a person says , i m a christian , but you invite the pope into your home and then you invite a whole bunch of people who are at odds with the catholic church policy .
i think there s something very unseemly about that .
the guest list for wednesday morning s pomp and circumstance on the south lawn of the white house included a pro-choice nun , a transgender woman and an openly gay retired episcopal bishop plus a roman catholic teacher from suburban philadelphia who was fired this year for marrying her girlfriend.gene robinson , the first openly gay episcopal bishop , divorced his partner last year after previously divorcing his first spouse , a woman.margie winters , the suburban philadelphia educator , said monday that she hoped the pontiff would address issues facing gay catholics during his visit to the u.s.the 50-year-old winters lost her job as religious instruction director at waldron mercy academy in montgomery county , pennsylvania , in june over her 2007 same-sex marriage.winters says the school principal knew she was gay and married to andrea vettori , clinical director at a health center for the homeless , when she was hired eight years ago.her invitation to join a crowd of 11,000 on wednesday morning came via the human rights campaign , an gay-rights activist group.huckabee was answering a question tuesday night about whether muslim politicians should be disqualified from running for president .
there is no religious test for a person to hold public office in america , he said .
i m less concerned about what faith a person has .
i m more concerned about the authenticity of their faith and how that plays out in their policies .
huckabee lashed out at obama on tuesday in an essay published by the daily caller , saying he shows total disrespect to millions of americans by transforming pope francis white house visit into a politicized cattle call for gay and pro-abortion activists .
via : uk daily mail online