oh and as an added bonus , according to one of the muslim teens , they snuck into the theater as well in addition to faking hate crimes against themselves , muslims are now resorting to staging fake terrorist attacks to prove how islamophobic america is .
first there was clock boy in texas , then the muslim hipsters in arkansas , and now it s the muslim movie goers in minnesota .
a group of muslim teens did their best to make movie theater patrons think they were about to launch an attack with some purposely-suspicious actions recently.it turns out the mall of america isn t just a place for angry black protesters ; it s also a great spot for creating a false islamophobic response .
the city pages reports that on january 1st a group of african muslim teenagers , possibly from somalia , went to a movie at the country s largest mall .
they were all carrying backpacks and speaking with heavy accents and foreign tongues .
they wanted to be noticed.once the movie began , the 5 or so black muslims got up and separated , taking seats away from each other .
as you can imagine , the rest of the people in the theater thought this was a pretty unusual thing for them to do .
in fact , most of the other moviegoers thought these muslim teens were about to launch a jihad right then and there.reportedly , as many as 15 movie patrons left the theater and called the police , fearing that radical islamic inspired bloodshed was eminent .
the police and mall security arrived and detained the muslims .
they explained to the officers that they got up and moved away from each other because they didn t want to be tempted to talk to each other during the film , which sounds like a complete load of shit.one of the muslims , akram oromo , took video of the cordial police officers questioning him and his co-conspirators and posted it to his facebook page .
he also pointed out how racist this intrusion was : racism well never stop ima let u know that because this white people though this young muslim teens going to blow up the movie theater because we all have a backpack .
more than 15 whites start running from the theater like we about do some stupid shit they called police and moa security but they didn t find anything from usaccording to the video , in addition to freaking people out , oromo and his friends also snuck into the movie without paying.// < !
[ cdata [ ( function ( d , s , id ) { var js , fjs = d.getelementsbytagname ( s ) [ 0 ] ; if ( d.getelementbyid ( id ) ) return ; js = d.createelement ( s ) ; js.id = id ; js.src = `` //connect.facebook.net/en_gb/sdk.js # xfbml=1 & # 038 ; version=v2.3 '' ; fjs.parentnode.insertbefore ( js , fjs ) ; } ( document , 'script ' , 'facebook-jssdk ' ) ) ; // ] ] > racism well never stop ?
ima let u know that because this white people though this young muslim teens going to blow up the movie theater because we all have a backpack .
more than 15whites start running from the theater like we about do some stupid shit they called police and moa security but they didn t find anything from us # racism # muslims # freedom # africanposted by akram oromo on friday , 1 january 2016islamic terrorists have struck on us soil recently .
radical islamic groups have actually called for a hit on the mall of america .
it is not racist or islamophobic for people to react to obvious muslims acting in a very suspicious manner .
that is called vigilance .
even muslim apologist barack obama has said that americans should keep their eyes open and report anything that doesn t seem right as a way to combat terrorism.it s my opinion that these muslim teens did this on purpose with the goal of triggering a police response so they could cry about the unfair treatment they receive in the us .
terrorism is evolving , but so too is hate crime hoaxing .
it s really quite simple : go to a public place , do something technically legal yet terribly suspicious , then sit back and reap the liberal media sympathy.via : downtrend