moscow ( reuters ) - russia accused the united states on thursday of trying to provoke north korean leader kim jong un into flying off the handle over his missile program to hand washington a pretext to destroy his country .
in some of his most robust comments on the subject to date , russian foreign minister sergei lavrov also flatly rejected a u.s. call to cut ties with pyongyang over its nuclear and ballistic missile program and said u.s. policy towards north korea was deeply flawed .
tensions on the korean peninsula have flared after north korea said it had successfully tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile on wednesday in a breakthrough that put the u.s. mainland within range of its nuclear weapons .
russia has condemned the test , like others before it , as a provocation , but lavrov said the way the united states was handling the situation was dangerously provocative .
the latest u.s. actions look designed to deliberately provoke pyongyang into taking new extreme action , lavrov told reporters in belarus , according to a russian foreign ministry transcript .
lavrov said he was referring to joint u.s.-south korean military exercises planned for december , which he said u.s. officials had intimated to russia would not take place until spring to open a window for tensions to be defused .
we were encouraged by that approach .
and then suddenly ... they announced large-scale exercises in december .
we have the impression that it was all done specially to get kim jong un to fly off the handle and take another reckless step .
the air forces of the united states and south korea are scheduled to hold a regular joint drill early next month with six u.s. f-22 raptor stealth fighters taking part .
the americans need to explain to us all if they want to find a pretext to destroy north korea .
let them say it directly ... then we can take a decision about how to react , said lavrov .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley on wednesday called for other countries to sever all ties with pyongyang , including cutting trade links and expelling north korean workers .
moscow sells oil products to north korea and thousands of north korean workers toil in russia , sending remittances back to the authorities in pyongyang .
lavrov said haley s call for the world to isolate north korea was wrong .
we regard this negatively , lavrov said .
we have already said many times that sanctions pressure has exhausted itself .
he also complained that the united states was totally ignoring a u.n. demand for talks with north korea .
i think it s a big mistake , said lavrov .