if there s one takeaway from thursday , it s that donald trump is probably going to lay in bed in that bathrobe he doesn t own and cry himself to sleep for days .
in yet another blow to trump s ego and victory for the constitution , a federal appeals court became the third in the nation to tell the donald to take his muslim ban and shove it up his big orange ass.trump s doj lawyers tried everything from claiming that the ban , which blocked people from seven predominantly muslim countries that have not been tied to a deadly terrorist attack within our borders since 9/11 from entering the united states , is necessary to protect our nation , to actually attempting to get the court to agree that president asterisk s decisions are absolute and unreviewable by any court .
the supreme court has made clear that the government s authority and expertise in [ such ] matters do not automatically trump the court s own obligation to secure the protection that the constitution grants to individuals , even in times of war , the court said .
there is no precedent to support this claimed unreviewability , which runs contrary to the fundamental structure of our constitutional democracy .
even though he had just been to court , trump lashed out on twitter with twelve schadenfreude-laden , allcaps words : see you in court , the security of our nation is at stake !
see you in court , the security of our nation is at stake !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 9 , 2017naturally , the internet responded with joy upon hearing this amazing news because whenever trump is sad , justice has won .. @ realdonaldtrump you just did see them in court jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) february 9 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump i 'm afraid court already saw you , dear .
bess kalb ( @ bessbell ) february 9 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump are you tired of winning yet matt binder ( @ mattbinder ) february 9 , 2017 @ mattbinder @ realdonaldtrump just ca n't stop winning !
austin braun ( @ austinonsocial ) february 9 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump says the guy who goes to war w/ nordstrom , hamilton , meryl streep & snl but ca n't acknowledge a terrorist attack in quebec !
kristina wong ( @ mskristinawong ) february 9 , 2017 '' see you in court ! ''
@ realdonaldtrump yells to the second highest court in the land .
david g. mcafee ( @ davidgmcafee ) february 9 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump the appeals court actually said the government had provided no evidence that the security of the nation was at stake .
jim roberts ( @ nycjim ) february 9 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump this is so embarrassing for you !
president bannon is going to be so mad !
alex goldschmidt ( @ alexandergold ) february 9 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump trump thinks checks and balances are when his contractors check their bank accounts and see the balance at zero .
nick jack pappas ( @ pappiness ) february 9 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump i 'm wondering the same thing ? ?
pic.twitter.com/xxyl2r46rg sam ( @ samthecobra ) february 9 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you sound like you 're about to rage quit .
ebaum 's world ( @ ebaumsworld ) february 9 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you know who else did everything in their power to delegitimize the judiciary system ?
pic.twitter.com/tabwmpvuqk # theresistance ( @ aynrandpaulryan ) february 9 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump did n't you justnever mind alexandra petri ( @ petridishes ) february 9 , 2017the justice department says it is considering its options in the wake of this very , very bad news for trump and his deplorables.this battle will likely end in the supreme court which means it is up to our elected officials to refuse to confirm any trump nominee .
five justices would need to agree to reverse the 9th circuit court s decision and the empty spot merrick garland should be occupying leaves trump in extreme danger of a tie , which would effectively uphold the lower court s decision.today is a great day for america , but the battle is far from over .
resist.read more : featured image via getty images ( win mcnamee ) /screengrab