who knew a president could do so much damage in one year ?
who knew he would have the support of so many republicans we fought so hard to elect , as our last hope to stop obama s fundamental transformation of america many are asking what republicans plan to do to stop obama s executive war on culture and religious liberty in pursuit of cultural marxism .
now we know that not only will this party do nothing to stop obama , they will use their control of congress to codify obama s agenda into law.late wednesday night , republicans allowed a vote on an amendment from rep. sean maloney ( d-ny ) , which codified obama s executive order 13672 making transgenderism the law of the land .
obama s executive order , promulgated in july 2014 , instructed bureaucrats to sever contracts with companies that don t follow the obama mandated sexual identity agenda .
this could include companies that don t allow men into female bathrooms in their private corporate offices .
the maloney amendment to the $ 37.4 billion fy 2017 energy & water appropriations bill ( h.r .
5055 ) codified that unilateral act into law.the amendment passed 223-195 with 43 republicans supporting it .
the gop house just supported arguably the most radical democrat agenda item in the dead of night.enshrining obama s specific edict into law and then passing vanity language reaffirming the general importance of religious liberty is like doing cpr on a dead body .
gop leaders are always twisting arms to get conservative members to vote for bad bills .
somehow we are to believe they were impotent in ensuring moderate members ( what is moderate about transgenderism ? )
adhere to the party s platform ? the reality is that paul ryan has long been a supporter of enda ( employment non discrimination act ) , the legislative vehicle for enshrining transgenderism into law and mandating adherence to its dogma on private businesses .
that is why he s been absent in this fight .
moreover , republicans have failed to allow a single anti-religious bigotry bill to the floor since the illegal gay marriage decision was issued by the supreme court , despite the ubiquitous threats against private businesses , states , and private property.clearly , whipping against this vote was not a priority.once the maloney amendment passed with gop votes , republicans proceeded to do what they always do so well .
they offered side-by-side amendments in an attempt to cover up the damage.they passed the pitts amendment as a second-degree by voice vote to affirm the constitutional importance of religious liberty .
then they passed the byrne amendments to reaffirm that rfra is still in place and the government can not discriminate against religious individuals .
well , as we all know , the constitution and rfra ( religious freedom restoration act ) have been in place for the entire obama administration , yet he is still able to get away with anti-religious bigotry edicts by claiming they don t interfere with religious beliefs.to begin with , this entire spending bill was something that should never have come to the floor .
it increased spending and retained a number of green energy programs for a department that shouldn t even exist.now that leadership has loaded this already sub-par spending bill with transgenderism , conservatives should vote against final passage on thursday .
it s bad enough that a republican house can not be used as a tool to go on offense against cultural marxism and anti-religious-liberty initiatives .
to pass a bill placing an exclamation mark on that agenda is unforgivable.via : conservative reviewhere is the list of republicans who voted to assist obama in his fundamental transformation of america : amash ( mi ) brooks ( in ) coffman ( co ) costello ( pa ) curbelo ( fl ) davis , rodney ( il ) denham ( ca ) dent ( pa ) diaz-balara ( fl ) dold ( il ) donovan ( ny ) emmer ( mn ) fitzpatrick ( pa ) frelinghuysen ( nj ) gibson ( ny ) heck ( nv ) hurd ( tx ) issa ( ca ) jolly ( fl ) katko ( ny ) kinzinger ( il ) lance ( nj ) lobiondo ( nj ) macarthur ( nj ) mcsally ( az ) meehan ( pa ) messer ( in ) paulsen ( mn ) poliquin ( me ) reed ( ny ) reichert ( wa ) renacci ( oh ) rooney ( fl ) ros-lehtinen ( fl ) shims ( il ) stefanik ( ny ) upton ( mi ) valadao ( ca ) walden ( or ) walters , mimi ( ca ) young ( ia ) young ( in ) zelda ( ny ) via : conservative review