cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - doctors treating some of the 429,000 rohingya muslims who have fled to bangladesh from myanmar in recent weeks have seen dozens of women with injuries consistent with violent sexual attacks , u.n. clinicians and other health workers said .
the medics accounts , backed in some cases by medical notes reviewed by reuters , lend weight to repeated allegations , ranging from molestation to gang rape , leveled by women from the stateless minority group against myanmar s armed forces .
myanmar officials have mostly dismissed such allegations as militant propaganda designed to defame its military , which they say is engaged in legitimate counterinsurgency operations and under orders to protect civilians .
zaw htay , spokesman for myanmar s de facto leader aung san suu kyi , said the authorities would investigate any allegations brought to them .
those rape victim women should come to us , he said .
we will give full security to them .
we will investigate and we will take action .
suu kyi herself has not commented on the numerous allegations of sexual assault committed by the military against rohingya women made public since late last year .
violence erupted in myanmar s northwestern rakhine state following attacks on security forces by rohingya militants last october .
further attacks on aug. 25 provoked a renewed military offensive the united nations has called ethnic cleansing .
reuters spoke with eight health and protection workers in bangladesh s cox s bazar district who between them said they had treated more than 25 individual rape cases since late august .
the medics say they do not attempt to establish definitively what happened to their patients , but have seen an unmistakeable pattern in the stories and physical symptoms of dozens of women , who invariably say myanmar soldiers were the perpetrators .
it is rare for u.n. doctors and aid agencies to speak about rape allegedly committed by a state s armed forces , given the sensitivity of the matter .
doctors at a clinic run by the u.n s international organization for migration ( iom ) at the leda makeshift refugee say they treated hundreds of women with injuries they said were from violent sexual assaults during the army operation in october and november .
there have been fewer rapes reported among the influx of refugees since august , said dr. niranta kumar , the clinic s health coordinator , but those they have seen have injuries suggesting more aggressive attacks on women .
several health workers suggested that , whereas in october many women had initially remained in their villages believing the army sweeps were only targeting rohingya men , this time most had fled at the first sign of military activity .
doctors at the leda clinic showed a reuters reporter three case files , without divulging the identity of the patients .
one said a 20-year-old woman was treated on sept. 10 , seven days after she said she was raped by a soldier in myanmar .
handwritten notes say she said soldiers had pulled her hair and a gun used to beat her before raping her .
examinations often find injuries suggesting forced penetration , beating and even what looked like intentional cutting of the genitals , doctors said .
we found skin marks , it showed a very forceful attack , an inhuman attack , said iom medical officer dr tasnuba nourin .
she had seen incidents of vaginal tearing , bite marks and signs that seemed to show a firearm was used to penetrate women , she said .
among the new influx of rohingya she had treated at least five women who appeared to have been recently raped , she said , adding that in each case the physical injuries observed were consistent with the patient s account of what had happened .
at bangladesh government clinics supported by u.n. agencies in the ukhia area , doctors reported treating 19 women who had been raped , said dr. misbah uddin ahmed , head of the main health complex there , citing reports from female clinicians .
the evidence included bite marks , tearing of the vagina , these sorts of things , he said .
in one day alone , sept. 14 , six women showed up at one of the clinics , all saying they were sexually assaulted .
they all said myanmar army had done this .
an iom doctor who asked not to be identified , working at one of those clinics near the kutapalong refugee camp , said a woman who crossed from myanmar in late august said she was raped by at least seven soldiers .
she was extremely weak and traumatized and said she struggled to make it to the clinic , the doctor said .
she had a laceration on the vagina .
the doctor treated 15 of the 19 cases of women who appeared to have been raped , and another eight women who had been physically assaulted .
some were given emergency contraceptives , and all were given treatment to reduce the risk of contracting hiv and jabs against hepatitis .
symptoms included bite marks over the arms and back , tearing and laceration on the vagina and vaginal bleeding , the doctor said .
internal reports compiled by aid agencies in cox s bazar recorded that 49 sgbv survivors were identified in just four days between aug. 28-31 .
sgbv , or sexual and gender-based violence is used to refer to only cases of rape , according to u.n. doctors .
data for reported rape cases was not available for other dates .
a situation report from aid agencies says more than 350 people had been referred for life-saving care relating to gender-based violence - a broad term that includes rape , attempted rape and molestation , as well as emotional abuse and denial of resources based on gender - since aug. 25 .
it did not refer to the perpetrators .
kate white , emergency medical coordinator for m decins sans fronti res ( msf ) in cox s bazar said the charity had treated at least 23 cases of sexual and gender-based violence including gang-rape and sexual assault since aug. 25 .
this is a fraction of the cases that are likely to be out there , she said .
reuters first reported allegations of mass rape of rohingya women within days of militant attacks in northern rakhine in october .
the same reports were also heard by u.n. investigators who visited bangladesh in january .
a report of the u.n. secretary general in april said the sexual assaults were apparently employed systematically to humiliate and terrorize their community .
before her rise to power last year suu kyi had spoken of rape being used as a tool of division in the country s myriad ethnic conflicts .
it is used as a weapon by armed forces to intimidate the ethnic nationalities and to divide our country , this is how i see it , she said in 2011 in a video message to a conference on sexual violence in conflict .
her spokesman zaw htay said there was nothing to say when asked if her view had changed since then .
everything should be according to the rule of law , he said .
the military leaders also have said they will take action .