( reuters ) - hillary clinton leads donald trump by 11 points in the u.s. presidential race , showing little change after she became the presumptive democratic presidential nominee this week , according to a reuters/ipsos poll released on friday .
the online poll , conducted from monday to friday , shows 46 percent of likely voters support clinton while 34.8 percent back trump .
another 19.2 percent support neither candidate .
their parties hold conventions in july ahead of a nov. 8 election .
clinton ’ s lead was nearly the same a week ago , before she had amassed enough convention delegates to win the nomination and before trump drew criticism from leaders of both parties for questioning the impartiality of a mexican-american judge .
trump , 69 , enjoyed a bigger boost after becoming the presumptive republican nominee in may .
having trailed clinton , 68 , for most of the year , trump briefly erased a double-digit gap and pulled about even with the former secretary of state .
clinton this week defeated party rival bernie sanders , 74 , in four of six nominating contests , most notably california and new jersey , and won the endorsements of president barack obama , vice president joe biden , senator elizabeth warren of massachusetts and other party leaders .
trump this week sparred with party leaders and struggled with questions about his now-defunct trump university .
a lawsuit accuses trump and the for-profit school of defrauding thousands of people , including many who paid as much as $ 35,000 to learn trump ’ s real estate strategies .
a wealthy businessman who asserts the lawsuit is politically motivated , trump said presiding u.s. district judge gonzalo curiel was biased against him because of trump ’ s plans to build a wall on the border with mexico .
trump later added that muslim judges could be biased against him also because of his pledge to temporarily ban muslims from entering the country .
trump ’ s comments drew sharp criticism from republican leaders , including house speaker paul ryan and senate majority leader mitch mcconnell .
trump later said he would no longer talk about the judge .
friday ’ s results had 1,276 respondents and a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3.2 percentage points .
( reuters/ipsos polling results : polling.reuters.com/ # ! poll/tm651y15_13/filters/likely:1/type/smallest/dates/20160401-20160610/collapsed/true/spotlight/1 )