mexico city ( reuters ) - mexico s leftist presidential hopeful andres manuel lopez obrador vowed on monday to boost infrastructure spending but guard economic stability , while his team reiterated that ongoing nafta talks should be put off until after next year s election .
lopez obrador , the front-runner in most polls ahead of the july vote , unveiled a platform that envisioned an austere government to root out corruption and redirect spending to public works and social programs without new taxes or raising the debt-to-gdp ratio .
he rebutted claims he would pursue venezuela-style socialist policies if elected .
let s be very clear , we are not inspired by any foreign governments , neither maduro nor trump , said lopez obrador , referring to venezuelan president nicolas maduro and u.s. president donald trump .
the veteran leftist who is known popularly by his initials amlo , is set to make his third bid for the presidency , this time seeking closer ties with business and moderating some policies to fend off rivals who claim he will wreck mexico s economy .
lopez obrador has mainly avoided picking public fights with trump , who is widely loathed south of the border for his anti-mexican rhetoric .
on monday he said he would seek friendly relations with the u.s. government but would demand respect .
his team repeated his position that talks to renegotiate the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) should be scrapped until after mexico s election because the government of president enrique pena nieto would not defend mexico s interests .
a government like this ... lacks the necessary legitimacy to represent the interests of the country in this negotiation , said hector vasconcelos , a former diplomat who helped draw up the government plan and spoke at the event .
u.s. , mexican and canadian negotiators are currently engaged in a fifth round of talks in mexico city following trump s demand the deal be rewritten to benefit the united states .
the talks are due to be wrapped up in early 2018 .
the two-time presidential runner-up s platform also calls for studying the construction of new oil refineries with the capacity to process 300,000 barrels per day .
lopez obrador narrowly lost in 2006 and by a larger margin in 2012 , in both cases refusing to accept the results which he dismissed as marred by fraud .
this time he will run as head of the morena party he founded in 2014 .
he previously ran a popular , moderate government as mayor of mexico city , but political rivals depict him as a dangerous firebrand and liken his policies and style to the socialist project in crisis-hit venezuela .
at a packed 10,000 seat arena , morena party delegates voted in favor of a development plan that lopez obrador said he would implement if elected and after further discussion with supporters .
the folksy orator offered the platform on the national holiday that commemorates the start of mexico s 1910 revolution .
the plan touted a series of proposals including universal access to public or private universities for all qualified students , better pensions and public health services .
vasconcelos said a lopez obrador government would gradually pull back the army and marines from the streets where they have been engaged in a decade-long war against cartels that has left more than 100,000 dead .
however , he said the military would not be abruptly removed from towns where its presence was the main guarantee of security .
the plan vowed less spending on running the government , respect for private-property rights and the central bank s autonomy .
we are not opposed to businesses , they are necessary .
we are against corrupt politicians and influence traffickers , lopez obrador said .
as the central plank of the platform , lopez obrador promised to redirect federal government spending equivalent to 4.1 percent of gross domestic product to infrastructure and priority social programs , with a goal of increasing economic growth .
according to the plan , a $ 13 billion airport being constructed by the current government of president enrique pena nieto is not economically viable .
lopez obrador s government would come up with an alternative to improve air transportation , it said .
lopez obrador also vowed to slash the large pensions former presidents receive , while halving the presidential salary and reducing that of other top officials .
this is not revenge , it is justice , he said .
lopez obrador said he will announce his 16-member cabinet next month , which he said will feature equal numbers of men and women .
also on monday , the leaders of a left-right coalition that could represent a stiff challenge to lopez obrador adopted an anti-corruption platform that also proposes a universal minimum income .
the coalition , dominated by the conservative national action party ( pan ) and the center-left party of the democratic revolution ( prd ) will choose its consensus presidential candidate by mid-december .
next year s election is expected to be contested by multiple candidates including independents for the first time , which is likely to fragment the vote and could help a candidate win with less than a third support , a change that could favor either lopez obrador or the ruling party .
pena nieto is barred by law from seeking a second term .