washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama and new canadian prime minister justin trudeau on thursday ended a frosty period in bilateral ties by agreeing to tackle climate change and strive to settle a long-lasting trade dispute over canadian softwood lumber exports .
the neighboring countries are traditionally close but relations had soured under former prime minister stephen harper , who hectored the white house in a failed bid to push through u.s. approval for the keystone xl oil pipeline .
obama and trudeau , whose liberals came to power last november promising better cooperation with washington , pledged joint steps to fight global warming , including cutting methane emissions from oil and gas operations .
the countries committed to cutting emissions of methane by 40 to 45 percent below 2012 levels by 2025 , to take steps to fight climate change in the arctic , and to speed development of green technologies .
they also told officials to look for solutions to a lengthy dispute over exports of canadian softwood lumber , as well as promising to make it easier for goods and people to cross the long shared border .
“ i am grateful that i have him as a partner ...
when it comes to the central challenges that we face , our two nations are more closely aligned than ever , ” obama told a news conference after talks with trudeau .
“ the president and i agree on many things including , of paramount importance , the direction we want to take our countries in to ensure a clean and prosperous future , ” said trudeau .
in another sign of friendlier bilateral ties , trudeau invited obama to address the canadian parliament this year .
americans have been captivated by the photogenic trudeau , 44 , whose father , pierre trudeau , was prime minister from 1968 through 1979 , and again from 1980 to 1984 .
his visit will be capped by a state dinner on thursday but that could be overshadowed by the race to succeed obama in november ’ s presidential election .
candidates for the republican nomination will hold a debate on thursday night .
trudeau declined to say what he would do in case the next president was donald trump , who has mused about tearing up the north american free trade agreement .
“ the friendship between our two countries goes far beyond any two individuals or any ideologies , ” he said .
“ i have tremendous confidence in the american people , and look forward to working with whomever they choose to send to this white house later this year . ”