thank goodness for president trump s new commission because the latest finding on voter fraud is just the tip of the voter fraud iceberg : here s what s going on : when maureen erickson registered to vote in prince william county , she listed her home address as a street in guatemala , in what should have been a very strong indication that she wasn t a regular virginia resident .
yet she remained on the voting rolls for years , and even cast ballots in 14 different elections , up through the 2008 presidential contest .
she was only purged in 2012 , just ahead of the election , after she self-reported as a noncitizen , according to a new report released tuesday by the public interest legal foundation .
ms. erickson was one of more than 5,500 noncitizens who were registered to vote in virginia this decade , and were only bumped from the rolls after they admitted to being ineligible .
some 1,852 of them even managed to cast ballots that were likely illegal , though undetected , the pilf , a conservative voter integrity group , said in its report .
just as troubling , the pilf said , was virginia s efforts to try to hide the information from the public a problem foundation president j. christian adams said began at the very top , with gov .
terry mcauliffe .
at the instruction of governor mcauliffe s political appointees , local election officials spent countless resources to prevent this information from spilling into the open , mr. adams said in a statement releasing the report .
from nova to norfolk and all urban and rural points in between , alien voters are casting ballots with practically no legal consequences in response .
read more : wtnew report : a new report released shortly after the forming of the presidential advisory commission on election integrity finds that more than 5,000 individuals were determined to be non-u.s. citizens registered to vote in virginia .
dubbed a sequel to a similar 2016 effort , the latest study found 5,556 voters were quietly removed from the records for reasons related to non-citizenship between 2011 and may 2017 , according to an advanced look at the findings provided by the public interest legal foundation ( pilf ) .
of the total registered , one-third of unlawful voters managed to cast ballots leading to a total of more than 7,400 illegal votes cast , according to the report.the organization points out that it was unable to find any evidence that illegal registrations or votes were ever prosecuted.the report details how ineligible individuals are slowly discovered by local officials most often , the authors allege , by accident .
applicants for voter registration are not required to prove they are actual u.s. citizens in virginia .
the vast majority of states only require that people claim to be citizens during registration , pilf notes .
the report details , however , that virginia shares information when a claimed citizen indicates otherwise to a separate state agency .
at that point , removal procedures begin : in the absence of regular data-sharing arrangements between federal officials and the commonwealth , the ability of election officials to identify aliens on the voter rolls is almost nonexistent.the most that happens in virginia is that an alien on the voter rolls will sometimes tell the state dmv they are not a citizen .
without those leads , counties and municipalities must accept false claims of citizenship on their face.the authors also shared with this reporter examples of how some ineligible noncitizens admitted their immigration statuses at the outset , but were still registered to vote .
some illegal registrants lasted on the rolls for years risking possible deportation until they were discovered.read more : breitbart