istanbul ( reuters ) - turkey told u.s. president donald trump on thursday he could not buy its support in a united nations vote on jerusalem , and said the world should teach the united states a very good lesson by resisting u.s. pressure .
trump has threatened to cut aid to countries that support a draft u.n. resolution calling for the united states to withdraw its decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital .
turkish president tayyip erdogan said in ankara u.n. member states should not let their decision in thursday s vote at the u.n. general assembly be dictated by money .
mr. trump , you can not buy turkey s democratic will with your dollars , he said .
the dollars will come back , but your will won t once it s sold .
that is why your stance is important .
trump s announcement two weeks ago that he was recognizing jerusalem as israel s capital broke with decades of u.s. policy and international consensus that the city s status must be left to israeli-palestinian talks .
last week erdogan hosted a special meeting of the organisation for islamic cooperation , which condemned trump s decision and called on the world to respond by recognizing east jerusalem as the capital of palestine .
jerusalem , revered by jews , christians and muslims alike , has been at the heart of the israeli-palestinian conflict for decades .
israel captured arab east jerusalem in 1967 and later annexed it in an action not recognized internationally .
trump s jerusalem move led to harsh criticisms from muslim countries and israel s closest european allies , who have also rejected the move .
a draft resolution calling for withdrawal of trump s decision was vetoed at the united nations security council by the united states on monday .
following that vote , opponents of the u.s. decision called for the vote in the general assembly .
i hope and expect the united states won t get the result it expects from there and the world will give a very good lesson to the united states , erdogan said .