london ( reuters ) - an interim review into uk building regulations commissioned after the grenfell tower social housing block fire in london which killed 71 people in june , has called for a culture change in respect to fire safety .
the review , sponsored by the department for communities and local government ( dclg ) , said the building industry aimed for minimum compliance , that enforcement measures were poor and that competence levels among builders and regulators was weak .
it has become clear that the whole system of regulation , covering what is written down and the way in which it is enacted in practice , is not fit for purpose , leaving room for those who want to take shortcuts to do so , the review said .
the grenfell fire was started by a fridge-freezer but spread quickly , partly because of the use of flammable cladding panels which were afixed to the outside of the 24-storey building , experts have said .
the contractor who retrofitted the external insulation on the building said the work was compliant but the manufacturer of the cladding panels had advised in marketing material that non-flammable variants should be used on tall buildings .
the building industry s own guidance document said cladding should be able to pass the so-called bs 8414 combustibilty test , which is also stipulated in the building regulations .
when tested by dclg this summer the panels used at grenfell failed this test .
a reuters review published last week found that 60 high-rise buildings had been fitted with the same kind of cladding as grenfell since 2006 .
[ nl8n1o120p ] the interim report published on monday , led by judith hackitt , a former civil servant and chair of eef , a manufacturing trade body , also said the building regulations should be clearer .
some industry figures have advocated more specific rules , such as the banning of any flammable materials from the outside of tall buildings .
however , many safety experts across different industries say that highly specific rules can invite a box-ticking approach and the emergence of loopholes .
after the piper alpha offshore oil platform disaster which killed 167 workers in 1988 , britain introduced the safety case offshore regulations .
rather than specify how to be safe , these said rig operators needed to be able to demonstrate that their practices were safe , taking account of industry understanding of risks .
the hackitt review is based on discussions with building contractors , officials and housing authorities about flaws in the current system on the regulations .
the dclg declined to say if it planned to conduct an anlysis of the root causes of the failings at grenfell or other housing blocks .
experts say root cause analyses are the best way to identify what failed in a system and therefore , what needs to be fixed .