caracas ( reuters ) - from his refuge at the chilean ambassador s home , venezuela s deputy congressional leader has defended civil disobedience against president nicolas maduro and urged demoralized opponents to unite and oust him in a presidential vote .
all the focus of our struggle now is to have truly free presidential elections , opposition lawmaker freddy guevara said in a video released overnight after he entered the chilean diplomatic residence at the weekend .
venezuela is due to hold a presidential vote in 2018 .
but foes of maduro are demanding that the pro-government election board first be reformed , charging the election will be rigged if it is not .
saying he should be tried for violence , authorities have revoked guevara s parliamentary immunity and banned the 31-year-old leader of hardline popular will party from traveling .
guevara , who is vice president of the opposition-led national assembly , was at the forefront of anti-maduro street demonstrations between april and july in which at least 125 people died and thousands were injured .
opponents say maduro s leftist government has run oil-rich venezuela s economy into the ground and resorted to increasingly authoritarian tactics to retain power .
the usurpers of the supreme court and state prosecutor s office accuse me of crimes i have not committed but based on events i do recognize , guevara said in the video released via social media .
yes , i called protests and believe in civil disobedience .
i organized them and will do it again .
never will they convince me , those who were in the street , nor the international community , that we are guilty when you murdered us .
chief prosecutor tarek saab , who recently replaced a dissident prosecutor , presented the case against guevara to the pro-maduro constituent assembly superbody , which has sidelined congress , in a session late on monday .
saab blamed guevara for the shooting , stoning and stabbing of security officials , paying adolescents to protest , and exhorting violence during the protests this year .
he didn t care who died , saab said .
the u.s. state department weighed in on the guevara case on tuesday , saying in a statement the government s moves against him were yet another extreme measure to close the democratic space in venezuela , criminalize dissent and control information .
maduro , 54 , has long had his sights on guevara , nicknaming him chucky in reference to a horror film s murderous doll .
popular will founder leopoldo lopez is under house arrest , for his role in protests in 2014 , and the party is under constant threat of being banned as officials accuse it of terrorism .
mr. nicolas maduro , sadly for you , we have taken the decision not to give you any more hostages , guevara added in his video , explaining his decision to take refuge rather than face trial like lopez did .
earlier this year the chilean ambassador s opulent residence in the country club zone of caracas took in five pro-opposition magistrates threatened with jail time .
they eventually crossed the border secretly to colombia before flying to santiago to be received by president michelle bachelet s government , which has joined a chorus of major latin american nations in denouncing maduro for rights abuses .
critics say maduro has turned the country into a dictatorship by twisting elections and detaining opponents .
his supporters say maduro , who inherited the socialist course of his predecessor the late hugo chavez , is resisting a u.s.-backed push for a coup , and insist venezuela s election process is sound .
in another overnight development , a local journalist missing since saturday turned up at dawn wearing only his underwear on a motorway outside caracas , he and authorities said .
jesus medina , who works for the dolartoday currency and political website that virulently opposes maduro , said he was kidnapped , tortured and threatened before being released .
to inform is not a crime , medina said in a video , showing injuries on his face .
he declined to give more details of the alleged kidnapping , including the identity of his captors , because the incident was under investigation .
the state prosecutor s office opened an investigation .