shah porir dwip island , bangladesh ( reuters ) - on a remote beach looking out onto the bay of bengal , a baby boy lies swaddled in cloth , his face smeared with wet sand .
the bodies of nine more children and eight women lie alongside .
another woman and a child have already been buried .
the group , all rohingya muslims from myanmar , were found washed up on the shore on thursday by villagers from shah porir dwip island in bangladesh , a short distance from the mouth of the naf river that separates the two countries .
they died after two rickety boats capsized as they fled a myanmar army counteroffensive that followed rohingya insurgent attacks on security forces last week .
nearly 30,000 more rohingyas have made the perilous crossing by boat or on foot into bangladesh , while 20,000 more are stuck in no man s land at the border .
we left after the army came early yesterday .
they burned houses and shot many people .
we ran away so they couldn t find us , said samira , 19 , a survivor from one of the boats , as the monsoon wind and rain blew off the sea to soak her bright orange hijab .
i have no words .
i don t know what we ll do .
samira and others fled violence unleashed after rohingya insurgents wielding sticks , knives and crude bombs attacked police posts and an army base on friday , leading to clashes that have killed at least 117 people .
journalists and other outside observers have been unable to independently travel to the northwest of myanmar s rakhine state since an earlier outbreak of violence last year , although some aid programs had quietly been resumed .
myanmar says its army is conducting clearance operations against extremist terrorists and that security forces have been told to protect civilians , but rohingya arriving in bangladesh say a campaign is under way to force them out .
the bodies washed up on thursday were hardly the first rohingya to perish trying to escape by boat from myanmar .
many died trying to cross the naf after smaller-scale insurgent attacks last october provoked a harsh military response .
over the years , tens of thousands have attempted to flee across the bay of bengal and andaman sea to thailand and malaysia .
a crackdown on people smuggling networks in thailand in 2015 saw many rohingya abandoned at sea by traffickers .
the disruption to the smuggling networks also cut off a major escape route for the muslim minority , which is denied citizenship and endures apartheid-like conditions in buddhist-majority myanmar .
samira s group hailed from a village to the south of the major regional town of maungdaw in rakhine .
a reuters reporter who traveled with government minders to the area on wednesday saw many villages on fire .
the two boats set off for the bangladesh coast around 7 p.m. on wednesday .
the naf here is about 3 km ( 1.9 miles ) wide .
after the group arrived on the bangladeshi side , someone shouted that the police were near , samira said .
they went back out to sea - and a large wave tipped the boats over .
out of the 22 members of samira s extended family six died .
my brother can swim so he managed to save some of us , she said .
in total , 14 people survived , but young children and those women couldn t swim and they couldn t be saved , she said , looking over the bodies lined up on the beach .
the island - which used to be reachable by a bitumen road on a causeway - is about an hour by boat from bangladesh s teknaf peninsula .
the road has been washed away by the bay of bengal s tides and strong winds .
as the number of rohingya refugees is expected to swell , humanitarian workers worry such boat accidents may become more frequent .
hundreds fleeing on boats were being pushed back by bangladeshi border guards , according to authorities .
the united nations is pressuring dhaka to let those fleeing myanmar seek shelter on its territory , but bangladesh - one of the poorest countries in asia - has said it can not cope with any more refugees and will not allow people to cross the border .
another boat in the area sank on wednesday , killing two women and two children , after myanmar border guards fired on it , bangladesh border guard lt. col. ariful islam told reuters .
one person survived by floating on a jerry can .
jahid hussein saddique , a local administrator , confirmed the thursday accident took place and said that a broker has been sentenced to six months in jail by a mobile court for human trafficking .
they didn t know how to swim , so they died , saddique said .
we don t know the actual cause of death .