beijing/hong kong ( reuters ) - china s parliament on wednesday said part of a high-speed railway station being built in hong kong would be regarded as mainland territory governed by mainland laws , an unprecedented move that critics say further erodes the city s autonomy .
hong kong reverted from british to chinese rule in 1997 , when it was granted a high degree of autonomy under a one country , two systems arrangement , giving it a separate police force , immigration controls , an independent judiciary and freedoms not enjoyed in mainland china .
china s largely rubber stamp parliament , the national people s congress , voted to allow chinese immigration checks and the enforcement of mainland chinese laws within part of the station , so that after boarding the train in hong kong passengers would not need to get off the train for immigration checks at the hong kong-mainland border .
it is appropriate ... that the mainland port area within the west kowloon station would be regarded as belonging to mainland china , according to the legislative document released by parliament on the decision .
critics say the co-location arrangement , also known as one land , two checks in chinese , sets a dangerous precedent as it violates the city s mini-constitution , the basic law , in which article 18 explicitly states national laws , with a few exceptions , do not apply in hong kong .
but the document passed by parliament says since mainland officials operations will be strictly confined to specific areas in the station , it is different from the article which governs the whole of hong kong .
setting up a mainland port area inside the west kowloon station does not change the administrative area of the hong kong special administrative region , does not affect the hksar s right to a high degree of autonomy accorded by the law , does not reduce or harm ( hong kong ) residents rights and freedoms accorded by the law , the document added .
li fei , deputy secretary-general of parliament s standing committee , told reporters the decision would not take away hong kong people s freedoms .
if hong kongers don t feel comfortable , they can use another entry port and not take the high-speed train , li said .
at a cost of more than hk $ 84 billion ( $ 11 billion ) , the express rail link will link up with the rest of china s high-speed rail network and roughly halve the journey time between hong kong and the southern chinese city of guangzhou to 48 minutes .
it is expected to be operational in the autumn on 2018 .
the hong kong government said it would seek to put draft laws to its legislature by early february to implement the plan , but the bill is expected to be voted through without strong resistance after a series of controversial court cases stripped the opposition pro-democracy camp of its veto power .
the prospect of beijing tightening its grip on the financial hub has already stoked social tensions and protests including the 2014 occupy street demonstrations that demanded , in vain , full democracy for the city of 7.3 million .
the abductions of a hong kong-based bookseller in 2015 who later showed up across the border in chinese custody also touched a raw nerve .
the former head of hong kong s legislature and pro-establishment heavyweight , jasper tsang , wrote in a column last week that the government should admit frankly the arrangement does not comply with the basic law .
opposition lawmaker and barrister tanya chan , who leads a group against the arrangement , said the issue represents the most serious violation of the basic law since the 1997 handover .
what we re seeing is the central government exercising overall jurisdiction over hong kong , chan said .
what we see today is the ( npc ) standing committee ruling hong kong , zero degree of autonomy .
constitutional law professor albert chen said he believed the arrangement was based on reasonable arguments and did not violate the basic law .
but it remained a grey area whether hong kong courts could handle judicial reviews that directly challenge beijing s decision , he said .
hong kong leader carrie lam welcomed the decision , but conceded that there had been complex issues of applicability of mainland and hong kong laws for the project as it had been first conceived around a decade ago .
she added that these complexities could not have been foreseen back then .