trump has invited an interesting and powerful line-up up guests to accompany him to mexico for his historic meeting with mexico s president .
could this be a sign that trump considering former nyc mayor rudy giuliani for his secretary of homeland security ? lifezette has confirmed that gop presidential nominee donald trump will travel to mexico on wednesday to meet with mexican president enrique pe a nieto.sources , that include mexican officials involved in the planning of the visit , who spoke on the condition of anonymity , stated the meeting would cover a broad variety of topics ranging from trade to security to immigration and the contentious issue of border enforcement.it is expected that trump advisor and former new york city mayor rudy giuliani , rnc chairman reince priebus and alabama sen. jeff sessions , along with high-ranking mexican officials , will attend the meeting.the meeting will occur , despite concerns from both mexican security services and the u.s. secret service.officials expect the two leaders to make some statement following the meeting , but do not expect a full press conference.the trip is particularly historic for trump in that no previous non-incumbent presidential nominee of a major party has ever travelled to mexico as part of his campaign.the stakes for both donald trump and the mexican president are high.for nieto , the meeting represents a tremendous opportunity to offer trump , the potential next president of the united states , an olive branch .
nieto has made negative comments about trump in the past , including a suggestion trump was like a fascist dictator .
the meeting will offer nieto the chance to clear the deck with the potential next leader of a nation on which his own is almost entirely economically reliant and earn goodwill for himself and his country among trump supporters.for trump , the historic meeting comes at a time when the gop nominee is ramping up a high-stakes bid to win over support from traditionally democratic minority voters in the united states .
republican presidential nominees usually aren t bold enough to go into communities of color and take the case right to them , and compete for all ears and compete for all votes , trump campaign manager kellyanne conway said in an august 28 interview with abc , they ve been afraid to do that .
so , mr. trump deserves credit for at least taking the case directly to the people .
trump surrogate dr. ben carson laid out the key objectives trump is pursuing in his outreach to minority communities .
he wants to find out from a lot of different sources what people perceive the problems to be and what they perceive the solutions to be , carson said in an interview with michel martin on npr .
he also wants to hear about things that have effectively moved people out of the position of dependency and put them on a ladder to success .
tying the ecomic message geared towards minority voters into the campaign s overall theme carson said , you can not be great if you have large pockets of people who are failing .
here s a message from a latino trump supporter from oakland , ca : democrats keep minorities voting for them by simply pulling out the race card .
# getwoke # staywoke # latinosfortrump pic.twitter.com/qnmqwpho23 oak-town unfiltered ( @ hrtablaze ) august 11 , 2016a new report from gallup indicates trump s effort may be finding success with u.s.-born hispanic voters.the analysis of found hispanics who were born in the united states , those who constitute most of the hispanic demographic s total voters , only find view clinton more favorably than trump by a 14-point margin .
to put that in context , 2012 gop nominee mitt romney lost the hispanic vote by a whopping 44 percent.for entire story : lifezette