the michael brown and eric garner cases have opened up so many doors for opportunists looking for their 15 seconds of fame as an added bonus , we ve included tony soto s original gotcha video below .
a video of a traffic stop by 15th district officers in philadelphia has gone viral with more than 1 million views .
the man in the video says officers abused their power but police are painting a very different picture.28-year-old tony soto recorded the traffic stop on his cellphone .
i am not anti-police , i support the police .
i just don t support police abusing their powers , soto told action news.in the video , soto showed his license , but refused to show his registration.police are concerned about soto s motives and criminal past .
we are going to tell our officers to be cautious .
it raises your level of suspicion when you have a person a prior felony and has had some prior interaction with the law and has been known to interact with guns .
so we are going to tell our officers to be careful , said lt. john sanford , philadelphia police.soto sat down with action news to discuss the controversial video .
this traffic stop , just brought to light an ongoing issue that is continually denied all over our nation with individuals being stopped and in some cases being racially profiled , said soto.soto says the officers who stopped him were not african-american but police say differently .
they were african american officers , said lt. stanford.the original reason for the stop was for tinted windows.soto flashed a paper at the officer saying he had a medical exemption from penndot for sun screening on his car , but he didn t bring that letter to our meeting .
if you were provided that certificate from penndot , it has to be colorless tint , said lt. stanford.we asked soto if his windows were dark tinted .
okay in your opinion or anyone else s opinion from watching the video tape that s their opinion .
no one knows what tint is on my vehicle , whether it s colored or colorless , although it may look dark , said soto.and then there s this in the video , soto held up a card and badge identifying himself to the officer as a fire marshal.we asked him if he s a fire marshal .
the tape speaks for itself and , at this point , okay let s not take the focus as to who i am or what i do or what is going on and let s keep the focus on what is really going on .
it is not about tony soto , said soto.so who is soto ? he s a felon , sentenced to 33 months in federal prison for straw purchasing firearms.he has multiple convictions for theft , fleeing from police , and was convicted of impersonating a public servant in 2005 and now claims he is a volunteer firefighter.we asked soto where he works .
well we are going to you are going to stop that right there alright we are going to stop that and we are not going to go into that , said soto.police are also cautioning the public not to use soto s video as an example of what to do during a traffic stop.while it is legal to record video , the pennsylvania vehicle code requires drivers to turn over their identification and registration.in addition , the fraternal order of police is now asking authorities to pursue charges against soto for allegedly impersonating a public servant .
via : 6abc newshere is soto s original video :