hillary clinton always goes back to the black community and this is just another case of pandering .
it s pretty sickening that she s even being asked to speak at a college commencement any college commencement !
the clinton grifters also owe the haitian community answers on where money went after the haiti earthquake relief effort .
the haitian community is up in arms over much that happened after the 2010 earthquake .
this should be interesting : here is how the clinton s used the money that americans donated to help the devastated residents of haiti to enrich themselves : on june 8 , hillary clinton is scheduled to serve as the class of 2017 commencement speaker at medgar evers college in brooklyn , new york , where she will also be awarded an honorary degree .
the announcement has incited protests from several members of the haitian community who plan to protest the speech and are pushing the college s president , rudy crew , to rescind the invitation.pandering to the black community in times of trouble : every time the clintons get in a bind , they run to the black community to whitewash their tarnished image , said komokoda , the haitian group protesting the speech , in a statement .
after bill clinton was impeached for lying under oath in the monica lewinsky affair , he brought in jesse jackson and a host of black preachers to lead prayers with him at the white house .
to divert attention from her deleted emails debacle , hillary had bill deblasio s wife , chirlane mccray , bring her to brownsville , one of the most impoverished neighborhoods in brooklyn , for a photo op with little black children .
when newspaper editorials and cartoons were blasting her for her unending lies and demanding investigations and prosecutions , former new york city mayor david dinkins brought her out for a keynote speech at his dinkins leadership & public policy forum at columbia university .
today , for her resurrection from a shameful defeat by the last person most reasonable people felt could ever be president of the united states , the dirty work falls to rudy crew .
haiti relief scam questions remain : the clintons role in haiti has incited immense criticism and has tarnished their relationship with the haitian community .
in 2010 , haiti suffered a massive earthquake .
several ngos and the united nations flocked to haiti to help relief efforts , but their intervention came with several costs .
in 2011 , un peacekeepers caused a massive cholera outbreak that killed at least 9,500 people and sickened 800,000 others .
during this time , bill clinton served as the united nations special envoy to haiti while hillary clinton served as secretary of state .
while the clinton foundation has staunchly defended their role in haiti , their involvement in the country has been far from successful .
many of the most notable investments the clintons helped launch , such as the new marriott in the capital , have primarily benefited wealthy foreigners and the island s ruling elite , who needed little help to begin with , wrote jonathan katz for politico in 2015.for komokoda and many haitians , the clintons epitomize ngos and corporations exploiting the crisis and relief efforts in haiti for their own gain .
haitians also blame the clintons for the controversial rule of former haitian president michel martelly , who stepped down in february 2016 due to his record of corruption after the clintons helped him get elected in 2010.more on the clinton foundation scam on haiti : read more : observer