berlin ( reuters ) - after 12 years in power , chancellor angela merkel is presenting herself as more than just germany s mutti , campaigning in cyberspace to get in with younger voters and win their support for long after elections this month .
merkel , whose nickname means mummy , appears to be cruising toward a fourth term with strong backing from older germans .
but the 63-year-old , who unlike some western leaders has no personal twitter account , wants to mobilize the almost 3 million first-time voters behind her conservative cdu party on sept. 24 .
to this end , merkel has fielded questions from four youtube video bloggers , attended europe s biggest computer games convention and set up a walk-in campaign center in berlin s hip start-up district .
diana kinnert , a 26-year-old who helped draft proposals to modernize the cdu , said parties should use new communication tools to make young people put off by sterile politics more politically engaged in the long term .
it would be a shame if it turned out to be just election noise , kinnert , who wears both tattoos and a baseball cap , told reuters at the walk-in center .
the cdu , which is unlikely to win an overall parliamentary majority , needs the youth vote to strengthen merkel s hand in coalition negotiations that will follow polling day .
to some bemusement , the party has created a twitter hashtag # fedidwgugl .
rather than the result of a malfunctioning computer keyboard , it is an acronym for the cdu campaign slogan : fuer ein deutschland in dem wir gut und gern leben ( for a germany in which we can live well and gladly ) .
so the berlin walk-in center , where themed rooms bring the cdu manifesto to life , is called # fedidwgugl house .
in britain , young people turned out in droves in june to vote for the opposition labour party , stripping the ruling conservatives of their majority and showing how youth can twist the fate of governments even if they are less numerous .
with german society rapidly aging , older people still dominate the country s agenda .
there are more than twice as many eligible voters aged over 60 as there are under 30 .
the cdu secured the highest share of the youth vote in 2013 but its support remains skewed toward pensioners .
at the last election two-fifths of its backers were aged over 60 while just 5.4 percent were under 25 .
kinnert , who has posted on instagram wearing a t-shirt reading keep calm and vote for angie , says merkel never stops learning and is future-orientated despite her lengthy tenure .
one of merkel s top priorities is the digitization of german industry .
she has facebook and instagram accounts and has made efforts to show she is up on social media even if it sometimes comes across as clunky .
asked about her favorite emoji during the youtube interview , merkel said it was a smiley : if things are good , even one with a little heart , she joked .
merkel s main challenger , social democrat leader martin schulz , has not shied away from cyberspace either .
this week he was grilled on youtube on topics such as legalizing cannabis , animal welfare and rolling out broadband internet .
while the cdu was mocked for causing confusion with the # fedidwgugl hashtag , the media attention drew eyeballs to the cdu s agenda .
efforts to campaign over new media also play well with older voters who want the best for their children and grandchildren , said stefan marschall of duesseldorf s heinrich heine university .
merkel is the only chancellor most first-time voters can recall .
this helps cdu to portray her as an anchor of stability in the turbulent era of donald trump and brexit .
an opinion poll by forsa in june found 57 percent of 18 to 21-year-olds backed merkel compared with 53 percent of the wider population .
just 21 percent of the young supported schulz .
forsa s managing director manfred guellner said younger germans have become more conservative than their peers in other countries : young people here are pragmatic ; they worry about their pensions .