tokyo ( reuters ) - japan s yuriko koike says she went into politics to be a player , not a bystander .
now tokyo s first female governor is shaking things up as her new party of hope challenges prime minister shinzo abe s ruling bloc in an oct. 22 poll , called by the japanese leader to seek a fresh mandate after nearly five years in office .
when the berlin wall dividing east and west germany was breached in 1989 , koike was a 37-year-old tv announcer .
three years later , she ran for parliament .
the world was changing immensely , so i went from news presenter to newsmaker .
i decided japanese politics was moving too slowly and rather than be an outside critic , i should become ... a player on the inside , koike told reuters in an interview .
koike , who defied abe s party last year to run for governor , isn t seeking a seat in parliament s lower house herself , but is the driving force and public face of her upstart party .
in many ways , koike is a paradox , interviews with people who know her and a review of her career show .
she s a global thinker with a nationalist tinge ; an entrepreneurial outsider who climbed the ladder with help from old-boy mentors , and a risk taker who has balked at perhaps her biggest gamble by declining to run in the national election now .
koike has made no secret of her ambition to be japan s first woman prime minister her pet female terrier is nicknamed so-chan a diminutive for sori or premier in japanese .
she has already cracked a few glass ceilings .
she became the country s first female defense minister in 2007 , although stepped down after 55 days after a tussle with a top bureaucrat .
she was also the first woman to run for the ruling liberal democratic party s top leadership post in 2008 , but came in a distant third .
koike comes from a business family in western japan , a background that sets her apart from many japanese politicians , including abe , who are scions of blue-blood political dynasties .
her origins may account for a style that admirers say has more in common with venture capitalists than staid lawmakers .
she s not afraid to take initiatives , which in most of japan is deeply frowned upon , said a person who has known her for 25 years and advises on financial reforms .
in japan , it s subtlety within riddles , but she s blunt .
koike has a talent for political marketing - critics call it populism - a skill she is using as she tries to differentiate her conservative party from abe s equally conservative ldp with promises to break the fetters of vested interest politics .
she calls her party s economic policies yurinomics in contrast to abe s abenomics , and its platform includes 12 zeroes it wants to achieve , including zero hayfever , and zero euthanasia of unwanted pets .
a graduate of cairo university in 1976 who speaks arabic and english , koike in some ways has a global perspective and often sings the praises of diversity .
like abe , she advocates opening japan to more highly skilled foreign workers .
also like abe , she has visited yasukuni shrine for war dead , seen in china and south korea as a symbol of japan s past militarism , but told reuters she would not do so if she became premier .
koike also espouses some causes dear to japan s rightwing , including revising the post-war , pacifist constitution .
in the past , she has even suggested japan should consider acquiring nuclear weapons , breaking a taboo in the only country to suffer a nuclear attack .
she also opposes local voting rights for foreign residents , many of whom are of korean descent .
there is a dark side that doesn t jibe with a more open-minded , dare we say , liberal view , said her long-time acquaintance .
koike migrated through several parties before joining the ldp in 2002 , only to abandon it after becoming governor .
she counts among her mentors ichiro ozawa , a one-time ldp heavyweight who helped engineer the long-ruling party s ouster in 1993 and again in 2009 , as well as popular ex-premier junichiro koizumi .
critics say her career reflects an opportunist streak , while allies call it practical .
she wants to make change , but she s also pragmatic she can make a deal with anyone communists or abe or traditional stakeholders , said another adviser .
it s a kind of talent .
despite speculation that she would abandon her job as governor to return to parliament , koike stuck to her decision not to run .
analysts say that s likely because her party has little chance of defeating abe s ruling bloc , but may do well enough for her to take the leap in the next poll .
but those who know koike say her desire for the nation s top post remains .
is she machiavellian and strategic ?
the answer is yes .
is she prepared to think for the long run ?
the answer is yes , said her long-time acquaintance .
is her over-riding ambition to be japan s first female prime minister ?
that is definitely a goal .