amman ( reuters ) - jordan will open its main border crossing with iraq on wednesday for the first time since 2015 , now that iraqi forces have gained control of the main highway to baghdad from islamic state militants , both governments said .
iraqi troops pulled out of the tureibil post , on the 180 km ( 110 mile ) border , in summer 2014 after the militants secured nearly all the official crossings of the western frontier as they swept through a third of the country .
commercial traffic continued for a year after until iraq launched an offensive in july 2015 to reclaim the predominately sunni anbar province and deprive the militants of funds raised from truck drivers forced to pay a tax on cargo coming in from jordan .
tureibil would open on wednesday after the road was secured from attacks and criminal gangs , the iraqi and jordanian governments said in a joint statement .
officials have said that customs and border arrangements have been finalised , with security measures in place to ensure the 550 km highway from the border to baghdad was safe .
the opening of the crossing is of great importance to jordan and iraq ...
it s a crucial artery .
jordan and iraq have been discussing reopening it for a while , interior minister ghaleb al zubi said last week .
several trade and business officials had said they had been invited to an event on wednesday to mark the re-opening that would include senior jordanian and iraqi officials .
since last year , the iraqi army has regained most of anbar province s main towns that fell to the ultra-hardline jihadist group .
the vast desert province is an historic hotbed of the hardline sunni insurgency sparked by 2003 s u.s.-led invasion of iraq , which empowered the oil-rich nation s shi ite majority .
iraq has also been working on securing the highway that connects iraq s basra port in the south to jordan , where the red sea port of aqaba has long served as a gateway for iraqi imports coming from europe .
although the highway has been secured after driving out the jihadists , the threat of hit-and run attacks on convoys and the army are ever present , according to security experts .
there have been several attacks by militants near al-rutba town , the last town before the border with jordan .
a senior western diplomatic said iraqi authorities have awarded a contract to a u.s. security company that will employ a local force to secure the highway .
the source gave no further details .
jordan hopes the reopening of the route will revive exports to iraq , once the kingdom s main export market , accounting that accounted for almost a fifth of domestic exports or about $ 1.2 billion a year , according to the international monetary fund .
they have fallen by more than 50 percent from pre-crisis levels .
this will increase industrial exports and also revive the two countries trucking industry .
it s a major boost to the economy , nael husami , general manager of the amman chamber of industry , adding transport costs would fall by nearly half .
jordanian exporters have had to use more expensive sea routes to iraq s um qasr port or another land route across saudi arabia and kuwait , businessmen have said .
the restoration of trade links will also give a push to an oil pipeline project running from basra to aqaba .
prime minister hani al mulki had visited baghdad earlier this year to revive the frozen project .
jordanian officials are hopeful the crossing with syria on its northern border can also open by the end of the year once a u.s.-russian de-escalation zone in southwest syria that includes the area is cemented .
the international monetary fund recently said that prolonged conflicts in neighbouring syria and iraq were weighing on the kingdom s debt-ridden economy and the opening of these export routes would boost economic growth .