legal latino heat filmed a tent city full of illegals ( language alert ! )
that s right between two courthouses in santa ana , california !
this is sanctuary city hell !
santa ana declared itself a sanctuary city in december of last year in defiance of trump ( see below ) .coming from new york city i thought the homeless were bad over there .
here they have their own community and the city allows it .
illegals and criminals have their way in liberal sanctuary cities .
if you needed more evidence to convince you that sanctuary cities are destroying our country , then look no further than this activist legal latino heat released a shocking video that shows a massive tent city packed with illegals , drug addicts , and their pets .
sprawls across the plaza of the flags situated in the heart of the santa ana civic centerthis illegal camp is centered in sanctuary city of santa ana , california , sprawling across the plaza of the flags situated in the heart of the santa ana s civic center.it doesn t even look like america ! santa ana declare itself a sanctuary city in december of 2016 : santa ana declares itself a sanctuary city in defiance of trumpsince donald trump was elected president in november , cities with large latino populations have debated how to respond.many activists have urged these communities to do everything they can to protect people in this country illegally , even though such efforts might jeopardize some federal funding from a washington in which republicans will control not only the white house but also congress.santa ana the seat of orange county and home to one of the nation s largest latino populations decided this week to strike a defiant tone.city council members voted to declare orange county s second-most populous city a sanctuary city a largely symbolic gesture to protect immigrants who are in the country illegally.paid post what s this ? free unlimited ? a message from sprinthere s all you need to know : free unlimited data , talk and textsee more tuesday s vote is historic in that it makes santa ana the first city in orange county to grant itself the designation .
it joins dozens of other cities across the country that have declared themselves sanctuaries .
still want to bail out california ?