misogyny is ingrained in people from the time they are born taylor swiftmi sog y ny m s j n /submit noun dislike of , contempt for , or ingrained prejudice against women .
becoming friends with lena without her preaching to me , but just seeing why she believes what she believes , why she says what she says , why she stands for what she stands for has made me realize that i ve been taking a feminist stance without actually saying so , she said at the time.taylor swift has decided to use her platform as maxim magazine s june cover girl to address feminism , and says her music is unfairly categorized as whiny because of society s systematic misogyny.the 25-year-old singer , who has won seven grammy s and is worth an estimated $ 200 million , explained to the men s publication why she believes there is a double standard when it comes to how others analyze her music .
a man writing about his feelings from a vulnerable place is brave ; a woman writing about her feelings from a vulnerable place is oversharing or whining , she said .
misogyny is ingrained in people from the time they are born .
so to me , feminism is probably the most important movement that you could embrace , because it s just basically another word for equality , she added.the seemingly impressionable mega star , who hadn t previous identified as a feminist , told the guardian last august how one of her closest friends , lena dunham , put it into perspective for her.approximately two months after she spoke to the guardian , swift told david letterman how empowering dunham was , while explaining how the two became friends .
she direct messaged me , and she said we need to be best friends .
i feel like you ve been my best friend in my head for months and almost years now .
so , i need to see you in person ; then i will lavish you with complements in person , swift recounted.fortune magazine named swift as the world s most influential female leader in march , citing her savvy business nature.while swift speaks of a double standard surrounding her music , it has yet to affect her album sales or stop her from selling out two or three stadium shows every week.just this past sunday , the shake it off singer nabbed eight recognitions at the billboard music awards , including top female artist , top artist , top billboard 200 artist , top billboard 200 album , top streaming song , and top hot 100 artist.watch : taylor swift likes lena dunham- david lettermanhttps : //youtu.be/jfzsqkdr20uwhat was supposed to be her year has in fact turned out to be five-alarm disaster for lena dunham , the creator of hbo s girls .
a year ago , closing out 2014 had to look pretty exciting to the 28 year-old .
no matter how good or bad it was , her memoir would be released to guaranteed critical acclaim ( she is lena dunham after all ) , there were two major golden globe nominations , and the publicity surrounding the 4th season premiere of girls was going to be bigger than anything anyone could have ever imagined.2014 was going to be dunham s breakthrough ; the year she went mainstream .
along with the gushing reviews of her memoir and slavish coverage from the new york times , there would be countless magazine covers , talk show appearances , and a thousand slathering articles obsessing over her every tweet and utterance .
the entertainment media was on board .
the mainstream media was on board .
and at first it all went according to plan.things went so well there was even talk of lena dunham starring in a ghostbusters remake .
you don t get any more mainstream than that .
and you certainly don t get any more mainstream than having a best friend forever like taylor swift.then , in three words , it all fell apart : hypocrisy , lies , children .
hypocrisy : dunham demanded people vote then it was discovered she did not vote.lies : dunham claimed in her non-fiction memoir that she had been raped in college by a campus republican named barry .
she lied .
and in the process indicted an innocent family man as her alleged rapist .
worse , dunham and her publisher random house stood silent for two months even after they knew the memoir had placed a cloud of suspicion over an innocent man.while attempting to run to dunham s defense , gawker tripped over itself and was forced to report their belief that dunham s alleged rapist is wait for it , wait or it a democrat.no one is questioning whether or not dunham was raped .
something no one else is questioning , though , is that her behavior in this matter was breathtakingly selfish and craven.children : dunham s unnatural sexual behavior towards her much younger sister creeped everyone in america out not named jimmy kimmel.those are just the top 3 .
the wrap dug up 3 more pr disasters .
the mainstream media desperately tried to save dunham from herself , especially the cowardly and wildly dishonest savannah guthrie and bill simmons .
but they just ended up sullying their own reputations.via : breitbart news