bangkok ( reuters ) - the leader of thailand s military junta said on thursday that yingluck shinawatra , the prime minister he ousted three years ago , was in dubai , where she fled last month to avoid being jailed over a rice subsidy scheme that lost billions of dollars .
prime minister prayuth chan-ocha , the army chief who led the coup , said thailand would pursue yingluck through diplomatic channels and police cooperation using interpol .
his remarks came a day after the country s top court found yingluck guilty of criminal negligence and sentenced her in absentia to five years in prison .
she is in dubai , prayuth told reporters , adding that the foreign ministry had been tracking yingluck s movements .
the police will now have to proceed and coordinate with the foreign ministry and interpol .
thaksin s puea thai party did not comment to reuters on prayuth s disclosure .
but a source in the united arab emirates said yingluck left dubai for london on sept. 11 , without giving further details .
the supreme court delayed giving its judgment last month after yingluck failed to show in court and police discovered she had slipped out of the country .
the thai authorities had not disclosed yingluck s whereabouts before , though senior party members had told reuters she had gone to dubai where her brother , former prime minister thaksin shinawatra , who lives in self-imposed exile to avoid a 2008 jail sentence for graft , has a home .
on thursday , asked by reuters whether yingluck had left dubai for london , thai deputy national police chief srivara ransibrahmanakul declined to comment .
photographs posted on the photo-sharing app instagram by one of thaksin s daughters show thaksin in london since sept. 15 .
none of the photos feature yingluck .
for more than a decade , thai politics has been dominated by the power struggle between the shinawatras and thailand s establishment , which includes the armed forces and urban middle class .
the shinawatras remain popular with rural and poor voters , and the rice subsidy scheme had helped yingluck shore up her support base to get elected in 2011 .
throughout her trial , yingluck said she was innocent and not responsible for the day-to-day running of the scheme , arguing that she was a victim of political persecution .
the ruling junta has promised to hold an election in 2018 , though changes to the constitution have ensured the military holds on to some role governing the country .
thai police on thursday raided yingluck s home in eastern bangkok , armed with a search warrant .
around a dozen police from the forensics unit entered the large compound carrying gloves and metal boxes , to be met by a lawyer for yingluck and one of her bodyguards .