paris ( reuters ) - france s parliament adopted an anti-terrorism bill on tuesday that will bolster police surveillance powers and make it easier to close mosques suspected of preaching hatred , but rights groups warned it would lead to civil freedoms being infringed .
before the vote , interior minister gerard collomb described france as being still in a state of war as authorities struggle to deal with the threat posed by foreign jihadists and homegrown militants .
more than 240 people have been killed in france in attacks since 2015 by assailants who pledged allegiance to , or were inspired by , islamic state .
in the latest attack on sunday , a man cried allahu akbar god is greatest before fatally stabbing two women outside the rail station in marseille .
legislators in the lower house adopted the bill by a margin of 415 to 127 .
lawmakers realize that today s threat is serious and that we must protect ourselves against terrorists .
this must be done in a way that balances security and freedom , collomb told reporters after the vote .
this text will help protect french people .
emergency powers in place since november 2015 , when islamist suicide bombers and gunmen carried out attacks in paris that killed 130 people , have played a significant role in enabling intelligence agencies to disrupt plots , the government says .
the new legislation would see many of those emergency powers enshrined in law , with limited oversight from the judiciary .
the interior ministry , without approval from a judge , will be able to set up security zones when there is a threat , restricting the movement of people and vehicles in and out and with power to carry out searches inside the area .
it will have more power to shut down mosques and other places of worship , if intelligence agencies believe religious leaders are inciting violence in france or abroad or justifying acts of terrorism .
police will also have greater powers to raid private property , if they have judicial approval , and there will be an increased ability to impose restrictions on people s movements , including via electronic surveillance tags , if they are regarded as a threat to national security .
a parliamentary commission will now seek compromise on amendments put forward by the senate and assembly before a second reading and definitive vote , expected in mid-october .
president emmanuel macron , painted by rivals as weak on security during his election campaign , has already acted to bolster counter-terrorism efforts , creating a task force in june to improve coordination among france s multiple intelligence agencies .
the anti-terrorism bill has met little resistance from the public , with people still on edge after the series of islamist-related attacks and smaller incidents that have followed .
but rights campaigners say it will curb civil liberties .
france has become so addicted to the state of emergency that it is now injecting several of these abusive measures into ordinary law , human rights watch said in a statement .
it added that french parliament members had chosen the politics of fear over the protection of hard-won civil liberties and urged parliament and the judiciary to closely monitor how the government uses its new power .
nonetheless , some conservative opponents of macron say the draft legislation , which is not as all-encompassing as the state of emergency currently allows , does not go far enough .
we need to rearm the state , right-wing lawmaker eric ciotti said in a radio interview before the vote .
he called for authorities to have greater powers to expel foreigners who threaten public safety .