dubai ( reuters ) - human rights watch accused the saudi-led coalition fighting in yemen of war crimes on tuesday , saying its air strikes killed 39 civilians including 26 children in two months .
the rights group said five air strikes hitting four family homes and a grocery store were carried out either deliberately or recklessly , causing indiscriminate loss of civilian lives in violation of the laws of war .
the coalition has repeatedly denied allegations of war crimes and says its attacks are directed against its foes in yemen s armed houthi movement and not civilians .
yemen has been torn by a civil war in which yemen s internationally-recognized government , backed by a coalition supported by the united states and britain , is trying to roll back the iran-aligned houthi group which controls most of northern yemen , including the capital sanaa .
the saudi-led coalition s repeated promises to conduct its air strikes lawfully are not sparing yemeni children from unlawful attacks , said sarah leah whitson , middle east director at human rights watch , in a statement .
this underscores the need for the united nations to immediately return the coalition to its annual list of shame for violations against children in armed conflict , she said .
on august 4 , coalition aircraft struck a home in saada , killing nine members of a family , including six children , ages 3 through 12 .
on july 3 , an air strike killed eight members of the same family in taiz province , including the wife and 8-year-old daughter , the organization said .
hrw said it interviewed nine family members and witnesses to five air strikes that occurred between june 9 and august 4 , and did not detect any potential military targets in the vicinity .
the war has killed more than 10,000 people , displaced more than three million and ruined much of the impoverished country s infrastructure .
the saudi-led coalition was formed in 2015 to fight the houthis and army troops allied with them who have fired missiles into the kingdom .
hrw called on united nations security council to launch an international investigation into the abuses at its september session .
on monday , the u.n. said it has verified 5,144 civilian deaths in the war in yemen , mainly from air strikes by a saudi-led coalition , and an international investigation is urgently needed .