beirut ( reuters ) - prime minister saad al-hariri said on thursday lebanon s political crisis was a wake-up call for lebanese with different loyalties to put their country ahead of regional issues .
hariri was referring to the crisis ignited by his shock announcement on nov. 4 that he was resigning .
he made it from saudi arabia , a sunni monarchy and regional powerhouse locked in a confrontation with shi ite islamist iran .
after returning to lebanon this week , he shelved the decision on wednesday at the request of president michel aoun .
the period that passed was perhaps like a wake-up call for all of us to look for lebanon s interests rather than looking at problems around us , hariri said at the annual arab banking conference in beirut on thursday .
the problems around us are important , but lebanon is more important .
hariri reaffirmed the need for lebanon to stick by its policy of staying out of regional conflict not just with words but with action as well .
i want to stress that ... our main concern is stability , and this is what we ll be working on .
foreign minister gebran bassil , the head of president aoun s political party , wrote to the arab league chief on thursday , stressing lebanon s policy of staying out of regional crises , the state news agency reported .
the regional role played by the iranian-backed hezbollah political and military movement has greatly alarmed saudi arabia , hariri s long-time ally .
hezbollah s parliamentary group met on thursday and said in a statement afterwards that hariri s return to lebanon and his positive statements signaled a possible return to normality .
hariri said on wednesday his decision to postpone resigning would lead to a responsible dialogue ... that deals with divisive issues and their repercussions on lebanon s relations with arab brothers .
top lebanese officials have said riyadh forced him to quit and held him in the kingdom .
riyadh and hariri deny this .
hariri returned to lebanon after an intervention by france .
a leader in hariri s future movement said on thursday that hariri s decision to wait instead of officially resigning from his post was a wise step that would allow for more dialogue .