we didn t mean to send a negative message .
we wanted to be positive .
yeah because telling asians , whites and hispanics to stay back and do school work while their black friends go on a field trip is a pretty positive experience for everyone administrators at a florida middle school faced a severe backlash from parents and students after they organized a field trip only for black students.heron creek middle school scheduled a trip to black violin , a performance by black musicians , wstp reports .
i think it should be the whole school not just blacks , says black seventh-grader richard service.instead , administrators were caught segregating students based on race.the school received 50 tickets and decided to give them only to black students .
they said it was for blacks to be motivated to improve their grades , according to service .
i did think it was kind of racist that latinos , chinese couldn t go , says jennifer bender , another student at the school .
no matter what race it s wrong all the way around , according to parent steve moreno.other parents were harshly critical of the move on a community facebook page .
linda prince wrote : just wanted to let the community be aware of what is happening at heron creek middle school .
yesterday they called an assemble for only african american students .
the assembly was to tell them that they could earn a field trip for good behavior .
after writing a email to the school board last night letting them know i was upset , i received a call from the vice principle this afternoon .
he told me it was because there was an upcoming performance from a group called two black musicians and they thought it would be a good motivational tool for their african american students .
i thought segregation ended a long time ago .
i completely do not agree with this .
basically i was told we just have to agree to disagree.after the backlash , administrators decided to allow all students to attend .
we care about every child on this campus .
we celebrate diversity all the time , principal matthew gruhl says .
we didn t mean to send a negative message .
we wanted to be positive , according to gruhl .
we learned from this , he says , adding a bit sarcastically , we are sorry if we hurt people s feelings .
gruhl had told students they were changing the rules not because they were caught segregating students based on race , but because , we learned there s a demand for all our students to have an opportunity to see this great performance .
they re now trying to raise $ 3,500 to purchase 500 tickets so more students can go , based on grades and behavior and not race .
there s no word on who will go if they don t raise that amount of money .
they had some parents upset this opportunity was not extended to more students , sarasota county schools spokesman scott ferguson tells the herald-tribune .
they decided today to open it up to all students who met the same criteria .
that involves grades and behavior and other criteria .
that s how should have been in the beginning , parent steve moreno tells the news station .
via : eag news