madrid/barcelona ( reuters ) - the catalan regional leader on thursday said he would press on with an oct. 1 referendum on a split from spain , flouting a court ban , as tens of thousands gathered for a second day on the streets of barcelona demanding the right to vote .
catalan leader carles puigdemont said he had contingency plans in place to ensure the vote would go ahead , directly defying madrid and pushing the country closer to political crisis .
spain s constitutional court banned the vote earlier this month after prime minister mariano rajoy said it violated spain s 1978 constitution , which states the country is indivisible .
most opposition parties are also against the vote .
all the power of the spanish state is set up to prevent catalans voting , puigdemont said in a televised address .
we will do it because we have contingency plans in place to ensure it happens , but above all because it has the support of the immense majority of the population , who are sick of the arrogance and abuse of the people s party government .
on thursday , tens of thousands gathered outside the seat of catalonia s top court in barcelona , singing and banging drums , to protest the arrests of senior officials in police raids on regional government offices on wednesday .
this is a step back for democracy , said one of them , 62-year-old pensioner enric farro .
this is the kind of thing that happened years ago - it shouldn t be happening now .
state police arrested catalonia s junior economy minister , josep maria jove , on wednesday in an unprecedented raid of regional government offices .
acting on court orders , police have also raided printers , newspaper offices and private delivery companies in a search for campaign literature , instruction manuals for manning voting stations and ballot boxes .
polls show about 40 percent of catalans support independence for the wealthy northeastern region and a majority want a referendum on the issue .
puigdemont has said there is no minimum turnout for the vote and he will declare independence within 48 hours of a yes result .
a central government s spokesman said protests in catalonia were organized by a small group and did not represent the general feeling of the people .
in those demonstrations , you see the people who go , but you don t see the people who don t go , who are way more and are at home because they don t like what s happening , inigo mendez de vigo said .
mendez de vigo also said an offer for dialogue from madrid remained on the table .
repeated attempts to open negotiations between the two camps over issues such as taxes and infrastructure investment have failed over the past five years .
rajoy said on wednesday the government s actions in catalonia were the result of legal rulings and were to ensure the rule of law .
the prime minister called on catalan leaders to cancel the vote .
hundreds of national police and guardia civil reinforcements have been brought into barcelona and are being billeted in two ferries rented by the spanish government and moored in the harbor .
but the central government must tread a fine line in enforcing the law in the region without seeming heavy-handed .
the stand-off between catalonia and the central government resonates beyond spain .
the country s eu partners publicly support rajoy but worry that his hardline tactics might backfire .
in scotland , nicola sturgeon , who heads the pro-independence devolved government , said she hoped the catalan and spanish governments could hold talks to resolve the situation .
in a referendum in 2014 , scots voted to remain within the united kingdom .