mexico city ( reuters ) - a report that mexico s attorney general owns a ferrari registered at an unoccupied house has added a twist to a growing political battle over who will lead a new institution designed to battle corruption .
the report by a mexican anti-graft group published on monday said mexican attorney general raul cervantes had a $ 218,000 ferrari registered at an apparently unoccupied house , worth $ 25,000 , in the state of morelos that also had two other ferraris and an audi registered to the same address .
cervantes said through his lawyer he bought a 2011 ferrari with his earnings as a private lawyer before entering public service , and that it was registered at that address by the company that had imported the luxury car .
cervantes is already at the center of a growing political battle in mexico , which is implementing a new anti-corruption system that will replace the current attorney general s office with a new institution next year that is designed to be more independent from political interference .
president enrique pena nieto s administration has been hit by conflict of interest scandals and his institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) has been battered by corruption allegations against several governors .
revelations about the lavish lifestyles of politicians has further damaged the popularity of the ruling class in a country where 44 percent of people are officially poor .
opposition lawmakers have objected to allowing cervantes to become the head of the new prosecutor general s office , a figure who will serve a 9-year term in a move away from the current system where the president nominates the attorney general .
ricardo anaya , the head of the conservative national action party , said in a video posted online at the weekend that cervantes could protect members of the pri from facing corruption charges if he becomes the new prosecutor general .
anaya has himself been the subject of recent media reports that said his wife s parents had significantly expanded business and real estate holdings in recent years .
anaya has denied any wrongdoing .
cervantes lawyer said the registration of the ferrari was an administrative error .
dr. cervantes only found out about it this very morning in the newspaper and has already made the corresponding administrative adjustments , lawyer cristina rocha wrote in a letter reposted on cervantes twitter page .
in this case , there is nothing illegal , there was only an administrative error in the registry of one address for another in morelos , the letter said .
mexicans against corruption and impunity said documents showed 16 luxury cars had been registered to just four homes on the same street of low-cost town houses .
the report said neighbors had never seen fancy cars on their street and said the homes in question seemed to be uninhabited .