wellington ( reuters ) - neither major new zealand political party leader on monday would rule out appointing nationalist new zealand first head winston peters as deputy prime minister as poll averages showed a neck-and-neck race for a sept. 23 election .
labour s jacinda ardern and prime minister and national party leader bill english faced off in a fiery televised election debate , the same day tightening poll averages suggested each would still need new zealand first to form a government .
the leaders traded jabs as ardern accused the center-right national party of ignoring a housing crisis in its nine years in power , while english criticized his 37-year-old , center-left opponent of putting ideals over concrete projects .
you can t replace a plan with a vision , english told ardern .
labour has argued that new zealand s economic growth rate , among the fastest in the developed world , on the national party s watch , has masked growing inequality and strains on infrastructure .
labour also says people are not seeing the benefits of growth , with wages still lagging behind living costs .
people ... feel like they are going backwards .
and that s because they are .
an economy should be about people , ardern said .
both party leaders said they would not make peters , who would like to slash immigration and increase the central bank s ability to intervene in the currency , finance minister in their governments .
labour s soaring support since charismatic ardern took over as leader on aug. 1 may put it in a position to form a government without having to rely on the controversial nationalist party if its momentum is sustained .
national , however , looks as if it would likely still be heavily reliant on the new zealand first party , whose support is also waning .
although both major parties are open to forming a coalition with the populist party , peters has not said which one he would throw his lot in with .
labour s average level of support in opinion polls rose to 39.8 percent , and the greens average was 6.2 percent , figures released by media on monday showed , putting the two parties , which share a working agreement , comfortably ahead of national s 41.6 percent .
a party , or combination of parties , needs 61 of parliament s 120 members in order to form a government in new zealand s german-style proportional representation system .
the averages suggest labour and the green party would garner 57 seats , compared with national s 51 .
if national happen to drop a bit further , they won t have any chance of forming a government because they don t have as many coalition options as labour , said bryce edwards , a political analyst at victoria university in wellington .
only weeks ago , outspoken peters was expected to be the kingmaker in the formation of government after the vote .
but a controversy over mistaken overpayment of superannuation to peters has hurt his support , while voters have also been drawn to the newly invigorated labour party .
although the average of polls shows new zealand first remains decisive in the formation of the next government , the situation could change if its loss of momentum continues , analysts say .
new zealand first s average fell to 8 percent , down from 9.1 percent on friday .
certainly new zealand first , if they are somewhere in the 5 percent to 7 percent range , there will be a good chance of them no longer being a kingmaker after the election , edwards added .
support for the party fell to 6.6 percent in a poll released on sunday , following a drop to 8 percent in another poll last week .
both polls were used to calculate monday s average .