tokyo ( reuters ) - a typhoon roared towards japan s main island on election day on sunday , killing at least two people , prompting a warning for tens of thousands to evacuate and the cancellation of hundreds of flights .
one man was killed under scaffolding that collapsed in high winds and a fisherman was killed as he tended to his boat , kyodo news agency said .
there were a handful of minor injuries .
typhoon lan , classified as an intense category 4 storm by the tropical storm risk monitoring site , was south of japan and moving northeast at 50 kph on sunday night , speeding up slightly , the japan meteorological agency ( jma ) said .
lan appeared to have weakened slightly from its peak , but it was still a powerful storm that could pound parts of japan with more than 80 mm ( 3 inches ) of rain an hour , an agency official told reporters .
it is set to make landfall on japan s main island of honshu , possibly near tokyo , early on monday , at which time it is likely to have weakened to a category 2 storm .
the wind and rain will grow stronger as the night goes on , so take measures as needed as early as possible , preferably before it gets dark , the official said .
the agency issued warnings for heavy rain and flooding on the pacific side of japan including the tokyo metropolitan area , even though the typhoon is likely to be downgraded .
more than 70,000 households in various parts of japan were advised to evacuate , with more than 5,000 ordered to do so , nhk public television said .
i live alone and at night it s scary , so i came here as early as i could , one elderly woman told nhk at a evacuation center in western japan .
wind gusts of up to 180 kph ( 111 mph ) were possible across central and eastern japan early on monday , the jma said , possibly hampering the morning rush hour even after the rain is expected to have largely dissipated .
several small landslides had occurred and rivers were rising close to the top of their banks .
one part received more than 600 mm ( 23 inches ) of rain in 48 hours , twice the usual amount of rain for the whole month of october .
prime minister shinzo abe told reporters he had called on the government to take steps to minimize any threats to life .
more than 300 flights were canceled and rail services were interrupted across the country , in one case due to a power outage .
toyota motor corp said it was cancelling the first shift at all of its assembly plants and that it would decide on a later shift around monday noon .
abe s ruling bloc was headed for a big win in the election , exit polls showed , potentially reenergizing a push towards his cherished goal of revising the post-war , pacifist constitution .
it was not immediately clear how the storm and warnings to evacuate affected voting .