21st century wire says this latest episode of the democratic party s epic meltdown is perhaps the most embarrassing of them all .
the ghosts of hillary s defeat continue to haunt the halls of washington and media headlines , as party operatives and their media surrogates conjure up old plots , as well as new and innovative ways to change the election results.since hillary clinton s devastating defeat at the hands of underdog republican nominee , and now president-elect , donald trump , both the clinton campaign and the democratic party leadership have been desperately trying to claw-back the election result , or at least damage and delegitimize the incoming trump administration .
after blaming fbi director james comey for clinton s loss , party operatives , in conjunction with george soros-backed moveon.org , then went on to organize street protests which turned into riots , before backing green party leader jill stein in her frantic attempt to stage a voter recount in michigan , wisconsin and pennsylvania all designed to somehow reverse , or discredit trump s historic presidential win.the only problem with this leg of the establishment s subscribed conspiracy theory is that it is based on a lie .
media hype aside there is no actual evidence , beyond speculation that russia hacked us elections , or even hacked clinton chief of staff john podesta s emails posted on wikileaks .
that lie is evident right there plain sight , as democratic party leaders falsely state that the cia has concluded the russians hacked or interfered in the us presidential election .
the cia never concluded anything , they simply said the russians probably did it .
regardless , here s what democrats are putting out as their lead talking point : we now know that the cia has determined russia s interference in our elections was for the purpose of electing donald trump .
this should distress every american .
( see full letter below ) .despite the lack of any actual proof , the same clinton media operatives that skewed campaign coverage , polling in their candidate s favor , and who also fabricated trump scandals throughout the election are now running a hysterical pr campaign are pushing the russian hacking conspiracy theory with absolutely no proof to substantiate their incredible claims.desperate to rescue his collapsed reputation , john podesta , along with democrat minority leader nancy pelosi ( image , left ) are now lobbying the cia to release evidence it doesn t actually have and give it to state delegate voters in the us electoral college before they cast their official presidential votes on december 19th.it seems as if disgraced party operative podesta might just be digging a deeper hole for himself and his party the hillmore democratic electors are joining the call for an intelligence briefing on russian interference in the presidential election before they cast their votes for president on monday.twenty-nine electors now are pressuring director of national intelligence james clapper to disclose more information about the cia s conclusion that russian interference helped sway the election in president-elect donald trump s favor.on monday , 10 electors spearheaded by christine pelosi , the daughter of house democratic leader nancy pelosi ( calif. ) wrote an open letter to clapper , demanding more information ahead of next week s vote .
the electors require to know from the intelligence community whether there are ongoing investigations into ties between donald trump , his campaign or associates , and russian government interference in the election , the scope of those investigations , how far those investigations may have reached , and who was involved in those investigations , the letter reads .
we further require a briefing on all investigative findings , as these matters directly impact the core factors in our deliberations of whether mr. trump is fit to serve as president of the united states .
twenty-eight democrats and one republican have now signed the letter.on monday , the clinton campaign voiced support for the effort .
each day that month , our campaign decried the interference of russia in our campaign and its evident goal of hurting our campaign to aid donald trump , said john podesta , hillary clinton s campaign chairman , in a statement .
despite our protestations , this matter did not receive the attention it deserved by the media in the campaign .
we now know that the cia has determined russia s interference in our elections was for the purpose of electing donald trump .
this should distress every american .
continue this story at the hillread more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv