yangon/sittwe ( reuters ) - buddhists in myanmar on wednesday blocked aid workers from visiting a camp for displaced muslims in the central part of rakhine state , where the united nations fears the spread of violence that has already displaced hundreds of thousands .
more than 600,000 of myanmar s largely stateless rohingya minority have crossed to bangladesh since aug. 25 attacks by rohingya militants sparked a military crackdown beset by allegations of killings , rape and arson by security forces .
the u.n. has called the army operation ethnic cleansing .
myanmar has denied the majority of allegations and said it will accept the return of those who can prove they are residents .
a regional administrator and an activist told reuters a group of about 10 myanmar nationals working for u.s.- and britain- based charity relief international ( r.i. ) was forced to turn back when residents of the mostly buddhist ethnic rakhine community staged a protest in the town of myebon .
reuters reported this month that activists among the town s buddhist majority had stepped up efforts to segregate buddhists and muslims , instructing rakhines not to trade with muslims , for fear of militancy .
deliveries of food aid to myebon s muslims have been delayed and only allowed in after inspections by buddhist community representatives .
the r.i. group were trying to go to the camp and the locals blocked the way , said tin shwe , the town s administrator , adding that the aid workers returned to their office after wednesday s incident .
samir maleh , country director for relief international in myanmar , declined to comment on the incident .
leaders of the rakhine buddhist community have long bristled at international agencies and ngos whom they accuse of favoring the rohingya with their support .
aid workers and u.n. staff have told reuters they fear enforced segregation may trigger further displacement in rakhine , either through fresh violence or as muslims flee on boats to malaysia and thailand , fuelling a new stage of crisis in the bay of bengal .
wednesday s incident was the latest example of the numerous obstacles that humanitarian organizations face in rakhine state , said pierre peron , a spokesman for the united nations office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs ( ocha ) .
of course we respect that any group should be able to exercise their rights of freedom of speech and peaceful assembly , but the simple fact here is that life-saving aid is being blocked from reaching vulnerable people who desperately need it , including children and the elderly .
about 3,000 muslims - including rohingya and those accepted as myanmar citizens - have been confined to a camp for displaced people in myebon since communal violence swept rakhine in 2012 .
photos posted on social media site facebook on wednesday showed about two dozen women sitting down to block a small street , with a smaller group of men standing behind .
khin thein , a leader of a regional branch of the arakan women s network , said her group joined the protest after authorities told the community the ngo would provide education about gender-based violence , hygiene and sanitation to muslims .
they have food , they have shelter to live , she told reuters .
we can t accept these kinds of excess things for them .
we will not allow them to pass through our township .
we already protested several times in the past .
we have suspicions about them .
we don t trust foreigners , international people .