london ( reuters ) - legislation underpinning the government s plan to leave the european union passed the latest stage in its journey through parliament on wednesday , but still faces weeks of scrutiny before it becomes law .
after eight days of debate , the legislation completed its committee stage , where lawmakers debate the bill line by line and try to make changes to the government s proposed wording .
formally known as the european union ( withdrawal ) bill , the legislation will now face other stages of approval in the lower house of parliament , and must then make its way through a multi-stage process in the upper house .
both chambers must agree on the wording before it can become law .
what is the bill and what does it do ?
the legislation serves two main functions : 1 .
repealing the 1972 european communities act which made britain a member of the european communities , forerunner to the european union .
this effectively ends britain s eu membership .
2 .
transferring the existing body of eu law into british law .
this is designed to provide legal certainty about the complex process of leaving .
why is it controversial ?
the bill has faced criticism from opposition lawmakers , campaign groups and members of may s conservative party .
brexit is still divisive in britain after a referendum in june last year , and many people , including some lawmakers , want to retain as much of the country s current eu membership as possible .
others would like to reverse the vote altogether .
the most significant objections so far have focused on several different parts of the bill : 1 .
the power for the government to amend eu laws as they are brought onto the british statute book .
2 .
the extent to which parliament will be given a say on the final exit deal .
3 .
the government s intention to fix march 29 , 2019 in law as exit day .
may runs a minority government , which has a slim 13-seat working majority in the 650-seat parliament thanks to a deal with a small northern irish party .
only seven conservative lawmakers could be required to rebel to defeat the government .
what has happened so far ?
the threat of rebellion has forced the government to make several concessions on its plans , including wednesday s compromise to allow the date of brexit to be changed in exceptional circumstances .
ministers also agreed to greater scrutiny in parliament of the process of transposing eu law .
may suffered one embarrassing defeat , when 11 conservatives sided with the opposition to successfully demand stronger guarantees that parliament will have a meaningful vote on the country s final exit agreement .
ministers fought off , or bargained their way out of other disagreements on issues like the powers government will have to change eu laws as they are transposed into british law , and the government s intention not to transfer across the eu s charter of fundamental rights .
the bill cleared its first parliamentary hurdle in september when , after two days of debate , lawmakers voted 326 to 290 in favor of the principles of the bill .
what happens next ?
the debate will continue in the lower house of parliament next year at a date which has yet to be set .
this so-called report stage is a new opportunity to add amendments .
immediately after report stage , the bill is given a third reading .
it usually lasts an hour and is a general discussion of the bill followed by a vote .
no amendments can be made .
if approved , the bill will then pass to the upper chamber of parliament , where the conservatives do not have a majority .
the entire process will take months to complete , and there is no target end date .
house of lords : once the bill passes to the unelected upper chamber of parliament , the house of lords , lords can put forward their own amendments , each of which will be discussed and decided on in turn .
if the lords agree to any amendments , the bill passes back to the house of commons for its approval .
ping pong : if the bill passes back to the commons , they debate and vote on the lords amendments .
no new amendments can be introduced .
in theory the bill can continue passing back and forth between the lords and commons until the final bill is agreed upon .
royal assent : once the bill has been agreed by both houses of parliament , it is given royal assent , when the queen formally agrees to make the bill into an act of parliament .