dubai/istanbul/erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - iran halted flights to and from kurdish regions in northern iraq on sunday in retaliation to a plan by the autonomous kurdistan regional government ( krg ) to hold a referendum on independence .
it also started wargames at the kurdish border .
the air embargo is the first concrete retaliatory measure against monday s kurdish referendum which is rejected by the government in baghdad and by iraq s powerful neighbors , iran and turkey .
iranian authorities stopped air traffic to the international airports of erbil and sulaimaniya , in iraqi kurdistan , upon a request from baghdad , fars news agency said .
tehran and ankara fear the spread of separatism to their own kurds .
iran also supports shi ite groups who have been ruling or holding key security and government positions in iraq since the 2003 u.s-led invasion which toppled saddam hussein .
turkey , meanwhile , said on sunday its aircraft launched strikes against kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) targets in northern iraq s gara region on saturday after spotting militants preparing to attack turkish military outposts on the border .
turkey will never ever tolerate any status change or any new formations on its southern borders , turkish prime minister binali yildirim said .
the krg will be primarily responsible for the probable developments after this referendum .
the krg has resisted calls to delay the referendum by the united nations , the united states and britain who fear it could further destabilize the region .
the vote , expected to result in a comfortable yes to independence , is not binding and is meant to give the krg a legitimate mandate to negotiate the secession of the autonomous region with baghdad and the neighboring countries .
the krg says the vote acknowledges the kurds crucial contribution confronting islamic state after it overwhelmed the iraqi army in 2014 and seized control of a third of iraq .
iranian state broadcaster irib said military drills , part of annual events held in iran to mark the beginning of the 1980-1988 war with iraq , were launched in the oshnavieh border region .
the war games will include artillery , armored and airborne units , it said .
clashes with iranian kurdish militant groups based in iraq are fairly common in the border area .
on saturday , turkish warplanes destroyed gun positions , caves and shelters used by pkk militants , a military statement from ankara said .
turkey s air force frequently carries out such air strikes against the pkk in northern iraq , where its commanders are based .
turkey s parliament voted on saturday to extend by a year a mandate authorizing the deployment of turkish troops in iraq and syria .
the pkk launched an insurgency in 1984 .
more than 40,000 people have been killed in the conflict .
it is designated a terrorist group by turkey , the united states and the european union .
the u.s. embassy in iraq cautioned its citizens that there may be unrest during a referendum , especially in territories disputed between the krg and the central government like the multi-ethnic oil-rich region of kirkuk .
three kurdish peshmerga fighters were killed and five wounded on saturday when an explosive device blew up near their vehicle south kirkuk , security sources said .
the explosion happened in daquq , a region bordering islamic state-held areas , the sources said .
islamic state s caliphate effectively collapsed in july , when a u.s.-backed iraqi offensive , in which the peshmerga took part , captured their stronghold mosul , in northern iraq .
the group continues to control a pocket west of kirkuk and a stretch alongside the syrian border and inside syria .