raqqa , syria ( reuters ) - raqqa s hospital , a big complex pocked with bullets holes , whose capture will signal the end of islamic state s crumbling syrian capital , lies just 200 yards from a front-line base of the syrian democratic forces .
beyond it , a roundabout where the jihadists once displayed the heads of their enemies , crucified people and held military parades at the height of their expansion is another strategic prize sought by the u.s.-backed militia alliance .
commanders directing the battle on the ground say seizing these and a nearby stadium , islamic state s last strongholds in the city , could take as little as a week once a final assault begins against just a few hundred remaining militants .
but the ultra-hardline group is holding civilian hostages in the hospital and stadium and using sniper fire , booby traps and tunnels that emerge behind sdf lines to slow the battle .
the sdf faces a tough final showdown with is which commanders say will end at the hospital , now almost completely surrounded .
there are many civilians being held .
we can t use heavy weaponry or air strikes around the hospital or stadium , so we ll encircle them as we advance , commander haval gabar said at the front-line base , a home that sdf units captured last week .
the hospital will be the last point ( in raqqa ) to be freed , he said on saturday , as bullets coming from the sprawling medical complex whizzed over the base .
the sdf , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias dominated by the kurdish ypg , has been fighting since june to drive islamic state from raqqa city , backed by air strikes and special forces from a u.s.-led coalition .
the assault , which ypg officials initially predicted would take weeks , has dragged on as islamic state bogs down forces with tactics used in other bastions such as iraq s mosul .
senior kurdish commanders recently said raqqa would fall by the end of october .
right now there s no advancing , gabar , 25 , said .
there have been many attacks from behind us with militants launching surprise raids from a network of tunnels they dug after marauding through swathes of syria and iraq and capturing raqqa in 2014 , he said .
when that happens we divert forces from front-line assaults to deal with the infiltration .
but it doesn t take long , maybe half an hour to deal with each attack .
the home the sdf was using as a base had an is tunnel emerging into its living room - now blocked up with furniture .
commander zilzal tarhams said militants emerged from a second nearby tunnel two days before and fired a rocket into a house occupied by the sdf .
if we find tunnels we usually cave them in with explosives .
there are so many , he said .
the commanders were confident of total victory soon , however , with islamic state surrounded in a small portion of the city which houses the remaining strategic sites .
gabar , who directs fighting on the western front , said forces were waiting for the order for a final push , after which the roundabout , stadium and hospital would quickly fall .
when we begin it will be quick , maybe 10 days or so , he said .
tarhams predicted a week .
it s really because of the civilians presence that it s taking us some time , gabar said .
there were thousands of residents still trapped in the city , including an unknown number at the stadium and hospital , he said .
air strikes that have been used heavily in other parts of the city are not as frequent around the remaining sites , although missiles still slam into buildings in the city center .
gabar and tarhams did not say how the sdf planned to capture the stadium and hospital , both of which provide high vantage points over the city center , while avoiding the deaths of residents held there .
islamic state leader abu bakr al-baghdadi commanded his militants not to negotiate or surrender in an audio message released recently .
raqqa s complete capture will end the group s sway in the city from where it plotted deadly attacks abroad , and projected its power in 2014 parading through streets flying black flags on military vehicles .
the two sdf commanders estimated there were no more than 350 militants left in raqqa and said these were not the elite of the group .
many leaders are believed to have fled to deir al-zor where the sdf and syrian government forces are pressing competing offensives against is .
other tactics the jihadists were using to slow sdf advances include laying booby traps , tarhams said .
they put mines under rugs in homes and use motion sensors to set off bombs .
it s a huge obstacle .
battle weary , the commanders were keen to capture the last strategic sites as soon as possible .
we want to finish before winter - bad weather makes it harder to advance , gabar said .
we ll need months to fully clear the explosives afterwards - that s going to be an even bigger job .