washington ( reuters ) - the obama administration ’ s top supreme court lawyer is leaving office at the end of june having won a string of major cases including fending off challenges to president barack obama ’ s signature healthcare law and legalizing same-sex marriage .
solicitor general donald verrilli has served in the justice department post since june 2011 .
he also held two other positions in the obama administration .
verrilli ’ s deputy , ian gershengorn will take over , the justice department said in a release announcing verrilli ’ s departure .
“ for five years , solicitor general don verrilli has fought in our nation ’ s highest court for a better future , winning landmark cases that moved america forward , ” obama said in a statement .
verrilli twice successfully defended the 2010 affordable care act , known as obamacare , against conservative challenges .
in 2012 , the court ruled 5-4 to uphold the law against a broad legal attack .
three years later , the justices rejected a second challenge on a 6-3 vote .
“ thanks to his efforts , 20 million more americans now know the security of quality , affordable health care , ” obama said .
in other major victories , verrilli urged the justices to strike down the federal defense of marriage act , which barred the recognition of same-sex marriages for the purposes of federal benefits .
the 5-4 ruling striking down the law in june 2015 helped pave the way for the court ’ s 5-4 landmark 2015 decision that legalized gay marriage nationwide , which verrilli also advocated for .
in another case , verrilli successfully persuaded the court in 2012 to strike down provisions of a harsh anti-immigrant law in arizona on a 5-3 vote .
“ through these and many other cases – and through his thoughtful counsel and principled advocacy – don has built a legacy of inclusion , expanding opportunities and civil rights for all americans and moving our country forward , ” attorney general loretta lynch said in a statement .
setbacks included the court ’ s 2013 ruling on a 5-4 vote striking down a key provision of the voting rights act , a law enacted to protect minority voters .
he also lost a case 9-0 in which a company challenged obama ’ s authority to appoint members of the national labor relations board when the senate was in recess .
the court has yet to rule in several major cases verrilli argued this year , including a challenge to a restrictive texas abortion law and his defense of obama ’ s executive action that would protect more than four million immigrants from deportation .