according to insider , and author edward klein , hillary took on barack obama over his involvement in exposing her email scandal several months ago .
many americans are wondering if obama is stonewalling the fbi s investigation , or if in fact , he is encouraging the investigation , hoping it will take her down .
this isn t the first report of hillary behaving in a manner that is , shall we say , un-presidential ?
according to white house insiders , it seems that bill has been on the receiving end of hillary s rage more than once as well an enraged hillary rodham clinton blew up at president obama , demanding he call off your f king dogs looking into her emails during a tense oval office meeting , according to a new book.the book , unlikeable : the problem with hillary , says the former first lady was furious at what she believed were damaging leaks by obama aides that led to investigations of her use of a private email server as secretary of state .
so she went right to the top to settle the matter.clinton requested a meeting with obama , against the advice of hubby bill clinton , believing she was being persecuted for minor , meaningless violations , author edward klein writes.clinton initially took a friendly approach during the meeting and obama reacted as if he didn t know what she was talking about , the book claims .
he was almost being deliberately dense , a clinton source said .
it really angered her .
clinton lost her temper and called the president by his first name in an emotionally driven break with white house decorum , according to the book .
what i want for you to do is call off your f king dogs , barack !
clinton allegedly barked at obama , according to klein s account , which cited sources close to clinton and obama senior adviser valerie jarrett.the president was so stunned by clinton s disrespectful demands , he needed a moment to compose himself , the book claims.obama then responded , there is nothing i can do for you one way or another .
things have been set in motion , and i can t and won t interfere .
your problems are , frankly , of your own making .
if you had been honest .
.
.
klein reports clinton interrupted , there are always haters out there to get the clintons .
the democratic 2016 front-runner is said to have later regretted her tirade against the president not for the disrespect she showed , but for the weakness she displayed.nick merrill , clinton s spokesman , called klein s account bulls t. another book ?
someone should do a book about ed , said merrill .
they could call it bulls t : the problem with anything ed klein writes .
the only true thing about him is his consistent and utter lack of a relationship with the facts , merrill said .
he has more hair than credibility , and the man is bald .
so we re not going to get down in the gutter with him and his outrageous fabrications .
via : nyphillary s on a mission to be a softer , warmer , funnier candidate but according to a new book , the real hillary clinton is so volatile and prone to violent outbursts that she terrorizes staff , secret service agents and even her own husband .
hillary clinton has a long history of being domestically violent with bill , stone writes .
hillary has beaten bill , hit him with hard objects , scratched and clawed him , and made him bleed .