californians have a choice ahead of them .
in november , citizens of the golden state will decide whether or not to legalize marijuana for recreational purposes .
one of the most compelling arguments proponents of marijuana legalization have used in previous efforts to legalize marijuana in other states , is that it will bring in extra money for the state s budget.on that front , there is plenty of evidence to support that argument .
oregon saw a jaw-dropping amount of extra revenue after they legalized marijuana .
officials in oregon expected to bring in $ 2 million dollars in tax revenue after their first year of legal weed .
they nearly doubled their expectation bringing in an astounding $ 3.48 million dollars in new tax revenue.so how much is california expected to bring in should they choose to legalize recreational marijuana ?
reuters reports that california could take in an additional $ 1 billion dollars a year : with a population of nearly 40 million people , and a thriving medical marijuana trade legalized 20 years ago , california already has the united states largest legal marijuana market .
legalization of recreational pot would generate an estimated $ 1 billion in additional taxes per year .
other states that have legalized recreational marijuana have received similar tax windfalls .
colorado , the first state in the u.s. to legalize marijuana , took in $ 135 million dollars in taxes and fees in 2015 .
colorado is pumping most of their new tax dollars into schools and other education initiatives.the state of washington raised $ 67.5 million dollars in tax revenue from recreational marijuana in 2015 .
they are expected to raise more than $ 1 billion dollars over four years .
this money goes into washington s general fund and to help fund health services.legalizing marijuana would also save california a lot of money due to no longer having to pay the enormous cost of enforcing current marijuana laws .
in 2012 , over 21,000 people were arrested for crimes related to marijuana criminalization .
the number of overall arrests especially felony arrests has plummeted over the years after changes were made to the california s marijuana laws .
however , the cost both budgetary and human of marijuana criminalization is still a huge financial burden for the citizens of california to bear.it s time for california , as well as the rest of the nation for that matter , to end marijuana prohibition once and for all .
we can not afford not to.featured image from david mcnew/getty images