as i ve said for years on radio , tv and in print for me the overriding issue in american politics is the corruption .
in the obama era , we have seen the remorseless merging of the party and the state in the irs , in the justice department and elsewhere .
whatever one feels about , say , scandinavia , they at least come to their statism and socialism more or less honestly .
not so the united states.it s bad enough that democrats aren t agitated about this corruption but then it works to their advantage .
slightly more mysterious is why so many of my friends on the right aren t incensed by it .
for months , conservative commentators assured us that , when it comes to straight arrows , no arrow is straighter than fbi honcho james comey non-partisan , career public servant , will follow the evidence whereso er it leads ; why , no one in law enforcement is more capable of navigating through a political maelstrom and any attempts to politicize the outcome will ensure that comey will resign in protest , and other high-level fbi officials could follow him out the door .all bollocks .
bollocks on stilts .
like everything else the clintons touch , comey s fbi is hopelessly corrupted and certainly more corrupt than j edgar hoover s fbi , at least in the sense that hoover was independent enough not to get rolled .
the revelations of what happened reveal comey to be a hack and a squish : he offered immunity to hillary s aides not to facilitate his investigation but to obstruct any further investigation ; he allowed witnesses to hillary s crimes to serve as her lawyers ; and he physically destroyed the evidence that is , the laptops .
a 6 8 gummi worm would be more of a straight arrow.now come the latest revelations .
powerline s john hinderaker writes : in the first page , an unidentified fbi employee says he was pressured to change the classification of an email to render it unclassified .
this pressure came from someone within the fbi , who said he had been contacted by undersecretary of state patrick kennedy , who had asked his assistance in altering the email s classification in exchange for a quid pro quo . '
the quid pro quo was that , if the fbi would say the email was unclassified , the state department would allow the fbi to place more agents in countries where they are presently forbidden .
so , to add to the corrupt revenue agency and the corrupt justice department , we now have a corrupt national law enforcement agency and a corrupt foreign ministry willing , indeed , to subordinate national security and its own diplomatic policy to the personal needs of hillary clinton .
needless to say , if you get your news from abc , cbs , nbc , cnn , the washington post , the new york times , etc , etc , you will be entirely unaware of all this .
which is the way they plan on operating for the next eight years.a small but telling point : wikileaks julian assange has lived in the ecuadorian embassy in london for over four years .
but not until he leaked against hillary was his internet cut off .
hillary , out of office , has a swifter and more ruthless global reach than hillary in office on the night of benghazi .
and , should she win , her view of her subjects is that we should have the same information access as ecuadorian embassy refugees.john hinderaker continues : we have here a clear pattern of corruption that makes watergate look like child s play .
hillary s aide , patrick kennedy , tried to bribe the fbi to change the classification of a benghazi document so as to enable hillary s false claim that she didn t send or receive classified information on her illegal home server .
the fbi , to its credit , refused .
( james comey wasn t involved at that stage .
) hillary s aide then asked whether the fbi would be saying anything publicly about the classification issue .
once assured that the fbi would be silent , hillary took the stage and alleged publicly , and falsely , that she never used her illegal home server to send or receive classified information donald trump has his faults , but hillary clinton is far too corrupt to serve as president of the united states.on that last point , i agree wholeheartedly .
in any society , the chief magistrate s first duty is to uphold the law , and throughout human history his easiest temptation , once in office , has been to regard himself as above it .
in this case , the american people would be electing someone who , not yet in office , is already above the law , and way beyond it .
( even her bodily fluids are above the law . )
that would be an extraordinary act , and hillary and her cronies would be entirely justified in treating such an electorate with utter contempt.as for today s impotent and ineffectual republican establishment , they ll look like rock-ribbed steel-spined titans compared to the husks that will remain after two hillary terms.the corruption might not seem directly relevant to the rise of donald trump , but it s there , implicitly .
the present arrangements work for the political class , the permanent bureaucracy , their client groups , and the lawless .
but not for millions of the law-abiding .
consider illegal immigration , for example , which pre-trump was entirely discussed in terms of the interests of the lawbreakers how to bring them out of the shadows , how to give them a path to citizenship , celebrate their family values and work ethic and never in terms of the law-abiding , whose wages they depress , whose communities they transform , and , in too many criminal cases , whose lives they wreck.victor davis hanson writes : something has gone terribly wrong with the republican party , and it has nothing to do with the flaws of donald trump .
something like his tone and message would have to be invented if he did not exist .
none of the other 16 primary candidates the great majority of whom had far greater political expertise , more even temperaments , and more knowledge of issues than did trump shared trump s sense of outrage or his ability to convey it over what was wrong : the lives and concerns of the republican establishment in the media and government no longer resembled those of half their supporters.that s exactly right .
this time last year , to prevent trump all you had to do was convey that same sense of outrage .
as i wrote on july 10th 2015 a mere month after trump entered the race : trump , like other philosophically erratic politicians from denmark to greece , has tapped into a very basic strain of cultural conservatism : the question of how far first world peoples are willing to go in order to extinguish their futures on the altar of diversity .as ann coulter s new book adios , america !
lays out in remorseless detail , kate steinle is dead because the entire democratic party , two-thirds of the republican party and 100 per cent of the diseased federal-state-municipal bureaucracy prioritizes myths over reality .
yes , it s distressing to persons of taste and discrimination that the only person willing to address that reality is donald trump .
but that s because he s not the reality-show freak here .
the fake-o lame-o reality freakshow is the political pseudo-campaign being waged within the restraints demanded by the media and macy s. so , if donald trump is the only guy willing to bust beyond those bounds , we owe him a debt of gratitude .
if , as karl rove proposes , other candidates are able to talk about the subject in a more inclusive way , so be it .
but , if inclusive is code for not addressing it at all , nuts to that.i think we now know that inclusive is code for not addressing it at all , and that , if trump loses next month , that s what the gop establishment will go right back to doing.will he lose ?
given that he s running against both the democrats and half the republican party , he remains tenaciously just about competitive .
but victor explains where the math comes up short : what has always been missing to end the long public career of hillary clinton is a four- or five-percentage-point boost from a m lange of the so-called never trump republicans , as well as women and suburban , college-educated independents .
winning back some of these critics could translate into a one- or two-point lead over clinton in critical swing states.many of those openly supporting hillary among the right-of-center pundit class are people i have known and worked with over the years from dorothy rabinowitz to max boot to ( he s considering it ) glenn beck .
i don t quite get this .
as victor puts it : in this low-bar presidential race , why do conservative establishmentarians and past foreign-policy officials feel a need to publish their support for the democratic candidate , when their liberal counterparts feel no such urge to distance themselves from their own nominee ?
is what clinton actually did , in leaving iraq abruptly , or lying about benghazi , or violating federal security laws , so much less alarming than what trump might do in shaking up nato or bombing the hell out of isis ? just so .
trump is an unknown .
but , to channel donald rumsfeld , hillary is the most known known in the history of knowns .
and what we know of her is that she s stinkingly corrupt , above the law , and able to suborn entire government agencies in the cause of her corruption .
where do you think we re gon na be after eight years of that ? oh , and it will be eight years .
the nevertrumpers are saying , don t worry .
we ll get it right in 2020 , just like after 2012 they said , don t worry .
we ll get it right in 2016 , and after 2008 they said , don t worry .
we ll get it right in 2012 .
next time never comes .
there are no tomorrows for the republican party , because , unlike the gop , the democrats use their victories very effectively.victor davis hanson lives on a small family farm in rural california , at the sharp end of the artificial and lawless demographic transformation of a once golden state .
with respect to my former colleagues in the new york and washington commentariat , i don t think they have any idea of how bleak life is in many parts of this country .
and i don t mean jimmy carter-like malaise a brief blip after three decades of post-war prosperity but bleakness as a permanent feature of life .
perhaps i m touchy about the corruption because i m a foreigner and i ve lived in countries with clean government .
perhaps i m sensitive to the contempt in which a put-upon middle-class is held because i ve spent much of the last year in wealthy first-world countries ( france , sweden , germany ) that are on the verge of implosion over their delusional immigration policies .
but the indifference from influential conservatives to both the despair and the naked corruption is deeply disturbing.think of what the last eight years have wrought obamacare , a weaponized irs , six-figure fines for homophobic bakeries and then pitch america forward to 2024 .
picture the most absurd scenario you can concoct say , a federal transgender-bathroom regime .
oh , no , wait , we ve already got that.the left is serious about power , and they don t waste time .
the idea that the most personally corrupt candidate in modern american history will govern as some sort of benign moderate centrist placeholder until the wankers who thought jeb bush was a superstar shoo-in come up with their next inspiration is utterly preposterous.read more from : steynonline