bama , nigeria ( reuters ) - nigeria s government has a plan for the northeast , torn apart by eight years of conflict with boko haram : displaced people will be housed in fortified garrison towns , ringed by farms , with the rest of the countryside effectively left to fend for itself .
the vision for the state of borno , ground zero for the war with the islamist insurgency , is a stark admission of the reality in the northeast .
for two years , the military and government have said boko haram is all but defeated , and the remnants are being mopped up .
but the military is largely unable to control territory beyond the cities and towns it has wrested back from boko haram .
that means many of the nearly 2 million displaced people across the northeast can not return to their homes in rural areas .
kashim shettima , the governor of borno state , said it was not possible for people to live in small villages .
there s beauty in numbers , there s security in numbers .
so our target is to congregate all the people in five major urban settlements and provide them with means of livelihood , education , health care and of course security , he told reuters .
it s a long term solution , certainly .
the plan for the eastern part of the state , centered on the town of bama , is intended as a pilot scheme to be rolled out in other parts of borno if it is successful .
vigilantes , currently members of a group known as the civilian joint task force , will become agricultural rangers , the governor said .
aided by nigerian security forces , they will aim to secure and patrol a five-km ( three-mile ) radius around each garrison town where people can farm .
peter lundberg , the united nations deputy humanitarian coordinator for nigeria , who heads the organization s response in the northeast , said the reconstruction of bama town , the second biggest in the state , was logical .
people are very eager to go back if the conditions are right and if the conditions are safe , if the conditions are dignified , and of course it has to be voluntary , he told reuters .
sentiment amongst the displaced is mixed .
abubakar goni , who lived outside bama before fleeing to the borno state capital maiduguri , said he wants to return home , but if the town is safer he will agree to go there .
i will support it as long as i will have a place to farm .
i am also happy to hear the government will give us protection on the farm because i learnt boko haram men are still around .
others , like tijja modu alhaji , are wary of potential disputes between residents of the towns where people will be sent and the returnees .
i don t want to stay in bama because i will still be a stranger there , just as i am in maiduguri now , he said .
i want to go home , not to somebody else s land .
the governor s plan is still in its early stages .
it involves bringing back thousands of people who fled the town of bama and the surrounding area and sought refuge in camps in maiduguri and elsewhere .
they will eventually be housed in towns such as bama , which was largely abandoned by its inhabitants when boko haram took it three years ago , but has since been recaptured by the military .
many of bama s buildings are still shells , windows smashed , doors ripped out and roofs gone .
telephone and electricity wires remain torn down , more than two years after the military evicted boko haram .
it is not clear how the returnees will be housed .
there are already 15,000 people in a crowded camp for displaced local residents set up by the military after it retook the town .
the united nations had planned to move them gradually to new shelters accommodating 30,000 people that have been erected in the town , but the military said it could not oversee two camps there at the same time , un and military officials told reuters .
the government has announced plans to build 3,000 homes in the bama area .
but there are concerns about how people sent to the town will manage , since many did not originally live there .
it s one thing to move people to bama , said lundberg .
unless the engine of the economy can restart , the risk is that people are moving back to places where they will become very dependent ( on aid ) .
aid workers said the demarcation between garrison towns and a lawless countryside means people have a choice : live in virtual quarantine , or return to their homes in the countryside , where boko haram roam , and be treated by security forces as potential insurgency sympathizers .
you re imprisoned , but you re safe , said one senior relief worker , speaking on condition of anonymity .
if you prefer your own life you can do it on the outside .
boko haram s recent attacks , including a suicide bombing that killed at least 50 in a mosque in adamawa state last week , are the last kicks of a dying horse , nigeria s information minister lai mohammed said last sunday .
but military and diplomatic officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , said overstretched troops are unable to push boko haram out of non-urban areas .
much of borno is not under the authorities control and attacks are rife .
on saturday , suicide bombers killed at least 13 people in the town of biu and injured 53 others .
borno is not getting better at all .
it may have even gotten worse , a diplomat said of the security situation outside urban areas .
there is no recovery and stabilization .