istanbul ( reuters ) - iranian president hassan rouhani said on wednesday all muslim nations should work together to defend the rights of palestinians following donald trump s decision last week to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital .
rouhani , attending an emergency meeting of muslim leaders , said the u.s. president s move showed the united states lacked any respect for the legitimate rights of the palestinian nation .
iran is ready to cooperate with all muslim countries without any precondition to defend the legitimate rights of palestinians , rouhani told the gathering in the turkish city istanbul .
unity among muslim countries is very important and quds ( jerusalem ) should become our top priority .
opposition to israel and support for the palestinian cause have been central to iran s foreign policy since the islamic revolution of 1979 that toppled the u.s.-backed shah .
iran , the leading shi ite muslim power , and sunni muslim saudi arabia are competing for influence in the middle east , where they support rival groups in yemen , syria , iraq and lebanon .
tehran and riyadh see each other as the paramount threat to regional peace and stability .
saudi arabia cut diplomatic relations with iran in 2016 after iranian protesters attacked saudi diplomatic missions in tehran and the city of mashhad following riyadh s execution of a prominent shi ite cleric .
rouhani said muslim countries should resolve their disputes through dialogue and he also accused israel of planting seeds of tension across the middle east .
on his twitter account , rouhani said trump s move to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital showed that washington was not an honest mediator and never will be , adding that it only wanted to secure the interests of the zionists .
iran does not recognize israel and regards palestine as comprising all of the holy land , including israeli territory .
iranian leaders have repeatedly called for the destruction of israel .
tehran backs several militant islamist groups in their fight against israel .