henniker , new hampshire ( reuters ) - republican presidential hopeful ted cruz ’ s performance in new hampshire ’ s primary election on tuesday will be a referendum on the southern evangelical ’ s appeal to northern conservatives , a breed he is not used to courting .
cruz is fresh off a victory this week in iowa , the first contest in the race for the nomination ahead of the nov. 8 presidential election , and the u.s. senator from texas is betting his undiluted religious conservatism will deliver a strong finish in new hampshire .
cruz ’ s campaign does not anticipate a win in new hampshire .
polling shows national front-runner donald trump - who has tighter links with the region as a new yorker - with a roughly 20 point lead in the state .
but placing second will be crucial if cruz hopes to keep momentum in a crowded republican field that includes marco rubio , jeb bush and john kasich .
it could also foretell his appeal in the populous northeastern states in later contests .
“ we don ’ t expect to win here , ” cruz spokesman rick tyler told reuters in new hampshire .
“ we expect to do well here. ” at a town hall event in windham , new hampshire , this week , cruz - wearing jeans with a silver-plated belt and an open-collared shirt - pitched himself to voters as the candidate who could unite disparate groups of conservatives in the mold of former republican president ronald reagan .
“ what we ’ re seeing that is so encouraging - it ’ s what we saw last night in iowa , but it ’ s what we ’ re seeing in new hampshire and all across the country - is we ’ re seeing that old reagan coalition coming back together , ” cruz said .
as in iowa , cruz in his new hampshire appearances invoked bible verses , emphasized religious freedom and closed by asking the crowd to pray that god would “ awaken the body of christ to pull us back from the abyss. ” cruz ’ s scripture-infused style was well-aimed at iowa ’ s evangelicals but could be less suited for one of the least religious states in the country .
some people who have knocked on doors for cruz in new hampshire said they had heard complaints about cruz ’ s propensity for quoting the bible , and they instead tried to emphasize his tax plan or defense of their rights to own guns .
robert diack , 53 , a cruz supporter from pelham , new hampshire , said he appreciated cruz ’ s willingness to share his faith but thought other , more liberal voters could be turned off .
“ it will be interesting to see how he fares here , ” he said .
conservative culture-clash has been a problem for other republican campaigns too .
recent republican iowa winners , including former senator rick santorum in 2012 and former arkansas governor mike huckabee in 2008 , had weak showings in their new hampshire contests .
but cruz ’ s campaign co-chair in new hampshire , william o ’ brien , said the campaign had made a clear decision not to adjust his approach for new hampshire .
“ in this race , the best way to connect with voters is to be genuine .
that ’ s why he ’ s not tailoring his message here , ” he said .
“ we ’ ve talked a lot about this since we ’ ve been together. ” this strategy could play into cruz ’ s efforts to brand himself an “ authentic ” conservative in contrast to trump whom cruz paints as a political chameleon with “ new york values. ” trump leads the republican field nationally with 38.4 percent in a recent reuters/ipsos poll .
trump ’ s second-place finish in iowa came as a surprise , as did the strong third-place result by u.s .
senator rubio of florida .
cruz has also invested in a robust ground game in new hampshire .
his campaign rented a 40-bed dorm in chester to house some of its 2,000 volunteers , and door-knockers and callers use apps to target potentially receptive voters .
“ he has a real organization with real money behind it , ” said charlie arlinghaus , president of new hampshire free-market think tank josiah bartlett center for public policy .
cruz had $ 19 million on hand at the end of 2015 .
but he has also been criticized for making fewer than 20 visits to new hampshire , less than many rivals .
cruz ’ s spokesman said the senator is keeping some focus on later primary states , including those where a southern conservative message may resonate more strongly .
( additional reporting and editing by richard valdmanis in machester , new hampshire ; editing by cynthia osterman ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .