author ed klein told pete hegseth on fox and friends weekend that barack obama is setting up a shadow government in washington dc to undermine president trump after inauguration day .
does obama have plans to work with the underbelly of the democrat party to disrupt trump s term as president ? but could the left really attempt a violent revolution to overthrow the u.s. government and overturn the american way of life ? not only could they , but they will try , according to douglas v. gibbs , who has appeared as a commentator on fox news and is a radio talk-show host in los angeles.and it won t be a liberal revolution .
it will be a communist revolution.that s the prediction gibbs made in an article published friday in the canada free press titled , democrats prepare for violent revolution .
examining the evidence , he concludes a revolution attempt is not necessarily imminent , but that it will happen , once various pieces fall into place.gibbs declared , they are in full preparation for social and economic collapse , or a violent revolution .
he cites the website disruptj20 and its call for a bold mobilization against the inauguration of donald trump on january 20 , 2017 .
gibbs quotes michael moore explaining , it is their goal to block , obstruct , disrupt , and do whatever they can to prevent the onslaught that is going to happen with donald trump .
.it is gibbs contention that , the liberal leftists want desperately to sabotage the trump administration , and possibly overthrow the entire government .
for their socialist big government agenda , the ends justifies the means .
why now ? because , he explained , [ u ] nder obama , the veil was raised .
why worry about exposure now ?
they ve been poking the right-of-center groups in the chest for years , trying to instigate a violent response , and they never got it .
now , he continued , they may be realizing , it is up to them to initiate the violence .
it is up to the leftists to finally launch the true coup .
or , at least that is what a lot of people think .
evidence that could support his theory is not hard to come by , as the left is becoming increasingly violent.during the 2016 presidential campaign , leftist riots broke out in cities across the country , the worst perhaps in san jose , california , and in chicago.wnd reported assassination threats against trump accompanied the nationwide rioting.often-violent anti-trump protests broke out in cities including los angeles , new york , philadelphia , denver , minneapolis , baltimore , seattle , tampa , dallas and oakland , california.in chicago , a video showed a mob of young black men beating and dragging through the streets a white man who voted for trump.portland , oregon police termed a protest a riot after anarchists threw objects at officers , vandalized local businesses and damaged cars.some 1,000 protesters in oakland broke store windows , left graffiti on buildings and threw m-80 firecrackers , molotov cocktails and bottles at police officers , authorities told cnn.and that s only the beginning , if gibbs is right.he suggests the left will inevitably move on to more violence following the election of trump , because the realization that the democrats are losing grip on their transformational agenda in the rest of the country has slammed the leftists square in the face .
gibbs asserts the leftists hate any opposition , and are willing to do whatever it takes to either win over their opposition , or silence and eliminate their opposition .
the next step by the left , according to gibbs , is the stockpiling of arms .
now , it s the liberals who are suddenly worried , and stockpiling food , guns , and emergency supplies , he observed .
trump s 2016 win was a wake-up call .
their cheating , lying and violence was not enough to stop the man , and his very unorthodox approach to politics .
gibbs sees the left s hysteria as now having gone beyond insanity , marking a transition to violent anger.he believes the hysteria arose because the left they thought they had finally defeated the right permanently with the election of obama , and that the election of hillary clinton would seal the deal .
they only needed , now , to disarm the crazy right-wing bastards , wrote gibbs .
then , with a faint whimper , the last of the opposition to the liberal left agenda would be gone .
it seemed to them a near-certainty , but when it all came crashing down on nov. 8 , it was a disorienting shock to the system .
nobody on the left side of the aisle expected that trump had a snowball s chance in hell to win the 2016 election .
all of their skewed poll numbers said hillary was going to win .
gibbs portrayed the left as in a state similar to post-traumatic stress disorder.for entire story : wnd