one more republican doing his part to aid obama in his fundamental transformation of america sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) cast the deciding vote for obamatrade on tuesday as it squeeked through the u.s. senate 60-37 , and his senate office is still outright refusing to answer whether he even knew what he was voting on.rubio , a republican presidential candidate , was the deciding vote necessary for the u.s. senate to clear the final 60-vote threshold and eventually , later this week , send to president barack obama s desk the trade promotion authority ( tpa ) bill that would fast-track at least three highly secretive trade deals that obama has been negotiating for years.tpa will , now that it s going to pass , effectively ensure the congressional approval of the trans pacific partnership ( tpp ) , trade in services agreement ( tisa ) and transatlantic trade and investment partnership ( t-tip ) .
the text of the tisa and t-tip agreements is currently entirely secretive , even to lawmakers on capitol hill and their staffs , though wikileaks did uncover several tisa documents that leaked and prove the deal would surrender congressional power over u.s. immigration policy to the executive branch and perhaps to a newly created transnational entity.the tpp text for the pacific rim trade deal that sen. jeff sessions ( r-al ) 80 % notes would give the sultan of brunei who has implemented sharia law in his nation and banned christmas , literally an equal vote to that of the united states , on the other hand , is available for members of congress to read .
the only catch is they have to go to a secret room inside the capitol basement for classified readings to read it in person , they can t take notes , and only their staffers with enough high enough security clearances can go with them to read it and their staff can t go without them.before the senate voted on tpa to fast track these deals the first time back in may , breitbart news asked every senate republican if they read the text of the tpp before voting to fast-track it .
only a handful said they did.sens .
sen. rand paul ( r-ky ) 93 % , sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) 93 % , sen. jeff sessions ( r-al ) 80 % , sen. james lankford ( r-ok ) 60 % and sen. mike lee ( r-ut ) 100 % went to go read it .
rubio , on the other hand , was one of many who has consistently and repeatedly refused to answer whether he read the deal text .
his office refuse to answer yet again on tuesday whether he went to go read it before the first time he voted for tpa or before the second time he did on tuesday s cloture vote and that means he s again choosing to give the public impression he did not read the text of the deal before he voted to fast track it through congress.this could have significant implications for rubio on the campaign trail as he seeks the republican nomination for the presidency as activists in early states are furious with his decision to support obamatrade when it s clear he doesn t know what he s talking about.new hampshire conservative and merrimack councilman bill boyd , who s endorsed paul for president , told breitbart news while on a recent reporting trip to new hampshire that he s upset that rubio didn t read the deal before he voted to fast-track it .
he s been the biggest advocate against obamacare and the aca , and for all the time rep. nancy pelosi ( d-ca ) 9 % kept on saying we have to pass this bill to find out what s in it , boyd said.you re telling me sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) 80 % voted for a bill without reading it ?
are you kidding ?
you know what , we elect people to go down there to represent us .
at a bare minimum you have staff .
staff should be providing some kind of an executive summary .
if it s a thousand pages , you should be cutting it up and giving it to staff and get 10 or 20 page synopses .
if your staff can t bring a particular issue on in a two page memo than they have no idea what they re talking about .
for sen. rubio to admit that , that s kind of surprising .
that s kind of surprising not to read a document and make an opinion without even looking at it .
you need to be able to formulate an opinion .
if somebody gives you the cliff notes version of a bill , that s at least better than not reading it at all .
so that s kind of surprising .
for entire story by matthew boyle : breitbart news