san francisco ( reuters ) - uber technologies inc and a woman who accused top executives of improperly obtaining her medical records after a company driver raped her in india have agreed to settle a civil lawsuit the woman filed against uber in june , according to a u.s. federal court filing on friday .
the uber driver was convicted of the rape , which occurred in delhi in 2014 , in a criminal case in india .
he was sentenced in 2015 to life in prison .
the indian woman had previously settled a civil u.s. lawsuit against uber in 2015 , but sued the company again in a san francisco federal court saying that shortly after the incident , a u.s. uber executive met with delhi police and intentionally obtained plaintiff s confidential medical records .
uber kept a copy of those records , the lawsuit said .
the woman was living in the united states when she filed the lawsuit .
terms of the settlement were not disclosed in the court document .
a spokesman for san francisco-based uber declined to comment .
an attorney for the woman could not immediately be reached for comment .
the settlement comes as new ceo dara khosrowshahi , who took the top job in august , is seeking to put several scandals behind the company following eight years of ceo travis kalanick s pugnacious leadership , which led to rule-breaking around the world .
the lawsuit cited several media reports that said kalanick and others doubted the victim s account of her ordeal .
uber executives duplicitously and publicly decried the rape , expressing sympathy for plaintiff , and shock and regret at the violent attack , while privately speculating , as outlandish as it is , that she had colluded with a rival company to harm uber s business , the lawsuit said .
a source with knowledge of the matter previously told reuters that kalanick had told other uber executives he believed the incident had been staged by indian ride-services rival ola .
in a prior statement , while kalanick was ceo , uber said : no one should have to go through a horrific experience like this , and we re truly sorry that she s had to relive it .
a spokesman for kalanick was not immediately available for comment on friday .
uber s actions have led to a criminal probe by the u.s. department of justice of whether managers violated u.s. bribery laws , specifically the foreign corrupt practices act , the company said in june .
the justice department did not say on what country or countries the investigation centered on .
bloomberg said it focused on activity in at least five asian countries .
uber has also notified u.s. authorities about payments made by uber staff to police officers in indonesia , a person familiar with the matter told reuters .
uber previously hired law firm o melveny & myers llp to investigate how it obtained the medical records of the rape victim , reuters reported in june .