manila ( reuters ) - the head of the philippines anti-narcotics agency on friday warned of a reduced intensity in the country s war on drugs after a removal of police from the campaign , which he hoped would only be temporary as his unit lacked manpower .
philippine drug enforcement agency ( pdea ) chief aaron aquino said he had only a fraction of the personnel and budget of police , and hoped president rodrigo duterte s decision to make his agency responsible for all operations would not be lasting .
i know the public has high expectations but i am asking the public for understanding because of our limitations , he said in a radio interview .
i hope this is just a temporary arrangement , we need the police .
amid unprecedented scrutiny of police conduct , the mercurial duterte issued a memorandum on tuesday ordering police to withdraw .
the authorities said the shift in strategy was to go after big drug syndicates .
national police chief ronald dela rosa on friday said police could now focus efforts on catching mysterious gunmen who were assassinating drug users , to disprove allegations by human rights groups that police were behind such killings .
police say they have killed 3,900 people in their anti-drugs operations over the past 15 months and deny allegations by activists that many of those were executions .
police say they used deadly force in each of those cases , because suspects were armed and had resisted arrest .
in a tirade on thursday loaded with profanity and aimed at his foreign and domestic critics , duterte said deaths during pdea s operations were far less than police , and hoped bleeding hearts would be satisfied with his decision .
pdea s aquino said the public might notice a slowdown in operations .
he planned to ask for a bigger budget , to add 1,000-1,500 agents a year until 2022 , adding it was unrealistic to expect the pdea to fight the problem with its small numbers .
pdea has about 2,000 personnel , 1,100 of which are agents , compared to more than 175,000 police nationwide .
amid anger over a high-profile kidnap and murder case involving police , duterte suspended police from the drugs war in january and put pdea in charge .
he reinstated police soon after , saying drugs had flooded back to the streets .
in an interview with cnn philippines , police chief dela rosa suggested duterte s shift in strategy might have been a response to opinion polls that showed some public unease about the crackdown .
a survey on sunday showed a significant slide in duterte s ratings , but another one by a different pollster , released on friday , showed he was still hugely popular .
dela rosa said police were winning the campaign , having cut the drugs supply , made 113,000 arrests and convinced what he said were 1.3 million people to surrender .
however , he said it was not a total victory .
he said police would concentrate on stopping the shadowy gunmen on motorcycles who were killing drug users , which police have often described as vigilante murders .
such killings are among the 2,600 murders since july last year that police believe may have been drug-related .
people think these are also policemen , so i want these people stopped and arrested , dela rosa said .
we are intensifying intelligence , maximizing police visibility to stop these criminals .
we have to shoot them before they can shoot their targets .