jakarta ( reuters ) - days after a long-running indonesian television comedy aired last month , its producers got a letter from the broadcast commission warning that a male character in the show was dressed and behaving like a woman and could violate broadcasting standards .
we evaluated the show ... we immediately reminded our staff to be careful because we are minimizing lgbt content on our network , said anita wulandari prasojo , head of marketing and public relations at trans7 , the private television station that aired the show opera van java last month .
she may have to do more than that in the future .
indonesia s parliament is considering national legislation that would ban lesbian , gay , bisexual , and transgender ( lgbt ) content from tv screens by the end of the year .
the draft bill , which reuters reviewed , would revise the broadcasting law to scrub content with lgbt behavior .
broadcasts and advertisements that show lesbian , homosexual , bisexual and transgender behavior would be banned .
it does not explicitly define lgbt behavior .
lawmakers told reuters the ban could include dramas with gay characters , traditional folk or comedic performances with cross-dressing or effeminate men , and broadcasts advocating lgbt rights .
it would be the latest measure targeting the lgbt community in a rising tide of hostility in the world s third-largest democracy .
indonesian police last week briefly detained 51 people , including eight foreigners , at a gay spa in jakarta , one of several raids targeting the lgbt community .
lgbt is not criminal , but if it enters the public sphere , if it s broadcast to the public , then of course it must be regulated , said bobby rizaldi , a member of parliament involved in drafting the law .
another mp , hanafi rais , said lgbt is an abnormality .
it is destructive for our younger generations .
if the content has no educational qualities , and is only for commercial or advertising purposes , then we must reject it , hanafi said .
if the content was aimed at fixing the abnormality , then it would be allowed , he added .
the united nations human rights office on friday condemned anti-gay crackdowns in indonesia , egypt , and azerbaijan .
arresting or detaining people based on their actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity is by definition arbitrary and violates international law , un human rights spokesperson rupert colville told a news briefing .
in may , police detained 141 men at another gay sauna , and reportedly strip-searched them before marching them almost naked from the venue into police vehicles .
photos were then shared on social media in what activists considered an abuse of power and violation of privacy .
police have used a controversial anti-pornography law that outlaws any physical display of sexual relations to justify the raids .
activists say the law is too sweeping and can be abused to target the lgbt minority .
homosexuality is not a crime in indonesia , which has the world s largest muslim population , except in the ultra-conservative aceh province which enforces islamic law .
programs like opera van java , are a regular fixture on indonesian tv .
drawing on indonesia s traditional performance arts and folk tales , they often depict transgender and transvestite characters .
the transgender community , known locally as waria - a contraction of the indonesian words for woman and man - is largely accepted in most parts of the country .
the entertainment industry fears the proposed broadcasting restrictions could end up further discriminating against the lgbt community .
this is a serious issue that can impact our industry because it will stifle creativity , said nanda persada , head of the indonesian association of managers for artists .
lgbt artists have had to adjust their behavior to avoid sanction .
they can t be as expressive , he said .
artists have been told in programming meetings at private tv stations not to be over the top and scripts have had to be rewritten , persada said .
prominent gay rights activist dede oetomo said the draft law was misinformed .
it did not take into account local cultures where transgender people are an accepted part of society in which traditional performances , based on ancient myths , can feature transgender characters .
it just shows the ruling elite has lost touch with our traditions , oetomo said .
it s already difficult to be lgbt here .
.. but in the long run , we will continue to protest and fight , he said .
the draft legislation , put forward by the commission on information , is pending approval from a plenary session of parliament later this year .