juchitan , mexico ( reuters ) - anguished mourners lined the streets of the southern mexican city devastated by the most powerful earthquake to strike the country in 85 years , coffins raised on their shoulders as they advanced slowly to a crowded cemetery on saturday .
more than half of the 65 known victims of thursday night s 8.1 magnitude quake died in juchitan , a picturesque , historic city near the coast where more than 5,000 homes were destroyed and many more left without running water or electricity .
in the eighth section neighborhood , a working-class area where nearly every home was damaged , a loud drum and horn band played traditional music before the funeral of one of the 37 dead so far recovered from the wreckage of the somber city .
the piercing blasts of the burly horn section at times were drowned out by the plaintive wailing of mourners for maximo zuniga , a little boy whose distraught relatives said was fond of his spiky black hair and bright red tennis shoes .
the three-year-old boy was asleep when the force of the quake brought his brick bedroom walls crumbling down on top of him , his mother and an older brother .
the boy died shortly after he was pulled from the rubble ; the other two survived .
i could barely see a little bit of his hair peeking out and his forehead , said neighbor alejandro sanchez , who was the first to come to the stricken family s aid .
there was a heavy wooden beam on top of all three of them and lots of dirt , he added , as the dead boy s uncle sobbed uncontrollably nearby .
the long , juddering tremor was felt some 500 miles ( 800 km ) away in mexico city and as far south as honduras , but unlike the 8.0 magnitude quake in 1985 that killed thousands in the capital , outlying areas of mexico were left relatively unscathed .
by contrast , much of the hot , muggy city of 100,000 near the pacific coast looked as though it had been turned upside down .
piles of rubble lay scattered across town , chunks of roofs littering the ground , and more than 300 locals were receiving care for injuries in area hospitals .
many residents refused to stay indoors for fear that badly damaged structures might yet come tumbling down .
neighbors of the zuniga family handed out red tulips and others set off fireworks .
then the assembled crowd of about 200 mourners set out for the local cemetery , four men carrying the boy s small white coffin draped in thin sheets of bright blue paper as the band led the procession .
snaking through narrow streets , the colorful flower-bearing train of people in t-shirts and caps had to step over piles of debris and masonry from collapsed walls as neighbors turned out to line the route , bowing their heads as the coffin passed .
in the midst of a frantic search for a missing police officer , president enrique pena nieto made a brief appearance on friday afternoon in juchitan s devastated downtown .
pledging help to rebuild and attempting to soothe raw nerves , pena nieto declared three days of national mourning .
but his words were cold comfort for alma alverez , maximo s 48-year-old grandmother , who crossed her arms as men shoveled dirt over the small coffin .
pena nieto was able to make it here in his helicopter super fast .
that s how help should be arriving , right ?
exactly how he got here .
but it hasn t , alvarez said , reflecting a belief that mexico s south has long been ignored by the richer north .
two other funerals of quake victims were underway in the same cemetery as fernando lopez , a cousin of maximo , stood near the back , his head bandaged from cuts suffered protecting his grandmother from falling tiles when the disaster struck .
this is what you re going to see the next few days , he said , pointing to the other funeral services taking place .
the whole town will be here in the cemetery or in the hospital .
we ll tidy up what we can clean , but we won t be celebrating anything on september 15th , said lopez , referring to the start of mexico s independence day festivities .
we don t have anything to celebrate .
juchitan s mayor , gloria sanchez , agreed .
a great sadness overwhelms us , she said .
the situation in juchitan is critical , unlike anything we ve ever seen before .