b b .. but al gore and barack obama say scientists were exposed for manipulating climate data during the 2011 climategate scandal when 5,000 emails were released from scientists proving that the science behind their studies is inconclusive and mostly a result of manipulating climate data to fit the political message they were trying to convey.three themes emerged from the emails that were released in the climategate scandal : ( 1 ) prominent scientists central to the global warming debate are taking measures to conceal rather than disseminate underlying data and discussions ; ( 2 ) these scientists view global warming as a political cause rather than a balanced scientific inquiry and ( 3 ) many of these scientists frankly admit to each other that much of the science is weak and dependent on deliberate manipulation of facts and data .
forbesa new report on global warming data has now proven president donald trump to be right to pull out of the paris agreement .
the report analyzed climate data such as global average surface temperature ( gast ) , the noaa , and hadley.shftplan reports : according to the report , which has been peer reviewed by administrators , scientists and researchers from the u.s. environmental protection agency ( epa ) , the massachusetts institute of technology ( m.i.t .
) , and several of america s leading universities , the data is completely bunk : in this research report , the most important surface data adjustment issues are identified and past changes in the previously reported historical data are quantified .
it was found that each new version of gast has nearly always exhibited a steeper warming linear trend over its entire history .
and , it was nearly always accomplished by systematically removing the previously existing cyclical temperature pattern .
this was true for all three entities providing gast data measurement , noaa , nasa and hadley cru.as a result , this research sought to validate the current estimates of gast using the best available relevant data .
this included the best documented and understood data sets from the u.s. and elsewhere as well as global data from satellites that provide far more extensive global coverage and are not contaminated by bad siting and urbanization impacts .
satellite data integrity also benefits from having cross checks with balloon data.the conclusive findings of this research are that the three gast data sets are not a valid representation of reality .
in fact , the magnitude of their historical data adjustments , that removed their cyclical temperature patterns , are totally inconsistent with published and credible u.s. and other temperature data .
thus , it is impossible to conclude from the three published gast data sets that recent years have been the warmest ever despite current claims of record setting warming.finally , since gast data set validity is a necessary condition for epa s ghg/co2 endangerment finding , it too is invalidated by these research findings .
( full abstract report ) fox news reported on president trump pulling out of the paris agreement per his campaign promise : he is leading .
president trump is withdrawing the united states from the paris climate accord.it is the right decision for a number of reasons.first , the paris accord is being treated by many as a treaty with treaty obligations , but president obama never submitted it to congress for passage.second , though president trump could have left it in place and done nothing , his successor could have easily revived it if left in place.third , the structure and implementation of the paris accord set a terrible precedent .
president obama worked for what amounts to a global agreement with voluntary measures , but those measures would impact the american economy .
but , despite that impact , president obama did not present the paris accord to congress for ratification or debate .
members of the liberal establishment were outraged.obama criticized president trump s decision to pull out of the paris climate agreement with the following statement : a year and a half ago , the world came together in paris around the first-ever global agreement to set the world on a low-carbon course and protect the world we leave to our children.it was steady , principled american leadership on the world stage that made that achievement possible .
it was bold american ambition that encouraged dozens of other nations to set their sights higher as well .
and what made that leadership and ambition possible was america s private innovation and public investment in growing industries like wind and solar industries that created some of the fastest new streams of good-paying jobs in recent years , and contributed to the longest streak of job creation in our history.simply put , the private sector already chose a low-carbon future .
and for the nations that committed themselves to that future , the paris agreement opened the floodgates for businesses , scientists , and engineers to unleash high-tech , low-carbon investment and innovation on an unprecedented scale.the nations that remain in the paris agreement will be the nations that reap the benefits in jobs and industries created .
i believe the united states of america should be at the front of the pack .
but even in the absence of american leadership ; even as this administration joins a small handful of nations that reject the future ; i m confident that our states , cities , and businesses will step up and do even more to lead the way , and help protect for future generations the one planet we ve got .
but of course , like all champagne socialists , their credo is do as i say , not as i do , with obama jacking up his carbon footprint when abroad .
who could forget obama s massive convoy during a recent speaking gig in milan ? the independent journal review reported : former president barack obama traveled to italy this week to make a speech on climate change at the seed & chips : the global food innovation summit in the city of milan.it seems like obama has taken a page out of leonardo dicaprio s book of do as i say , not as i do and took a private jet to milan .
not only that , he had a 14 car convoy to get into the city , which also included protection from above with a helicopter.it doesn t end there .
according to the daily mail , 300 police officers were used to protect the former president.the fleet of 14 included multiple suvs , police cars , and sedans not to mention a few motorcycles .
here s another look at the convoy : while in milan , obama also met with former italian prime minister matteo renzi , who was a close partner during their respective times in office .
gateway pundit