niamey/nairobi ( reuters ) - when doundou chefou first took up arms as a youth a decade ago , it was for the same reason as many other ethnic fulani herders along the niger-mali border : to protect his livestock .
he had nothing against the republic of niger , let alone the united states of america .
his quarrel was with rival tuareg cattle raiders .
yet on oct. 4 this year , he led dozens of militants allied to islamic state in a deadly assault against allied u.s.-niger forces , killing four soldiers from each nation and demonstrating how dangerous the west s mission in the sahel has become .
the incident sparked calls in washington for public hearings into the presence of u.s. troops .
a pentagon probe is due to be completed in january .
asked by reuters to talk about chefou , nigerien defence minister kalla mountari s face fell .
he is a terrorist , a bandit , someone who intends to harm to niger , he said at his office in the nigerien capital niamey earlier this month .
we are tracking him , we are seeking him out , and if he ever sets foot in niger again he will be neutralized .
like most gunmen in so-called islamic state in the greater sahara , which operates along the sand-swept borderlands where mali , niger and burkina faso meet , chefou used to be an ordinary fulani pastoralist with little interest in jihad , several government sources with knowledge of the matter said .
the transition of chefou and men like him from vigilantes protecting their cows to jihadists capable of carrying out complex attacks is a story western powers would do well to heed , as their pursuit of violent extremism in west africa becomes ever more enmeshed in long-standing ethnic and clan conflicts .
for now , analysts say the local is affiliate remains small , at fewer than 80 fighters .
but that was also the case at first with al qaeda-linked factions before they tapped into local grievances to expand their influence in mali in 2012 .
the united nations this week released a report showing how is in northern somalia has grown to around 200 fighters from just a few dozen last year .
the u.s. military has ramped up its presence in niger , and other neighboring countries , in recent years as it fears poverty , corruption and weak states mean the region is ripe for the spread of extremist groups .
for centuries the tuareg and fulani have lived as nomads herding animals and trading - tuareg mostly across the dunes and oases of the sahara and the fulani mostly in the sahel , a vast band of semi-arid scrubland that stretches from senegal to sudan beneath it .
some have managed to become relatively wealthy , accumulating vast herds .
but they have always stayed separate from the modern nation-states that have formed around them .
though they largely lived peacefully side-by-side , arguments occasionally flared , usually over scarce watering points .
a steady increase in the availability of automatic weapons over the years has made the rivalry ever more deadly .
a turning point was the western-backed ouster of libya s muammar gaddafi in 2011 .
with his demise , many tuareg from the region who had fought as mercenaries for gaddafi returned home , bringing with them the contents of libya s looted armories .
some of the returnees launched a rebellion in mali to try to create a breakaway tuareg state in the desert north , a movement that was soon hijacked by al qaeda-linked jihadists who had been operating in mali for years .
until then , islamists in mali had been recruiting and raising funds through kidnapping .
in 2012 , they swept across northern mali , seizing key towns and prompting a french intervention that pushed them back in 2013 .
amid the violence and chaos , some of the tuareg turned their guns on their rivals from other ethnic groups like the fulani , who then went to the islamists for arms and training .
in november 2013 , a young nigerien fulani had a row with a tuareg chief over money .
the old man thrashed him and chased him away , recalls boubacar diallo , head of an association for fulani livestock breeders along the mali border , who now lives in niamey .
the youth came back armed with an ak-47 , killed the chief and wounded his wife , then fled .
the victim happened to be the uncle of a powerful malian warlord .
over the next week , heavily armed tuareg slaughtered 46 fulani in revenge attacks along the mali-niger border .
the incident was bloodiest attack on record in the area , said diallo , who has documented dozens of attacks by tuareg raiders that have killed hundreds of people and led to thousands of cows and hundreds of camels being stolen .
that was a point when the fulani in that area realized they needed more weapons to defend themselves , said diallo , who has represented them in talks aimed at easing communal tensions .
the crimes were almost never investigated by police , admits a niamey-based law enforcement official with knowledge of them .
the tuareg were armed and were pillaging the fulani s cattle , niger interior minister mohamed bazoum told reuters .
the fulani felt obliged to arm themselves .
self-defense gandou zakaria , a researcher of mixed tuareg-fulani heritage in the faculty of law at niamey university , has spent years studying why youths turned to jihad .
religious belief was at the bottom of their list of concerns , he told reuters .
instead , local grievances were the main driving force .
whereas tuareg in mali and niger have dreamed of and sometimes fought for an independent state , fulani have generally been more pre-occupied by concerns over the security of their community and the herds they depend on .
for the fulani , it was a sense of injustice , of exclusion , of discrimination , and a need for self-defense , zakaria said .
one militant who proved particularly good at tapping into this dissatisfaction was adnan abu walid al-sahrawi , an arabic-speaking north african , several law enforcement sources said .
al-sahrawi recruited dozens of fulani into the movement for unity and jihad in west africa ( mujwa ) , which was loosely allied to al qaeda in the region and controlled gao and the area to the niger border in 2012 .
after french forces in 2013 scattered islamists from the malian towns they controlled , al-sahrawi was briefly allied with mokhtar belmokhtar , an al qaeda veteran .
today , al-sahrawi is the face of islamic state in the region .
there was something in his discourse that spoke to the youth , that appealed to their sense of injustice , a niger government official said of al-sahrawi .
two diplomatic sources said there are signs al-sahrawi has received financial backing from is central in iraq and syria .
how chefou ended up being one of a handful of al-sahrawi s lieutenants is unclear .
the government source said he was brought to him by a senior officer , also fulani , known as petit chapori .
like many fulani youth toughened by life on the sahel , chefou was often in and out of jail for possession of weapons or involvement in localized violence that ended in deals struck between communities , the government official said .
yet diallo , who met chefou several times , said he was very calm , very gentle .
i was surprised when he became a militia leader .
u.s. and nigerien sources differ on the nature of the fatal mission of oct 4 .
nigeriens say it was to go after chefou ; u.s. officials say it was reconnaissance mission .
one vehicle lost by the u.s. forces was supplied by the cia and kitted with surveillance equipment , u.s. media reported .
a surveillance drone monitored the battle with a live feed .
the fulani men , mounted on motorbikes , were armed with the assault rifles they first acquired to look after their cows .