madrid/barcelona ( reuters ) - spain moved closer on monday to imposing central rule over catalonia to thwart its independence push as madrid s high court signaled a hardening line by jailing the leaders of two of the largest separatist organizations .
in the first imprisonment of senior secessionist figures since catalonia s oct. 1 independence referendum , the court ordered the heads of the catalan national assembly ( anc ) and omnium held without bail pending an investigation for alleged sedition .
prosecutors say that the anc s jordi sanchez and omnium s jordi cuixart played central roles in orchestrating pro-independence protests that last month trapped national police inside a barcelona building and destroyed their vehicles .
around 200 people flocked to the catalan government s headquarters in barcelona in a peaceful show of support for both men , with some chanting freedom and waving democracy banners .
the anc , which has organized protests of hundreds of thousands of secessionists in the past , called for further peaceful demonstrations around catalonia on tuesday .
catalan regional president carles puigdemont commented on twitter : spain jails catalonia s civil society leaders for organizing peaceful demonstrations .
sadly , we have political prisoners again an allusion to spain s military dictatorship under francisco franco .
the high court also banned the catalan police chief , josep lluis trapero , from leaving spain and seized his passport while he is being investigated over the same incident , though it did not order his arrest .
last tuesday , puigdemont stepped back from asking the catalan parliament to vote on independence , instead making a symbolic declaration and calling for negotiations on the region s future .
in a confrontation viewed with mounting alarm in european capitals and financial markets , puigdemont failed on monday to respond to madrid s ultimatum to clarify whether he had declared unilateral independence in a speech last week .
he now has until thursday to back down .
in a letter to spanish prime minister mariano rajoy , puigdemont gave no direct answer on the independence issue , instead making a sincere and honest offer for dialogue over the next two months .
in reply , rajoy said puigdemont s stance had brought madrid closer to triggering article 155 of the constitution , under which it can impose direct rule on any of the country s 17 autonomous communities if they break the law .
the catalan government s campaign to break away from spain has pitched the country into its worst political crisis since an abortive coup attempt in 1981 .
on monday the economy ministry told the eu that it had slashed its economic growth forecasts for next year partly due to the situation .
the catalan government says 90 percent of voters in the referendum backed a breakaway , but turnout was only 43 percent as most opponents of independence in the region boycotted the vote , already declared illegal by spain s constitutional court .
thousands have demonstrated in barcelona and other spanish cities both for and against independence .
so far the crisis has been largely violence-free , except for the day of the referendum when national police assaulted voters with batons and rubber bullets .
the high court ruled that trapero , the catalan police chief , would have his passport withdrawn but rejected a request from the state prosecutor for him to be held in custody .
trapero is a hero to the secessionists after his force took a much softer stance than national police in enforcing the ban on the referendum .
prosecutors say he failed to give orders to rescue national police trapped inside the barcelona building .
puigdemont last tuesday delayed by several weeks a formal declaration of independence from spain to allow for talks .
madrid has ruled out talks unless puigdemont gives up the independence demand .
it had given him until 10 a.m. ( 0800 gmt ) on monday to clarify his position with a yes or no , and until thursday to change his mind if he insisted on a split .
following his failure to do so , a regional broadcaster said he also planned to ignore a final deadline on thursday .
suggesting that puigdemont and his team were in no mood to follow rajoy s game plan , catalan interior minister joaquim forn said article 155 would not allow madrid to remove members of the catalan government .
the article s terms on direct rule , which has never been applied , are vague .
it says madrid can adopt any measure to force a region to meet its constitutional obligations , with the approval of spain s lower house .
the wording suggests this could include anything from taking control of regional police and finances to installing a new governing team or calling a snap election .
underlining the deepening crisis , some of the largest companies in prosperous catalonia , which accounts for a fifth of the spanish economy , have already shifted head offices elsewhere and others are likely to follow if puigdemont declares outright independence .
investors say a political split could undermine the economic rebound in spain , the euro zone s fourth-largest economy .