beirut ( reuters ) - jihadists launched an offensive against government-held parts of northwestern syria near hama on tuesday in their biggest attack there since march , triggering heavy air strikes on rebel territory , the syrian observatory for human rights said .
it said air strikes hit three hospitals , a medical center and premises used by a rescue service in rebel-held idlib .
a syrian military source denied the report , saying only insurgent convoys and positions had been hit .
the insurgent attack north of hama revived hostilities in the northwestern region near the turkish border that has been relatively calm in recent months as russian-led diplomacy seeks to shore up ceasefires in western syria .
islamist militants who hold sway in idlib reject the diplomacy , including a tripartite deal struck last week by moscow , tehran and ankara to deploy an observer force on the edge of an idlib de-escalation zone .
a syrian army source cited by state media said the attack launched on several fronts was being repelled , and the insurgents had suffered losses .
the clashes are continuing and the air force and artillery are targeting the headquarters and movements of the terrorist convoys in the area , said the source .
an insurgent source told reuters that rebels were making advances in the northern hama countryside , in an area where president bashar al-assad and his allies have been steadily rolling back rebel gains over the last two years .
the observatory said insurgents taking part in the assault included tahrir al-sham , the jihadist turkistan islamic party , and rebels fighting under the banner of the free syrian army .
they had captured four villages , it said .
the ex-nusra front , which cut ties with al qaeda and rebranded last year , spearheads the tahrir al-sham alliance of islamist groups .
a media outlet run by the damascus-allied lebanese group hezbollah said syrian army air strikes were targeting insurgents in the northern hama and southern idlib area .
insurgents advanced to within a few km ( miles ) of government-held hama city earlier this year , before the syrian army and its allies retook the territory in april .
ceasefire deals in western syria - for years the main theater of the war - have helped the syrian army and its allies advance against islamic state in the east , where government forces are battling is in deir al-zor .
a u.s.-backed militia force , the syrian democratic forces , is waging a separate offensive against islamic state in deir al-zor province , focusing on areas on the eastern bank of the euphrates river .
the rival forces have generally stayed out of each other s way , with the river often acting as a dividing line .
syrian government forces and their allies have however crossed into the sdf s area of operations on the eastern bank of in recent days .
the hezbollah-run media unit said on tuesday that government forces and their allies captured a village and parts of the nearby town of khasham on the eastern bank .
russian defence ministry spokesman igor konashenkov said syrian soldiers , with russian air power , continued to expand the captured area in recent days .
despite the persistent resistance of isis ( islamic state ) fighters , syrian troops managed to free more than 60 square kilometers of terrorists on the left bank of the euphrates , he said .