diversity first fordham university recently approved the removal of common restroom signage indicating use for either the male or female sex at one building on the lincoln center campus , embracing part of a student-led campaign to make the university more gender inclusive .
according to the fordham observer , the changes to signs in the leon lowenstein building were pushed by the positive , a student activist group .
the restroom signage initiative started during the 2015 spring semester when the positive reportedly entered into dialogue with fordham s administration and student government.the positive s student leader , who identifies as a transgender male ( a woman living as a man ) , told the observer , having a restroom i could use without fear was definitely something i wanted .
but the student readily noted that this was never about bathrooms this was always about more than that .
the observer reported that new signs were installed in single stall restrooms in the leon lowenstein building s third floor .
the new signs are void of gender icons , include braille , the latest new york state handicap symbol and simply say restroom .
the positive s goal is not to convert multi-stall bathrooms to gender neutral , but to establish already single stall restrooms as gender inclusive spaces , the observer reported in april .
our strategy for attaining them right now , in the short-run , includes changing the signage of all single stall bathrooms on campus to be gender inclusive and to work to publicize those spaces .
the positive told the observer , later adding , this is a proactive and conscientious effort to be gender inclusive .
the cardinal newman society reached out to fordham university to inquire whether the restroom initiative could pose a conflict with fordham s catholic identity , but no response was received by time of publication.the catechism of the catholic church states the following about the sexes : man and woman have been created , which is to say , willed by god : on the one hand , in perfect equality as human persons ; on the other , in their respective beings as man and woman .
being man or being woman is a reality which is good and willed by god in their being-man and being-woman , they reflect the creator s wisdom and goodness.the observer noted that fordham s assistant dean and director of the office of multicultural affairs , juan carlos matos , researched what fordham s peer jesuit institutions offer in terms of all gender restrooms .
they found that the university of san francisco uses all gender bathroom labeling on single stalled restrooms and georgetown university has all gender signage on single-stalled bathrooms accompanied by both male and female gender icons and a handicap sign .
of the nation s 28 jesuit colleges , only six offer gender-neutral bathrooms on their campuses .
five more are rumored to be considering making the change , the observer reported .
the six jesuit colleges with gender-neutral bathrooms are reportedly boston college , fairfield university , fordham university , georgetown university , santa clara university , the university of san francisco and the university of scranton.the university of san francisco lists gender-neutral bathrooms under the gender identity/expression policy of its residential life website .
moreover , the university recently implemented gender-inclusive housing for the 2015-16 school year .
it is intended that the gender-inclusive housing option will support s.h.a.r.e .
s [ student housing and residential education ] mission to create safe , affirming , and inclusive communities by providing options for students of varying identities and preferences , the university housing website reads .
students may apply for the gender-inclusive housing for a variety of reasons , including if they identify as transgender , do not wish to be identified by any sex or gender identity , [ or ] prefer to live with a roommate of a different gender .
the five jesuit colleges reportedly considering gender-neutral bathrooms are creighton university , gonzaga university , loyola university new orleans , marquette university , and st. joseph s university .
the newman society has also reported on mounting pressure for gender-neutral bathrooms at loyola university chicago.an online pdf of a proposal from creighton university s gay-straight alliance and swanson residence hall council claims that incorporating gender-neutral restrooms on campus maintains the jesuit value of cura personalis and helps to maintain a safe environment for the support , education , and assistance of all students .
via : eag news