berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel scolded a minister on tuesday in a bid to shield talks on forming a coalition government from a dispute between cabinet colleagues over an eu license for a weedkiller .
conservative agriculture minister christian schmidt angered the center-left spd on monday by breaking protocol to back a european union proposal to extend the use of glyphosate in the bloc for another five years , a measure opposed by the spd .
the matter is sensitive because only last week the spd reversed its decision to go into opposition after suffering its worst result in 70 years in a september election .
they are expected to launch talks next year with merkel s conservatives on forming a coalition government .
the spd are junior partners in merkel s caretaker government , which includes her christian democrats ( cdu ) and their bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) of which agriculture minister schmidt is a member .
as for the vote of the agriculture ministry yesterday on glyphosate , this did not comply with the instructions worked out by the federal government , merkel said .
i expect that such an incident will not be repeated .
it is usual practice that germany abstains in eu votes if ministers from different parties disagree on a policy .
schmidt s decision has strained relations between the two camps before they even launch exploratory talks on renewing their alliance .
( the chancellor ) must do something to heal the loss of trust .
you can t govern like that .
it simply doesn t work , spd environment minister barbara hendricks told deutschlandfunk radio before merkel made her comments .
merkel said even though her stance on glyphosate use was closer to schmidt s than to hendricks he should not have voted in favor against the wish of his colleague and in breach of government instructions .
hendricks did not say whether the spd wants merkel to fire schmidt , but the ecologist greens said she should do just that .
merkel turned to the spd after failing to form a coalition with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens , which created an impasse unseen in the post-world war two era .
schmidt defended his decision to vote in favor of the five-year extension in brussels on monday , saying the european commission would have probably decided on a longer extension if the vote had been indecisive .
i took the decision on my own , schmidt told german public television .
it falls under my responsibility .
hendricks said she had called schmidt two hours before the tight vote in brussels , which germany tipped in favor of an extension by defeating its key ally france .
she expressed her opposition to the continued use of the weedkiller , which some of the eu s 28 member states fear causes cancer .
christian schmidt took the chestnut out of the fire for the commission in breach of our consultations , hendricks said .
french president emmanuel macron had wanted a shorter extension and a rapid phasing out of glyphosate , which is a mainstay of farming across the continent .
after the vote , he said he would take all necessary measures to ban the product , originally developed by monsanto , as soon as an alternative is available and at the latest within three years .
germany s bayer plans to take over monsanto for $ 63.5 billion .