bern ( reuters ) - european and african ministers agreed on monday to try to improve conditions for migrants in libya and seek paths such as scholarships for africans to reach europe legally , to cut the death toll from smuggling across the sahara and mediterranean .
the deadly trek across the desert from sub-saharan africa through libya and over sea to italy is now the main route used by refugees and other vulnerable migrants heading to europe , after turkey closed the other main route via greece that brought in nearly a million people in 2015 .
almost 115,000 migrants have landed on italian shores so far this year .
almost 2,750 are known to have died while trying to cross the mediterranean , the u.n. international organization for migration said on friday , and the death toll in the sahara desert is thought to be at least twice as high .
european and african officials say the numbers reaching europe have finally been falling over the past few months due to better efforts to fight smuggling .
but that has also left tens of thousands of migrants trapped in libya , often detained in conditions rights groups say are dangerous and inhumane .
interior ministers belonging to the central mediterranean contact group met in switzerland to discuss the crisis .
while they talked about law enforcement measures to combat smuggling , their final statement focused more on efforts to alleviate the journey s harm .
ministers from algeria , austria , chad , france , germany , italy , libya , malta , niger , slovenia , switzerland , tunisia and mali were among those backing the statement .
we had a very intensive exchange , because the questions we are dealing with are very demanding issues , swiss justice minister simonetta sommaruga said after the meeting .
this is why we concentrated on protecting refugees .
we had many people with different viewpoints sitting around the table , but nonetheless , on this point we all agreed .... we want to improve the situation of migrants and refugees , particularly in libya .
sommaruga said an improvement in the situation on the central mediterranean route would be possible only if countries joined together to help stabilize libya .
the ministers said they would work closely with libyan authorities to ensure detained migrants and refugees were held with respect for human rights and humanitarian standards , and promised to secure priority release from detention for vulnerable people such as children and victims of torture .
they also pledged to create economic alternatives to smuggling , including pilot projects for pathways for africans to reach europe legally , such as scholarships and apprenticeships .
we risk this time to be seen as a dark chapter in european history .
if we wish to change that situation , we must get together with those states which themselves are very severely affected by migration , sommaruga said .