a shocking verdict and race baiting was on the menu tonight in the liberal bastion of san francisco tonight the prosecutor in the kate steinle case won and then came out to make a statement where he attacked president trump and waisted no time politicizing the verdict as it relates to gun control .
he claimed that the president was fomenting hate huh ?
this is where we are in america right now : an illegal alien with 7 prior felony convictions murders a legal american citizen and goes free americans last ?
illegals first ? listen to this jackwagon lawyer politicizing this case : matt gonzalez : the physical evidence has always supported the finding that this was an accidental occurrence , and i think the jury came to that conclusion .
# thestory pic.twitter.com/qdy4qnx4zz fox news ( @ foxnews ) december 1 , 2017hard to hear but matt gonzalez politicizes the case : there are a number of people who have commented on this case in the past few years : the attorney general of the united states , the president and the vice president of the united states , let me just remind them that they are themselves under investigation by a special prosecutor in washington d.c. , and they may themselves soon avail themselves of the presumption of innocence and beyond a reasonable doubt standard , gonzalez says .
i would ask them to reflect on that before they comment or disparage the result in this case .
defense attorney matt gonzalez speaking to critics of the jury verdict , specifically @ realdonaldtrump , who faces mueller 's investigation pic.twitter.com/gdoc2cchok abc7 news ( @ abc7newsbayarea ) december 1 , 2017how is what candidate trump said in 2015 about the steinle case fomenting hate ?
: this senseless and totally preventable act of violence committed by an illegal immigrant is yet another example of why we must secure our border immediately , trump said in july 2015 .
this is an absolutely disgraceful situation and i am the only one that can fix it .
nobody else has the guts to even talk about it .
that won t happen if i become president .
heartbreaking testimony from kate steinle s dad : kate steinle s father testifies and says his daughters last words were help me , dad .
long live # katesteinle pic.twitter.com/r7uyk2amuy based monitored ( @ basedmonitored ) december 1 , 2017abc news reports : in a surprising verdict , the jury of six men and six women deliberated and came back with a not guilty verdict for jose ines garcia zarate .
the defendant was facing second degree murder charges for killing 32-year-old pleasanton resident kate steinle on july 1 , 2015 at pier 14 in san francisco.while garcia zarate can technically walk out of the courtroom , it s expected that he will be taken into custody by immigration officials and eventually deported back to his native mexico.the case gained notoriety because garcia zarate is an undocumented immigrant who had been deported several times and had a number of felony convictions .
steinle s death became part of the immigration debate in this country .
during his campaign , president trump criticized san francisco for its sanctuary city status .