we already know that donald trump hates exercising .
in italy , trump rode in a golf cart , rather than walk 700 yards like the rest of the world leaders at the g-7 meeting .
i guess it would make sense then that trump s insists on burning as few calories as possible at his frequent golf outings , but what he did at his own bedminster club in new jersey has even his rich white male base fuming .
he drove his cart onto the green .
i m not a golfer , and even i know this is never done.president trump driving his golf cart all over the green is the most trump thing ever ( via mikenfrank/twitter ) pic.twitter.com/uwuicciont sports illustrated ( @ sinow ) june 22 , 2017people weren t having it : bad etiquette .
it s disrespectful to every paying member of that club .
it doesn t matter if he owns the course .
jerry sardella ( @ specv63 ) june 22 , 2017beyond bad ettiquette , played with my 72 yr old mother last wk & she almost died when a guy drove up near the fringe , like 10 ft frm green john from frederick ( @ bittnerjohn ) june 22 , 2017for as much time he spends on the course , he should know there are rules in the game of golf and driving on the green is a big no no .
nick walker ( @ nicksplosion ) june 22 , 2017all the ones defending him driving on the green are assholes who would drive a cart on a green .
putting through tire tracks is no fun .
daniel ( @ ahhdeeh ) june 22 , 2017as a golfer , i am appalled loyaloppositionkaren ( @ ybbkaren ) june 22 , 2017what an ass hat !
in a 30-second video & he broke 2 rules of golf .
btw- this is a club .
the members own the course , not just him lisa cutter ( @ cutphd ) june 22 , 2017trump strongly held the straight white middle america vote until he drove the golf cart on the green jack wickham ( @ jawickham ) june 22 , 2017of course , this is hardly the worst thing trump has done , even today , but this may be the first time trump s entitled jerk and bully attitude even hit home with his base at least the part of his base that plays golf.featured image via ian macnicol/getty images