san juan ( reuters ) - many people living near a crumbling dam in storm-battered puerto rico have evacuated , governor ricardo rossello said on monday , as he asked for more government aid to avert a humanitarian crisis after hurricane maria .
much of the caribbean island , a u.s. territory with a population of 3.4 million , is still without electricity five days after maria struck with ferocious winds and torrential rains , the most powerful hurricane to hit puerto rico in nearly a century .
there have been growing concerns for some 70,000 people who live in the river valley below the guajataca dam in the island s northwest , where cracks were seen on friday in the 88-year-old earthen structure .
rossello said he was working on the assumption that the 120-foot ( 35-meter ) dam would collapse .
i d rather be wrong on that front than doing nothing and having that fail and costing people lives , he said in an interview with cnn .
most of the people in the near vicinity have evacuated .
it was unclear if the governor was saying that most of the 70,000 valley inhabitants had left the area , or only the several hundred people living in the small towns closest to the dam .
about 320 people from those towns have moved to safety , according to local media .
the fear of a potentially catastrophic dam break added to the immense task facing disaster relief authorities after maria , which was the second major hurricane to strike the caribbean this month .
the storm killed at least 29 people in the region , at least 10 of those in puerto rico , which was already battling an economic crisis .
rossello said that before the storms struck , he had been embarking on an aggressive fiscal agenda that included more than $ 1.5 billion in cuts .
this is a game changer , he told cnn .
this is a completely different set of circumstances .
this needs to be taken into consideration otherwise there will be a humanitarian crisis .
brock long , administrator of the federal emergency management agency ( fema ) , and tom bossert , senior adviser to the department of homeland security , met with rossello on monday .
white house spokeswoman sarah sanders told reporters in washington that the administration was engaged in a fact-finding process to figure out how much help puerto rico needs .
the federal response has been anything but slow , sanders said at the daily briefing .
in fact , there s been an unprecedented push through of billions of dollars in federal assistance that the administration has fought for .
many structures on puerto rico , including hospitals , remain badly damaged and flooded , with clean drinking water hard to find in some areas .
few planes have been able to land or take off from damaged airports .
the storm has also put a big strain on prepa , the island s electricity utility , which declared bankruptcy in july after accumulating a $ 9 billion debt and years of underinvestment .
from preliminary fema reports , it is estimated that 55 percent of transmission towers may be down , and that more than 90 percent of the distribution system could have been destroyed .
more than 91 percent of puerto rico s cellphone sites are also out of service , the federal communications commission said .
there are more than 10,000 federal staff , including more than 700 people from fema , doing recovery work in puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands , according to fema .
the national weather service warned of further flash floods in the west of the island on monday as thunderstorms moved in .
maria would likely be downgraded from a hurricane to a tropical storm on tuesday night , the national hurricane center said .
as of 2 p.m. edt ( 1800 gmt ) on monday , the center said , it was about 300 miles ( 480 km ) south-southeast of cape hatteras , north carolina , heading slowly north .
the storm was unlikely to hit the continental united states directly , but the nhc said large swells were affecting the u.s. east coast .
a tropical storm warning was in effect for much of the north carolina coast and officials issued a mandatory evacuation order for visitors to ocracoke island in the outer banks that went into effect at 5 a.m. edt ( 0900 gmt ) on monday .