madrid ( reuters ) - catalonia s parliament voted on wednesday to hold an independence referendum on oct. 1 , setting up a clash with the spanish government that has vowed to stop what it says would be an illegal vote .
after 12 hours of often chaotic debate in the barcelona parliament , a majority voted for the referendum and the legal framework to set up a new state , under which the assembly would declare independence within 48 hours of a yes vote .
lawmakers who opposed independence abandoned the chamber before the vote , with some leaving catalan flags in their empty seats .
the winners , led by regional head carles puigdemont , sang the catalan national anthem once the votes were counted .
committed to freedom and democracy !
we push on !
catalonia s deputy governor , oriol junqueras , tweeted after the vote .
polls in the northeastern region show support for self-rule waning as spain s economy improves .
but the majority of catalans do want the opportunity to vote on whether to split from spain .
the government has asked the spanish constitutional court to declare the referendum law void as soon as it is approved by the regional parliament .
the spanish constitution states that the country is indivisible .
what is happening in the catalan parliament is embarrassing , it s shameful , deputy prime minister soraya saenz de santamaria told reporters .
the details of the referendum , which would pose the question do you want catalonia to be an independent republic ?
to all spanish citizens living in catalonia , were revealed amid a tense atmosphere in the 135-seat regional parliament .
you will not split up spain , but you are breaking up catalonia , alejandro fernandez of the ruling people s party ( pp ) told pro-independence lawmakers .
you re putting social harmony at risk .
the vote comes about three weeks after barcelona and a nearby town were struck by islamist attacks that killed 16 people and caused the catalan and spanish governments to present a brief united front .
divisions reappeared as both sides squabbled over whether either could have prevented the attacks , and rallies against terrorism became politicized .
crowds in barcelona booed spain s king felipe when he visited for one march .
there will be no minimum turnout requirement to make the result of the referendum binding , puigdemont said in a recent briefing .
ballot boxes , voting papers and an electoral census are at the ready , he said .
spanish prime minister mariano rajoy told a news conference on monday the government would come down with all the force of the law to ensure no referendum would go ahead .
courts have already suspended from office and leveled millions of euros in fines at catalan politicians who organized a non-binding referendum in 2014 , which returned a yes vote on a low turnout .