beijing ( reuters ) - china said on thursday a dual suspension proposal to handle north korea was still the best option , after u.s. president donald trump said he and chinese president xi jinping had rejected a freeze for freeze agreement .
north korea s rapid progress in developing nuclear weapons and missiles has fueled a surge in regional tensions as united nations-led sanctions appear to have failed to bite deeply enough to change its behavior .
china and russia have proposed that the united states and south korea stop major military exercises in exchange for north korea halting its weapons programs .
beijing formally calls the idea the dual suspension proposal .
speaking upon his return from asia on wednesday , trump said he and xi had agreed that they would not accept a freeze for freeze idea , which china s foreign minister announced in march .
asked how china understood trump s remarks and whether he agreed with the characterization of what trump said he agreed to with xi , chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said only through talks that addressed all sides legitimate security concerns could there be a peaceful resolution .
we believe that the dual suspension proposal is the most feasible , fair and sensible plan in the present situation , geng told a daily news briefing .
not only can it relieve the present tense situation , it can also resolve all parties most pressing security concerns , and provide an opportunity and create conditions to resume talks , and find a breakthrough point to get out of trouble , he added .
the dual suspension is just a first step and not the end point , geng added .
we hope that all sides can conscientiously treat and proactively consider china s proposal , and at the same time we welcome relevant parties to put forward proposals that can benefit the promotion of a peaceful resolution for the peninsula nuclear issue .
asked at a regular briefing if trump stood by his remarks as to what he had agreed with xi , white house spokeswoman sarah sanders on thursday replied : both sides made their positions clear .
they are different , but we agreed that there are going to be different positions and therefore it s not going to move forward .
north korea has said it needs to develop its weapons to protect itself from what it sees as u.s. military aggression .
it also sees u.s.-south korean military exercises as joint preparations for invasion .
south korea and the united states , which has about 28,000 troops based in south korea , say their exercises are defensive in nature .