washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential front-runner donald trump said on wednesday that women who end pregnancies should face punishment if the united states bans abortion , triggering a torrent of criticism from both sides of the abortion debate , including from his white house rivals .
after msnbc broadcast a clip of an interview with trump , the billionaire businessman rowed back his remarks , first saying that the abortion issue should be handled by states and later that doctors who performed abortions should be the ones held responsible .
“ the doctor or any other person performing this illegal act upon a woman would be held legally responsible , not the woman , ” trump said in his last statement .
“ the woman is a victim in this case as is the life in her womb. ” trump ’ s earlier statements drew heavy fire from abortion rights supporters and opponents alike .
abortion has long been a divisive issue in american politics , even though the procedure was legalized in a supreme court ruling more than 40 years ago .
opposition to abortion has become a central plank in the platform of most conservative politicians .
trump has won support from republican voters for selling himself as a washington outsider .
but the new york real estate tycoon , who once supported abortion access , has come under pressure from conservatives to prove he is truly one of them .
at the same time , he has drawn criticism for comments that offended women and minority groups .
“ of course , women shouldn ’ t be punished , ” rival republican candidate john kasich said on wednesday , saying he opposed abortion except in specific cases such as rape .
u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , the third candidate for the republican nomination for the nov. 8 election , said trump had not thought through the issue .
“ what ’ s far too often neglected is that being pro-life is not simply about the unborn child , it ’ s also about the mother , ” he said in a statement .
abortion rights supporters were equally incensed .
“ what donald trump said was outrageous and dangerous .
i ’ m constantly taken aback at the kinds of things that he advocates for , ” democratic front-runner hillary clinton told msnbc .
“ once again , he has showed us who he is. ” dawn laguens of the planned parenthood action fund , the political arm of the women ’ s health group , called trump “ flat-out dangerous ” in a statement .
abortion was legalized in the united states in 1973 , when the supreme court declared that a woman ’ s constitutional right to privacy protected her decision to end a pregnancy .
in the decades since , there have not been enough votes on the supreme court to reverse the ruling , but numerous states have passed laws aimed at restricting abortion .
in the msnbc interview , which is to air in full later on wednesday , trump said if the united states banned abortion , some women would seek to end pregnancies illegally .
“ there has to be some form of punishment , ” he said .
asked what form he would advocate , trump said : “ that i don ’ t know. ” anti-abortion groups said trump ’ s comments were at odds with their own stance .
“ in all the positions the u.s. conference of catholic bishops has taken around the issue of abortion , they have not called for punishment of women who ’ ve had abortions , ” said don clemmer , a spokesman for the group .
after the backlash started , trump ’ s campaign sought to moderate his view .
“ this issue is unclear and should be put back into the states for determination , ” trump said in a statement provided to reuters by email .
later , trump walked back his comments further to say doctors , not women , should be responsible .
the dust-up was evidence of further discord among republicans over trump ’ s candidacy .
on tuesday , both trump and kasich , the ohio governor , abandoned pledges to support the party ’ s eventual nominee .
cruz did not explicitly abandon the pledge but said trump would not be the nominee .
trump had already outraged many women after he said fox news ’ megyn kelly had “ blood coming out of her eyes , blood coming out of her wherever ” when she asked tough questions in a televised debate , which many saw as a reference to menstruation .
according to a reuters/ipsos poll in march , 66 percent of all likely women voters said they had an “ unfavorable ” view of trump .
but among the 460 republican women who responded to the poll , 62 percent had a “ favorable ” view of him , while 38 percent did not .
in other remarks that have set off furious reactions , trump has called illegal immigrants from mexico criminals and rapists and has pushed for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states .
in wednesday ’ s msnbc interview , trump said he would not rule out the possibility of using nuclear weapons to combat islamic state militants .
“ i would never take any of my cards off the table , ” he said .