new york ( reuters ) - the koch brothers , the most powerful conservative mega donors in the united states , will not use their $ 400 million political arsenal to try to block republican front-runner donald trump ’ s path to the presidential nomination , a spokesman told reuters on wednesday .
the decision by the billionaire industrialists is another setback to republican establishment efforts to derail the new york real estate mogul ’ s bid for the white house , and follows speculation the kochs would soon launch a “ trump intervention. ” “ we have no plans to get involved in the primary , ” said james davis , spokesman for freedom partners , the koch brothers ’ political umbrella group .
he would not elaborate on what the brothers ’ strategy would be for the nov. 8 election to succeed democratic president barack obama .
three sources close to the kochs said the brothers made the decision because they were concerned that spending millions of dollars attacking trump would be money wasted , since they had not yet seen any attack on trump stick .
the koch brothers are also smarting from the millions of dollars they pumped into the failed 2012 republican presidential bids of newt gingrich and mitt romney , the sources said .
donors and media reports have speculated since january , when the kochs gathered 500 of america ’ s wealthiest political donors at a california resort , that they would deploy their vast political network to target trump .
the kochs oppose his protectionist trade rhetoric and hardline views on immigration - which include building a wall along the u.s. border with mexico and deporting millions of illegal immigrants .
many republican figures and business backers are eager to see trump , a political outsider who has tapped into rising anti-establishment sentiment , fail in his bid for the nomination .
they prefer instead a more traditional candidate like u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida .
but with trump racking up a series of wins in the early nominating contests against opponents including rubio and u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , there is a growing sense of inevitability that he will win the party ’ s mantle .
( editing by richard valdmanis , chris reese and peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .