berlin ( reuters ) - a housing crisis is spreading in germany , the federal homelessness association said on tuesday , forecasting that 1.2 million people could be living in shelters by 2018 .
the report came amid heightened concern about germany s rising poverty rate and ability to integrate 1.1 million migrants that have arrived over the past two years , drawn by the country s reputation for affluence , efficiency and stability .
the homelessness association said that more than 850,000 people lacked their own accommodation in 2016 , up 150 percent from 2014 , and half of those affected were migrants .
a total of 52,000 people were living on the streets in 2016 , up a third from 2014 , the group said in its report .
it added that the number of those living in shelters would likely rise by another 40 percent by 2018 , driven higher by rising rents , decreasing availability of subsidized housing , and the growing numbers of refugees granted asylum status and therefore entitled to housing .
the homelessness association said immigration was a factor behind the rising rate of housing shortage , but also blamed what it called failed housing policies .
the main cause of housing shortages and homelessness is a housing policy that has failed in germany for decades , as well as insufficient efforts to fight poverty , thomas specht , director of the association , said in a statement .
almost 20 percent of germany s population , or 16 million people , were at risk of poverty in 2016 , the federal statistics office reported last week .
germany s labour and social affairs ministry defended its handling of refugee housing needs , noting that finding individual housing around the country remained a challenge .
it should not be forgotten that the swift accommodation of hundreds of thousands of refugees in adequate collective housing in 2015 and 2016 was an extraordinary achievement , the ministry spokesman said on tuesday .
would-be partners in a new german government coalition remain at odds over a limit on migration .