when you re a republican and get a ringing endorsement from radical pro-amnesty carnival barker , luis guti rrez you should probably re-think your party affiliation friday on msnbc , rep. luis guti rrez ( d-il ) said rep. paul ryan ( r-wi ) doesn t want to be house speaker because he would have to work with the extreme republicans who want to take away the rights of gays , woman and minorities.guti rrez said , look , they cannibalize their own .
first cantor , then mccarthy , before that boehner .
that s why paul ryan doesn t want to be the speaker of the house .
he doesn t want to be the speaker of the house because he understands that there are 35 , 40 republican members of the house that didn t come here to govern .
they came here to destroy government .
they came here to take the government down .
they don t want to coalesce and work with the other side of the aisle .
they want to take the country backwards .
he continued , yesterday i was at a hearing , the judiciary committee .
what do they want to do now they have a new committee and a new investigation into planned parenthood .
why ?
because they want to turn the clock back on women .
they want women to go back to the 50s and that mad men series that we watch on cable tv where women didn t have rights .
that s what they want to do , and that s why he doesn t want to take on the speakership .
they want to turn the clock back , and they have chaos .
look , if they can t do something as fundamental as pick a new leader , as fundamental as pick a new leader , and every time they pick a leader , they cannibalize that leader .
how are they going to lead this nation ?
complementing ryan he continued , let me just say this .
smartest person , i believe , in the gop conference and would be good for the country , would be good for the republican party , would be good for the house of representatives because paul ryan is the kind of individual that will work with other people on the other side of the aisle , and i think that that s what need .
he added , he would work with democrats in order to solve the problems of america and that s exactly what the 35 , 40 members , these extreme members , very vocal , organized , extreme members of the republican caucus don t want .
they don t want an american solution .
they think , you know what , gay people should go back in the closet , women should be at home in the kitchen , and those latinos and asians , why don t we just make them invisible again or deport them altogether ?
that s their philosophy of government .
they want to go back before there was a voting rights and a civil rights act in america .
when i was born in america in 1953 , it was separate but equal .
but let me assure you , it was separate but not real equal for people like me .
that s the america they want to take us back to .
and guess what ?
the vast majority of the american people are going to push back strong against that attempt to take us backwards .
via : breitbart news