algiers ( reuters ) - algerians are facing the eventual departure of their long-serving president , the ailing abdelaziz bouteflika , in the knowledge that all is being done to ensure little changes when he goes .
the 80-year-old leader , who has ruled the north african country for nearly two decades , was incapacitated by a stroke in 2013 but may decide to run again in the next presidential election due in may 2019 .
should he bow out , though , many algerians believe the person elected to replace him will be secondary .
just as now , observers say , a powerful ruling caste dominated by the army will run the show from behind the scenes .
that may be good news for an aged and thinning party elite from the front de liberation national ( fln ) , allied business tycoons and generals - collectively known as le pouvoir or the powers that be - that has long managed algeria s politics .
it is a source of frustration , however , for young algerians who have known no other leader .
they worry less about who is in charge and more about jobs at a time of high unemployment , low oil prices and economic austerity .
for samir abdelaoui , who studies at a private english language school , leaving the country may offer the way out .
i don t care about politics , all i need is a decent job , if not here , then overseas .
i want a visa , not a president , said abdelaoui , who is learning english to increase his chances of getting a work visa abroad .
speculation is rife abroad over what will happen to algeria after the departure of bouteflika , who has visited europe several times for treatment and remained in hospital in france for months after his stroke .
but inside algeria , an apparent oasis of stability in a chaotic region , the regime s allies regard the problem as settled .
after bouteflika the military command will organize the succession .
the political class is weak here , said anis rahmani , chairman of ennahar tv , an insider close to the authorities .
one liberal algerian analyst also expected continuity .
the institutions in algiers are stronger than the men .
the men go but the institutions stay , the analyst said , requesting anonymity .
the institutions are functioning well , whether bouteflika is sick , in algiers or abroad .
as long as his health allows him to he will continue beyond 2018 .
hopes for the election of a reformist , modernizing president who will bring in a competitive democracy and open society , have all but faded away .
the priority , according to observers of algeria s system , is the stability that its citizens see as incarnated in bouteflika .
the former french colony , which freed itself in a brutal independence struggle that ended in 1962 , is haunted by memories of a 1990s civil war that erupted after the state canceled elections when an islamist party appeared set to win .
that conflict killed 200,000 people , leaving many algerians wary later of the unrest that toppled the leaders of tunisia , egypt and libya in the arab spring revolts of 2011 .
algeria is a country in a very bad neighborhood and because we are in a bad neighborhood the army should remain involved .
i don t think the army would want to seize power after bouteflika but they will be part of the political process , said another algerian political analyst who also requested anonymity .
young algerians , who form two thirds of the population of 41 million , nevertheless feel left out and disconnected with a remote political class .
by contrast , french president emmanuel macron walked through the streets of algiers on a visit last week and talked directly with excited young people - something they have not experienced with their own leader for a long time .
one of the analysts described the ruling class as totally obsolete in a country of youths .
we dream of a young class that has vitality , but the political class is not ready to give them one inch , said the analyst bouteflika , in power since 1999 , is rarely seen and has not spoken in public since his stroke .
yet if he or his circle decides he will run for a fifth term , sources close to le pouvoir say , he would be without doubt elected .
the ruling fln and the pro-government national rally for democracy dominate parliament while the opposition including leftists and islamists is weak and divided .
if bouteflika doesn t run , the tight circle of army generals and intelligence officials could produce a joker candidate from outside the political class .
for now , though , the possible alternatives are all members of the old elite such as prime minister ahmed ouyahia or former premier abelmalek sellal .
any succession scenario involving said bouteflika , the president s younger brother and a close aide , would be controversial as the military men don t favor hereditary rule , observers say .
foreign diplomats say they expect the generals to arrange a smooth transition .
instead they worry more about how the country , which relies on oil and gas exports , will manage the state-controlled economy in an era of low energy prices .
the government spends about $ 30 billion a year to subsidize everything from basic foodstuffs and fuel to healthcare , housing and education .
this system has helped to keep the social peace , but the government has failed to develop industries beyond the energy sector and is fiscally strapped .
algeria has done little to encourage foreign investment despite the desperate need for jobs , and even less to ease visa restrictions or build hotels to attract tourists to its beaches , mountains and desert wilderness , all a short flight from europe .
so far the uncontested success has been security .
even western diplomats move freely without the convoys that accompany them in many other arab capitals .
still , remnants of al qaeda remain active and have declared allegiance to islamic state .
a twin car bombing killed 67 in algiers in 2007 and at least 38 hostages died when jihadis seized a gas plant in 2013 .
the security services have also uncovered and infiltrated sleeper cells while algeria has closed all its border crossings with libya , mali , niger , morocco and mauritania , turning them into military zones to prevent jihadis scattered across the sahel region from connecting with each other .
the next president should be a strongman who will guarantee security because we are in a state of war against terrorism , said rahmani .
there is an external threat .
the borders are all on fire .
the next president should have a military background , power and authority to decide .