tokyo ( reuters ) - the leader of the small constitutional democratic party of japan , which out-performed expectations in an october vote , now hopes that by offering clear policy alternatives he can oust prime minister shinzo abe s coalition in the next election .
one key to achieving that ambitious goal , said party founder yukio edano , is an economic platform that puts more weight on redistributing wealth , including by raising corporate taxes to push firms to use their cash reserves to raise wages .
unless we have reasonable redistribution to achieve growth , domestic demand will not expand , edano , 53 , told reuters in an interview .
that is a clear difference from the ldp , he said , referring to the ruling liberal democratic party .
the cdpj was formed less than three weeks before the oct. 22 election , after the then-main opposition democratic party s leader decided not to field candidates and encouraged them to run on tokyo governor yuriko koike s novice conservative party s slate .
it grabbed the top opposition spot in the lower house poll , although its 54 seats are dwarfed by the 283 won by abe s conservative ldp .
since we are the biggest opposition party , we must aim at a change in government in the next election , or else democracy is not functioning , said edano , who said he was surprised by his party s success .
that is our responsibility .
the next general election must be held by october 2021 .
the cdpj opposes abe s proposal to revise article 9 of japan s post-war constitution , which bans a standing military but has been interpreted to allow armed forces exclusively for self defence , and unlike the more authoritarian ldp , stresses civil rights rather than obligations to the state .
the party appears to have a long way to go , given support at 7.9 percent against 38.1 percent for the ldp in a survey by nhk public broadcaster this week .
edano s fighting words , however , mark a contrast from the failed democratic party s stance in recent polls , when it aimed only to keep abe s coalition from winning a two-thirds super majority rather than ousting it .
edano said he would not repeat the mistakes of the democrats , which from the start was an amalgam of conservatives , liberals and ex-socialists and ended up being plagued by infighting during its 2009-2012 term in office .
our positions were clear , he said , explaining why he thought the cdpj outperformed opposition rivals .
we must not make our ideas and policies vague just to broaden ( the party ) .
edano said abe s biggest defect was his apparent belief that a majority entitled him to do whatever he wanted .
abe , whose support was at 49 percent in the nhk poll , saw his ratings sink this year partly due to perceptions he had grown arrogant .
democracy doesn t mean you get a blank cheque , edano said .
( this version of the story fixes typo in pm s name in first paragraph )