so once again , here we are .
a new president must deal with the old war .
president donald trump must decide on whether to send thousands of additional american troops overseas into the longest-running us combat theatre on the planet , afghanistan.back in march of 2016 , 21wire s shawn helton penned a insightful piece entitled , hawkish dove : the enigma of donald trump in volatile race to the white house .
in this article , helton describes how then gop presidential frontrunner donald trump was putting forward a populist , alomist paulist image among a bevy of warhawk and neocon rivals.back then , helton described the media and political pressure placed on trump : recently , trump was pressed again on matters concerning the middle east and his response has been surprisingly diplomatic with a non-interventionist platform .
trump s open condemnation of the bush administration for the iraq war and the obama white house for the destruction of libya , has resonated across the board for voters on both sides of the political spectrum .
trump has asserted that 2003 s invasion in iraq and the blitzkrieg in libya via nato members in 2011 , is further evidence of failed us foreign policy throughout the world.doubling down , the gop frontrunner trump , has also refused to pick a side between israel and palestine and in true form to his business pedigree , stating that he would rather attempt to broker a peace deal in the ages old conflict , rather than tow the party line .
onlookers wondered how this stance would play if trump ever made into office .
back then it was immpossible to know , but now after 6 months in office , we have something to work with .
we saw how fast trump reacted to the alleged chemical weapons attack at khan sheikhoun in idlib , syria on april 4 , 2017 .
his errant , knee-jerk cruise missile strike days later might go down in history as one of the biggest fumbles in us history ( if that s even possible to measure ) .is trump continuing down obama s proven path of juggling multiple conflicts while engaging in illegal proxy wars ? vanity fair explains a possible fait accompli : on the campaign trail , donald trump pitched americans on an immiscible foreign-policy agenda , combining elements of staunch isolationism and a rejection of bush-era interventionism with promises to bomb the shit out of isis .
but in his four months as president , trump , characteristically , has done something of a 180-degree turn .
he turned over much of his military policy and decision-making to the same embarrassing generals he previously claimed to know more than ; he authorized a missile strike and boots on the ground in syria , a country he had repeatedly warned against getting involved with ; and he increased troop levels in iraq , doubling down on a tactic he had called a horrible mistake .
now , the trump administration is considering sending more troops into the war in afghanistan , which he previously called a complete waste .
on tuesday , the president gave defense secretary james mattis the authority to determine the number of troops in afghanistan , the new york times reports , a rejection of the management levels adopted by the obama administration.then there s the issue of rogue dinosaur john mccain , who refuses to retire and seems happy as ever to take down various and sundry nation-states , in order to quench his own desire for chaos and conflict : this dynamic has left some lawmakers frustrated .
during a meeting last week in which mattis conceded to the senate armed services committee that the u.s. is not winning in afghanistan right now , john mccain derided the delay of a broader strategy .
we are now six months into this administration ; we still haven t got a strategy for afghanistan , the arizona senator said .
it makes it hard for us to support you when we don t have a strategy .
we know what the strategy was for the last eight years don t lose .
that hasn t worked .
mattis responded , we are putting it together now , and there are actions being taken to make certain that we don t pay a price for the delay , he said .
we recognize the need for urgency , and your criticism is fair , sir .
it may be too early to tell , but getting the white house to decouple from pentagon group-think may prove to be too hard a task for a president who is desperate for poll rating and a win , any win.time will tell .
* * * read more syria news at : 21st century wire syria filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv