charleston , s.c./sumter , s.c. ( reuters ) - the republican race for the party ’ s 2016 presidential nomination erupted into a four-candidate crossfire on wednesday over who has the proper experience and is the most conservative , days before south carolina voters put their stamp on the campaign .
in tv interviews and campaign events , front-runner donald trump threatened to sue senator ted cruz of texas over a negative tv ad , while senator marco rubio of florida accused cruz of lying about his record , and former florida governor jeb bush questioned rubio ’ s experience to serve as president .
amid the squabbling , south carolina governor nikki haley endorsed rubio as the republicans ’ best hope for winning the white house , a boost to rubio and a blow to bush , who had lobbied hard for her to pick him .
the endorsement gave rubio , 44 , a valuable ally to try to sway voters ahead of saturday ’ s south carolina republican primary , the third contest after iowa and new hampshire to pick a party nominee for the nov. 8 election to succeed democratic president barack obama .
bush had a tough day , learning of haley ’ s endorsement right before a town hall meeting in summerville , south carolina , where four members of the audience second-guessed his campaign strategy and offered tips on how to have a greater impact in the state .
much of the debate took place over the television airwaves , as trump , 69 , a billionaire businessman and former reality tv star , lobbed charges at his rivals at an msnbc town hall , and rubio and cruz battled in back-to-back appearances at a cnn town hall in greenville , south carolina .
trump fumed about a tv ad put out by the cruz campaign that brought up trump ’ s past position in support of a woman ’ s right to an abortion .
trump says he has evolved into a conservative and is now against abortion .
“ you look at a guy like ted cruz , he ’ s a nasty guy , ” trump said .
“ he doesn ’ t have one republican endorsement from the senate and he works with the senate .
think of it .
hard to believe. ” cruz dared trump to sue him over the campaign ad , which featured a 1999 video clip of trump saying he was “ very pro-choice ” on abortion .
cruz said trump sent his campaign a “ cease and desist letter ” demanding it drop the ad .
at the cnn town hall , he said he laughed out loud when he got the letter threatening what he called a “ frivolous lawsuit. ” “ in any defamation case , truth is a complete defense , ” cruz said .
questioners at the town hall pressed cruz , 45 , on charges leveled against him by trump that he may not be eligible to be president because he was born in canada , and that none of his u.s. senate colleagues liked him .
cruz said he met the constitutional requirement that a president must be a “ natural born citizen ” because his mother was an american .
as for his senate colleagues , cruz said some may not like him because he serves the interests of his constituents , not fellow senators .
the latest national reuters/ipsos poll showed trump taking a more than 20-point lead over cruz in the republican race .
trump had 40 percent support in the poll conducted from saturday to wednesday , compared with 17 percent for cruz , 11 percent for rubio , 10 percent for retired neurosurgeon ben carson , and 8 percent for bush .
the results contrasted with those of an nbc news/wall street journal national poll that put cruz ahead of trump among republicans by 28 percent to 26 percent .
rubio , hoping to overtake cruz for second place in south carolina , where trump leads in the polls , accused cruz of spreading falsehoods with an ad attacking rubio over his position on immigration .
rubio backed a 2013 senate immigration reform effort that collapsed .
cruz says rubio would have supported “ amnesty ” for illegal immigrants , which his rival denies .
“ if you say something that isn ’ t true and you say it over and over and you know it ’ s not true , it must be a lie , ” rubio said .
bush , running fourth in south carolina and behind rubio , questioned rubio ’ s level of experience after rubio said bush did not have foreign policy experience .
rubio counts his time on the senate foreign relations committee as valuable experience .
“ it ’ s hard for me to be lectured to by a gifted young guy who thinks going to committee hearings means you know something about the world , ” bush said in summerville .
at the event , bush , 63 , the son and brother of former presidents , sounded a note of frustration at frequent criticism of his campaign by tv pundits .
“ the pundits have made it all – it ’ s all decided .
we don ’ t have to go vote , i guess .
it ’ s all finished .
i should stop campaigning , maybe , huh ?
it ’ s all done , ” he said .
“ no , ” shouted people in the crowd .
( additional reporting by chris kahn in new york ; editing by peter cooney ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .