detroit and flint , michigan are getting yet another boondoggle that if you read between the lines is a giveaway of federal dollars that s happened over and over with next to no results .
this is how detroit does things .
they go to the feds with their hand out and get money over and over .
remember quid pro quo : detroit council member joann watson : obama should bail out detroit in quid pro quo for votes : the problem is that many times the money doesn t get to the right people .
here are just a few examples : report : detroit s human services dept .
wrongfully spent $ 210,000 grant on really stupid furniturethe blight removal has been controversial because of the inflated cost : despite detroit s controversial # blightscandal , liberals demand billions more in taxpayer aidthe detroit public schools just had a scandal where a school principal was scamming millions out of the budget : detroit public schools principals , officials face bribery chargesif you think the millions just given to these two cities will go to what it s meant for , i ve got some swampland in florida to sell you .
the taxpayers need to know about this and call out the elected officials who re doing this either to line their pockets or to win votes .
do we really need millions upon millions for mortgage assistance ?
this is wrong and needs to stop .
michigan originally received $ 498 million from the hardest hit fund when the program was announced in 2010 in response to the housing crisis that led to unprecedented home price declines and high unemployment .
the $ 74.5 million brings michigan s total to $ 572.5 million in federal funding for blight removal and mortgage assistance.the government awarded an additional $ 74.5 million in hardest hit funds to michigan to help stabilize the housing market in the state .
detroit will get $ 41.9 million for for demolition purposes.flint will get $ 13.9 million for demolition purposes , and the remaining $ 18.6 million will go to help homeowners struggling under the weight of expensive or underwater mortgages .
these funds have been critical in helping people stay in their homes and avoid foreclosure while helping detroit , flint and other cities across our state eliminate blight and revitalize neighborhoods , gov .
rick snyder said in a statement monday.detroit mayor mike duggan said the announcement of the state s share of the $ 2 billion in additional hardest hit funds a $ 7.6-billion program which was set to expire at the end of 2017 will help the city continue tearing down blighted structures .
the program has already devoted $ 130 million to detroit for blight removal .
this is more great news for the city of detroit s blight removal efforts .
thanks to this new round of funding , we will be able continue our efforts to take down vacant buildings at a rate faster than anywhere in the country , duggan said in a statement .
in just the past two years , we ve demolished more than 8,000 dangerous structures .
the city also has applied for another expansion of its federal hardest hit fund zones and if this expansion is approved , more than 90 percent of detroiters will live in neighborhoods that are eligible for demolition using these funds , duggan added.in february , the federal government announced an additional $ 2 billion investment in the hardest hit fund program .
funding is being allocated among participating states in two phases of $ 1 billion each .
today s funding is from the first of those two phases.michigan originally received $ 498 million from the hardest hit fund when the program was announced in 2010 in response to the housing crisis that led to unprecedented home price declines and high unemployment .
the $ 74.5 million brings michigan s total to $ 572.5 million in federal funding for blight removal and mortgage assistance.the new mortgage assistance dollars will aid homeowners who may be struggling with a hardship .
the step forward michigan online application portal , which closed on dec. 31 , 2015 , is expected to reopen next month with the infusion of $ 18.6 million.via : dfp