washington ( reuters ) - most republicans believe russia is attempting to influence the u.s. presidential election , according to a reuters/ipsos poll , despite comments by the party ’ s nominee , donald trump , downplaying the possibility .
some 55 percent of u.s. adults , including 51 percent of republicans and 65 percent of democrats , said they thought russia was trying to tip the scales in the nov. 8 presidential election , according to the survey .
most american adults - 62 percent of democrats and 48 percent of republicans - think putin is supporting trump for the white house , the poll found .
some 71 percent of those who suspect russia of meddling believe moscow is doing so through the recent hacks of democratic emails , according to the oct. 18-24 survey .
but 57 percent of those who suspect russian interference also believe trump has “ no involvement in russia ’ s release of unflattering information ” on his democratic rival , hillary clinton .
the u.s. government has accused russia of a campaign of cyber attacks targeting the democratic party that has led to the release of thousands of illegally obtained emails , revealing the sometimes unflattering inner workings of the party , clinton ’ s campaign , and her family ’ s charitable foundation .
clinton has said she believes the kremlin is trying to help trump , calling her rival a “ puppet ” of the russian leader .
trump has declined to implicate the country in any wrongdoing .
“ i don ’ t think anybody knows it was russia that broke into the ( democratic national committee ) , ” trump said during the first presidential debate last month .
he suggested the culprit could be anyone from russia , to china or even “ a 400-pound person lying in bed. ” russia has denied it sponsors or encourages hacking activity .
russian president vladimir putin accused u.s. politicians on thursday of whipping up “ hysteria ” about a nonexistent threat in order to distract voters .
putin , who has described trump as “ very talented , ” said on thursday the new york businessman “ behaves extravagantly ” to “ get through to voters ’ hearts. ” trump has said he is not close with putin , but has also said he believes the russian president is a stronger leader than u.s. president barack obama .
already chilly relations between the united states and russia have deteriorated over disagreements over the conflicts in ukraine and syria .
u.s. officials say u.s. agencies have concluded that two russian intelligence agencies - the military ’ s gru and the civilian foreign intelligence agency , the fsb - are behind u.s. political hacking , particularly that directed against democratic party organizations and individuals .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english , and included 2,008 american adults .
it had a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .