how can it possibly be legal for these terrorists to lock arms and block innocent shoppers from entering these stores ?
the miracle mile , located in the city of chicago draws tens of thousands of shoppers every year at christmas time .
imagine the faces of families of every ethnicity when they find out the city of chicago is allowing these terrorists to prevent them from entering these stores ?
roughly 3,000 demonstrators have shut down a large portion of michigan avenue in chicago the magnificent mile in the middle of black friday , the busiest shopping day of the year , to protest the shooting of black teenager laquon mcdonald.the 17-year-old was killed in october 2014 , and was apparently armed with a knife at the time .
video of the shooting released on tuesday , however , shows that he was walking away from police at the time he was shot 16 times by officer jason van dyke.turnout was strong despite 39-degree weather and rainy conditions .
demonstrators shouted 16 shots !
and no justice , no shopping !
the march started at michigan and wacker drive and began walking north .
they include demonstrators from the nation of islam , which is marching under the banner of justice of else ; revcom , the revolutionary communist party , and the rev .
jesse jackson s rainbow push coalition.100 percent fed up : here , the terror groups can be seen ( without any visible resistance from the police ) chanting about shutting down the apple store , located on the miracle mile : apple store on michigan just locked its doors .
# laquanmcdonald # blackfriday @ touchvisiontv pic.twitter.com/y97wahtqvt lauren mialki ( @ laurenmialki ) november 27 , 2015shutting down tiffany 's over # laquanmcdonald `` no diamonds today '' pic.twitter.com/yghqdlkaul kathryn pensack ( @ katpen6 ) november 27 , 2015the # laquanmcdonald protest is on the move , heading north on michigan avenue https : //t.co/2e4mcauyv0 whitney dawn carlson ( @ whitneydawn ) november 27 , 2015and of course , what would a # blacklivesmatter protest be without pro-communism supporters ? old , white communists lead anti-cop protests in chicago over mcdonald death : https : //t.co/gvpfluqm6m # laquanmcdonald pic.twitter.com/29pkqhcq0a the daily caller ( @ dailycaller ) november 27 , 2015yesterday , we shared a story about blm terrorists attempting to rip down the iconic christmas tree on miracle mile .
click here for the full story.the latter group is marching slowly , while the other groups have pushed ahead , effectively taking up five city blocks along michigan ave. , with hundreds of chicago police department officers lining the streets.various groups begin marching down michigan ave in protest of mayor @ rahmemanuel s handling of # laquanmcdonald vid.various groups begin marching down michigan ave in protest of mayor @ rahmemanuel 's handling of # laquanmcdonald vid .
pic.twitter.com/ff0xbymoz0 the chicago reporter ( @ chicagoreporter ) november 27 , 2015 the chicago reporter ( @ chicagoreporter ) november 27 , 2015protesters are attempting to gain access to major department stores and shopping malls .
police turned them away at the entrance to water tower place , but they continue to try to enter other shopping areas with the intention of blocking commerce from taking place .
as of noon , the protesters were walking toward the john hancock tower.update 1:00 p.m. : several stores have been blocked and effectively shut down , including macy s , h & m , and others over six blocks .
shoppers are either stuck inside the stores or can not enter .
some shuffle by , as protesters shout at them .
michigan avenue itself , normally filled with traffic , is empty .
) photo- lee stranahan , breitbart newsin conversations with demonstrators , breitbart news has learned that the groups plan to target the chicago board of trade , one of the world s most important commodities exchanges , in future demonstrations .
the aim is to do as much economic damage as possible while drawing attention to perceived racism and abuse by the chicago police department .
the police have struggled to manage the city s rise in crime in recent years , and now labor under new suspicions of prejudice and political corruption .
via : breitbart news