washington ( reuters ) - key senators said on tuesday they are crafting a law that would allow states to use federal foster care funds to help opioid-addicted parents raise their infants .
the senior republican and democrat on the senate finance committee envision the law as part of a comprehensive effort to address the opioid crisis with increased prevention , treatment and law enforcement .
“ children and families are relying on us to take this important step , ” committee chairman sen. orin hatch , a republican of utah , said during the hearing .
the committee ’ s ranking democrat , ron wyden of oregon , cited a recent reuters investigation , which documented 110 preventable deaths of infants sent home with opioid-addicted parents ill-prepared to care for them .
one drug-dependent baby is born in the united states every 19 minutes , the series found .
“ a parent ’ s drug addiction is becoming a growing reason for removing children from their homes and placing them in foster care , ” wyden said .
hatch and wyden described only the general scope of the bill they planned to introduce .
they did not offer specifics for the “ family first act , ” but their staffers said the money would likely come from existing funds .
nancy young , director of children and family futures , which provides services to government welfare programs , testified that parental opioid use before and after birth places a profound strain on the foster care system .
shifting foster care funds to help parents cope with addiction will reduce costs , she said , in part because it will help keep mothers and infants together .
“ we have the knowledge – we can no longer say we don ’ t know what to do , ” said young , who cited statistics from the reuters investigation to describe the scope of the crisis .
last month , responding to the report , a house committee overseeing child abuse opened an inquiry into whether the federal government is failing to enforce a federal law meant to protect thousands of babies born dependent on drugs each year .
reuters found that no more than nine states comply with a law that calls on hospitals to alert social workers whenever such a baby is born , and help them develop a “ plan of safe care. ” federal health and drug officials have declined to comment and , according to a congressional staffer , have not responded to the house queries .