eastern ghouta ( reuters ) - a tightening siege has pushed people to the verge of famine in the eastern suburbs of damascus , residents and aid workers say , bringing desperation to the only major rebel enclave near the syrian capital .
cases of malnutrition among children have almost doubled in the last two months at one clinic in the suburbs , which have been under siege by syrian government forces since 2013 but come under new pressure this year as tunnels used to smuggle in food have been cut off .
the child that we consider normal in ghouta is the child whose weight is on the lowest end of the normal weight scale .
we don t have fully healthy children .
the main reason is the lack of food and nutrition , said dr amani ballour , a paediatrician .
there are children who we previously classified as at risk of malnutrition , who are now classified as medium-level acute malnutrition or extreme-level acute malnutrition cases .
at two and a half years old , hala al-nufi weighs less than five kilos ( 12 pounds ) .
she suffers from a metabolic disorder , but a lack of adequate food has made the case extreme .
hala , her eyes hollow and her translucent skin stretching over her tiny bones , had gotten sicker in recent months , her parents said .
they worry she will not survive the siege .
um said , a mother of six , says she is too hungry to breast feed her six-month-old twins , marwa and safa .
i put the child to the breast , but there is no milk .
i am not eating .
i slept without supper last night , she said .
sometimes i hit myself against the wall , she said .
for god s , sake open the road .
in the name of the prophet , i kiss your hands and feet , open the road for us .
we are going to die of hunger .
we are eating from the trash bins .
at least 1,200 children in eastern ghouta suffer from malnutrition , on the rise with 1,500 others at risk , a spokeswoman for the u.n. children s agency unicef said .
we could be at the doors of starvation , of a medical catastrophe , said health worker mahmoud al-sheikh .
he said children were not yet dying of hunger but could be soon .
god help the people in the coming time .
the army s advances in recent months have shrunk the rebel-held pocket in the densely populated area of satellite towns and farms east of the capital .
food , fuel and medicine once traveled across frontlines into the suburbs through a network of underground tunnels .
but early this year , an army offensive nearby cut smuggling routes that provided a lifeline for around 300,000 people in the enclave .
supplies have barely entered in months .
shortages have sent prices soaring even higher .
residents and local aid workers say they fear the worst if nothing changes when the cold arrives and stocks run out .
a kilogram of sugar now costs more than 5,000 syrian pounds ( $ 10.81 dollars ) , roughly 14 times the state-regulated price in nearby damascus .
two malnourished babies died this week after the siege aggravated their illnesses , a local official said .
photos of one of them a skeletal baby girl brought widespread attention to a crisis that has been growing there for months .
linda tom , a spokeswoman for the u.n. humanitarian affairs office ( ocha ) in syria , said the one-month-old girl , sahar , had congenital abnormalities .
hunger worsened her condition , and the baby died of pneumonia .
through a series of offensives and evacuation deals , the damascus government has defeated opposition pockets around the capital .
eastern ghouta has held out , but residents say there is now talk for the first time of agreeing to evacuate .
people are under pressure , they will erupt .
there is no baby milk at all .
mothers and fathers are watching their children go hungry .
they want a solution in any way , at any price , said adnan , 30 , who runs a local aid group .
families relied on crops they harvested in the summer , and meagre food distributions from warehouses run by the opposition government based in turkey , he said .
adnan s group had preserved and dried vegetables that it will distribute to 1,500 families next week , but besides that , its food aid has halted .
even if i get funding , there are no goods to buy , he said .
the eastern ghouta has shut down .
there is a state of paralysis .
the wafideen crossing at the outskirts , where checkpoints allowed some goods to enter , has also been heavily restricted or shut , the u.n. and residents said .
only two aid convoys have reached the ghouta since july , each with food and medicine for about 20 percent or less of the population .
in july , moscow and rebels in the ghouta signed a ceasefire that had sparked hopes of opening crossings and aid flowing into the suburbs .
but residents say none of that has materialized .
the de-escalation deal reduced the barrage of air strikes and artillery , but the siege only got harsher , they said .
fierce ground battles also rage on in some frontline districts .
when people in the ghouta learned of the deal and thought it would bring relief , many began using up their food reserves at home , said khalil aybour , head of the local council in the town of douma .
after they saw it was all rumors , he said , the misery grew immensely .