goma , democratic republic of congo ( reuters ) - militia fighters in eastern democratic republic of congo attacked a u.n. peacekeeping base on friday , triggering clashes that left two of the fighters dead and two peacekeepers slightly wounded , the u.n. mission said .
thirty-four rebels from a mai-mai militia have been killed in fighting with congo s army in the past week , local army spokesman jules ngongo said , a spike in violence he attributed to an army crackdown on the militia s harassment of local residents .
friday s attack , in which two rebels were also wounded , was a rare frontal assault on u.n. forces charged with protecting civilians in congo s east , where dozens of armed groups exploit mineral resources and prey on local residents .
very early this morning , about 30 mai-mai attacked , mission spokeswoman florence marchal told reuters , adding that u.n. forces drove off the assailants .
it was not immediately clear which mai-mai group attacked nor what their objective was .
the mai-mai comprise a number of armed bands that originally formed to resist rwandan invasions in the 1990s .
they have since morphed into a wide variety of ethnic-based militia , smuggling networks and protection rackets .
congo s mineral-rich eastern borderlands are a tinderbox of ethnic tensions and for more than two decades have been racked by violence that has often spilled across the country s borders .
president joseph kabila s refusal to step down at the end of his constitutional mandate last december has fueled further unrest in the country s east , where wars between 1996-2003 killed millions , and center , where an insurgency against the central government has killed thousands since last august .
last week , u.n. forces in east congo s south kivu province intervened with helicopters and heavy machine guns to help beat back an advance by a separate rebel group on the strategic city of uvira .
the u.n. mission in congo , known as monusco , is the world s largest with some 18,000 uniformed personnel and a more than $ 1 billion annual budget .