a russian bank has reported to u.s. authorities that mysterious communications resumed recently between one of its computers and an email server tied to president trump s business empire , and it has developed evidence the new activity may be the work of a hacker trying to create a political hoax , circa has learned.alfa bank is asking the u.s. justice department for help solving the mystery and pledged its full cooperation.alfa wants u.s. authorities to help unmask a computer inside the united states that it believes has been used to launch cyberattacks spoofing the appearance of a backdoor communication channel between moscow and america s 45th president , according to a source directly familiar with the bank s request.the bank believes these malicious attacks are designed to create the false impression that alfa bank has a secretive relationship with the trump organization , the source said , speaking on condition of anonymity.alfa bank has insisted since media stories began appearing last fall about the computer communications known as domain name server lookups that it has never had a relationship to trump or any of his companies and that any computer connections between the two parties computers were innocuous .
the resumption of the computer pings started last month , and alfa s cybersecurity experts traced evidence that the activity was actually being spoofed or hacked through a third party from a masked computer address inside the united states , the source said .
for entire story : circa newsin november of 2016 , the intercept published a piece refuting a slate article that attempted to convince readers there was a connection between trump and the alfa bank servers : slate s franklin foer published a story that s been circulating through the dark web and various newsrooms since summertime , an enormous , eyebrow-raising claim that donald trump uses a secret server to communicate with russia .
that claim resulted in an explosive night of twitter confusion and misinformation.the gist of the slate article is dramatic incredible , even : cybersecurity researchers found that the trump organization used a secret box configured to communicate exclusively with alfa bank , russia s largest privately-held commercial bank .
this is a story that any reporter in our election cycle would drool over , and drool foer did : the researchers quickly dismissed their initial fear that the logs represented a malware attack .
the communication wasn t the work of bots .
the irregular pattern of server look-ups actually resembled the pattern of human conversation conversations that began during office hours in new york and continued during office hours in moscow .
it dawned on the researchers that this wasn t an attack , but a sustained relationship between a server registered to the trump organization and two servers registered to an entity called alfa bank.these claims are based entirely on dns logs , digital records of when one server looks up how to contact another across the internet .
the logs , first gathered by an anonymous researcher going by the moniker tea leaves ( an irony that should be lost on no one ) and shared with a small group of academics , were provided to the intercept and a handful of other news organizations .
the new york times , the washington post , reuters , the daily beast , and vice all examined these materials to at least some extent and did not publish the claims.you can think of dns like a phone book that maps people s names to their phone numbers .
for example , every time alice wants to call bob , she first looks up bob s phone number in the phone book , and then she dials the number into her phone .
however , it s possible that alice might look up bob s phone number and not call him on the phone .
it s even possible that she might look up bob s phone number over and over on a regular basis , over the course of months , without actually calling him .
the dns look-ups that the intercept and others ( including slate ) reviewed are similar to records of alice looking up bob s phone number in the phone book , but to call that evidence of sinister collusion between the two is , politely , a stretch .
these dns records alone simply can not prove that any specific messages were sent at those times .
in fact , they can t really prove anything at all , and certainly not communication between trump and alfa .
this can not be overstated : no one , not tea leaves , not his academic peers , and not franklin foer , can show that a single message was exchanged between trump and alfa.for entire story go to : the intercept