berlin ( reuters ) - three german parties resigned themselves to further talks next week to try to form a new coalition after making little progress on thursday in bridging deep divisions on immigration and climate policy .
chancellor angela merkel is trying to unite her divided conservative alliance , which suffered bruising losses in a national election last month , in a pact with two other parties that is untested at federal level .
after 11 hours of talks on thursday , negotiators said they had failed to find much common ground on the difficult topics of climate change and immigration , but would take the weekend to consider the arguments of the other parties .
we hope to take further steps in the course of next week , nicola beer , general secretary of the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) , told journalists .
immigration was the most divisive topic , with many conservatives keen to take a harder line after blaming their election setback on merkel s decision to open germany to more than a million mainly middle eastern migrants in 2015 and 2016 .
an agreement reached between merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) and their bavarian csu sister party to cap annual refugee numbers had to be the basis of any coalition accord , andreas scheuer , csu general secretary , said after thursday s talks .
that is really going to be the crunch point , he said , adding that the issue was the reason for the gains of the anti-immigration alternative for germany ( afd ) party in the election .
party leaders would meet to seek a solution on refugee policy by next thursday , sources close to the talks said .
the environmental greens , who oppose a refugee cap , said positions were far apart on immigration : the debate on this topic was calm and constructive but the differences remain serious , said greens negotiator michael kellner .
the parties did agree to stick to climate goals that envisage cutting carbon dioxide emissions to 40 percent of 1990 levels by 2020 , but were still divided on how to achieve that , sources familiar with negotiations said .
kellner reiterated the greens position that germany should quickly close coal-fired power stations to help fight climate change , a position resisted by the other parties .
we are the first generation to experience climate change and we are the last generation who can stop it , he said .
the parties made limited progress on european policy , agreeing a broad-brush statement that said that germany can only do well if europe does well while listing 25 open points for further debate .
politicians say it could take months to form the coalition , leaving germany hobbled as the european union looks to its wealthiest country for leadership on governance reform .
in a nod to ambitious european reform plans laid out by french president emmanuel macron , the statement said franco-german cooperation was of paramount importance to us .
the parties negotiators agreed to further discuss eu reform issues including a euro zone budget - an idea pushed by macron - and the future of the euro zone s rescue mechanism , the esm .
sources close to negotiations said there was a consensus against a euro zone budget , but the parties did not want to immediately reject macron s proposal .
the statement stressed that talks with britain on leaving the eu must respect the interlinkage of the bloc s principles of free movement of capital , citizens , goods and services , which could suggest that berlin wants to take a hard line with london .
kellner said the parties were far apart on the esm , which some conservatives want to see play a stronger role in preventing economic crises in the euro zone .