what the heck is going on ?
why is the media , who has been virtually silent about former dnc staffer seth rich s death until now , coming out to attack president trump and his administration , accusing them of pushing a false narrative about his murder ?
shouldn t every american regardless of political affiliation want to get to the bottom of rich s suspicious death ?
why is there so much secrecy and mystery surrounding the staffer who was getting ready to move over to the hillary campaign when he was murdered on the streets of dc , only blocks from his home early in the morning , after he was last seen leaving a local bar he frequented .
the dc police called it a robbery .
the robbers didn t take his wallet , the contents of his wallet or his expensive watch.aaron rich , who had reportedly been blocking his family s private investigator from looking into whether or not his brother seth was a wikileaks source , works for an influential defense contractor that provides cyber security.according to a source close to the rich family , aaron works for northrup grumman , which was named as the fifth-largest defense contractor in the world in 2015 .
the source did not provide what his specific role is at the company .
it s not just hacking and defending , there s a lot more to it , a cyber software engineer at northrup grumman says in a video on the company s website.as we previously reported , aaron rich was actively attempting to shut down anyone looking into the wikileaks connection according to rod wheeler , who was brought on as a private investigator in his brother s murder case.wheeler said that brother aaron rich tried to block wheeler from looking at seth s computer , even though there could be evidence on it .
he said no , he said i have his computer , meaning him , wheeler said .
i said , well can i look at it ?
he said , what are you looking for ?
i said anything that could indicate if seth was having problems with someone .
he said no , i already checked it .
don t worry about it .
aaron also blocked wheeler from finding out about who was at a party seth attended the night of the murder .
all i want you to do is work on the botched robbery theory and that s it , aaron told wheeler , according to wheeler s claim on the audio .
wheeler said that seth s father joel does not appear to have any hidden agenda .
rich was shot in the back in the early morning hours of july 10 , 2016 , near his home while he was on the phone with his girlfriend 12 days before the publication of the dnc emails by wikileaks .
the police initially ruled that it was a botched robbery but his wallet , watch , and necklace were still on his person when he was discovered by police.big league politics has also released an audio recording of journalist seymour hersh stating that seth rich was in fact wikileaks source.listen to the seymour hersh interview here : all i know is that he offered a sample , an extensive sample , i m sure dozens of emails , and said i want money .
later , wikileaks did get the password , he had a dropbox , a protected dropbox , he said .
they got access to the dropbox .
hersh also states that rich had concerns about something happening to him , the word was passed , according to the nsa report , he also shared this dropbox with a couple of friends , so that if anything happens to me it s not going to solve your problems , he added .
wikileaks got access before he was killed .
for entire story : big league politics