washington ( reuters ) - the white house said on friday that it would be “ profoundly unwise ” to plow money set aside for ebola-related projects into research and mitigation efforts for the mosquito-borne zika virus as several top republican lawmakers have requested .
democratic president barack obama has asked the u.s. congress for more than $ 1.8 billion to fight zika in the united states and abroad , and pursue a vaccine .
but three key republican lawmakers in the house of representatives have said they think the government should instead draw from $ 2.7 billion that has not yet used for public health projects overseas .
the zika virus has been linked to birth defects in brazil and spread to at least 31 other countries and territories , mostly in the americas .
representative hal rogers , chairman of the house appropriations committee , and representatives kay granger and tom cole , who are appropriators for health and human services and the state department , made their request in a letter to the white house on thursday .
“ if the aim of the request is to mount as rapid a response as possible , it is clear to us that the most expeditious way to identify the needed funding is to maximize the use of unobligated funds previously provided for ebola , ” the lawmakers said .
senator roy blunt of missouri , a member of the republican senate leadership team , said earlier this month that obama should repurpose ebola funds for the new zika fight .
but white house spokesman josh earnest said the unspent ebola money was needed to “ build up the public health infrastructure of countries overseas ” to help prevent future epidemics .
west africa was stricken by a two-year ebola epidemic that killed more than 11,300 people starting in december 2013 and led to cases in the united states .
“ it ’ s critically important that we follow through on those efforts and it would be profoundly unwise to take money away from the ongoing effort that ’ s need to fight ebola , ” earnest said .
earnest said that the white house would soon put forward a formal zika funding request for lawmakers .
it will include a plan to redirect some ebola funds to the zika fight , but earnest said new funding was also require .
much remains unknown about zika , including whether the virus actually causes microcephaly , a condition marked by unusually small heads that can result in developmental problems .
brazil said it has confirmed more than 500 cases of microcephaly , and considers most of them to be related to zika infections in the mothers .
brazil is investigating more than 3,900 additional suspected cases of microcephaly .