amman ( reuters ) - sabih al masri , a palestinian billionaire and jordan s most influential businessman , was released after several days of detention in saudi arabia , the latest in a series of events marking the worst crackdown on the rich and powerful in the country s modern history .
masri , the chairman of amman-based arab bank , the country s largest lender , was detained last tuesday hours before he was planning to leave after chairing meetings of companies he owns , sources said .
he said on sunday saudi authorities had given him all respect .
the authorities have not commented on his detention , which came after his confidants had warned him against traveling to the saudi capital following a series of mass arrests in early november , the sources said .
sources familiar with the case said he was questioned about his links to saudi partners among the royals , ministers and officials who were rounded up in last month s crackdown .
his case carried echoes of that of lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri , who announced his resignation from riyadh , drawing accusations from lebanese officials that he had been coerced by the saudis .
both the saudis and hariri denied that , but hariri later rescinded his resignation .
masri s detention sent shockwaves through business circles in jordan and the palestinian territories .
masri s multi-billion- dollar investments in hotels and banking in jordan are a cornerstone of the economy of the kingdom and he is by far the biggest investor in palestinian territories .
arab bank shares , which account for almost a quarter of the $ 24 billion market capitalization of the amman exchange , ended just 1.44 percent lower at start of weekly trade as investor fears ebbed with news of his release .
officials and businessmen had warned of the reverberations of the crisis on an aid-strapped jordanian economy already plagued by high debts .
saudi arabia is a major donor .
masri has since taking the helm at arab bank in 2012 helped boost confidence in one of the arab world s largest private financial institutions .
the bank , which was first established in jerusalem in 1930 , has a balance sheet of over $ 45 billion and has earned a reputation of resilience in the face of regional political turmoil .
masri said on sunday that he would be returning to jordan after finishing business meetings in riyadh in the next two days .
all is well and am happy ( to be released ) and i was given all respect by everyone here , a saudi citizen of palestinian origin , told reuters from his home in riyadh .
a member of a prominent merchant family from nablus in the israeli-occupied west bank , masri amassed a fortune by partnering with influential saudis in a catering business to supply troops during the u.s.-led military operation to retake kuwait from iraq in the 1991 gulf war .
masri is the founder of saudi astra group , which has wide interests in diversified industries ranging from agro-industry to telecommunications , construction and mining across the region .
reasons for masri s detention were not clear , but political sources said the saudis might have used him to put pressure on jordan s king abdullah not to attend a muslim summit last week to discuss u.s. president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital .
the jordanian monarch attended the istanbul summit , however .
he is a custodian of muslim holy sites in jerusalem and has been vocal in criticizing trump over his decision on jerusalem .
saudi arabia , whose relations with the united states have warmed with trump taking a harder line against its arch-rival iran than his predecessor , appears to have taken a softer line on the decision on jerusalem than in the past , according to analysts .
riyadh sent a junior minister to the istanbul meeting .