riyadh ( reuters ) - a saudi-led coalition accused yemen s houthi militia of a dangerous escalation on sunday after saudi air defense forces intercepted a ballistic missile fired towards riyadh .
saudi arabia also announced financial rewards for information leading to the arrest of 40 leaders it said were responsible for planning , implementing and supporting the houthi terrorist group s various terrorist activities .
the bounties topped out at $ 30 million for the armed group s leader , abdel-malek al-houthi , the state news agency reported .
the missile was brought down on saturday evening near king khaled international airport on the northern outskirts of the capital and did not cause any casualties .
the houthis dangerous escalation came because of iranian support , coalition spokesman colonel turki al-maliki said in a televised news conference .
rocket launch vehicles used to fire the missile were made in iran , he added .
saudi arabia and its allies accuse arch-foe iran of supplying missiles and other weapons to the houthis , saying the arms were not present in yemen before the conflict began in 2015 .
iran denies the charges and blames the conflict on riyadh .
yemen s civil war pits the internationally recognized government , backed by saudi arabia and its allies , against the houthis and forces loyal to former president ali abdullah saleh .
the war has already killed more than 10,000 and displaced millions , with around 500,000 cholera cases reported in the country since the worst outbreak in decades started in april .
the saudi-led coalition s statement on sunday echoed accusations by u.s. president donald trump , who described the missile as a shot just taken by iran against saudi arabia .
the head of iran s revolutionary guard corps dismissed trump s comments as slander .
french foreign minister jean-yves le drian said on sunday the missile launch by houthi rebels showed there was a danger of ballistic proliferation across the region .
saudi arabia has signaled its intention to buy separate air defense systems from the united states and russia .