xiamen , china ( reuters ) - russian president vladimir putin said on tuesday that imposing tougher sanctions on north korea over its nuclear missile programme would be counter-productive and said threats of military action could trigger a global catastrophe .
putin , speaking after a brics summit in china , criticised u.s. diplomacy in the crisis and renewed his call for talks , saying pyongyang would not halt its missile testing programme until it felt secure .
russia condemns north korea s exercises , we consider that they are a provocation ... ( but ) ramping up military hysteria will lead to nothing good .
it could lead to a global catastrophe , he told reporters .
there s no other path apart from a peaceful one .
putin was speaking after south korea said an agreement with the united states to scrap a weight limit on its warheads would help it respond to the north korea threat after pyongyang conducted its sixth and largest nuclear test two days ago .
russia , which shares a border with north korea , has repeatedly joined china in calling for negotiations with pyongyang , suggesting that the united states and south korea halt all major war games in exchange for north korea halting its testing programme .
while describing additional sanctions as the road to nowhere , putin said russia was prepared to discuss some details around the issue , without elaborating .
the russian leader also lashed out at the united states , saying it was preposterous for washington to ask for moscow s help with north korea after sanctioning russian companies whom u.s officials accused of violating north korea sanctions .
it s ridiculous to put us on the same ( sanctions ) list as north korea and then ask for our help in imposing sanctions on north korea , said putin .
this is being done by people who mix up australia with austria , he added .
the united states has floated the idea of requiring all countries to cut economic links with north korea to try to strong-arm pyongyang into changing its behaviour .
in moscow s case , that would mean stopping using north korean labourers , tens of thousands of whom work in russia , and halting fuel supplies to pyongyang .
russia has so far refused to contemplate doing either .