monrovia ( reuters ) - liberia s supreme court on monday put a presidential run-off on hold until the electoral commission can investigate claims of irregularities and alleged fraud in last month s first round of voting .
former footballer george weah was initially set to face vice-president joseph boakai on tuesday to determine who will replace nobel peace prize laureate ellen johnson sirleaf .
a successful vote would be liberia s first democratic transfer of power in over 70 years .
but preparations for the second round were halted last week when the supreme court announced it was examining a complaint by the liberty party of third-placed candidate charles brumskine .
the supreme court s order for a full investigation into the allegations could push back the run-off date by weeks or even result in a re-run of the first round .
the nec ( national elections commission ) is stopped and prohibited from conducting the run off election until the complaint filed by the petitioners is investigated by the nec , the supreme court ruling said .
addressing the supreme court last week , brumskine cited gross irregularities in the first round and accused nec officials of fraud .
the nec has denied wrongdoing and said the election was largely fair .
international observers say they saw no major problems with the vote .
but a growing chorus of parties have expressed doubt about the vote , including boakai s ruling unity party , which last week accused johnson sirleaf , one of its own members , of trying to influence the vote .
she rejected the allegation .
the course we pursue is not about charles walker brumskine .
it is not about the liberty party .
it is greater than all of us .
it is about our country , brumskine said following the supreme court ruling .
janga kowo , secretary general of weah s cdc party , called upon supporters to remain calm and allow the legal process to run its course .
the unity party had no immediate comment on monday s ruling .
expectations of a poll delay have increased tensions in liberia , where many are eager for change after 12 years of johnson sirleaf s rule .
her tenure cemented peace after a long civil war , but many liberians say she did little to alleviate widespread poverty despite vast iron ore reserves .
it is now unclear when the run-off will take place .
the nec has until mid-november to rule on the liberty party s complaint .
if it is rejected , brumskine could still take the case back before the supreme court with an appeal , potentially pushing the date of the second round into december .
the court also has the option of calling a new first round vote to be held within 60 days .