whiskey tango foxtrot ! the united states sent iran $ 400 million in debt plus $ 1.3 billion in interest , and the money was disbursed as a ransom payment for four american hostages of the islamic regime , a top iranian commander said wednesday afternoon .
therefore , the u.s. paid the iranian regime $ 425 million dollars per american hostage , according to the commander .
the annulment of sanctions against iran s bank sepah and reclaiming of $ 1.7mln of iran s frozen assets after 36 years showed that the us doesn t understand anything but the language of force , said iranian basij commander brig gen mohammed reza naqdi , addressing his forces in tehran .
this money was returned for the freedom of the us spy and it was not related to the ( nuclear ) negotiations , he claimed , according to state-controlled fars news agency.four americans who were held hostage by the islamic republic washington post reporter jason rezaian , u.s. marine amir hekmati , pastor saeed abedini , and nosratollah khosrawi roudsari ( who decided to stay in iran ) were part of the deal that included the ransom payment , along with the release of seven iranians who were sitting in american jails on charges of thwarting international sanctions , and the delisting of 14 iranian nationals from interpol s red list , which seeks international criminals for extradition.a fifth american , matthew trevithick , who was imprisoned by tehran , was also released , but under the terms of a separate deal , according to reports.the u.s. state department tells breitbart news that the payment to iran was separate but simultaneous , and not a ransom .
we did not pay ransom to secure the return of these americans .
the funds that were transferred to iran were part of a separate but simultaneous arrangement we agreed to with iran related to the u.s.-iran claims tribunal at the hague , a state department spokesperson told breitbart news late wednesday.state department spokesman mark toner told reporters earlier on wednesday in washington that no ransom was paid , rejecting the remarks of the iranian commander .
there was no bribe , there was no ransom , there was nothing paid to secure the return of these americans who were , by the way , not spies .
we ve spoken to this in the days after their release on sunday morning in great detail about how this process worked .
there was this consular channel that was opened up to secure their release , toner said .
via : breitbart newshere is the question we posed after discovering the interesting timing of this $ 1.7 billion payment to iran while 4 american prisoners were being simultaneously released : was this transfer of funds to a terrorist state ( via the american taxpayer ) , the real reason the prisoners ( hostages ) iran was holding were suddenly released ?
did the incompetent obama-kerry duo use this settlement as a bargaining chip to make it appear as though freeing these hostages was part of the iran nuclear deal all along ?
this is absolutely sickening the united states and iran on sunday settled a longstanding claim at the hague , releasing to tehran $ 400 million in funds frozen since 1981 plus $ 1.3 billion in interest , the state department said.the funds were part of a trust fund once used by iran to purchase military equipment from the united states but which was tied up for decades in litigation at the iran-us claims tribunal.the settlement announcement was made after tehran released five american detainees in a prisoner swap as a nuclear deal was implemented .
via : business insider