every day we hear of more voter fraud being uncovered across the united states .
this is nothing new and every election we read about more and more early voter fraud being committed .
when will republicans stop cowering to threats of racism and voter suppressions levied by the very people who are stealing our votes ? there s a mere four weeks left to go before the presidential election , and the allegations of voter fraud just .
keep .
coming.the kankakee daily journal , a local newspaper in a county just south of chicago , reported last week that several citizens in the small county reported they were offered bribes in return for casting votes for democrats .
voting officials were also looking into reports that some mail-in voter applications had been filed from outside the county.from the article : the kankakee county state s attorney s office says it is investigating possible voting fraud after the clerk s office reported three complaints from people who said they were offered bribes for votes.in a news release issued late tuesday afternoon , jamie boyd , the state s attorney , also said several vote-by-mail applications seem to have come from people living outside of kankakee county .
this unprecedented action was taken in response to reports of individuals from chicago offering gifts to potential voters in exchange for a vote for kate cloonen , hillary clinton and others , boyd said in the news release .
our office takes seriously the obligation to protect the rights of citizens to vote for the candidate of their choice , and to do so without undue influence from special interest groups .
the investigation will also focus on the authenticity of vote by mail requests .
several applications have been filed with the election authority that appear to be fraudulently executed .
the report closely followed allegations of voter fraud in virginia , where at least 20 dead people were illegally registered to vote by a james madison student working for a local voter registration group called harrisonburgvotes .
the washington free beacon reported the group is run by one joe fitzgerald , the chairman of his local democratic committee , and that the student , andrew spieles , is also a registered democrat.additionally , the virginia voters alliance and the public interest legal foundation found that at least 1,046 non-u.s. citizens across eight districts had voted in the 2012 presidential election .
via : mrctv