moscow ( reuters ) - opinion polls show vladimir putin is already a shoo-in to win a fourth presidential term .
but a ban on russia taking part in the winter olympics is likely to make support for him even stronger , by uniting voters around his message : the world is against us .
putin announced on wednesday that he would run for re-election in march s presidential vote , setting the stage for him to extend his dominance of russia s political landscape into a third decade .
with ties between the kremlin and the west at their lowest point for years , the international olympic committee s decision to bar russia from the 2018 pyeongchang games over doping is seen in moscow as a humiliating and politically tinged act .
putin , echoing his familiar refrain that his country is facing a treacherous western campaign to hold it back , said he had no doubt that the ioc s decision was absolutely orchestrated and politically-motivated .
russia will continue moving forwards , and nobody will ever be able to stop this forward movement , putin said .
konstantin kosachyov , head of the upper house of parliament s foreign affairs committee , had been among the first to cast the move as part of a western plot against russia , which sees sport as a barometer of geopolitical influence .
they are targeting our national honor ... our reputation ... and our interests .
they ( the west ) bought out the traitors ... and orchestrated media hysteria , kosachyov wrote on social media .
the ioc ruling is also seen by many in russia as a personal affront to putin , who was re-elected president in 2012 after spending four years as prime minister because the constitution barred him from a third consecutive term as head of state .
the sport-loving leader cast his hosting of the 2014 sochi winter olympics , at which the ioc says there was unprecedented systematic manipulation of the anti-doping system , as a symbol of russia s success under his rule .
but putin has often extracted political benefit from crises , and turned international setbacks into domestic triumphs , by accusing the west of gunning for russia and using this to inspire russians to unite .
outside pressure on russia , understood as politically motivated and orchestrated from the u.s. , leads to more national cohesion , dmitri trenin , director of the carnegie moscow center , said on wednesday .
various sanctions are being turned into instruments of nation-building .
putin s popularity , supported by state television , is already high .
opinion polls regularly give him an approval rating of around 80 percent .
but casting the ioc ban as a western plot to hurt russia , something he did when russian athletes were banned from last year s summer olympics in rio over doping , could help him mobilize the electorate .
public anger over the ioc move could help putin overcome signs of voter apathy and ensure a high turnout which , in the tightly controlled limits of the russian political system , is seen as conferring legitimacy .
there were early signs that fury over the ioc s decision was duly stirring patriotic fervor .
russia is a superpower , alexander kudrashov , a member of the russian military historical society , told reuters on moscow s red square after the ioc ruling .
without russia , he said , the olympics would not be valid .
he linked the decision to a western anti-russian campaign which many russians believe took hold after russia annexed the crimea peninsula from ukraine in 2014 .
choosing between the people in crimea , who wept when the russian flag was run up and who were doomed to genocide , and sportspeople taking first place on the podium , i choose the people who couldn t defend themselves , kudrashov said .
blaming the west is an approach the kremlin has often used before when faced with international allegations of wrongdoing over crimea s annexation , the shooting down of a malaysian passenger plane over ukraine in july 2014 and charges of meddling in eastern ukraine , where pro-russian separatists rebelled against rule from kiev after crimea was annexed .
the tactic taps into russians patriotism and makes putin almost bullet-proof when it comes to scandal .
the 65-year-old former kgb agent is regarded by many voters as a tsar-like father-of-the-nation figure who has brought their country back from the brink of collapse .
when at the start of the year it seemed there was a window to repair relations with the west after the election of u.s. president donald trump , who said he wanted better ties , the narrative of russia versus the world was muted .
but when it became clear that u.s. allegations of russian meddling in trump s election precluded any rapprochement , putin doubled down on the narrative .
in october , he launched a stinging critique of u.s. policy , listing what he called the biggest betrayals in u.s.-russia relations .
sources close to the russian government say the ioc ban , along with continued western sanctions over ukraine and the prospect of new sanctions , will help the authorities rally voters around the banner of national unity which putin embodies .
outside pressure just makes us stronger , said one such source who declined to be named because he is not authorized to speak to the media .
maria zakharova , a spokeswoman for the foreign ministry , set the tone on social media in comments that found ready support from many russians .
what haven t we been forced to suffer from our partners in the course of our history , she wrote .
but they just can t bring us down .
not via a world war , the collapse of the soviet union or sanctions ... we soak it up and survive .