villavicencio , colombia ( reuters ) - pope francis urged colombians skeptical of a peace deal with guerrillas to be open to reconciliation with those who have repented , speaking hours after a top rebel leader asked the pontiff for forgiveness .
dear people of colombia : do not be afraid of asking for forgiveness and offering it , he said , at an emotional meeting that brought together victims of the 50-year civil war with former guerrilla and paramilitary fighters .
the argentine pope , leader of the world s roman catholics , is visiting colombia with a message of national reconciliation , as the country tries to heal the wounds left by the conflict and bitter disagreements over a peace deal agreed last year .
francis flew to the city of villavicencio in meta province , a vast cattle ranching area which was a hotbed of right-wing paramilitary and marxist guerrilla violence during a conflict with successive governments .
as he arrived , former revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) rebel leader rodrigo londono , now the head of a new political party , issued an open letter to the pope asking for forgiveness for the suffering the group inflicted .
[ nl2n1lp0uz ] your repeated expressions about god s infinite mercy move me to plead your forgiveness for any tears or pain that we have caused the people of colombia , londono , who goes by the alias timochenko , said in the letter .
tens of thousands of ecstatic people in this humid area of savanna and shantytowns packed the roads as the pope , riding in the front seat of a simple car , passed by on friday morning after his plane arrived from the capital bogota .
the pope s afternoon prayer meeting in villavicencio with about 6,000 survivors of the brutal conflict was the centerpiece of his five-day trip to overwhelmingly catholic colombia .
he listened to personal accounts from four people , including a woman who joined a paramilitary group when she was 16 , a former farc guerrilla , and two victims of violence between the guerrillas and paramilitary squads .
one of the victims , pastora mira garc a , told how she lost her father , husband and two children in the conflict .
to great applause she urged forgiveness to break the cycle of violence and said she could now name the unnamable and forgive the unforgivable .
on the wall of the stage was a destroyed statue of jesus christ recovered from a church attacked by the farc in 2002 in the rain forest village of bojaya .
about 80 people were killed as they sought refuge from rebel bombings inside the humble church .
the plaster figure , without arms or legs , has become an enduring symbol of the war .
as we look at it , we remember not only what happened on that day , but also the immense suffering , the many deaths and broken lives , and all the blood spilled in colombia these past decades , the pope said .
conflict between right-wing paramilitary squads , marxist rebels , and government forces since the 1960s has killed more than 220,000 people and left millions more displaced .
now colombians are deeply polarized as they prepare to receive 7,000 former fighters , such as londono , into society .
many are furious that under last year s peace deal , farc leaders accused of kidnapping and murder will avoid jail sentences and may receive seats in congress as members of a new political party .
[ nl1n1dn22o ] francis addressed this hesitancy head-on .
undoubtedly , it is a challenge for each of us to trust that those who inflicted suffering on communities and on a whole country can take a step forward , he said .
let us heal that pain and welcome every person who has committed offences , who admits their failures , is repentant and truly wants to make reparation .
as he left villavicencio , he stopped to pray at the reconciliation cross , a memorial to survivors and those killed during the war , and planted a tree as a symbol of peace .
earlier , francis celebrated a mass for hundreds of thousands of people on a muddy field to beatify pedro maria ramirez , a priest who was killed in 1948 during a period of political violence known as la violencia , and bishop jesus emilio jaramillo , killed in 1989 by the national liberation army ( eln ) for suspected collaboration with the military .