when far left publications like democracy now and global research start questioning hillary s involvement in the murder of honduran environmental activist , berta c ceres , there is probably good reason to look a little deeper into the controversy .
former secretary of state hillary clinton is facing a new round of questions about her handling of the 2009 coup in honduras that ousted democratically elected president manuel zelaya .
since the coup , honduras has become one of the most violent places in the world .
last week , indigenous environmental activist berta c ceres was assassinated in her home.before her murder on march 3 , berta c ceres , a honduran indigenous rights and environmental activist , named hillary clinton , holding her responsible for legitimating the 2009 coup .
we warned that this would be very dangerous , she said , referring to clinton s effort to impose elections that would consolidate the power of murderers.berta c ceres was an award-winning land activist , a leader in her community and a mother of four .
she was shot four times while in bed , at 1am on 2 march .
as a founding member of the civic council of indigenous and popular organizations of honduras ( copinh ) , c ceres fought against logging , hydro-power and mining projects threatening indigenous people in honduras .
her death has exposed the poor judgement of impact investor bank fmo , the bully tactics of mining corporations , and murky situations from clinton s time as secretary of state .
we re coming out of a coup that we can t put behind us .
we can t reverse it , c ceres said .
it just kept going .
and after , there was the issue of the elections .
the same hillary clinton , in her book , hard choices , practically said what was going to happen in honduras .
via : democracy nowthe military coup in 2009 did nothing to protect honduran land or people .
president manuel zelaya had moved towards grassroots social movements , the kinds of social reforms that the united states has always opposed ( chomsky ) , and deals with venezuela .
the military kidnapped president zelaya at gunpoint and flew him out of the country in his pyjamas .
this was certainly a coup d etat and was defined as such by the un , the eu and other latin america nations and dictionaries everywhere.as obama s secretary of state , clinton refused to call what had happened a coup in public .
doing so would have automatically cut off us non-humanitarian aid to honduras .
members of clinton s own party wrote to barak obama about the outrage .
but hillary did not relent , despite being informed that the coup question was an open and shut case in us embassy cables.in a video interview , given in buenos aires in 2014 , c ceres says it was clinton who helped legitimate and institutionalize the coup .
in response to a question about the exhaustion of the opposition movement ( to restore democracy ) , c ceres says ( around 6:10 ) : the same hillary clinton , in her book hard choices , practically said what was going to happen in honduras .
this demonstrates the bad legacy of north american influence in our country .
the return of mel zelaya to the presidency ( that is , to his constitutionally elected position ) was turned into a secondary concern .
there were going to be elections .
clinton , in her position as secretary of state , pressured ( as her emails show ) other countries to agree to sideline the demands of c ceres and others that zelaya be returned to power .
instead , clinton pushed for the election of what she calls in hard choices a unity government .
but c ceres says : we warned that this would be very dangerous .
the elections took place under intense militarism , and enormous fraud .
the clinton-brokered election did indeed install and legitimate a militarized regime based on repression .
in the interview , c ceres says that clinton s coup-government , under pressure from washington , passed terrorist and intelligence laws that criminalized political protest .
c ceres called it counterinsurgency , carried out on behalf of international capital mostly resource extractors that has terrorized the population , murdering political activists by the high hundreds .
every day , c ceres said elsewhere , people are killed .
interestingly , hillary clinton removed the most damning sentences regarding her role in legitimating the honduran coup from the paperback edition of hard choices.according to bel n fern ndez , clinton airbrushed out of her account exactly the passage c ceres highlights for criticism : we strategized on a plan to restore order in honduras and ensure that free and fair elections could be held quickly and legitimately , which would render the question of zelaya moot and give the honduran people a chance to choose their own future ( see fern ndez s essay in liza featherstone s excellent false choices : the faux feminism of hillary rodham clinton ) .aside from hard choices shape-shifting account of the crisis , clinton has ignored criticism of her role in enabling the consolidation of the honduran coup .
that is , until c ceres s murder forced a response .
last week , her campaign answered my nation post on her broader responsibility for c ceres s execution : simply nonsense , a spokesperson said : hillary clinton engaged in active diplomacy that resolved a constitutional crisis and paved the way for legitimate democratic elections .
we still don t have a clear idea of the events surrounding c ceres s murder .
there is one witness , gustavo castro , a mexican national , activist , and journalist , who was with c ceres when gunmen burst into her bedroom .
berta died in his arms .
castro was himself shot twice , but survived by playing dead.the honduran government that unity government clinton is proud of has castro in lockdown , refusing him contact with the outside world .
via : the nationin clinton s memoir , she admits thatin the subsequent days [ after the coup ] i spoke with my counterparts around the hemisphere , including secretary [ patricia ] espinosa in mexico we strategized on a plan to restore order in honduras and ensure that free and fair elections could be held quickly and legitimately , which would render the question of zelaya moot.clinton s emails revealed that she played a crucial role , delaying any action that could quickly restore zelaya.grahame russell from rights action is not alone in describing the coup as us and canadian-backed .
media lens has bemoaned the under-reporting of hillary clinton s connection to the state of affairs in honduras in the us print media , as has fair .
but it is online .
the nation ran an article titled , the clinton-backed honduran regime is picking-off indigenous leaders the day after c ceres murder.the clintons have a great ally in canadian billionaire frank giustra .
along with media outlets , giustra has gold mining interests in africa .
he is known in the industry as a mining promoter and presumably connects investors and miners .
although bill and frank like to fly around latin america , and do philanthropic work together , bill did bump into frank in kazakhstan when frank was doing a spot of uranium shopping.the clintons connection with the canadian mining magnate is labeled a threat to her campaign by bloomberg politics .
certainly , the clintons ties to big business have dogged her campaign , and many democrats are uncomfortable with her performance as secretary of state .
revelations about the clinton foundation do little to dispel the image of hillary as an entrenched member of the establishment let alone the oligarch hegemony .
given that her nomination looks increasingly insecure , c ceres murder is untimely for them both .
via : global research