they pulled every trick in the book .
from manufactured polls designed to discourage trump supporters from going to vote on election day , to an all-out assassination attempt on his character , you ve got ta hand it to these propagandists , there wasn t a dirty trick they didn t try .
trump took abuse by the media like no other presidential candidate before him .
even after our dishonest media was caught working behind the scenes with crooked hillary , her campaign and the dnc , they still came at trump with a shameless vengeance like we ve never seen .
what the media didn t understand however , was that every time we saw trump alone in the ring against a mob of unruly leftist journalists fighting back with everything he had , it only strengthened our resolve.in trump , americans saw something that s been missing from our politicians for decades , we saw someone who was actually willing o fight for our nation on our behalf .
we saw someone who wasn t going to concede to political correctness , or to give our lying media respect they didn t deserve .
every time he called them out for their dishonesty , americans cheered .
every time they hit trump with another lie , or worked in unison to impugn his character , he always managed to come back even stronger than before.trump wasn t interested in playing by the media s rules , and they did everything in their power to punish him for not playing along .
along the way , he brilliantly exposed them as nothing more than an extension of hillary clinton s campaign .
and so it is , with great pleasure we share with you some of the best liberal media meltdowns post-trumpocalypse msnbc s rachel maddow typically has a very arrogant way about her .
funny , the attitude seems to have disappeared : yes , this is real life .
https : //t.co/neu67a7u1o maddow blog ( @ maddowblog ) october 8 , 2016nbc s chuck todd and lester holt were two of hilary s biggest cheerleaders .
they just can t seem to figure out how they failed to convince america we needed hillary as our next president : .
@ chucktodd on trump : `` he blew all of our predictions , and models , and you name it out of the water . ''
# electionnight https : //t.co/kt1fomhxwu msnbc ( @ msnbc ) november 9 , 2016it s bad enough that msnbc s chris matthews has to deal with a republican president , but how will he ever be able to deal with a xenophobic republican majority house and senate ? what will a trump presidency mean for the future of our immigration laws ?
https : //t.co/kqtmftsfwu hardball ( @ hardball ) november 10 , 2016debate hack martha raddatz was in full meltdown mode : cnn s dana bash explains to brooke baldwin how people who voted for trump really don t like him .