whether federal spending legislation crosses the line from enticement to coercion is often difficult to determine , and courts should not conclude that legislation is unconstitutional on this ground unless the coercive nature of an offer is unmistakably clear .
in this case , however , there can be no doubt .
justices scalia , kennedy , thomas , and alitojustice anthony kennedy was furious when a majority on the u.s. supreme court upheld president barack obama s healthcare law .
as he read the dissenting opinion from the bench three years ago , his anger was palpable .
the majority regards its opinion as judicial modesty , he declared .
it is not .
it amounts instead to a vast judicial over-reaching .
that was kennedy on june 28 , 2012.now , as the country awaits a ruling in the second major challenge to obama s signature affordable care act , a question is whether the justice who was the voice of the opposition then could provide the critical fifth vote to uphold the law on the nine-justice court now.at stake are the tax-credit subsidies that have helped low- and moderate-income americans obtain health insurance .
the challengers say the government unlawfully extended those subsidies to states that did not create local insurance exchanges but instead relied on the federal exchange .
if the court strikes down the subsidies , millions of americans in at least 34 of the 50 states could lose coverage.five years after its passage , the affordable care act has become ingrained in american life even as it remains politically divisive .
this is now part of the fabric of how we care for one another , obama , a democrat , declared in a speech last week .
republicans have called for repeal and among the related lawsuits simmering in lower courts is a dispute brought by republicans in the u.s. house of representatives over treasury department payments to healthcare insurers.impossible to predictin the case before the court , the unique issue along with kennedy s record and his comments in oral arguments raise the possibility he will join the four liberal justices to endorse the law .
three years ago , his fellow conservative chief justice john roberts cast the swing vote with the liberals to uphold the law .
it marked a rare episode when kennedy , the usual key justice on this divided bench , did not control the outcome of a momentous case.it is impossible to predict with confidence how the court will resolve the case , king v. burwell .
a ruling is anxiously awaited by officials in washington and the insurance and healthcare industries nationwide.what is known : two days after the march 4 oral arguments this year , the justices , per their usual practice , took a vote in a small conference room off chief justice roberts chambers .
the most senior justice on the winning side then assigned the opinion for those in the majority ; the senior justice on the dissenting side tapped a writer for the main dissent .
drafts of dueling opinions began circulating among the chambers.in this conversation through memos , the justices will sharpen their arguments , sometimes compromising in reasoning and rhetoric to keep a majority together .
those in dissent similarly hone their retorts .
the process is shrouded in secrecy , and the public will only know who is writing which opinion when they are issued.for king v. burwell , the decision could come down as soon as monday morning , when the justices next take the bench .
it is more likely to be issued later this month .
the toughest disputes tend to be resolved right up against the traditional end-of-june deadline for the court s nine-month session .
among the 20 awaited cases is also the question of whether the u.s. constitution guarantees a right to same-sex marriage.a pivotal positionon healthcare , either kennedy or roberts could tip the balance .
yet the 78-year-old kennedy , appointed to the bench in 1988 by republican president ronald reagan , may be in a more pivotal position based on his respect for state sovereignty and concern for the practical consequences of a decision.while the 2012 dispute posed a broad-ranging constitutional challenge to the individual insurance mandate before it even took effect , this one turns on a mere four-word clause allowing tax credits for insurance purchased through exchanges established by the state .
the challengers , libertarian lawyers who were among those who lodged the 2012 attack , say that means that the subsidies are not available to people who have bought insurance through federally facilitated exchanges , which vastly outnumber state-run exchanges .
the obama administration contends the law , taken as a whole , makes clear that congress , when it passed the law , intended the subsidies to apply to all exchanges.during oral arguments justice kennedy suggested the challengers view of the law could put unconstitutional federal pressure on states , because if they failed to set up exchanges , they would lose subsidies : the states are being told either create your own exchange or we ll send your insurance market into a death spiral , he said.kennedy also does not rigidly interpret the words of a statute .
he considers how a decision may play out , and he noted that if people pay mandated taxes and are denied tax credits , the cost of insurance will be sky-high .
still , kennedy may harbor skepticism about the law known as obamacare , and he acknowledged during arguments the possibility that the challengers could prevail on the plain words of the statute .
via : reuters