washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate chris christie has dismissed him as a puppet and former mentor jeb bush called him not fit to serve as up-and-coming republican marco rubio becomes the man to beat in next week ’ s new hampshire primary .
rubio ’ s unexpectedly strong third-place showing in monday ’ s iowa caucuses has made him the target of rival republican candidates who focused their campaigns on the new england state ’ s first-in-the-nation primary .
christie , the new jersey governor , former florida governor jeb bush and ohio governor john kasich all hope for a strong showing in new hampshire to boost their flagging campaigns to become the republican nominee in the nov. 8 election to replace democratic president barack obama .
while christie said on thursday he would not be out of the race if he lost to rubio in new hampshire , kasich has told audiences he would go back to ohio if he got “ smoked ” there .
u.s .
senator ted cruz , who won the iowa caucuses on strong evangelical christian credentials , was expected to have less appeal for voters in new hampshire .
real estate mogul donald trump ’ s second-place showing in iowa raised questions about how well his popularity can survive the voting booth .
christie has been one of rubio ’ s fiercest critics this week , calling the first-term u.s. senator from florida “ the boy in the bubble ” the day after the iowa vote .
he continued the personal vein of attack on thursday .
“ this isn ’ t the most controlled candidate we ’ ve seen in this race at all .
his handlers handle him all the time , ” christie said on fox news .
“ we need to take him out of that controlled atmosphere because , believe me , it won ’ t be controlled against hillary clinton this fall , ” he said .
clinton , the former secretary of state , is battling u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont for the democratic nomination .
bush , whose establishment republican credentials have not guaranteed him public support , has also turned on his former protege .
on wednesday he took out a full-page ad in a leading new hampshire newspaper , the union-leader , attacking rubio as not ready to serve as commander in chief .
“ nearly every political leader in florida of stature who knows marco and jeb ’ s records have joined us in endorsing governor bush , ” the ad read .
rubio has garnered significant endorsements since monday , including u.s .
senator tim scott of south carolina , which holds its primary this month , and u.s. representative matt salmon of arizona , a co-founder of the conservative house freedom caucus .
( additional reporting by susan heavey ; editing by andrea ricci ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .