berlin ( reuters ) - the german military needs a fifth-generation replacement for its tornado fighter jets that is hard to detect on enemy radars and can strike targets from a great distance , the chief of staff of the air force said on wednesday .
lieutenant general karl muellner s comments are his clearest public statements to date on the tornado replacement program .
they indicate a preference for lockheed martin corp s f-35 fighter jet , the only western aircraft that meets those requirements .
the air force last month issued a formal request for information about the f-35 , as well as three other jets : the f-15 and f/a-18e/f , both built by boeing co , and the european eurofighter typhoon .
germany is kicking off the process of replacing its 85 tornado jets , which will go out of service around 2030 .
the program could be worth billions of euros for the winning bidder in coming years .
muellner told reuters germany would need to buy an off-the-shelf replacement that could enter service around 2025 to facilitate a smooth transition with the tornado , noting that did not leave enough time to develop a unique solution .
but he said changing warfare requirements and the need for a credible deterrent meant the successor fighter had to be low-observable , and able to identify and strike targets from a great distance .
it will have to be a fifth-generation jet to meet the full spectrum of our needs , muellner said .
many german allies in europe , including norway , the netherlands , britain , italy , turkey and denmark have selected the f-35 and some have received initial deliveries .
belgium is expected to make a decision next year .
lockheed is rolling out the red carpet , bringing its f-35 flight simulator to berlin and offering members of parliament , ministry and military officials and a journalists a chance to fly the stealthy single-seat , single-engine fighter .
it even printed a new version of its standard f-35 lapel pin in the black , red and gold colors of germany s flag .
any new fighter jet purchase would have to be approved by parliament in the next two years and a contract signed by 2020 or 2021 to ensure deliveries by 2025 .
a purchase of around 100 jets would help ensure german industry got a decent share of work on the program .
steve over , lockheed s director of f-35 international business development , welcomed the comments and said lockheed stood ready to support the german government in its selection process .
he said most f-35 foreign military sales involved some work for companies in the buying country .
over told reuters the price of the aircraft would have dropped to around $ 80 million by the time germany would need to sign a contract .
he said interest was growing in the f-35 given the changing threat environment .
it s really about giving nations a deterrent capability .
because if you re got the capability to take an airplane into another country s airspace and they don t even know you re there , that s an incredible deterrent , he said .
muellner said he also strongly supported a franco-german plan to develop a successor for its fleet of what will be 140 eurofighter typhoon jets , built by britain s bae systems plc , italy s leonardo and airbus .
the project , unveiled in july , would help preserve critical technology skills in europe and allow europe to develop its own low-observable technology , muellner said .
airbus last week said that choosing an interim u.s. fighter that could eventually become a longer term commitment might interfere with the franco-german fighter .
industry sources said a decision to order the f-35 would be negative for airbus , which is part of the eurofighter consortium and is seen as one of the key partners in the franco-german initiative announced earlier this year .
muellner said the german air force had also committed to nato to provide a fleet of 14 electronic warfare aircraft by the middle of the next decade , which meant it would likely have to buy around 20 such jets .
possible candidates could be the boeing ea-18 growler , a modified a400m transport plane that could provide stand-off jamming capability , or a modified eurofighter , experts said .
no decisions on that program have been made .