washington ( reuters ) - the united states on friday welcomed a first step by saudi arabia to allow humanitarian aid to reach yemen and called for negotiations on the country s conflict .
the coalition fighting the iran-aligned houthi movement in yemen said on wednesday it would allow aid in through the red sea ports of hodeidah and salif , as well as u.n. flights to sanaa , more than two weeks after blockading the country .
about 7 million people face famine in yemen and their survival is dependent on international assistance .
full and immediate implementation of the announced measures is a first step in ensuring that food , medicine , and fuel reach the yemeni people and that the aid organizations on the frontlines of mitigating this humanitarian crisis are able to do their essential work , the white house said in a statement .
we look forward to additional steps that will facilitate the unfettered flow of humanitarian and commercial goods from all ports of entry to the points of need , it added .
a u.n. spokesman said the saudi-led coalition had given the united nations permission to resume flights of aid workers to the houthi-controlled capital on saturday , but not to dock ships loaded with wheat and medical supplies .
reuters reported on wednesday that u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson asked saudi arabia to ease the blockade .
the u.s.-backed coalition closed air , land and sea access on nov. 6 , in a move it said was to stop the flow of arms to the houthis from iran .
the action came after saudi arabia intercepted a missile fired toward riyadh .
iran has denied supplying weapons .
the white house said it was committed to supporting saudi arabia and its gulf partners against the iranian islamic revolutionary guard corps aggression and blatant violations of international law .
the saudi-led coalition has been targeting the houthis since they seized parts of yemen in 2015 , including the capital sanaa , forcing president abd-rabbu mansour hadi to flee .
the houthis , drawn mainly from yemen s zaidi shi ite minority and allied with long-serving former president ali abdullah saleh , control much of the country .
the united nations has been mediating in the conflict without much success .
the united states continues to believe that this devastating conflict , and the suffering it causes , must be brought to an end through political negotiations , the white house said .