beijing ( reuters ) - the former head of china s powerful internet regulator is under investigation for suspected corruption , the ruling communist party said , the latest senior official to be caught up in a sweeping campaign against graft .
lu wei was suspected of serious discipline breaches , the party s corruption-busting central commission for discipline inspection ( ccdi ) said in a brief statement late on tuesday , using a euphemism for graft .
reuters was unable to reach lu or a representative to seek comment .
at the height of his influence , lu , a colorful and often brash official by chinese standards , was seen as emblematic of china s increasingly pervasive internet controls .
organizers of china s first world internet conference in 2014 , set up under lu to promote beijing s vision of internet governance , irked foreign tech firms by seeking their agreement on a last-minute declaration on internet sovereignty .
tech industry representatives ultimately declined to sign the pledge , and rights groups condemned the declaration as an attempt to undermine internet freedom .
in 2015 , he told reporters , indeed , we do not welcome those that make money off china , occupy china s market , even as they slander china s people .
these kinds of websites i definitely will not allow in my house .
but courting china s powerful internet regulator , the cyberspace administration of china , was a key task for companies hoping to stay in his good graces or gain access to the huge internet market .
when lu visited facebook inc s u.s. campus in 2014 , mark zuckerberg , the founder of the social networking site that has long been blocked in china , greeted lu in mandarin , according to a chinese government website .
but lu s downfall , foreshadowed by his june 2016 replacement as head of the internet regulator and the loss of his other posts , is unlikely to signal a reversal of internet control policies , which have tightened further under successor xu lin .
in a separate statement on its website on wednesday , the ccdi emphasized the significance of lu being the first tiger , or senior official , to be brought to heel for corruption since the key 19th communist party congress held last month .
it said that under lu , the cyberspace administration did not carry out president xi jinping s instructions in a timely or resolute fashion .
the improper use of power occurred on occasion , and the safeguarding of political security was not strong enough , it said , without elaborating on any of lu s specific wrongdoings .
lu worked his way up though china s official xinhua news agency before becoming head of propaganda in beijing and then moving to internet work in 2013 .
he became a deputy propaganda minister after being replaced at the internet regulator .
the government has blocked sites it deems could challenge communist party rule or threaten stability , including sites such as facebook and google s main search engine and gmail service .
xi has waged war against deep-rooted corruption since taking office five years ago , punishing hundreds of thousands of officials .