berlin ( reuters ) - in his eight years as german finance minister , wolfgang schaeuble earned a reputation in the euro zone as a feisty disciplinarian , insisting on painful austerity measures for debt-ridden countries like greece .
now poised to become president of germany s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , schaeuble , 75 , will instead try to impose discipline on fractious lawmakers , including a far-right , eurosceptic party , following sunday s federal election .
as custodian of germany s public finances , schaeuble has proven a trusted , if awkward , ally for chancellor angela merkel , securing for her the support of skeptical lawmakers on the right of their conservative bloc for three greek bailouts - a feat he achieved by ensuring the aid came with hairshirt austerity .
by agreeing to move to the bundestag , schaeuble has opened the way for the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) to take over his coveted ministry , helping to unblock talks on a new three-way coalition likely also to include the greens .
to the alarm of merkel s conservatives , the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) is now the third largest party in the bundestag - and the highly experienced , resilient schaeuble is viewed as the best qualified to tame recalcitrant lawmakers .
leading afd candidate alexander gauland has vowed his party would hunt the new government , whatever its make-up .
already germany s longest serving lawmaker , schaeuble brings to his new job a fierce intellect , constitutional expertise and a sharp tongue he is not afraid to use , even against merkel .
do you know what you are doing ?
he recalled asking her when she sounded him out about becoming finance minister in 2009 .
i m loyal ... but uncomfortable .
so it has proved .
once merkel s boss before their roles were reversed , schaeuble dominated germany s policy response to the euro zone crisis and intervened when he felt the chancellor was on the wrong track - and not only in the field of finance .
in november 2015 , soon after merkel opened germany s borders to migrants pouring in from the middle east , he said the country risked facing an avalanche of refugees triggered by careless actions .
he subsequently defended merkel s open-door migrant policy , however , accusing the afd of fuelling fears .
so far , there is no one in germany who has received one euro less for his family or his children because refugees have come here , he said last september .
calling out the afd in that way will now be a full-time job for schaeuble , a man who has devoted his career to reunifying germany and securing its place in a european project he has long championed and tried to strengthen , however controversially in the eyes of many greeks and others .
his laser-like focus on budgetary rigor has seen germany run a budget surplus for the last three years , though critics say his insistence on austerity policies deepened the euro zone crisis and hampered its economic recovery .
although he is relinquishing the powerful finance ministry , as bundestag president schaeuble will technically outrank merkel .
the position ranks second in the state hierarchy after the president of the republic and ahead of the chancellor .
he has outranked her before : as head of their christian democratic union ( cdu ) in 1998 following then-chancellor helmut kohl s election loss , schaeuble named merkel as his deputy .
it was a pairing that would last less than a year and a half .
caught up in a party funding scandal surrounding kohl , he was forced to resign as party leader in 2000 , with merkel taking over .
but schaeuble is a survivor .
wheelchair-bound since a deranged man shot him at an election campaign event a few days after german reunification in 1990 , he lives for the job and signaled before the election his readiness to stay in politics .
this drive has won the respect of fellow conservatives and lawmakers from other parties , who want him to bring his unparalleled weight to the role of bundestag president , normally a low-profile position .
a brilliant speaker with natural authority , he also possesses the tactical wit to rein in afd mps if they were to stage calculated affronts against established political culture , said carsten nickel of teneo intelligence .
despite his conservative views on financial matters , schaeuble has been a leading voice calling for better integration of muslims into german society .
as german interior minister in 2006 , schaeuble founded the german islam conference .
at a 10th anniversary celebration last year , he said there was no question that islam belongs to germany , but he also underscored the importance of cracking down on criminals and terrorists among the migrants who entered the country .
economic policymakers in southern europe longing to see the back of him may come to regret his departure as the fdp - now likely to take the finance ministry - is even more hawkish than schaeuble .
the pro-business fdp wants euro zone countries to be able to leave the currency bloc rather than stay under an interminable rescue policy , and it favors winding down the lending capacity of the euro zone s esm rescue fund .
schaeuble is one of the most pro-european politicians that i know , so from a common eurozone perspective it couldn t go better with someone else , let alone an fdp minister , said one euro zone official .