brussels ( reuters ) - european union leaders on thursday reaffirmed their full commitment to the 2015 nuclear deal between iran and world powers , hoping that the u.s. congress would not let it collapse despite relentless criticism by president donald trump .
but the bloc , reluctant to isolate itself completely from washington , is also stepping up criticism of iran s ballistic missile program and its role in what the west sees as fomenting instability in the middle east .
trump last week adopted a harsh new approach to iran by refusing to certify its compliance with the nuclear deal , struck with the united states and five other powers including britain , france and germany after more than a decade of diplomacy .
we fully stay committed to the complete implementation by all sides of the iranian nuclear deal .
we see this as a key security interest for the european union and the region , said the bloc s top diplomat , federica mogherini .
the eu leaders joint statement , agreed after talks in brussels on thursday , reaffirms full commitment to the iran nuclear deal .
the bloc has been stepping up efforts to save the deal , saying it was crucial to regional and global security , and it has appealed to the u.s. congress not to let it fall .
trump has given congress 60 days to decide whether to reimpose economic sanctions on iran , lifted under the pact in exchange for the scaling down of a program the west fears was aimed at building a nuclear bomb , something tehran denies .
the eu leaders also highlighted the need to protect their companies and investors dealing with iran from any adverse effects should washington reinstate the sanctions , officials said .
should trump walk away from the deal , supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei said on wednesday that iran would shred it .
the bloc sees the agreement as a chief international success of recent years , and fears tearing it apart would hurt its credibility as well as harming diplomatic efforts to defuse tensions around a nuclear stand-off with north korea .
in outlining his tougher stance , trump said tehran must also be held accountable for advancing its ballistic missile program and its regional political role .
we will defend the nuclear deal and stand by the nuclear deal and implement the nuclear deal .
but we also don t want to be standing on a completely opposing side to the u.s. , an eu official said .
if they withdraw , we would be left in a rather interesting company with china and russia .
so there may be an issue of separating the nuclear deal from the ballistic program and iran s regional role , sending signals on the latter two .
iran s elite islamic revolutionary guards ( irgc ) said on thursday the ballistic missile program would accelerate despite u.s. and eu pressure to suspend it , the semi-official tasnim news agency reported .
the eu , which has expressed concerns related to ballistic missiles and increasing tensions in the middle east , has said these issues should be discussed without direct links to the nuclear deal .
they were never very fond of the nuclear deal in the first place but now the situation has changed a lot .
both many democrats as well as some republicans feel like they need to play a more active role on foreign policy to restrain the president , the official said .