bangkok ( reuters ) - almost 12 million people , or almost one sixth of thailand s population , have visited the glittering grand palace in bangkok to pay their respects to the late king bhumibol adulyadej since he died last october , the palace said on thursday .
thousands lined the streets of bangkok s historic area near the chao phraya river to enter the palace on thursday , the last day to see the late king before the royal cremation on oct. 26 .
queues stretched for more than two km ( 1.2 miles ) , officials said , with many lining up since wednesday .
i ve been here since 6 pm and i managed to pay respects at 7 am , tossapon thongmak , 33 , a bangkok resident .
we were rained on last night but this is a must - we must pay our respects to father , he said .
king bhumibol died last october aged 88 and his body has laid in state in a gold hall at the palace .
he was widely seen as a father figure and regarded as the nation s moral compass during decades of on-off political turbulence including several coups , bloody street protests and a region-wide 1997/98 financial crisis .
he was succeeded in december by his only son , king maha vajiralongkorn , known as rama x , who has since overseen a shake-up at the palace to give himself greater authority .
the royal funeral will be a mix of buddhist religious ceremonies and hindu brahmin rituals .
this is the first time that many thais will experience a royal funeral for a monarch .
so the grandeur , the beauty , and the determination of everyone involved in the preparation is a new experience for all , tonthong chandransu , a public relations official for the funeral organization committee and an expert on the thai monarchy , told reuters in an interview .
from the architecture , the craftsmanship , the various preparations and their fine details , i have never seen this sort of dedication .
builders have been working for months on a royal crematorium that was built from scratch on a green in front of the palace .
time was needed in order to build heaven , based on imagination and belief systems that fused buddhism with brahmin hindu traditions that are important in thai society , tonthong said .
the palace has said it expects 250,000 mourners to attend the royal cremation .
thailand s tourism body has asked tourists to respect thai sensitivities during what promises to be an emotionally-charged time .