buenos aires ( reuters ) - the victory of argentine president mauricio macri s coalition in midterm elections on sunday marked a resounding defeat of peronism , one of latin america s best-known political movements , leaving it divided and with no clear leader .
in particular , a win by macri s candidate over former president cristina fernandez in buenos aires province , the cradle of peronism , diminishes her chances of returning to the presidency in 2019 and opens the door to a new era of business friendly reforms .
while it is too soon to call the end of peronism as a political force , the let s change movement founded by macri , a former businessman and soccer mogul , has introduced a generation of new politicians who are less interested in dwelling on the emotion and imagery of argentina s past than their predecessors .
we know that if we win , there will be renewal in congress , but above all that people will accept that the country has changed , macri s chief campaign strategist jaime duran barba said in a recent interview ahead of the election .
he pointed to buenos aires governor , 44-year-old maria eugenia vidal , and 51-year-old buenos aires city mayor , horacio rodriguez larreta , both from macri s coalition , as examples of the leaders of the future .
macri s coalition won close to 42 percent of the national vote on sunday , when argentina elected a third of the senate and half the lower chamber .
that still leaves macri short of a majority in congress but new alliances should enable him to pass tax , capital market and labor reforms .
fernandez , who succeeded her late husband nestor kirchner in 2007 , won two presidential elections thanks to nationalist appeals and generous social welfare programs .
she drew comparisons to eva peron , whose support for the country s poor means she is still adored by many working class argentines 65 years after her death .
evita , as she is known worldwide , was the wife of general juan peron , the founder of the peronist movement .
focused on workers rights , its economic policies have veered from protectionist to free-market and it defies easy classification .
in different forms , it has been argentina s dominant political force since the 1940s .
argentina s electoral list system guaranteed fernandez a senate seat and some political influence with her second-place finish , but she lost by more than four percentage points to macri s little-known former education minister in the bellwether province that is home to nearly 40 percent of voters .
in october , 57 percent of buenos aires province citizens said they would never vote for fernandez , according to a poll by management & fit .
pollster poliarquia said that , nationwide , 53 percent of argentines have a negative view of fernandez , while 30 percent have a positive view .
many argentines blame fernandez for isolating them economically with protectionist policies and cutting the country off from international capital markets .
now the center of a number of corruption investigations , fernandez personally denies committing graft , though she admits there may have been corruption in her government .
peronism today is rebuilding itself , leaving behind a very negative era , said enrique zuleta puceiro , director of pollster opsm .
there are not any leaders with high levels of national influence .
with less clout in congress , moderate peronist governors are weighing joining macri s reform agenda or abandoning their political careers .
they have distanced themselves from fernandez , who formed a new party for the election .
macri told reuters in august that he could negotiate with a new generation of peronist governors like juan manuel urtubey of salta and sergio unac of san juan , who worked with him to reach an agreement to cut spending .
if peronism does not renew itself it is destined to disappear , urtubey told perfil newspaper , before his coalition in salta lost heavily to macri s allies in the election .
since taking office in late 2015 , macri has worked to literally dismantle peronist symbols , taking down portraits and closing museums to get rid of their cultural legacies .
however , given its historical weight and habit of renovation , most analysts say it is too soon to write peronism s obituary .
giving up peronism for dead , thinking it will remain fragmented and confused until 2019 , i believe is an error , said marcos buscaglia , founding partner at buenos aires political and economic consultancy alberdi partners .
paula alonso , director of the latin american and hemispheric studies program at george washington university , said argentina s former peronist leaders - including peron himself , carlos menem , and the kirchners - had generally risen swiftly to power from relative obscurity .
it s unpredictable in many ways , and therefore it is always relevant , she said .