paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron said on tuesday it was not up to him to lecture egypt on civil liberties , but told its visiting leader abdel fattah al-sisi that strengthening human rights was in its interest .
sisi , denying accusations by human rights groups that he had allowed his forces to use torture , told a paris news conference : we do not practice torture and ... we must be wary of all the information published by rights organizations .
with both france and egypt concerned by the political vacuum in libya and the threat from jihadist groups in egypt , the two countries have cultivated even closer economic and military ties during sisi s rise to power .
but rights organizations have accused france under macron of turning a blind eye to what they say are increasing violations of freedoms by sisi s government as the 2018 presidential elections approach .
i believe in the sovereignty of states , and therefore , just as i don t accept being lectured on how to govern my country , i don t lecture others , macron said at a joint news conference with sisi in paris following talks .
my deeply held conviction is that it s in president sisi s interest to accompany the defense and consolidation of human rights by the egyptian state , in the context that only he can be the judge of , the french president said .
during their 50-minute meeting , macron brought up the issue of a dozen cases of alleged abuses of freedoms , in particular relating to egyptian journalists and human rights activists , sources close to macron said .
sisi , replying to journalists questions , said he was responsible for 100 million egyptians who lived in turbulent times and alongside people who followed extremist thought and did not like to co-exist in peace .
when it comes to human rights , we re not evading an answer but i hope that we understand it in its true context of a country in egypt s situation .
we are not in europe , with its intellectual , cultural , civilization and human advancement .
we re in a different region .
in a report in september , human rights watch ( hrw ) denounced widespread and systematic use of torture by egyptian security forces .
the united nations on oct. 13 condemned an anti-gay crackdown in egypt .
it also slammed french indulgence towards repression in egypt .
rights groups accuse france of abandoning principles in favor of economic and security interests .
they are particularly critical of the relationship between foreign minister jean-yves le drian who in his previous role as defense minister developed a personal relationship with sisi .
french officials dismiss the criticism and say the new administration is following a policy of not openly criticizing countries over human rights so as to be more effective in private and work on a case by case basis .
reacting to a lack of progress in respecting human rights and on democratic standards , the united states decided in august to freeze the payment of $ 195 million in military aid to egypt .
under the previous government , france concluded several major military agreements with egypt , including the sale of 24 rafale combat aircraft , a multi-mission frigate and two mistral warships in contracts worth some six billion euros .
france will discuss the possible sale of more rafale aircrafts with sisi , french finance minister bruno le maire said earlier on tuesday .