warsaw ( reuters ) - polish parliamentary legal experts ruled on monday that warsaw has the right to demand reparations from germany for its actions in the country during world war two , although poland s foreign minister indicated that no immediate claim would be made .
the issue of reparations , revived by poland s eurosceptic ruling party law and justice ( pis ) after decades of improving relations with germany , could escalate tensions between the two european union governments .
in a non-binding ruling , the experts said a decision by poland s communist authorities in the 1950s to relinquish all claims against germany over damages caused by its invasion and occupation of much of poland was unconstitutional and invalid .
( the communist government ) was forced into this by the soviet union , and poland was not a sovereign state at the time , said arkadiusz mularczyk , a pis deputy who had commissioned the study .
poland has a legal basis to demand reparations .
the pis government deeply distrustful of germany has raised calls for wartime compensation in recent weeks but it has yet to officially demand reparations .
foreign minister witold waszczykowski said on monday that discussions on the issue may not yield the appropriate result .
but they should take place to inform the german side about the enormity of destruction it has caused , he told public broadcaster tvp1 .
waszczykowski added further analysis was needed before any claims were lodged .
six million poles , including three million polish jews , were killed during the war , and the capital warsaw was razed to the ground in 1944 after a failed uprising in which 200,000 civilians died .
relations between germany and poland had warmed following the 1989 collapse of communism , particularly under the previous centrist government in warsaw .
but they have sunk to a decade low since the nationalist-leaning pis won a parliamentary election in 2015 .
it says berlin wields too much influence within the eu .
pis also frequently invokes poland s suffering under the german occupation as part of a broader effort it says aims to promote patriotism at home , and to counter accusations that some poles were also perpetrators of wartime crimes against the jews .
under communism , poles were taught to believe that , with a few exceptions , the nation had conducted itself honorably during a war that killed a fifth of the polish population .
but a series of books and films have questioned this self-image in recent years , opening a painful debate over collective guilt and reconciliation .
german parliamentary legal experts said last month that warsaw had no right to demand reparations .