kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - handcuffed , wearing bulletproof vests and under heavily armed guard , the two women accused of murdering the half-brother of north korea s leader were pushed around a malaysian airport in wheelchairs on tuesday during a court visit to the crime scene .
indonesian siti aisyah , 25 , and doan thi huong , 28 , a vietnamese , are charged with murdering kim jong nam by smearing his face with vx , a chemical nerve agent , at kuala lumpur s budget international terminal on feb. 13 .
defense lawyers say the women thought they were involved in a prank for a reality tv show when they encountered a man at the airport and did not know they were handling poison .
the two women were brought back to the scene as part of an entourage of court officials , led by trial judge azmi ariffin and accompanied by over 200 police officers and dozens of journalists , on a visit to retrace the events that unfolded before , during and after kim jong nam s death .
defense lawyers requested the visit after video recordings of the women on airport closed-circuit television were screened in court .
gooi soon seng , siti aisyah s lawyer , said the visit was necessary to verify the surroundings and locations where the prosecution say the murder took place .
the cctv footages were taken from various cameras and various places , so from there we couldn t get a complete picture on how ( the incident ) took place , gooi told a news conference after the visit .
the site visit covered various locations in the terminal shown in the videos , such as a restaurant where siti aisyah was seen meeting an unidentified man , the toilets where police witnesses said both women had gone to after the attack on kim jong nam , the clinic where the victim sought medical aid and the taxi stands where both suspects were seen after the attack .
huong appeared unwell midway through the three-hour site visit , while siti aisyah broke down in tears .
both women were then provided wheelchairs .
defense lawyers later said both huong and siti aisyah were exhausted from being weighed down by their bulletproof vests .
recordings on feb. 13 show huong approaching kim and grasping his face from behind near the airport s check-in counters before quickly leaving .
siti aisyah could not be seen but was identified by a police witness as a figure running in another direction .
the videos also show the women heading to separate bathrooms to wash their hands .
both women were seen meeting with two men , identified only as mr. chang and mr. y , before kim jong nam s death .
according to police , the men had applied liquid on the women s hands , and were among four suspects-at-large charged together with the women for the murder .
closely-watched trial the airport visit comes as the high-profile trial entered its third week .
twelve witnesses have testified so far .
forensic and chemical weapons experts said kim jong nam had died of nerve agent poisoning , and that vx had been found on siti aisyah and huong s clothes .
traces of the poison were also found under huong s fingernails .
prosecutors say siti aisyah and huong conspired with four others who are still at large to kill kim jong nam .
south korean and u.s. officials have said that kim jong un s regime was behind his half-brother s death .
kim jong nam , who was living in exile in macau , had criticized his family s dynastic rule of north korea and his brother had ordered his execution , according to some south korean lawmakers .
the hearing resumes in court on wednesday .