somebody doesn t like a certain person affecting her ratings but does megyn underestimate the popularity of the don ?
on friday s the kelly file on the fox news channel , host megyn kelly debated andy dean , a former president of trump productions and a supporter of gop presidential front-runner donald trump , over whether or not it would have been appropriate for trump to defend president barack obama when asked about the muslim problem in america and singling out the president at a campaign rally in new hampshire early this week.dean likened it to obama s lack of rhetoric regarding jeremiah wright , the controversial pastor of chicago s trinity united church of christ , who made derogatory statements about the country following the sept. 11 , 2001 terrorist attacks.kelly was not satisfied with dean s response and asked him if he was uncomfortable .
transcript as follows : megyn kelly , host of the kelly file : we want to start with andy dean , he s the former president of trump productions and worked with mr. trump for seven years .
andy , thank you for being here tonight.andy dean , former president of trump productions : thank you.kelly : so , what is officially is the defense being offered by the trump campaign on this ? dean : well , look , i think it was a question that was asked at a town hall forum , and donald as you can tell kind of shrug his shoulders and laugh a little bit .
because it s a pretty aggressive question .
but as far as what donald thinks , i mean , we all know that president obama went to reverend jeremiah wright s church .
and what religion that is , i m not sure because we remember reverend wright saying , god damn america .
that s in the bible .
i read the bible .
i have not seen that passage yet .
so , i think more than anything , there s just confusion on our end as to why one tiny question is some sort of big media controversy right now.kelly : you know , it s because the guy a couple reasons .
number one , he seem today be condemning muslims as a group , as opposed to radical muslims .
number two , he said that barack obama dean : the questioner was , not donald trump.kelly : yes .
the questioner.dean : the questioner was , not donald trump.kelly : right .
exactly.dean : correct.kelly : and then number two , he said the questioner that barack obama is a muslim and that he s not a citizen of this country .
and donald trump did not correct him or challenged him on other one.dean : well , that s not correct .
we know that barack obama is a citizen of this country , one of the reasons why we have definitive proof is that donald trump got barack obama s long form birth certificate.kelly : why didn t he say that ? dean : and once he produced that , there s been no controversy since .
and it is , megyn , for a second here .
it s pretty impressive , if you look at donald trump s pure negotiating skill , then nobody on planet earth was able to produce this document until donald turned this into an issue and then barack obama ( crosstalk ) kelly : so then , he s in the best position to turn onto that man and say , we know he s a citizen sir , we know that .
because i pushed for him in the release and he did .
and that question has been resolved .
period .
let s move on.dean : okay .
well , megyn , he could have said that , but by that exact same logic , think of this , why didn t barack obama according to that same logic stand up at jeremiah wright s church and say , hey jeremiah , not god damn america.kelly : not a good question .
not a good question.dean : america isn t no , it s the exact same thing.kelly : barack obama is not running for office .
donald trump is.dean : sorry , he wasn t running for office in 2007 and 2003 kelly : see , he won the office .
and he s now the sitting president.dean : correct.kelly : so that fish has swum .
that ship has sailed.dean : okay , but it s a parallel argument .
megyn , i m sorry .
this is a rough night , i guess.kelly : well , that s a deflection , andy.dean : that s not making any sense.kelly : that s a deflection.dean : it s not a deflection .
it s an exact parallel.kelly : you seem to be dodging .
are you uncomfortable on this issue ?
why can t you answer whether dean : what is it megyn ?
please get specifics.kelly : okay .
i will .
why didn t donald trump look at him and say he is not a muslim .
he is an american citizen .
i m the man who made him produce his birth certificate.dean : i think that could have been an answer as to why , you know , and donald answered the questions at a town hall .
i think indeed the perfect politically correct answer at every moment to satisfy the media .
you know , i m not a genius .
i can t figure that out.kelly : that s okay .
that s a reasonable response.dean : thank you.kelly : all the stuff about , why didn t barack obama stand-up was a deflection .
we got to it eventually.dean : no , it s not .
it s was an exact parallel argument , actually , megyn.kelly : oh , i ll let the viewers decide.dean : when you re-watch this , we ll see that .
okay , great.kelly : i ll look forward to doing just that later.dean : you got it.via : breitbart news