we just reported on the virginia shooter s message to karen handel ( see below ) and now this .
is anyone going to want to be a candidate for anything if this threatening behavior continues ?
the left has gotten so dangerous in their rhetoric and their violence .
whoever did this should be punished to the max to set an example for other leftists.georgia republican karen handel s neighborhood has been blocked off after reports that letters containing a white powdery substance and calling handel a dirty fascist were left at homes of her neighbors.police officers have been going from mailbox to mailbox after finding the suspicious package , according to local reports , which also indicate that roswell police continue to flood to the area.the content of the threatening letter , posted below , contains graphic language .
your neighbor karen handel is a dirty fascist cunt but i m sure you already knew that , the letter says , according to a picture .
take a whiff of the powder and join her in the hospital you bourgeoisie motherfuckers .
resist the fascist takeover ! ! !
! , it says .
string up the collaborators !
the situation is being monitored by local wsb-tv by a helicopter.handel acknowledged the reports and said her campaign was coordinating with local law enforcement .
this afternoon we had some suspicious packages delivered to our house and to our neighbors , handel said .
the packages contained threatening letters and a suspicious substance .
the police were quickly notified and street is now being blocked off .
we will continue to coordinate with law enforcement as necessary .
our previous report on handel s response to the virginia shooter : candidate handel s excellent response to alexandria shooter calling her a republican b * * ch please note that handel and democrat john osoff are in a battle that will take place on june 20th in the 6th district georgia runoff get out and vote handel ! if you want to donate to karen handel : donate herekaren handel , the republican candidate for congress in georgia s sixth district , on wednesday afternoon addressed that morning s shooting at a republican congressional baseball team practice.a gunman who police identified as james t. hodgkinson opened fire on republican lawmakers practicing for a charity baseball game in alexandria , va. , wounding five people including house majority whip steve scalise ( r. , la . ) .
hodgkinson had penned a facebook rant against handel last week .
my thoughts are with the victims of this morning s despicable , unprovoked attack on the republican congressional softball team , wrote handel , georgia s former secretary of state .
representative scalise is a friend , and my heart goes out to him and his family .
steve and i wish him and the others wounded a speedy recovery .
they remain in our thoughts and prayers .
i also want to commend the heroic actions of the capitol police officers who clearly prevented today s attack from being a much bigger tragedy , she wrote.handel also addressed expletive comments that hodgkinson made about her on social media.hodgkinson posted an article about handel to his facebook , calling her a republican bitch who wants people to work for slave wages , nbc affiliate wxia reported .
republican bitch wants people to work for slave wages , when a livable wage is the only way to go !
vote blue , it s right for you !
hodgkinson wrote on facebook .
i am aware that the suspect recently made vile comments about me on social media , handel said in her statement .
it also appears that the suspect targeted members of congress specifically because he disagreed with their views .
hodgkinson s social media posts indicate he was a supporter of sen. bernie sanders ( i. , vt. ) and loathed president donald trump and republican policies.handel echoed calls by others , including house speaker paul ryan ( r. , wis. ) , for bipartisan unity following the attack .
we should not allow our political differences to escalate to violent attacks .
we must all refuse to allow the politics of our country to be defined in this way , she wrote .
now more than ever , we must unite as a one nation under god .
it is incumbent upon all of us to work together in a civil and productive way , even when we disagree .
read more : wfb