berlin ( reuters ) - germany s social democrats vowed to return to the opposition and push themes of social justice as they remake their party after winning less than 21 percent of the vote in sunday s election , the worst result in their post-war history .
the spd party swiftly announced it would quit the grand coalition in which it has served alongside conservative prime minister angela merkel for the past four years .
sunday s election gave merkel a fourth term , but she faces difficult coalition talks after her own conservative bloc also won its smallest share of the vote since the 1940s .
with nearly half of voters rejecting both of the main parties that have dominated germany since world war two , the spd in particular faces a difficult task of winning back support .
the party would continue its fight for democracy , tolerance and respect in opposition , leader martin schulz told cheering supporters , announcing the decision to pull out of the coalition .
we are the bulwark of democracy , he said .
germany s oldest political party and one of the buttresses of the european left for 150 years , the spd struggled to differentiate itself from merkel s conservatives in coalition .
the spd has been collateral damage of the dissatisfaction with the current government , said tyson barker , an expert on german politics at the aspen institute .
it was not able to draw bright lines of opposition to merkel s cdu and paid the price in lack of enthusiasm .
tim stuchtey of the brandenburg institute for society and security said he expected the spd to move to the left after the election blowout , although he did not rule out the possibility it could change its mind about a coalition and return without schulz if merkel fails to find other partners .
in becoming the biggest opposition party , the spd s first task may be keeping a lid on the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) , which became the first far right group to win seats in the bundestag since the 1950s .
thomas oppermann , head of the spd in parliament , told broadcaster phoenix the center-left party would not shy away from legal options to block any racist statements by the afd .
the afd opposes immigration but denies it is racist .
the spd had hoped for a resurgence under schulz , a 61-year-old bookseller untainted by the coalition , having served in brussels as head of the european parliament rather than in the cabinet alongside merkel .
schulz s nomination had briefly lifted the party to ratings of around 30 percent , sparking hopes it could win enough seats to form a leftwing coalition .
but those gains evaporated steadily in ensuing months as the mild-mannered schulz failed to drum up voter enthusiasm .
immigration has become a particularly polarizing issue in the two years since merkel left germany s borders open to around 1 million migrants mainly fleeing war in the middle east .
the spd backed merkel s stance of welcoming refugees .
schulz told supporters at the party s headquarters he would stay on to lead the party in its new role in opposition .
he called the election result a bitter loss , but said the spd s drive for social justice , equality and workers rights was more important than ever given the afd s gains .
he acknowledged that germans were divided over the arrival of the migrants , but said the party would stick to its values .
the main parties of europe s traditional left have faced a crisis of confidence in recent years , leaving them cast out of power in all but a handful of countries .
some , such as britain s labour under jeremy corbyn , have tacked to the left to seek support among workers left behind by years of stagnant wages and government austerity policies .
elsewhere , such as in france and spain , voters have deserted them for new parties led by centrists , populists or both .
jackson janes , president of the american institute for contemporary german studies , said the spd had suffered from dissatisfaction affecting all mainstream parties , and from the particular perils facing the left .
the party had lost track of their demographic core group among working class voters , he said .
the spd s whole infrastructure was built around the workers , but they don t have a grasp of how the economy has changed for people .
schulz said party officials would meet on monday to start remaking the party , but said he was encouraged by the large number of young people who joined the party this year .
compared with other social democratic parties in europe , we are still firmly grounded in the middle of german democracy , he said .
20 to 21 percent of the voters is not insignificant .
the most pressing challenge for the spd is an election on oct. 15 in the state of lower saxony , it lost a one-seat majority with its coalition partners the greens , and is now trailing the conservatives in the polls .
the spd already ceded power to conservatives twice this year in the states of north rhine-westphalia and schleswig-holstein .