berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel praised her veteran finance minister at a party in his honor on monday , as a potential coalition partner laid claim to his job as their price for supporting her in power .
speaking at wolfgang schaeuble s 75th birthday celebration , merkel paid tribute to his 45 years as a member of parliament , but gave no clear signal that she wanted to retain him in the post after a national election on sunday that she is on track to win .
we re fighting together at the moment to ensure there are at least four more years , merkel told attendees at the event hosted by her christian democrats ( cdu ) in offenburg , in his constituency in the southwestern state of baden-wuerttemberg .
in a wheelchair since a deranged man shot him at an election campaign event a few days after german reunification in 1990 , schaeuble lives for his job and has made abundantly clear he would relish another run as finance minister .
but his fate may rest in the hands of the parties merkel ends up governing with .
on monday , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) , regarded as a natural ally of her conservatives , made a play for his ministry in exchange for joining the next coalition .
the fdp should enter no government in which it can not name a finance minister , alexander hahn , a member of the party s national executive , told mass-market daily bild .
the fdp is still haunted by its decision not to take the finance ministry in 2009 at the start of merkel s second term - a move that backfired as schaeuble quashed the fdp s plans for tax cuts , alienating its pro-business supporters who then booted it out of parliament in 2013 .
the fdp has reinvented itself with a hard line on europe and its leader has voiced concerns that merkel and french president emmanuel macron plan to strengthen the euro zone by creating a system of financial transfers between states .
schaeuble , who is the face of german austerity and has insisted that eu countries adhere to europe s budget rules , could help merkel keep conservative voters and lawmakers on board as they press ahead with deeper euro zone integration .
horst seehofer , leader of merkel s bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , said he favoured a tie-up with the fdp .
i quite clearly hope for a black-yellow coalition , he told the handelsblatt daily referring to the parties colors .
the fdp is currently polling well above the 5 percent threshold it will have to cross to re-enter parliament on sunday , but surveys suggest it and merkel s conservatives will probably need a third partner to secure a majority .
the chancellor may yet find herself resuming the current grand coalition with the center-left social democrats ( spd ) , whose leader martin schulz accused her of personally blocking measures proposed by his party to improve the situation of families with small and medium incomes .
during a town hall-style ard television interview , he said merkel would start to roll back social policy reforms after the election if she was able to form a conservatives/fdp coalition .
they want to abolish the law to limit rent increases .
and then the property market will go through the roof , he said .
the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) , which is expected to enter parliament for the first time , meanwhile beefed up its anti-immigration rhetoric .
germany has become a safe haven for criminals and terrorists from all over the world because thanks to a lack of border checks it s easy to get in , top afd candidate alice weidel said in berlin .
merkel , who was dressed in the conservatives black and the fdp s yellow , paid tribute to schaeuble as a european , a fighter for german unity , a passionate parliamentarian and an intellectual force who kept calm in hectic situations .
but she also wished him time to spend with his family and try out new things , as she presented him with the complete works of dietrich bonhoeffer , a german pastor and theologian known for his opposition to the nazis .
we wish you a good read , new insights , all the best and , in the name of the cdu and from me personally , dear wolfgang schaeuble , many heartfelt thanks , merkel said .