the washington post reported : the patriarchs of this quiet island of millionaires threw up roadblocks when donald trump swooped in and turned its historic oceanfront mar-a-lago mansion into a private club.the town council , seeing trump as an ostentatious outsider , handed him a list of restrictions as he sought to transform the property in the 1990s .
membership , traffic , party attendance , even photography all would be strictly limited.but trump undercut his adversaries with a searing attack , claiming that local officials seemed to accept the established private clubs in town that had excluded jews and blacks while imposing tough rules on his inclusive one.trump s lawyer sent every member of the town council copies of two classic movies about discrimination : a gentleman s agreement , about a journalist who pretends to be jewish to expose anti-semitism , and guess who s coming to dinner about a white couple s reaction to their daughter bringing home a black fiance.the move infuriated council members , who said it was a distraction from their concerns that trump s club would spoil a quiet street .
but , in time , trump got most of the restrictions lifted.in many ways mar-a-lago is the antithesis of the area s traditional wasp-y clubs the beach club , the bath and tennis club , the sailfish club .
the everglades club , palm beach s oldest and founded in 1919 , is what nicholas golubov , research director for the historical society of palm beach , called a bastion of the old , palm beach elite .
trump s business model in palm beach , by comparison , has been a beacon of inclusion .
as long as potential members had the $ 100,000 entry fee ( bumped up to $ 200,000 in january ) , there was a good chance that they d be accepted .
in a further departure from palm beach taste , trump allowed non-members , as well as members , to rent spaces for bar mitzvahs , bat mitzvahs , weddings , and charity galas .
anyone can party at the new winter white house , as long as they can afford it .
i think it s the best thing trump did in his whole life , said laurence leamer , the author of the book madness under the royal palms : love and death behind the gates of palm beach .
he opened up this island .
he also had jews and gays and african americans he even had the first gay wedding .
most palm beach clubs have unapologetically restrictive membership policies , but resist any notion that those policies have anything to do with race , creed , or color .
that s an old-fashioned view , certainly of our club , said john newman , general manager sailfish club .
we have no discrimination in our club ; members have to be sponsored by a current member , but we have all faiths in our club .
( the bath and tennis , beach , and everglades clubs declined to comment for this article ; mar-a-lago did not respond to requests for comment . )
bloomberg palm beach has a lot of rules : no whistling allowed on public streets after midnight .
no missing dog or any sign posted on a tree .
and no flag poles taller than 42 feet.in late 2006 trump put up a giant american flag on an 80-foot pole .
that led to a $ 1,250-a-day fine against him , drawing national headlines that trump basked in .
tonight , donald trump does legal battle again , this time with a bunch of millionaires down in palm beach , florida , who told trump he s flying his flag too high , is how nancy grace started her cnn interview in january 2007 with trump .
can you fly the american flag too high ?
she asked.trump got fan mail as he said in a blizzard of interviews : no american should have to get a permit to fly the flag .
i said , this is a dream to have someone sue me to take down the american flag , trump said in the interview.trump sued palm beach for $ 25 million in damages , arguing the flag was constitutionally protected free speech.ultimately , trump reached a settlement with the town .
he would put a slightly smaller flag farther from the road and mount it on a 70-foot pole.instead of paying any fines , trump made a $ 100,000 donation to a veterans charity .