mexico city ( reuters ) - the first man in modern mexican history to win a gubernatorial election as an independent said on wednesday he aimed to run in the 2018 presidential election , putting pressure on the leading anti-establishment contender , andres manuel lopez obrador .
jaime rodriguez ruptured the political status quo by capturing the wealthy northern state of nuevo leon by a landslide in 2015 after he broke with president enrique pena nieto s institutional revolutionary party , or pri .
rodriguez adds to a fragmented landscape of contenders led by twice presidential runner-up lopez obrador , a former mexico city mayor who has spent years pitching himself as the only solution to ongoing political corruption and chronic inequality .
i want to give it a try , and i want to show that the people are tired of political parties and the politicians themselves , rodriguez , 59 , told mexican broadcaster radio formula .
known as el bronco due to his blunt style , rodriguez has trailed far behind lopez obrador in early opinion polls .
however , his entry into the race could eat away at anti-establishment support for lopez obrador , a leftist with nationalist leanings .
that , in turn , could help the pri .
the avid horseman said he planned to register on saturday and will have four months to gather 866,593 signatures - or one percent of the electorate - in at least 17 regions of mexico to qualify as an independent ahead of the july 2018 vote .
voter surveys show all presidential hopefuls struggling to win the backing of as much as one third of the electorate .
in june , the pri was able to exploit those divisions , winning a tight gubernatorial race in the state of mexico , the country s most populous region , with barely a third of the vote .
leading pri officials say privately the party hopes to take advantage of that fragmentation again to eke out victory in 2018 .
however , it is still unclear who will be the party s candidate .
pena nieto is barred by law from seeking re-election .
further crowding the pool of anti-systemic candidates , senator armando rios piter , an independent former member of the center-left party of the democratic revolution ( prd ) , also registered a run for the presidency on wednesday .
the prd was once led by lopez obrador , but he turned his back on it to found a new leftist movement in 2014 , frequently accusing his former allies as being lackeys of the pri .
the prd meanwhile , has decided to forge a broad front with the main center-right opposition party , the national action party ( pan ) , to defeat the pri .
officials from both parties say they could back an independent candidate to lead their bid .
all told , ten independents have so far registered , according to the national electoral institute ( ine ) .
three of those contenders failed to meet initial requirements , the ine said .
lopez obrador has attacked rodriguez s independent credentials , describing him as a tool of the pri , and helping to fuel an increasingly bitter rivalry between the two .
according to him ( lopez obrador ) , he s the only good guy in the country , rodriguez told radio formula .
we re all devils in the rest of the country , he s the only saint .