doha ( reuters ) - qatar s ruler has introduced a law giving broad protection to tens of thousands of foreigners working as maids , cooks , cleaners and nannies , addressing some concerns long highlighted by human rights groups .
the new rules on foreign domestic staff mandate a maximum of 10 hours per working day with breaks for prayer , rest and eating , along with three weeks of severance pay at the end of their contracts .
they limit the working age to between 18 and 60 , stipulate three weeks of annual vacation , and order that employers provide proper food and medical care .
like other wealthy gulf arab states , qatar hosts tens of thousands of mostly female domestic workers , mostly from the philippines , south asia and east africa .
the measures appear to be the first in the gas-producing country to codify the rights of these employees .
state news agency qna said the measure was promulgated by sheikh tamim bin hamad al-thani and was effective immediately .
human rights watch ( hrw ) and amnesty international have long complained that gulf states do not properly regulate working conditions for low-income residents helping tend homes or toiling at ubiquitous construction sites .
they say excessively long hours and insufficient flexibility to change contracts or return home contravene international labour laws and deprive workers of their human rights .
hrw said in the qatar section of its 2016 annual report that beyond exploitative working conditions , domestic workers were left vulnerable to physical and sexual abuse by a lack of regulations governing their rights .
the new law does not cover qatar s far more numerous construction workers , whose position was improved by a december 2016 law altering the kafala or sponsorship system that forced them to seek their employer s consent to change jobs or leave the country .
domestic workers continue to be recruited under the kafala system .
qatar is keen to show it is tackling allegations of worker exploitation as it prepares to host the 2022 soccer world cup , which it has presented as a showcase of its progress and development .
it is spending billions of dollars on stadiums and other infrastructure , and has imported hundreds of thousands of construction workers from countries such as india , nepal and bangladesh .
the international labor organization ( ilo ) has asked qatar to present it with a report on the implementation of reforms to the sponsorship system by november .