buenos aires ( reuters ) - candidates allied with argentine president mauricio macri enjoyed sweeping victories in sunday s mid-term election , strengthening his position in congress while dimming prospects for a political comeback by his predecessor cristina fernandez .
a free-spending populist who nearly bankrupted the country during her 2007-2015 rule , fernandez came in a distant second in her race for the senate representing buenos aires , argentina s most populous province .
with 98 percent of ballots counted by the interior ministry , macri s former education minister , esteban bullrich , had 41.34 percent versus 37.27 percent for fernandez in the province that is home to nearly 40 percent of argentine voters .
macri s cambiemos or let s change coalition won the top five population centers of buenos aires city , and buenos aires , cordoba , santa fe and mendoza provinces .
no single party had won all five in a mid-term vote since 1985 .
today the change elected in 2015 has been consolidated , vice president gabriela michetti told voters .
the election results , largely in line with pre-vote opinion polls , robbed the opposition of the two-thirds majority needed to block presidential vetoes , said ignacio labaqui , a local analyst with new york-based consultancy medley global advisors .
this is a significant boost for the macri administration , particularly because of the defeat of cristina in buenos aires province , labaqui said .
fernandez s second-place showing still grants her one of the province s three senate seats under argentina s list system .
one third of the senate and half of the house were elected , and macri s coalition will not have a majority .
the private sector has worried about a political resurgence by fernandez , who is loved by millions of low-income argentines helped by generous social spending during her administrations .
fernandez thanked voters at her campaign headquarters and said her citizen s unity party would remain a firm opposition to macri s economic model .
critics say fernandez s growth-at-all-costs policies stoked inflation and distorted the economy through heavy-handed currency controls .
she has been further isolated politically by graft accusations .
fernandez , who as a senator will have immunity from arrest but not from trial , says there may have been corruption in her government but denies personal wrongdoing .
bullrich and fernandez were tied in a non-binding primary in august but bullrich pulled ahead in polls soon after , helped by a burst of economic growth as fernandez failed to unify the peronist opposition behind her .
people are more confident in the future , the economy , in making investments .
they are tired of corruption and populism , said cecilia de francesca , a 50-year-old writer who was celebrating at the cambiemos campaign headquarters .
argentina s merval stock index and its peso currency have strengthened on bets fernandez would not get enough support to launch a serious bid for the presidency in 2019 .
investors , particularly in argentina s vast agriculture and budding shale oil sectors , have said they want to see macri push through labor and tax reforms aimed at lowering business costs in latin america s third-biggest economy .