( story corrects to fix spelling in paragraph 10 to jagdish not jagdeep ) by suchitra mohanty and rahul bhatia new delhi/mumbai ( reuters ) - india s top court unanimously ruled on thursday that individual privacy is a fundamental right , a verdict that will impact everything from the way companies handle personal data to the roll-out of the world s largest biometric id card program .
a nine-member bench of india s supreme court announced the ruling in a major setback for the narendra modi-led government , which argued that privacy was not a fundamental right protected by the constitution .
the court ordered that two earlier rulings by large benches that said privacy was not fundamental in 1954 and 1962 now stood overruled , and it declared privacy was an intrinsic part of the right to life and liberty and part of the freedoms guaranteed by the constitution .
this is a blow to the government because the government had argued that people don t have a right to privacy , said prashant bhushan , a senior lawyer involved in the case .
constitutional experts believe the judgment has a bearing on broader civil rights , and a law that criminalizes homosexuality .
lawyers say the judgment will also have an impact on a ban on the consumption of beef in many states and alcohol in some states .
in his personal conclusion , justice sanjay kishan kaul wrote privacy is a fundamental right and it protects the inner sphere of an individual from interference from both state and non-state actors and lets individuals make autonomous life choices .
the privacy of the home must protect the family , marriage , procreation and sexual orientation , kaul wrote .
the ruling is the second landmark decision to come from the supreme court this week .
on tuesday it ruled that a law allowing muslim men to divorce their wives instantly by uttering the word talaq three times was unconstitutional , in a major victory for muslim women who have spent decades arguing it violated their right to equality .
the privacy judgment was delivered at the end of the tenure of the chief justice of india , jagdish singh khehar , who retires in a few days .
it comes against the backdrop of a large multi-party case against the mandatory use of national identity cards , known as aadhaar , as an infringement of privacy .
there have also been concerns over data breaches .
india s law minister , ravi shankar prasad , said the ruling was an affirmation of the government s stand that privacy was a fundamental right , but subject to reasonable restrictions .
he said it was not a setback to the government s plans for aadhaar , and noted that the court is separately looking into the legality of the aadhaar act .
critics say the id card links enough data to create a full profile of a person s spending habits , their friends , property they own and a trove of other information .
aadhaar , which over one billion indians have already signed up for , was set up to be a secure form of digital identification for citizens , one that they could use for government services .
but as it was rolled out , concerns arose about privacy , data security and recourse for citizens in the face of data leaks and other issues .
over time , aadhaar has been made mandatory for the filing of tax returns and operating bank accounts .
companies have also pushed to gain access to aadhaar details of customers .
those opposed to the growing demand for aadhaar data cheered the ruling .
truly a victorious week for india - upholding liberty , dignity and freedom for all , jyotiraditya scindia , a member of parliament from the opposition congress party , said in a tweet .
bhushan , the senior lawyer involved in the case , said while government demands for the use of aadhaar for tax purposes could be considered reasonable , any demands for the use of aadhaar for travel bookings and other purchases could now be questioned in the face of the ruling .
the fact that there was no dissent is an important thing , said raman chima , policy director at access now , which defends digital rights .
they made it clear that the government has to protect privacy .