berlin ( reuters ) - german economy minister sigmar gabriel has branded leading u.s. republican presidential candidate donald trump a threat to peace and prosperity while chancellor angela merkel said it had always been a pleasure to work with democrat hillary clinton .
the comments by gabriel , germany ’ s vice chancellor and leader of the social democrats , are the clearest sign yet that ruling politicians in europe are increasingly worried about the outcome of the u.s. presidential elections .
“ whether donald trump , marine le pen or geert wilders - all these right-wing populists are not only a threat to peace and social cohesion , but also to economic development , ” gabriel told welt am sonntag newspaper in an interview published on sunday .
gabriel said that trump and french national front leader le pen were promising voters “ a way back into a fairytale world ” in which economic activity only happened within national borders but that history had shown such isolated economies had no prospect .
“ we have to make the effort to explain how we want to shape globalization in a fair way , ” gabriel said .
politicians in germany and elsewhere in europe have watched nervously as businessman and reality tv star trump has moved from long shot to front-runner of the republicans seeking the party ’ s nomination ahead of the nov. 8 presidential election .
trump has described merkel ’ s welcoming policy towards refugees as “ insane ” and predicted it would cause rioting in germany .
he has also praised russian president vladimir putin , who has been at odds with europe since moscow ’ s annexation of ukraine ’ s crimea region two years ago .
merkel told bild am sonntag newspaper in an interview she did not know trump personally .
when asked about his attacks against her refugee policy , the chancellor said : “ i don ’ t see any reason why i should reply to him. ” at the same time , merkel said of democrat candidate hillary clinton : “ i value her long political experience , her commitment for women ’ s rights , family issues and health care .
“ i value her strategic thinking and that she is a strong supporter of the transatlantic partnership .
whenever i had the chance to work together with hillary clinton , it was a great pleasure. ” germany does not face a federal election until next year .
but a new anti-immigrant party , the alternative for germany ( afd ) , has emerged as a threat to merkel ’ s conservatives .
the afd wants germany to shut its border to migrants and use force to repel them if necessary .
( reporting by michael nienaber ; editing by ralph boulton ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .