the swedes have apparently reached their limit on tolerance for muslim refugees who have no intention of assimilating .
since 1975 , rapes in sweden have increased by 1,475 % !
you have to understand that swedes are really scared when an asylum house opens in their village .
they can see what has happened in other places .
salesman for alarm systems.since parliament decided in 1975 that sweden should be multicultural and not swedish , crime has exploded .
violent crime has increased by over 300 % and rapes have increased by an unbelievable 1,472 % .many swedes see the mass immigration as a forced marriage : sweden is forced to marry a man she did not choose , yet she is expected to love and honor him , even though he beats her and treats her badly .
her parents ( the government ) tell her to be warm and show solidarity with him .
are the state and i now in agreement that our mutual contract is being renegotiated ?
alexandra von schwerin , whose farm who was robbed three times .
police refused to help.once upon a time , there was a safe welfare state called sweden , where people rarely locked their doors.now , this country is a night-watchman state each man is on his own .
when the minister of justice , morgan johansson , encourages breaking the law , it means opening the gates to anarchy .
mr. and mrs. swede have every reason to be worried , with the influx of 190,000 unskilled and unemployed migrants expected this year equivalent to 2 % of sweden s current population .
the number is as if 6.4 million penniless migrants who did not speak english arrived in u.s. in one year , or 1.3 million in britain.and the swedes are preparing : demand for firearms licenses is increasing ; more and more swedes are joining shooting clubs and starting vigilante groups .
after a slight dip in 2014 , the number of new gun permits has gone up significantly again this year .
according to police statistics , there are 1,901,325 licensed guns , owned by 567,733 people , in sweden .
add to this an unknown number of illegal weapons .
to get a gun permit in sweden , you need to be at least 18 years old ; law-abiding ; well-behaved , and have a hunting license or be a member of an approved shooting club .
in 2014 , 11,000 people got a hunting license : 10 % more than the year before .
one out of five was a woman .
there is also a high demand for alarm systems right now , says a salesman at one of the security companies in an interview with gatestone .
it is largely due to the turbulence we are seeing around the country at the moment .
people have lost confidence in the state , he added .
the police will not come anymore .
truck drivers say that when they see a thief emptying the fuel tank of their trucks , they run out with a baseball bat .
it is no use calling the police , but if you hit the thief , you can at least prevent him from stealing more diesel .
many homeowners say the same thing : they sleep with a baseball bat under the bed .
but this is risky : the police can then say you have been prepared to use force , and that might backfire on you .
the salesman , who asked to remain anonymous , also spoke of sweden s many facebook groups , in which people in different villages openly discuss how they intend to protect themselves : sometimes you get totally freaked out when you see what they are writing .
but you have to understand that swedes are really scared when an asylum house opens in their village .
they can see what has happened in other places .
one blog , detailing the consequences for the local population when an asylum facility opens , is aptly named asylkaos ( asylum chaos ) .
there is a list of companies the reader is prompted to boycott ; the blog claims these businesses encourage the transformation of sweden to a multicultural society , and are therefore considered hostile to swedes .
at another security company , a salesman said that every time the immigration service buys or rents a new housing facility , his firm is swamped with calls .
the next day , he said , half the village calls and wants to buy alarm systems .
ronny fredriksson , spokesman of the security company securitas , said that the demand for home alarm systems first exploded about six years ago , when many local police stations were shut down and police moved to the main towns .
this , he said , could result in response times of several hours .
more and more people now employ the services of our security guards .
shopping malls and stores in the city come together and hire guards .
we are kind of like the local beat cops of old .
even though securitas makes big money from the increased need for home security alarms and security guards , fredriksson says they also are worried about the effect on society : the problem is that we too need the police .
when our guards catch a burglar or a violent person , we call the police but the response times are often very long .
sometimes , the detainees get violent and quite rowdy .
on occasion , the police have told us to release the person we have apprehended , if we have his identity , because they do not have a patrol nearby .
even before the massive influx of migrants in the fall of 2015 , swedes felt a need to protect themselves and with good reason .
since the parliament decided in 1975 that sweden should be multicultural and not swedish , crime has exploded .
violent crime has increased by more than 300 % , and rapes have increased by an unbelievable 1,472 % .the politicians , however , ignore the people s fear completely .
it is never discussed .
instead , the people who express concern about what kind of country sweden has become are accused of xenophobia and racism .
most likely , that is the reason more and more people are taking matters into their own hands , and protecting themselves and their families to the best of their ability.all the same , some people do not settle for that .
it seems some people are trying to stop mass immigration to sweden .
almost every day there are reports of fires being set at asylum houses .
so far , miraculously , no one has been hurt .
these fires are set not only by swedes .
on october 13 , a 36-year-old woman living in skellefte was convicted of setting fire to the asylum facility in which she herself resided .
the woman claimed she lit a candle and then fell asleep .
yet forensic evidence showed that a combustible fluid had been doused throughout the room , and the court found beyond a reasonable doubt that she herself had ignited the fire .
via : gatestone institute