the democratic party held a forum for race obsessed nut-jobs candidates who are running to become the new dnc chair .
the dnc chair will replace debbie wasserman schultz who was fired ( took the fall for hillary ) when it was discovered through leaks in the hacked dnc emails that she helped to rig the primary election against bernie sanders to ensure a hillary win .
for a brief period of time , donna brazile was the interim replacement for wasserman-schultz , until she was caught passing debate questions to hillary in advance of the debate while working as a commentator at cnn.it seems that the dnc has had a string of bad luck when it comes to finding an honest person to run their party .
but who needs honesty when you re a democrat right ?
all you need is to be able to effectively pander to minorities right ?
i mean , it worked so well for hillary after all watch sally boynton brown pander to the minorities in the crowd during a forum that gave candidates a chance to tell everyone why they believe they are the best candidate for the job .
it appears she has a single agenda , to shut white people up .
the funny thing is , there are two black candidates sitting behind her who don t seem to be impressed with her speech until she starts talking about shutting white people down , at which time you can see their demeanor change and smiles can be seen from ear to ear .
8 years ago , this would have been seen as a partisan and unnecessarily divisive speech .
but this isn t 8 years ago .
this is post divisive-obama and it will take years to unwind the mistrust , hate and division he has created between races that didn t previously exist.https : //youtu.be/tceoc7p7wmosally boyton brown should have been laughed off the stage for her ridiculous claim that a white person is not allowed to say they have black friends without also admitting they re racists .
instead , the audience and the candidates behind her clap like seals in approval of a false narrative driven almost exclusively by democrats for the purpose of keeping america divided , as they falsely believe this will somehow be the key to keeping them in power .
it is my job to shut down other white people !
it s my job to shut down other white people when they interrupt .
it is my job to shut down white people when they say they re not prejudiced !