lima ( reuters ) - four former and current executives of peruvian construction companies were detained pending trial on monday , accused of colluding with brazilian builder odebrecht [ odbes.ul ] to bribe a former president .
judge richard concepcion ordered the men , who deny wrongdoing , to be held in pre-trial jail to ensure they do not flee or obstruct the law , as prosecutors prepare criminal charges .
the decision marked the first time executives from major peruvian companies have been jailed in the car wash scandal , brazil s largest-ever corruption probe that has widened to include other latin american countries .
odebrecht has admitted to bribing local officials in 12 countries to secure public works contracts over the course of a decade and promised authorities that it would provide details .
prosecutor hamilton castro accused jose alejandro grana and hernando alejandro grana , who once headed peru s biggest construction group grana y montero , and fernando gonzalo and jose fernando castillo , who work for two private contractors , of providing $ 15 million of a $ 20 million bribe that odebrecht paid .
the money was paid to ex-president alejandro toledo to secure highway contracts that the companies partnered together on a decade ago and had been disguised on company books as the cost of additional risks covered by odebrecht , castro said at a court hearing .
the judge also ordered gonzalo ferraro , a former grana y montero manager who was in local hospital , to be placed under house arrest .
all five men deny any wrongdoing and are appealing the judge s ruling , said ferraro s attorney roger yon .
grana y montero , and the two private companies , jjc contratistas generales and ingenieros civiles y contratistas generales , declined to comment .
the three companies have previously denied knowing about or taking part in odebrecht s bribes .
grana y montero s u.s.-listed shares closed 6.9 percent lower on monday .
the corruption probe has shaken up the local construction sector as the government prepares to award nearly $ 8 billion in contracts for rebuilding infrastructure and housing destroyed by flooding .
president pedro pablo kuczynski , who served in toledo s cabinet when the highway contracts were awarded , has said he knew nothing about the alleged bribe for toledo .
toledo , ordered to pre-trial detention in february , has denied taking bribes from odebrecht .
peru is seeking his extradition from the united states .
a second former president , ollanta humala , has been in pre-trial detention since july and denies allegations he took illicit funds from odebrecht .