san juan/new york ( reuters ) - chances of puerto rico ’ s power utility prepa reaching a deal with creditors to restructure its $ 8 billion debt were cast in uncertainty on friday as one deadline passed and the utility baulked at the new terms offered for a new one .
puerto rican lawmakers ’ failure to vote by friday on legislation needed to make the restructuring deal work prompted a group of bondholders to offer to extend the deadline until feb. 12 , but prepa rejected the changed terms .
“ we are disappointed that the ... group did not grant our requested extension , ” lisa donahue , prepa ’ s chief restructuring officer , said in a statement .
“ prepa remains willing to continue discussions with the ad hoc group and other stakeholders. ” as the friday deadline passed , the bondholder group issued a statement describing prepa ’ s refusal as “ extremely disappointing and perplexing ” .
pressure is mounting to secure a deal at prepa , as the u.s. supreme court is slated to hear an appeal later this year in a case that could allow puerto rico to push prepa into bankruptcy , an outcome creditors dread .
reaching a deal to restructure prepa ’ s debt is seen as key to fixing the debt-ridden u.s. territory ’ s finances .
needing to restructure debts totaling $ 70 billion , the island ’ s leaders want u.s. congress to allow it access to u.s. bankruptcy law or some form of court-sanctioned debt restructuring process .
prepa said in december that it had reached a deal with 70 percent of all creditors , under which the bondholders agreed to accept 15 percent cuts to repayments in exchange for new bonds with higher ratings .
for that to work , puerto rico needs to pass legislation enabling prepa to create a new charge on customer invoices specifically to pay the debt , so that the new bonds could earn the higher ratings that creditors expect .
as part of their proposed extension , bondholders were also offering to provide $ 115 million of additional capital .
however , prepa said the bondholders changed the terms of that offer , conditioning it on regulatory approval by puerto rico ’ s energy commission for the imposition of the additional charges to customers .
without a restructuring deal in place , the matter could devolve into litigation .