atlantic city , n.j. ( reuters ) - atlantic city ’ s mayor has called a state plan to cede control of the fiscally distressed gambling hub a “ fascist dictatorship , ” a sharp reversal of his previous position on the proposed takeover .
details of the proposed legislation , released last week , would deny residents their civil rights by stripping municipal powers from locally elected officials , mayor don guardian said on monday , echoing previous concerns from community activists .
“ the final piece of legislation that the state presented to us was far from a partnership , ” guardian said , addressing hundreds of residents and city workers at an outdoor news conference next to city hall .
“ it was much worse .
it was absolutely a fascist dictatorship. ” the plan calls for the state to appoint an official who would have the power to make unilateral decisions about canceling collective bargaining agreements , selling city-owned assets , entering contracts , terminating employees and vetoing city council minutes , guardian said .
the mayor ’ s comments marked a fiery change of tone from just one month ago , when guardian stood next to new jersey governor chris christie and state senate president steve sweeney in support of the intervention .
however , that was before the bills had taken shape .
city officials previously threatened to file for a municipal bankruptcy .
but such a move would likely not be approved by the state , which already oversees the city ’ s budget .
nevertheless , officials raised the subject again on monday , saying they might petition the state for a bankruptcy declaration if they can not negotiate a settlement with the borgata casino hotel & spa .
atlantic city owes the borgata , its most profitable casino , at least $ 160 million of property tax appeals .
the city missed a recent deadline to pay a $ 62.5 million portion of that , prompting the borgata to skip its $ 7.5 million tax payment for the first quarter of 2016 .
the parties are in 45-day court-ordered negotiations , guardian said , but if there is no settlement the city could try to seek out bankruptcy .
atlantic city is on track to run out of money within two months .
the latest legislative package would also include a less divisive bill that allows casinos to make fixed payments in lieu of taxes .
that bill is aimed at stabilizing the city ’ s property tax base , which has shrunk dramatically because of gambling competition from neighboring states .
four of the city ’ s 12 casinos that shut in 2014 remain closed .