paris ( reuters ) - france announced a one-billion-euro plan for universities on monday , promising to offer more places on popular courses , cut drop-out rates and build more accommodation , in a bid to assuage the concerns of politically powerful students .
president emmanuel macron s government has already faced down street protests over labour reform and risks more industrial action over plans to reform the pension and unemployment insurance systems .
it wants to avoid confrontation with students who have forced past governments into policy u-turns with protracted rallies .
the government said the 1 billion euros ( $ 1.16 billion ) will be spent over the five years of macron s term in office .
students in france who pass high school exams have the right to go to university in their home area .
but this has led to popular subjects such as law and psychology being heavily oversubscribed and prompted the introduction of an unpopular lottery system where demand is highest .
that lottery system will now be scrapped and the most pressed universities will be allowed to select students on merit .
the proposal stops short of a blanket uk-style selection system that student unions had opposed .
france s biggest student union , the moderate fage , welcomed the plan .
two other unions , including the left-wing unef , the second largest , were critical .
unef has said it will join cgt-led protests against government reforms on nov.16 and urged students to make their voice heard against the education reform .
jean-luc melenchon , leader of the far-left france unbowed party , has also urged students to mobilise after his early attempts to get workers onto the streets against the easing of unemployment laws failed .
macron has got the advantage for now , let s not hide it , melenchon told franceinfo radio .
if youths got moving , things would be different , but it s not the case for now .
the reforms also include 60,000 new student housing units over the next five years and promise to scrap student s social security contributions and increase tutoring .
only 40 percent of students complete the first year of university , the government said .
our aim is to ensure equal opportunities , said university minister frederique vidal .
we want to make university more accessible by accompanying students , in all their diversity .