wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand prime minister jacinda ardern said on tuesday a ban on foreigners buying existing homes would begin in early 2018 , but the restrictions would not apply to australians .
ardern campaigned in the recent new zealand election to restrict foreign buyers to reduce demand , while the country tackles what her labour party says is a housing crisis left unresolved by the previous national administration .
we are determined to make it easier for kiwis to buy their first home so we are stopping foreign speculators buying houses and driving up prices .
kiwis should not be outbid like this , said ardern in an emailed statement , using the colloquial term for new zealanders .
the politically sensitive housing crunch has seen prices rise more than 50 percent nationally in the last decade .
in the city of auckland , prices have almost doubled in that period .
the central bank sees fast-rising prices as a major economic risk .
the ban would not apply to australians , ardern said , given new zealanders are exempt from home ownership restrictions in neighboring australia , where many new zealanders live .
ardern told reporters that legislation would be introduced in parliament by dec. 25 .
the restrictions were being fast-tracked so that labour would not have to renegotiate foreign investment provisions in the trans pacific partnership ( tpp ) deal , after a long series of talks to revive the agreement since the united states pulled out in january .
the tpp currently requires its 11 member states to give foreign investors equal treatment to locals unless there are specific exemptions .
new zealand had no such grounds for an outright ban on overseas investment in housing , but its overseas investment act is exempted from the trade deal .
by adding housing to that legislation , labour will be able to go ahead with the ban without having to request any changes to the tpp when ministers meet on the sidelines of asia-pacific economic cooperation meeting in vietnam next week to finalize the agreement .
ardern said that new zealand would instead focus on renegotiating rules allowing investors to sue member countries included in the tpp , though she acknowledged it would be difficult to get large changes so late in negotiations .
some government figures show the number of home sales including foreigners is only around 3 percent , though labour has criticized that data and says it excludes many types of owners , including those who purchase property through trusts .
it is very important that we preserve these rights for new zealand , trade minister david parker told reporters .