beijing ( reuters ) - china s communist party once shunned the rule of law , preferring to rely on what chairman mao zedong called rule of man essentially using the authority of party leaders to govern .
in recent years , though , as china s economy modernizes , the party has increasingly been turning to the law to exert central authority over the bureaucracy and keep citizens under control , according to legal experts and diplomats .
and under president xi jinping , that trend has been accelerating , they say .
emblematic of that drive is a move to enshrine in law xi s signature anti-graft campaign , which has ensnared nearly 1.4 million party members in the past five years .
the move , announced last year , will be finalised at the communist party congress that opens wednesday .
don t underestimate the importance of writing these things down , says jessica batke , who covered china for the u.s. state department and now writes on china s leadership for the hoover institution .
legal reforms are part of efforts by the communist party under xi to grant more freedoms to ordinary people , while drawing red lines and creating harsher punishments for those who cross them , batke said .
human rights groups often criticize china for only paying lip service to the rule of law and say the communist party systematically ignores due process when prosecuting activists and dissidents .
courts are being pushed by the communist party to be more accessible and fair in the hope that law becomes an effective tool to resolve disputes and stabilize society .
but the reforms also help the leadership enforce central control by codifying previously informal restrictions , or campaigns like the anti-corruption drive , legal experts say .
what xi is trying to do is centralize power in order to exert that power over china s unruly bureaucracy , said carl minzer , a chinese law expert at fordham law school in new york .
under xi , the legislature has issued a flurry of new laws governing issues like internet controls , espionage and even how to sing the chinese national anthem .
new rules and laws are also being used to punish people who oppose the party , according to maya wang , a hong kong-based researcher for human rights watch .
the justice ministry has taken a tougher line on lawyers taking on rights cases .
last year it ordered law firms to support party activities , which activists say raises the risks of taking on sensitive cases for lawyers .
this month , zhu shengwu became the first lawyer to be stripped of his license for online posts critical of the communist party under the new measures .
his posts had mocked the anti-corruption campaign and said the party was lawlessly administering justice .
under xi jinping s rule of law reform , political and executive power has been legalized so as to erode the possibility of resistance , said fu hualing , an expert on chinese law at the university of hong kong .
xi s anti-corruption campaign will be overseen by a new national supervision commission , which will be given legal authority with a law still being drafted .
the new body will take over from the central commission for discipline inspection ( ccdi ) and merge multiple anti-graft units into a single body , according to an announcement from the ccdi last year .
it will also expand the graft campaign s purview to include employees at state-backed institutions .
the ccdi , justice ministry and the national people s congress , china s legislature , did not respond to requests for comment .
the extent of the commission s power is closely tied to the fate of wang qishan , who has overseen the anti-graft campaign and is expected to stay in a leadership role despite being past the customary retirement age of 68 , sources have told reuters .
wang s exact position is likely to be made clear at the congress .
one scenario would see him usher in the next phase of the graft fight as head of the super-ministry .
wang has said that the new commission should be granted detention powers by law , raising concerns among rights activists that practices like the informal detention of suspects for questioning could be validated .
rights groups consider the practice illegal and say that suspects are often tortured .
details about the commission are expected to be announced next year at an annual meeting of the national people s congress , according to diplomats and legal experts .