surendranagar , india ( reuters ) - tens of thousands of indians voted in the first stage of assembly elections in the western state of gujarat on saturday , where prime minister narendra modi faces his toughest electoral test since coming to power with a landslide victory in 2014 .
modi has himself led the campaign to ensure that his bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) retains power in his home state , as a combined opposition mounted the biggest challenge ahead of the general election in 2019 .
three big polls carried out in the run-up to the vote on saturday and next week have predicted a victory for bjp but with a greatly reduced majority .
voters started turning up early in the morning and some had to wait for about 15 minutes due to a malfunction in the electronic voting machine .
in the first few hours , more than 15 percent of voters in surendranagar district cast their ballot , according to state government officials .
an abp-cds poll this week gave the bjp 91-99 seats in the 182-member state house and the main opposition congress 78-86 , suggesting a close fight .
to win , a party needs 92 seats .
the surveys have often gone wrong , though , and modi himself remains far more popular across the country than his rivals , including rahul gandhi who is leading the congress charge to weaken modi in his home base .
votes from the election will be counted on dec. 18 and the results announced the same day .
in the first stage of state assembly elections on saturday , 977 candidates are trying their luck in 89 constituencies spread across 19 districts of gujarat , according to the election commission .
more than 21 million people will vote during the first stage of the election on saturday .
modi has thrown himself into the campaign , addressing dozens of rallies over the past month , saying he alone could deliver on development .
gujarati businesses , which form the core of modi s support base , have complained that the goods and services tax introduced this year and late last year s shock move to abolish 500 and 1,000 rupee bank notes , accounting for 86 percent of cash in circulation , aggravated already tough economic conditions .
hindu-majority gujarat is one of india s richest and fastest growing states but also one of its most communally divided .
about 1,000 people , mostly muslims , were killed after a wave of riots rocked gujarat in 2002 , when modi was chief minister .
a supreme court investigation found no case against modi , who denied any wrongdoing .