lawless , crooked hillary promises to continue with obama s arrogant , lawless push to flood america with people who have illegally entered our nation democrat voters .
our nation and our nation s security won t survive another four years of obama h/t to the brilliant jon feere , legal policy analyst at the center for immigration studies .
the cis is one of the best sources in america for keeping up with our immigration crisis in america .
from hillary s website : hillary will : enact comprehensive immigration reform to create a pathway to citizenship , keep families together , and enable millions of workers to come out of the shadows.defend president obama s executive actions to provide deportation relief for dreamers and parents of americans and lawful residents , and extend those actions to additional persons with sympathetic cases if congress refuses to act.promote naturalization and support immigrant integration .
end family detention and close private immigrant detention centers.hillary s not just advocating for making lawbreakers legal citizens of the united states , she s also planning to bring millions of muslims from countries who hate us to america , and fast-track them to citizenship : if elected president , hillary clinton could permanently resettle close to one million muslim migrants during the first term of her presidency alone , according to the latest available data from the department of homeland security ( dhs ) .between 2001 and 2013 , the u.s. permanently resettled 1.5 million muslim migrants on green cards .
however , under hillary clinton s stated proposals , muslim immigration would grow substantially faster , adding nearly one million muslim migrants to the u.s. during her first term alone.based on the most recent available dhs data , the u.s. permanently resettled roughly 149,000 migrants from predominantly muslim countries on green cards in 2014 .
yet clinton has said that , as president , she would expand muslim migration by importing an additional 65,000 syrian refugees into the united states during the course of a single fiscal year .
clinton has made no indication that she would limit her proposed syrian refugee program to one year.clinton s syrian refugees would come on top of the tens of thousands of refugees the u.s. already admits from muslim countries.adding clinton s 65,000 syrian refugees to the approximately 149,000 muslim migrants the u.s. resettled on green cards in the course of one year , means that clinton could permanently resettle roughly 214,000 muslim migrants in her first year as president .
if clinton were to continue her syrian refugee program throughout her presidency , she could potentially resettle as many as 856,000 during her first term alone.analysis from the senate immigration subcommittee found that clinton s plan to expand refugee resettlement could cost u.s. taxpayers over $ 400 billion.additionally , once clinton s syrian refugees are in the u.s. as green card holders , they will have the ability to bring over their family members through chain migration.with regards to middle eastern migration , clinton s 65,000 syrian refugees would be added on top of the roughly 96,000 middle eastern migrants the u.s. resettled on green cards in a single year .
based on the minimum numbers clinton has put forth thus far , as president , she could potentially resettle approximately 644,000 middle eastern migrants during her first term alone.according to a september 2015 rasmussen survey , women voters oppose clinton s middle eastern refugee plan by a remarkable 21-to-1 margin .
democrat voters oppose clinton s refugee plan by a 17-to-1 margin .
most remarkably , 85 percent of black voters oppose clinton s refugee agenda with less than one percent of black voters supporting her plan.yet clinton s expansion to muslim migration would be in addition to her expansion for immigration overall.u.s .
census data shows that if a president hillary clinton were successful in passing a gang of eight-style immigration expansion bill , the u.s. could permanently resettle roughly 9.4 million migrants throughout the nation during her first term alone .
this figure does not include the additional 11 million illegal immigrants already here to whom clinton has promised amnesty and u.s. citizenship.clinton s desire to expand immigration is shared by gop house speaker paul ryan , who leads the pro-islamic migration wing of the republican party .
breitbart