tokyo ( reuters ) - a new center-left party pledging to bring bottom up democracy to japan may prove the surprise success story of an election on sunday , although the party is forecast to win a mere sliver of seats compared to prime minister shinto abe s ruling bloc .
abe s conservative liberal democratic party-led coalition is on track to roughly match the two-thirds super majority it held in parliament s lower house before dissolution , helped by divisions in the opposition camp and jitters over north korea s nuclear and missile programs , media forecasts say .
but the constitutional democratic party of japan ( cdpj ) formed just this month could become the core of opposition to abe s ldp if , as some forecast , it challenges tokyo governor yuriko koike s flashier conservative party of hope for the top opposition spot .
the cdpj opposes abe s proposal to revise the post-war , pacifist constitution to clarify the ambiguous status of the military .
whether to revise the u.s.-drafted charter has long been a symbolic marker dividing japan s left and right , and abe is expected to use his big win to push for amendments .
cdpj founder yukio edano , 53 , who grabbed the spotlight as japan s top spokesman during the 2011 fukushima nuclear crisis , formed the cdpj on the run after the main opposition democratic party s leader stunningly decided the party would run no candidates and encouraged members to run on koike s slate .
edano told japanese media he was inspired by the stand up , edano tweets he received after the democrats imploded .
many democrats jumped on the hope bandwagon .
others either declined to join or were shut out after refusing to sign off on a hawkish security stance that echoes that of the ldp .
some joined edano s party , others are running as independents .
a sankei newspaper survey published on tuesday predicted the cdpj would get between 46 and 60 seats , compared to initial estimates that about 30 of its 78 candidates would be elected .
that compared to 39 to 57 seats for the party of hope , which is running 235 candidates .
[ tmsnrt.rs/2kgwcm5 ] a kyodo news agency survey released on wednesday also forecast the cdpj could become the biggest opposition group .
if so , that would suggest voters unhappy with abe are seeking not a conservative replica of the ldp but a more liberal alternative , political analysts said .
the failed democratic party was a fractious mix of liberals and conservatives , saddled with an image of incompetence after a rocky 2009-2012 rule .
almost all parties have been conservative and there is no party for liberal voters to vote for , said university of tokyo professor yu uchiyama .
if this party is successful in attracting liberal votes , there could be a prospect to do well .
edano , however , eschews what he calls outdated labels such as liberal or left , terms often associated with cold war-era socialists or communists that can turn off mainstream voters.unlike the more authoritarian ldp , he stresses commitment to individual civil rights , rather than obligations to the state , and wants to redistribute wealth to create a more equitable society .
i want to take a first step toward creating a bottom up society ... toward a trend that is neither left , nor right , but moves forward , edano said during a debate this month .
the lack of preparation time , and a shortage of cash and candidates will be formidable obstacles for the cdpj to overcome .
it could also struggle to differentiate its economic policies from those of the ldp , which has long been more center-left than right when it comes to bread-and-butter issues .
edano s group wants to put off a sales tax hike and exit nuclear power .
the ldp says it will keep nuclear power as a key energy source and raise the sales tax in 2019 but divert revenue to education and child care from repaying public debt .
both parties promise equal pay for equal work , higher wages for day care and elder care workers and more financial support for education , although they differ on details .
a reuters poll published wednesday showed japanese companies overwhelmingly want prime minister shinzo abe s ruling coalition to stay in power but about two-thirds want it to lose seats .
the poll showed significant opposition in the corporate world to abe s plans to raise the sales tax and to delay bringing down the fiscal deficit .
abenomics would be comfortably left-of-center in most developed democracies , said tobias harris , an analyst at advisory firm teneo intelligence .
a healthy showing by the cdpj could lure more lawmakers to its ranks after the election , although low voter turnout could diminish its performance as could competition with the japanese communist party on the left .
if the cdpj comes in second , in a couple of months they will have grown and become the core of a new center-left opposition party , said chuo university professor steven reed .