kabul ( reuters ) - civilian casualties from afghan and american air strikes have risen more than 50 percent since last year , the united nations said on thursday , as troops increase attacks on militants under a new strategy announced by u.s. president donald trump in august .
as of the end of september , at least 205 civilians had been killed and 261 wounded this year in air strikes in afghanistan , u.n. investigators said in a quarterly report .
at least 38 percent of those casualties were caused by international military forces , while the majority were attributed to the afghan air force , which has begun to conduct more attacks on its own .
more than two thirds of the civilian victims were women and children , the report said .
in september , u.s. warplanes dropped more bombs than in any single month since 2010 , driven largely by trump s strategy of trying to reassert pressure on militants after several years of drawdown by foreign troops .
a spokesman for the u.s. military command did not immediately comment on the report .
general dawlat waziri , spokesman for the afghan ministry of defence , rejected the findings and said the government took civilian casualties seriously .
it is quite obvious that taliban and other insurgent groups cause more civilian casualties , he said , adding that insurgents also use civilians as human shields and hide in residential areas .
overall civilian casualties decreased slightly compared to the same period last year , the report said .
at least 2,640 civilians were killed and 5,379 injured this year , compared to 2,616 killed and 5,915 injured in the same period of 2016 .
the drop reflected fewer casualties from fighting in populated areas , the report noted , as militants failed to capture any major cities .
the head of the u.n. mission in afghanistan , tadamichi yamamoto , praised the afghan government for formally endorsing a national policy designed to reduce civilian casualties .
the government owes it to its citizens , particularly the victims of the armed conflict , to ensure full implementation of the policy through a concrete action plan , he said .
overall the u.n. attributed 64 percent of civilian casualties to anti-government militants like the taliban and islamic state .
pro-government forces were responsible for 20 percent overall , while the remainder was attributed to joint fighting or unidentified groups , according to the u.n .