caracas ( reuters ) - three of venezuela s largest opposition parties vowed on monday to boycott mayoral polls later this year in protest at an election system they say is biased in favor of president nicolas maduro s ruling socialists .
the multi-party democratic unity coalition has had a tough 2017 , first failing to bring down maduro in four months of protests that led to 125 deaths , then losing surprisingly to the socialist party in a gubernatorial election earlier this month .
that has left the opposition weakened and divided , and maduro strengthened , despite growing foreign pressure on his government over alleged rights abuses and corruption , and an unprecedented economic crisis that has millions skipping food .
three heavyweight movements in the opposition - justice first , popular will and democratic action - announced on monday they did not trust the government-leaning election board sufficiently to participate in the municipal polls in december .
justice first leader julio borges , who also heads the opposition-led congress , said authorities cheated in the 2013 presidential election , denied venezuelans a recall referendum last year , and rigged the oct. 15 gubernatorial vote .
so instead of going into another manipulated vote , the opposition should focus on demanding reforms to the election board in anticipation of next year s presidential poll , he said .
the objective remains getting nicolas maduro out of power , and in this struggle , the world is with us , he told reporters .
to the surprise of some , the democratic action party also joined the boycott .
its candidates won four governorships in october s vote and then infuriated many opposition supporters by swearing loyalty to a pro-maduro legislative superbody .
opposition supporters have been split over participating in elections this year .
some say it is the only way to show they are a majority and undermine maduro , while a growing number argue there is no point in fighting a dictator via a system rigged in his favor .
they are pinning their hopes on international action , including u.s. sanctions against maduro s government .
maduro , whose personal popularity has plunged since his 2013 election due to food shortages and runaway inflation , said sabotage and insurrection were being planned against the mayoral votes .
i declare myself in battle , the 54-year-old successor to hugo chavez said in a meeting with governors on monday .
those who attack the election system must pay .
opposition leaders say the government has long been rigging elections by gross abuse of state funds in favor of socialist candidates , and dirty tricks such the last-minute moving of vote centers in opposition areas for the october ballot .
they have also presented some allegations of ballot-rigging .
however , maduro insists venezuela s system is entirely trustworthy and impossible to hack .
it has received international praise in the past , although it was slammed over july s vote for the constituent assembly superbody .
maduro says the street protests earlier this year were a mask for a u.s.-backed coup plot , and accuses opponents of wanting to oust him by undemocratic means .
venezuelans want ballots , not bullets , said maduro .