one of the countries mooch and her taxpayer funded mom and daughters will be visiting was devastated by ebola less than two years ago .
i m sure the first thing on their minds ( after wondering where their next meal will come from or if they ll live past the age of 15 years ) is gender inequality !
way to waste hundreds of thousands of taxpayer dollars that could be spent to help unemployed americans find jobs or to improve the health care for veterans .
actresses meryl streep and frieda pinto are set to join first lady michelle obama and first daughters sasha and malia obama for a trip to liberia and morocco in late june to promote the white house s let girls learn female education initiative .
the first family who will also be joined by obama s mother , mrs. marian robinson will visit margibi county , liberia , marrakech , morroco and madrid , spain from june 27 july 1 , according to a white house press release.pinto , 31 , perhaps best known for her role in the oscar-winning film slumdog millionaire , will join michelle obama at a school in unification town in liberia on june 27 to meet with young girls to discuss the obstacles they face in attaining an education .
pinto will moderate the discussion , and the pair will be joined by liberian president ellen johnson sirleaf.obama is also scheduled to visit a peace corps training facility in kakata while in liberia.the following day , streep will join obama and pinto in morocco for a discussion centered on girls education moderated by cnn s isha sesay .
on the final day of the trip , obama will visit madrid to deliver a speech highlighting the white house s let girls learn initiative .
the first lady will also meet queen letizia while in spain.according to a rough cost estimate of the trip conducted by the daily mail , the first family s overseas visit could cost as much as $ 300,000 in taxpayer funds for airfare alone .
the outlet reports that the first lady s plane generally costs $ 11,684 per hour to operate ; with roughly 25 hours of flight time scheduled , the airfare alone could come out to just under $ 300,000.the mail notes that the first lady s 2011 trip to botswana and south africa cost $ 424,142 in travel and plane crew fees.the three-country trip in late june could be michelle obama s final overseas trip as first lady , as president obama has just seven months left in office.streep and michelle obama have teamed up to discuss gender equality before ; in 2015 , the pair gave a joint interview to more magazine in which the oscar-winning actress said that women in america have not yet reached full equality with men.- breitbarthas anyone else ever noticed how carefully marian robinson is covered up in all of the 5-star vacation photos that are taken by the mainstream media ?
it s almost as if they don t want the american taxpayer to see that we re footing the bill for her to accompany her greedy daughter and ungrateful grandchildren on their 5-star vacations .
can you spot granny above ?