so now that this guy fears for his life he s backtracking on the story he told or is he ? this is such a mess and so convoluted that i doubt we ll ever get answers .
this entire thing really is a sideshow to the bigger agenda of the obama administration .
federalizing the police force is next from the beginning , the investigation into what killed freddie gray has centered on what happened inside the police transport van .
we knew there was another prisoner inside the van and tonight we hear from him .
wjz s mike schuh is the first to speak with donta allen about what he heard .
i am donta allen .
i am the one who was in the van with freddie gray , allen said .
the one who the police commissioner calls the second prisoner in the van .
the second prisoner who was picked up said that he didn t see any harm done to freddie at all , commissioner anthony batts said .
what he has said is that he heard freddie thrashing about .
but allen wants to set something straight .
all i did was go straight to the station , but i heard a little banging like he was banging his head , he said .
he tells wjz he s angry about an internal police report published in the washington post .
and they trying to make it seem like i told them that , i made it like freddie gray did that to hisself ( sic ) , allen said .
why the [ expletive ] would he do that to hisself ( sic ) ?
allen was in the van because he allegedly stole a cigarette from a store on north avenue .
he was never charged .
instead he was brought straight to the station .
i talked to homicide .
i told homicide the same story .
allen said .
a story he says is being distorted and now he fears being killed .
i had two options today right , either come and talk to y all and get my credibility straight with ya ll and not get killed by these [ expletive ] or not tell a true story , allen added .
the only reason i m doing this is because they put my name in a bad state .
his statements are included in a police report that was today turned over to the city state s attorney marilyn mosby .
via : baltimore cbs local