a rookie police officer in millis who said wednesday that someone shot his cruiser before it crashed and burst into flames fabricated the story , police said.the officer , 24 , said he was traveling on forest road when he saw a red or maroon pickup truck traveling in the opposite direction .
he said when the two vehicles met , the driver opened fire on the police cruiser , police say .
my cruiser s been shot at .
i m at forest road .
it s going to be a dark maroon pickup , the officer radioed to dispatch at 2:17 p.m.the officer said he spun around , and in an attempt to avoid the gunfire and seek shelter , he slammed into a tree and the cruiser burst into flames .
we have determined that the officer s story was fabricated .
specifically , that he fired shots at his own cruiser as a plan to concoct a story that he was fired upon , millis police sgt .
william dwyer said .
the evidence indicates the shots were not fired by a suspect , and there is no gunman at large in or around the town .
a massive manhunt for the alleged gunman was launched .
the neighborhood was immediately locked down while police units , including a swat team , k-9 officers and a massachusetts state police helicopter combed the area.residents who were told to stay indoors or couldn t get home because of the lockdown said they were dumbfounded that the story may have been made up .
with all these police officers actually getting hurt in this world , why he is doing that i don t know , nancy haney said.dwyer said the officer is new to the force and has not yet attended the police academy .
he said the officer will be terminated , and his name will not be released until the investigation is complete .
via : wcbv tvhere is the original story : a massachusetts police cruiser crashed and caught fire after it was struck by gunfire wednesday afternoon , and now police are looking for the gunman.the incident occurred at approximately 3:00 p.m. in the town of millis , about 20 miles southwest of boston , according to massachusetts state police.shepard smith reported that police have confirmed that an officer was in the vehicle when it was struck by at least one bullet .
the officer then ran his car off the road and crashed it , causing the vehicle to catch fire.police have said they are not aware of any injuries at this time.shep reported that witnesses say they saw a white man fire a gun from a dark-colored , possibly maroon , pickup truck.state and local police , along with fire investigators , are taking part in the investigation and search for the gunman.via : fox news