the accusations surrounding bill o reilly have been relentless .
nothing has been proven but in the news business you have to be aware of every move .
our litigious society will sue for any reason and that s just what this is .while appearing on his program early on in her career , powers told cnn s anderson cooper that o reilly kept screwing up fellow female commentator margaret hoover s name on air .
like powers , hoover has a blonde mane .
powers says o reilly didn t know their names , but simply knew them for being in a sea of blonde women who appeared on fox news.powers said o reilly thanked them for their blonde-ness .
the pundit said she approached o reilly s executive producer about what she believed to be his abhorrent behavior .
she said she wouldn t appear on his show again if he acted like this and demanded an apology.but she wasn t getting one .
o reilly refused.powers said she quit o reilly s show for three years and then returned .
we actually ended up having a quite a good relationship , she said.powers said management brushed it off , saying that o reilly was an archie bunker type , referring to the racist father figure in the priceless 1970s sitcom all in the family .
she then went to her boss , who said there was nothing they could do .
she also complained to former fox news chairman roger ailes who she recalled saying , it s bill .
he s a jerk .
nobody likes him .
and then roger said , you know , bill likes to put up dirty pictures and ask pretty girls to talk about them .
and then he said , what am i going to do , he makes so much money , what am i going to do ?
powers said she quit o reilly s show for three years and then returned .
we actually ended up having a quite a good relationship , she said.the pundit knows a little something about dealing with so-called powerful men in public life.in 2002 , she briefly dated anthony weiner .
initially , she defended him .
but we all know how that soap opera turned out .
when news of what his secret sexting and sending out pictures of his ding dong came to light , she called for his resignation from congress.read more : daily caller