washington ( reuters ) - u.s. republican presidential hopeful donald trump called for higher tariffs on chinese goods if china does not stop allowing its yuan currency to devalue .
trump reiterated a call he has made for a 45 percent tariff to offset devaluation .
the billionaire businessman also criticized japan , saying it was engaging in similar practices and pointed to competition between tractors made by u.s. company caterpillar inc ( cat.n ) and those made by japan ’ s komatsu ltd ( 6301.t ) .
“ they ’ re devaluing their currency , and they ’ re killing our companies , ” trump said .
“ we are letting them get away with it , and we can ’ t let them get away with it. ” the yuan posted modest gains on friday , but it was still around 1.4 percent weaker against the dollar than it started the year and has lost nearly 5 percent since august .
the question of how best to respond to china ’ s currency devaluation become a topic of discussion between the republican presidential hopefuls in thursday night ’ s debate .
former florida governor jeb bush criticized trump for calling for higher tariffs , saying that would only prompt retaliation against u.s. goods .
“ this would be devastating for our economy , ” bush said in response .
“ we need someone with a steady hand being president of the united states. ” u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida said he opposes tariffs on chinese goods because it would only increase prices for american consumers .
“ china doesn ’ t pay the tariff , the buyer pays the tariff .
if you send a tie or a shirt made in china into the united states , and an american goes to buy it at the store and there ’ s a tariff on it , it gets passed on in the price to the consumer , ” rubio said .
trump responded that rubio ’ s approach - to simply build the american economy in response - would take too long .
“ you absolutely have to get involved with china .
they are taking so much of what we have in terms of jobs , in terms of money , ” trump said .
“ we just can ’ t do it any longer. ” u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas agreed that a tariff would not solve the trade problem with china .
“ if we just impose a tariff , they ’ ll put reciprocal tariffs , which will hurt iowa farmers and south carolina producers and 20 percent of the american jobs that depend on exports , ” cruz said , referring to two of the early voting states in the presidential nominating contest .
asked about trump ’ s remarks , chinese foreign ministry spokesman hong lei told a regular press briefing that china adjusted its currency based on market needs and that it would maintain the yuan exchange rate at a “ reasonable equilibrium level ” .
“ we are opposed to competitive devaluation of the currency , as well as currency wars , ” hong said .