washington ( reuters ) - a senior house republican warned on wednesday that differences among lawmakers over a spending increase could threaten plans for a more orderly budget process under house speaker paul ryan , who has been basking in a honeymoon period .
the comments from house appropriations chairman hal rogers came as ryan was facing the first big challenge of his speakership , with some conservatives wanting to back out of a deal made last year increasing spending by $ 80 billion over two years .
many republicans did not vote for the two-year budget framework negotiated in former speaker john boehner ’ s waning days in office .
ryan was elected to replace him late in october .
conservative veterans of past budget battles see little reason why they should now support a budget for fiscal 2017 that incorporates the spending hike .
“ the new number isn ’ t something that i could vote for unless i have a compelling reason to do so , and i haven ’ t been given that reason , ” said representative matt salmon , a member of the conservative house freedom caucus .
democrats are unlikely to welcome changes to the fiscal deal , especially cuts , and could leave ryan only fellow-republicans to negotiate with on a new plan .
rogers warned that if the house tries to change the deal , the senate might balk , which could ultimately lead to the need to pass a massive “ omnibus ” spending bill to fund the entire government .
“ so we ’ ve got to consider carefully what we do here , ” rogers said after a republican caucus .
an omnibus would be the opposite of the better-functioning appropriations process ryan and senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , also a republican , seek this election year .
they want congress to pass a dozen separate spending bills instead of voting on one huge piece of legislation that , if it fails , results in a government shutdown .
the first move would normally be for the house to pass a budget blueprint , which leaders hope to do soon .
rogers thought lawmakers could “ deem ” a budget resolution as having passed already because of last year ’ s deal .
but such a procedural workaround could upset conservatives .
some senate republicans are also wondering where the votes will come from to pass a budget resolution embracing higher spending levels .
congress “ already agreed ( to the spending numbers ) and did the tough choice ” of raising spending , a senior senate republican aide said .
“ why put our members who are in-cycle ( up for re-election this year ) through this again ? ”