is marco rubio the republican obama , or has he been unfairly characterized by his opponents in the gop ?
wednesday s cover of la opini n , the nation s largest daily spanish-language newspaper , prominently portrays donor-class favorite sen. marco rubio with the infamous hope and change imagery that defined barack obama s presidential campaign.the cover of the spanish-language paper writes : the republican obama ?
the surge of the latino senator in the presidential campaign has made him a target of criticism on the subject of immigration .
marco rubio and barack obama share many of the same policy goals , such as obamatrade and military intervention in libya , but their most striking similarities are on the subject of immigration .
both men support citizenship for illegal aliens , expanded refugee resettlement , more green cards , more h-1b visas , and large permanent expansions to the rate of immigration and foreign worker importation.marco rubio was the co-author of the 2013 obama-backed immigration bill .
rubio s immigration bill was endorsed by la raza , the afl-cio , seiu , rep. nancy pelosi , rep. luis gutierrez , sen. harry reid , mark zuckerberg , and george soros .
rubio has not renounced his support for a single policy item outlined in the gang of eight bill including his desire to triple green card issuances , double foreign worker visas , and grant citizenship to illegal immigrants.rubio has even borrowed much of the language of the obama s campaign prompting joe scarborough to mock the young senator .
following the iowa caucus , morning joe replayed obama s 2008 acceptance speech celebrating his victory at the iowa caucus and juxtaposed that with rubio s strikingly similar iowa speech celebrating his campaign s ability to inch up to third place .
you know , i have said for a year that he is the republican obama , scarborough said .
he is the republican obama and he just stole the speech in my opinion having somebody with little experience before they become president has not actually been great .
scarborough tells it like it is : in that sense , rubio is the obama for republican donors , but not the republican party s actual voters .
indeed , whereas sen. john mccain lacked the obama-esque tools to pass mass immigration for the donors in 2007 , rubio was able to bypass conservatism opposition and pass a bill with far more foreign workers through the senate in 2013 using the affection of conservatives to neutralize opposition to a top donor class priority.via : breitbart