singapore ( reuters ) - singapore said on thursday it has detained a singaporean man and a woman for affiliations to radical islamist groups under the country s tough security law that allows for detention without trial .
the man , 25 year-old abu thalha bin samad , is a member of the southeast asian islamist group , jemaah islamiyah ( ji ) , and was educated and trained in ji-linked schools in the region , the ministry of home affairs said in a statement .
the singapore government worked with a regional government to deport him back to singapore for his arrest , the ministry said , but it did not disclose from which country .
he was duty-bound to carry out whatever instructions the ji leaders had for him , including performing armed jihad and sacrificing his life for the ji s violent cause , the ministry said .
the woman detained is islamic state supporter munavar baig amina begam .
the 38-year-old singaporean housewife is originally from india and the second woman in singapore to be detained under the internal security act .
she is an isis ( islamic state in iraq and syria ) supporter and harbored the intention to make her way to the conflict zone to join isis , the ministry said in the statement .
to influence others to support isis , amina shared materials promoting terrorism on social media , which ... encouraged others to fight and die as martyrs , it added .
neither of the two was available for comment .
last week , singapore banned two popular foreign muslim preachers from entering the city-state because , it said , their views bred intolerance and were a risk to social harmony .
as concern grows about the spread of militancy , there has been a significant rise in the number of detentions under the country s security law .
at least 14 radicalized singaporeans have been put under restriction or detention orders under the isa since 2015 , up sharply from 11 cases between 2007 and 2014 , according to data from the ministry .
diverse , affluent singapore is majority ethnic chinese with sizeable minority ethnic malay and ethnic indian communities , and numerous foreign workers from asia and beyond .
singapore said late last year it had deported nearly 70 foreigners including five maids for suspected radicalism over the previous two years .
authorities in neighboring indonesia , which has the world s largest muslim population , said last year they had arrested six indonesian suspects with links to islamic state who were plotting attacks on singapore .