the worst part about the gop controlling all three branches of the federal government is that they are about to hand the supreme court over to fascists and right-wing ideologues like themselves for a generation .
however , there is one way to stop them if only senate democrats have the cajones to do it .
on january 3 , for just a few precious moments , the democrats will control the senate prior to the newly elected republican senators being sworn in .
during that time , according to senatorial procedure expert david waldman , vice president joe biden could have the senate come to order for a vote on merrick garland , the obama nominee that the senate republicans have refused to give a hearing and a vote to .
here are waldman s tweets explaining the whole thing : send biden to the senate on jan. 3 w garland 's renomination & instructions to recognize durbin before swearing in .
https : //t.co/kunbf8qf8a david waldman ( @ kagrox ) november 25 , 2016dem senators can force approval of merrick garland on jan. 3 : crazy ! trump supporters recite nazi propaganda & give fascist salute : dapper !
david waldman ( @ kagrox ) november 22 , 2016 @ catrionamdw on 1/3 , before new sens .
are sworn , 67 seated sens .
& biden are in the chamber .
biden turns to durbin instead of mcconnell .
go .
david waldman ( @ kagrox ) november 22 , 2016 @ catrionamdw schumer 's not involved .
he 's among the sens .
who would n't be sworn at the time .
and no , pro forma sessions predate them all .
david waldman ( @ kagrox ) november 22 , 2016now , will democrats actually do this ?
hopefully so .
it might take all of us calling important senators like elizabeth warren and bernie sanders to make it happen , but this is our only shot to save the court .
garland s confirmation would stack it 5-4 in our favor here .
the gop has declared war on us , and it s time for the gloves to come off .
we must put pressure on democrats to make this happen .
it s our only hope for a generation.featured image via chip somodevilla/getty images