cairo ( reuters ) - several european countries have criticized the detention of an egyptian human rights lawyer who is helping investigate the murder of italian student giulio regeni .
for the first time , germany , italy , the netherlands , britain and canada said they were deeply concerned at the ongoing detention of human rights lawyer ibrahim metwaly hegazy .
we are concerned at the detention conditions that ibrahim metwaly hegazy is reportedly enduring , and continue to call for transparency on prison conditions in egypt , a joint statement published on the british government website said late on friday .
metwaly , who founded the association of the families of the disappeared after his son disappeared in suspicious circumstances four years ago , went missing while heading for his flight to geneva to attend a u.n. conference on enforced disappearances on sept. 10 .
members of metwaly s group said he was taken from cairo airport by airport security and he was not heard from until three days later when a state security prosecutor ordered his detention .
asked about the case , two judicial sources told reuters that metwaly had been detained on charges of spreading false news and joining an illegal group , and that his pre-trial detention was in accordance with the law .
the sources said all prisoners are guaranteed the right to fair treatment without discrimination .
rights activists say egyptian security forces resort to kidnapping government opponents and keeping them in secret jails where they can spend weeks , months , or years without charge .
the authorities deny the accusation .
italian graduate student giulio regeni , who was conducting research on egyptian trade unions , disappeared in cairo in january 2016 .
his body was discovered in a ditch on the outskirts of the egyptian capital on feb. 3 , showing signs of extensive torture .
metwaly has been assisting lawyers working on the regeni case as an expert on enforced disappearances , according to one of the lawyers .