( reuters ) - donald trump ’ s presidential campaign is buying commercial time on a tv station in west palm beach , florida , taking on opponents in a paid media battle that the republican front-runner has largely avoided so far .
the march 15 nominating contest in florida , a winner-take-all vote , is seen as one of the last chances to slow trump ’ s momentum after a string of victories on super tuesday .
one superpac allied with rival presidential candidate marco rubio has already shelled out millions in the state .
the race has become a fight between trump and anti-trump interests , which should drive new demand for ads , said mark egan , chief client officer of maxus americas , a media agency owned by groupm .
“ the big war really starts now , ” he said.the billionaire candidate to date has relied heavily on free air time and twitter , largely ignoring television .
on thursday he began purchasing commercial slots for the first time on west palm beach station wptv , said lloyd bucher , vice president and general manager of the station , an nbc affiliate .
he declined to discuss the amount .
superpacs that oppose trump are gearing up in the state .
conservative solutions , a superpac allied with rubio , has aired or distributed $ 4.8 million worth of ads and direct mail in florida that explicitly opposes trump , according to federal election commission data from friday through tuesday .
that is the most spent by a candidate-allied superpac against trump in a single state so far .
tv stations in states with upcoming primaries are fielding more inquiries from outside groups opposing trump , said steve lanzano , president and ceo of tvb , a trade body for television broadcasters .
“ you are seeing a lot more superpacs coming out of the woodwork , ” he said .
election years typically provide windfalls for local tv stations as candidates blanket airwaves .
ad spending in the weeks leading up to the south carolina primary was four times the level of 2012 , lanzano said .
some media investors and analysts are concerned trump may continue to rely mostly on free media exposure , which would hurt the revenues expected for local stations .
lanzano believes the trump campaign will start buying more time to fight back against the attacks coming his way .
“ i think he is going to spend a lot of money on advertising ultimately , ” lanzano said .
“ he is going to get bombarded. ” ( reporting by lisa richwine in los angeles , jessica toonkel in hollywood , florida , and grant smith in washington ; editing by g crosse , peter henderson and andrew hay ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .