united nations ( reuters ) - the united nations security council urged the myanmar government on monday to ensure no further excessive use of military force in rakhine state , where violence has forced more than 600,000 rohingya muslims to flee the buddhist-majority asian country .
the united nations has denounced the violence during the past 10 weeks as a classic example of ethnic cleansing .
the myanmar government has denied allegations of ethnic cleansing .
to appease council veto powers russia and china , britain and france dropped a push for the security council to adopt a resolution on the situation and the 15-member body instead unanimously agreed on a formal statement .
the council expressed grave concern over reports of human rights violations and abuses in rakhine state , including by the myanmar security forces , in particular against persons belonging to the rohingya community .
the security council calls upon the government of myanmar to ensure no further excessive use of military force in rakhine state , to restore civilian administration and apply the rule of law , and to take immediate steps in accordance with their obligations and commitments to respect human rights , it said .
myanmar has been stung by international criticism for the way its security forces responded to attacks by rohingya militants on 30 security posts .
more than 600,000 rohingya have fled to bangladesh since aug. 25 .
the security council stresses the primary responsibility of the government of myanmar to protect its population including through respect for the rule of law and the respect , promotion and protection of human rights , the statement said .
it stressed the importance of transparent investigations into allegations of human rights abuses and in this regard , the security council calls upon the government of myanmar to cooperate with all relevant united nations bodies , mechanisms and instruments .
myanmar has refused entry to a u.n. panel that was tasked with investigating allegations of abuses after a smaller military counteroffensive launched in october 2016 .
myanmar s de facto leader , aung san suu kyi , has pledged accountability for rights abuses and says myanmar will accept back refugees who can prove they were residents of myanmar .
the security council said it was alarmed by the rapidly deteriorating humanitarian situation in rakhine state and warned that the increasing number of refugees has a destabilizing impact in the region .
the council demanded that the myanmar government allow immediate , safe and unhindered humanitarian aid and media access .
it asked u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres to report back in 30 days on the situation .