washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama will meet for the first time on tuesday with speaker paul ryan , the top republican in the u.s. house of representatives , to discuss budget priorities and ways to work together this year , the white house said on friday .
the get-together with ryan , which also will include senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , will provide a gauge of how much or how little legislative common ground the three leaders share as obama completes his final year in office .
“ we certainly believe that there are areas of cooperation for the year ahead , ” white house spokesman josh earnest said .
it will be obama ’ s first formal face-to-face meeting with ryan since he was elected speaker three months ago .
“ while the house is focused on a bold agenda for 2017 , the speaker appreciates the opportunity to see if we can find any areas of common ground in the year ahead , ” doug andres , a spokesman for ryan , said .
during a closed-door meeting on thursday with democratic lawmakers , obama said he does not expect congress to get much done this year , according to an aide who was in the room .
the white house has said there are only a few items on obama ’ s legislative wish-list that have any chance of passing through the republican-controlled congress .
they include reforming mandatory minimum prison sentences for non-violent drug offenses and taking steps to address an epidemic of heroin addiction and prescription drug abuse .
obama also wants congress to approve the trans-pacific partnership trade deal , but he faces resistance from democratic lawmakers concerned about the tpp ’ s impact on jobs and the environment .
the white house announced on friday that obama ’ s top legislative aide katie beirne fallon , who was popular among republicans and democrats alike on capitol hill , is leaving after helping obama secure enough votes for fast-track trade negotiating authority , the iran nuclear deal and a budget deal .
fallon will be replaced by her deputy amy rosenbaum , a former aide to house democratic leader nancy pelosi .
obama ’ s meeting with republicans comes one week before obama delivers his final budget proposal to congress .
it also comes as obama tries to make good on a pledge he made during his 2008 campaign to close the u.s. detention center in guantanamo bay , cuba .
obama is set to deliver a plan to congress about closing the prison that will include measures to house a small number of detainees in facilities in the united states .
lawmakers strongly oppose that idea .