chuck norris wrote about jade helm 15 in a commentary for the conservative website wnd last weekend , pointing to the decision of texas gov .
greg abbott to have the texas state guard monitor the pentagon s jade helm 15 military ops as evidence that the operations as a potential threat to the state s sovereignty .
governor abbott wrote : during the training operation , it is important that texans know their safety , constitutional rights , private property rights and civil liberties will not be infringed .
and abbott is demanding regular updates on the progress and safety of the operation .
norris fanned the conspiracy flames by writing : concerned texans and americans are in no way calling into question our brave and courageous men and women in uniform .
they are merely following orders .
what s under question are those who are pulling the strings at the top of jade helm 15 back in washington .
the us government says , it s just a training exercise .
but i m not sure the term just has any reference to reality when the government uses it .
a covert training operation by u.s. military special operations personnel , jade helm 15 , is taking place in a several states this summer , spreading panic and conspiracy theories as to the true purpose of the mission.the two-month simulation spans much of the southwest , requiring special forces from four branches of the military to carry out covert operations amid hostile territory in texas , utah and part of california.in at least one of those states , hostility toward the operation has begun a few months early .
online and at in-person meetings , many texans have expressed suspicion and outright opposition to the project .
some are understandably worried about how it ll affect their daily lives , while conspiracy theorists claim it s an attempt to institute martial law.the military says that they are merely preforming training exercises to help hone soldiers skills in the event they face a foreign threat , but some citizens are worried that planners have something more domestic in mind.events for the exercise are outlined in a map among unclassified documents posted online last month .
army sources have verified to the washington post that the map is legitimate.many have speculated that the american government isn t far from declaring martial law , an idea only bolstered by these training exercises.in an anonymous email sent to dave hodges at the common sense show , a self-described texas ranger said that train cars outfitted with prison-type shackles have been moving about texas .
while he added that the department of homeland security claimed the train cars were for transporting captured terrorists , he was apparently reluctant to believe them .
he wrote : we have been told by homeland that these trains are slated for transporting captured terrorists , non-domestic .
we are not sure we can trust this explanation because homeland is keeping a lot from us and we are growing increasingly uncomfortable with their presence in texas .
the paranoia about jade helm , which started on websites like alex jones s infowars , had started with familiar fulmination about a mass seizure of firearms or a cover-up for american death squads .
this week , texas governor greg abbott asked the texas state guard to monitor the exercise for any violations of freedom .
it is important that texans know their safety , constitutional rights , private property rights and civil liberties will not be infringed , said the governor.republican presidential candidate ted cruz said saturday that he d been hearing concerns about jade helm 15 , and reached out to the pentagon for answers .
my office has reached out to the pentagon to inquire about this exercise .
we are assured it is a military training exercise .
i have no reason to doubt those assurances , but i understand the reason for concern and uncertainty , because when the federal government has not demonstrated itself to be trustworthy in this administration , the natural consequence is that many citizens don t trust what it is saying .
the texas senator , speaking at the south carolina republican convention went on to say : i understand a lot of the concerns raised by a lot of citizens about jade helm .
and i think part of the reason is we have seen , for six years , a federal government disrespecting the liberty of the citizens .
that produces fear , when you see a government that is attacking our free speech rights , or second amendment rights , or religious liberty rights .
that produces distrust .
just because you re paranoid , said cruz , doesn t mean they re not out to get you .
via : tpnn