berlin ( reuters ) - two veteran allies of chancellor angela merkel appealed to germany s parties on tuesday to strike a compromise and form a stable government that could drag europe s biggest economy out of a political impasse .
the collapse of talks between merkel s conservative bloc , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmentalist greens has thrown germany into political uncertainty and raised the prospect of new elections .
it has cast doubt over whether merkel , europe s most powerful leader after 12 years in office , will serve a fourth term after her conservatives bled support to the far-right in a sept. 24 election , though still won the most seats .
there are wider implications too for europe since the collapse of talks means the euro zone s ambitious plans for deeper economic integration could now be put on hold , euro zone officials said in brussels on tuesday .
merkel s former finance minister wolfgang schaeuble , now in the impartial role of parliamentary president , said compromise was the order of the day while chancellery chief peter altmaier gave parties three weeks to sort out the mess .
we must be in a situation in the next three weeks where there is clarity about whether there can be a stable government on the basis of this election result , altmaier , also acting finance minister , told zdf television .
merkel has said she prefers new elections to an unstable minority government .
until a government is agreed , she continues as acting chancellor and previous ministers remain in post , while the newly-elected parliament also proceeds with business .
pressure is growing on the social democrats ( spd ) whose leader martin schulz has refused to contemplate re-entering a merkel-led government after voters punished them for sharing power with her for the last four years .
many in the spd fear that another four-year term with merkel , who is herself still popular , would mean their political suicide .
altmaier appealed to the spd to reconsider : like made in germany , we are known for having a stable and reliable government ... we must give the spd a chance to think .
andrea nahles , head of the spd s parliamentary group reiterated that it did not want to prop up merkel again .
we are not an emergency stop-gap for merkel , she said .
however , she also said the spd would use talks with president frank-walter steinmeier , who is meeting party leaders to explore possibilities to form a government , to find solutions , hinting at other possible options .
we should talk about how we form a process that leads our country into a new , stable government , nahles said , adding this might be a minority government or new elections .
steinmeier met fdp and greens leaders on tuesday , but they made no comment after the meetings .
one option could be an alliance between the conservatives and greens , who built up a certain level of trust during the exploratory talks , which could be tolerated by the spd .
that could guarantee some government policies get through parliament .
michael kellner , a top greens negotiator , said it was up to merkel s party to propose such a minority government , but did not rule it out as an option .
in a sign that compromise is still possible , merkel s christian democrats , fdp and greens voted together on a motion in parliament on tuesday to create the conditions for ireland to pay back debts early to the international monetary fund ( imf ) .
one former spd leader bjoern engholm said the spd should rethink their no to a grand coalition , but he said any such alliance would only be possible without merkel .
many commentators think the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) stand to gain most from new elections although polls show no big differences from the september results .
due to a protracted procedure designed to avoid repeated elections , a new vote would take months to organize , raising worries that european reform efforts will be held up .
europe needs a germany that is capable of acting , said schaeuble .
the reactions from abroad show that europe and many other countries in the world are waiting for us .
he said it was important for parties to compromise to avert a crisis , saying this did not mean parties had to ditch their principles .
the task is huge , but it s not unsolvable .