berlin ( reuters ) - she has earned a reputation as europe s chief crisis manager .
now germany s angela merkel must forge a government out of an awkward group of allies bent on nailing down a coalition deal so tight it risks limiting her room to act if crisis strikes again .
the chancellor goes into talks this week about forming a government .
but her task , already tough after she lost ground in a sept. 24 national election , is all the harder after defeat in a regional vote on sunday further weakened her hand .
the upshot is that she must draw on all her consensus-building skills to form a ruling alliance of her conservatives , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens .
the terms of a coalition deal , should one be reached , could determine merkel s room for maneuver on both the domestic and international stage .
during her 12 years in power , she has been able to steer europe through its euro zone and refugee crises , in part due to her dominance at home .
any constraints on her ability to swiftly shape and enact policies could compromise germany s leadership role .
if the three party groups fail to reach a deal at all , some in their ranks fear this could lead to public disenchantment and fuel further support for the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) , which entered parliament for the first time last month .
the combination of the groups going into coalition talks is untested at national level and merkel s would-be allies are not guaranteeing success .
the chancellor s christian democrats ( cdu ) and their bavarian allies meet the fdp and greens separately on wednesday before they all meet on friday .
now we must gauge whether a platform for common policy can be found .
for me , that is undecided , fdp leader christian lindner told deutschlandfunk radio on tuesday .
adding to the complications , the cdu , fdp , and greens want to put any deal to their grassroots party members for approval .
fdp deputy leader wolfgang kubicki has said it would be illusory to believe we could conclude negotiations by christmas .
one major area of contention is immigration policy .
the cdu and their conservative bavarian allies , the christian social union ( csu ) , have agreed a limit of 200,000 a year on the number of migrants germany would accept on humanitarian grounds .
but the other parties reject a cap and instead favor an immigration law with criteria to attract highly educated workers to plug skills shortages .
they say the cdu/csu migrants agreement should not be baked into a coalition deal .
juergen trittin of the greens said pressure on the conservative bloc to shift right - after bleeding support to the afd - could complicate the talks on forming a jamaica coalition , so-called because the parties colors correspond with the jamaican flag .
i fear this will make the jamaica exploratory talks much more difficult , trittin told the passauer neue presse .
the three party groups also have deep differences on issues ranging from european union reform and tax to the environment .
a jamaica coalition was formed in the tiny western german state of saarland in october 2009 , but collapsed in january 2012 .
the same formation took power in the far northern region of schleswig-holstein after elections there in may this year .
annegret kramp-karrenbauer , the conservative state premier of saarland who led the former jamaica alliance there , stressed the need to establish trust between the three national groups .
it is important that there is a basic understanding among those people negotiating , she added .
asked how to foster trust and understanding , she replied : talk , talk , talk .
but the size of the negotiating teams - the cdu/csu and greens have 28 and 14 people respectively - is undermining trust before the talks have even begun .
kubicki told focus magazine it was a cardinal error to enter the discussions with such large teams , adding this was not conducive to building trust and no basis for good and confidential negotiations .
the result of the mutual suspicion is that negotiators are pushing for deeper agreements in a coalition deal than in the 130 pages agreed by the outgoing grand coalition of merkel s conservatives and the center-left social democrats ( spd ) .
this risks limiting merkel s freedom in policymaking .
the euro zone and refugee crises , which were not foreseen in coalition agreements , were addressed with ad hoc decisions .
germany s budget surplus may help smooth the path in the coalition talks , however .
it gives scope to satisfy all sides , to some degree , by paying for both tax cuts and investment in areas such as upgrading infrastructure for the digital age .
but if merkel is unable to form a three-way coalition with the fdp and greens , she could try to team up again with the spd - though the spd has said it wants to go into opposition .
should the spd reject her approach and merkel find herself unable to form a government , she could try to form a minority government , or else call fresh elections - an unprecedented scenario .
if we don t get this under control , the political system we ve had for 70 years - and the stability it has brought - will be threatened , said one senior conservative , speaking under condition of anonymity .