belfast ( reuters ) - a dispute between boeing co ( ba.n ) and canadian rival bombardier ( bbdb.to ) that risks thousands of jobs in northern ireland could impact peace in the region , the leaders of its two main parties warned u.s. vice president mike pence .
british prime minister theresa may has asked president donald trump to urge the world s largest aerospace company to drop its challenge against bombardier , which could endanger a factory that employs 4,500 people in the british province .
bombardier is northern ireland s largest manufacturing employer and may s conservatives are dependent on the support of the small northern irish democratic unionist party ( dup ) for their majority in parliament .
for a small economy such as ours , the significance of the contribution that bombardier makes can not be understated .
the threat facing us as a result of the ongoing case is alarming , and goes much wider than it may immediately appear , dup leader arlene foster and michelle o neill of sinn fein said in letter to pence , a copy of which was seen by reuters .
the security of our economy has and continues to be a crucial part of our efforts in delivering peace through prosperity .
at a time when we are striving to take the next steps in our work on the peace process , and resolve our current political difficulties , this issue creates a new and potentially critical factor .
irish nationalists sinn fein and the pro-british dup have for months tried in vain to re-establish a devolved power-sharing government , a key part of the 1998 peace deal that ended 30 years of sectarian violence in northern ireland .
washington played a key role in helping broker the deal .
the parties confirmed that their leaders sent the letter , dated september 12 .
boeing this year asked the u.s. commerce department to investigate alleged subsidies and unfair pricing at bombardier , accusing it of having sold 75 of its cseries medium-range airliners to delta air lines ( dal.n ) at well below cost price .
a u.s. trade court is due to give a preliminary ruling on boeing s complaint on sept. 25 .