paris ( reuters ) - the right-hand man of french national front chief marine le pen quit the party on thursday , a split that opens the way for policy changes in the far-right party and shows the depth of internal feuding after le pen s presidential election defeat .
the departure of florian philippot , for years le pen s closest aide and a key architect of efforts to detoxify the party s image while campaigning against the euro , had looked increasingly inevitable as the party bickered over who was to blame for a damaging electoral cycle .
his exit is expected to allow le pen to refocus on core policies around immigration and french national identity , while perhaps softening her anti-euro tone , which many say contributed to le pen s resounding defeat in the presidential election run-off .
while philippot s departure is likely to increase turmoil in the party at first and others have already said they would follow him out the door , the fn has survived similar crises in the past and analysts expect it to do the same this time .
philippot is seen as too divisive within the far-right to create a party that would be a serious threat .
le pen , who has shown a sometimes ruthless determination to hold on to power in the national front , having already pushed out her father jean-marie , the founder of the party , withdrew philippot s responsibilities within the movement late on wednesday , leaving him with little choice about his future .
i m not into being ridiculed , i m not into having nothing to do .
and so yes , of course , i m quitting the national front , philippot , 35 and a graduate of france s elite administrative school ena , told france 2 television .
le pen , who just last year spoke of having an intellectual crush on philippot , responded tersely that the fn would have no problems of getting over his departure .
one should stop trying to bury the national front , she told lcp television .
every time people have tried to do it , it came out better-structured , stronger and more powerful .
the national front , which has made major inroads in local , regional and european elections over the past decade without winning any major constituency , will hold a congress in march where internal differences since its defeat to emmanuel macron and his new party will come to a head .
the far-right party has tried to portray itself as the main voice of opposition against macron .
but that mantle has so far been assumed by jean-luc melenchon , the leader of the far-left france insoumise ( france unbowed ) , who is calling for mass demonstrations against the president s economic reforms .
far-left thrilled appearing on france s rtl radio on thursday , melenchon reveled in the turmoil on the far-right .
excellent , that s their business .
it s perfect , he said in reaction to philippot s departure .
it s a party that counts for nothing .
those that were angry but aren t fascists , i urge them to turn their back ( on the fn ) and come and join us .
j r me fourquet , an expert on the far-right at polling group ifop , said philippot s exit would deprive the party of experienced policy writers .
but he said any exodus was likely to be limited and short of those who quit when bruno megret left the party in 1988 , when it was led by jean-marie le pen .
megret created his own party but it never attracted many votes .
those who leave the fn or are pushed out all end up being marginalized , fourquet said .
philippot joined the party in 2011 and rose quickly to become le pen s chief adviser .
he was instrumental in crafting her policies and her 2012 and 2017 election manifestos .
sophie montel , one of philippot s closest aides and an fn member for over 30 years , said on twitter she was quitting the party .
so did several other philippot allies .
but other more high profile figures rejoiced , including le pen s partner louis aliot .
the fn will finally have some peace of mind away from a sectarian , arrogant , vain extremist who was trying to muzzle our freedom to debate , aliot said on twitter .
he thinks he s right about everything and ... for me he s an extremist , he said later , speaking to rmc .
when you show him a poll that says 75 percent of the french people don t want to leave the euro , his reply is we don t give a damn , that s where we are going .
robert menard , an fn ally and a mayor in southern france , was even blunter , saying : we need to stop with the anti-europeanism and the melenchon-type ( economic ) policies .
le pen said the party would continue to fight the eu and wanted a return to monetary sovereignty .
but after many flip-flops on the issue , she did not spell out precisely what that would entail .