london ( reuters ) - a public inquiry into a fire that killed at least 80 people at london s grenfell tower will get to the truth about the tragedy , its chairman pledged on thursday , but critics said survivors of the blaze were still being failed .
the 24-storey social housing block , home to a poor , multi-ethnic community , was gutted on june 14 in an inferno that started in a fourth-floor apartment in the middle of the night and quickly engulfed the building .
grenfell tower was part of a deprived housing estate in kensington and chelsea , one of the richest boroughs in london , and the disaster has prompted a national debate about social inequality and government neglect of poor communities .
the inquiry started with a minute s silence to honor the victims , whose exact number remains unknown because of the devastation inside the tower .
( the inquiry ) can and will provide answers to the pressing questions of how a disaster of this kind could occur in 21st century london , its chairman , retired judge martin moore-bick , said in his opening statement .
he said the inquiry was not there to punish anyone or to award compensation , but to get to the truth .
a separate police investigation is underway , which could result in manslaughter charges .
there have been no arrests .
the inquiry will examine the cause and spread of the fire , the design , construction and refurbishment of the tower , whether fire regulations relating to high-rise buildings are adequate and whether they were complied with .
it will also look at the actions of the authorities before and after the tragedy .
but critics warned of a disconnect between the technical , legalistic inquiry process and the ongoing ordeal of traumatized former grenfell tower residents still awaiting new homes .
prime minister theresa may pledged that all families whose homes were destroyed in the fire would be rehoused within three weeks , but three months later most still live in hotels .
just three out of 197 households that needed rehousing have moved into permanent homes , while 29 have moved into temporary accommodation .
we lost everything .
it s difficult for the other people to be in our shoes , miguel alves , who escaped his 13th-floor apartment in grenfell tower with his family , told the bbc .
now i m without anything , i m in the hotel , i have to cope with my family .
my daughter , she just started school .
they need some stability and that i can not give to my family , he said .
emma dent coad , a member of parliament from the opposition labour party who represents the area , said the inquiry s remit was too narrow and would fail to address the blaze s deeper causes such as failings in social housing policies .
she also criticized the choice of venue for moore-bick s opening statement , a lavishly decorated room in central london .
we were sitting in a ballroom dripping with chandeliers .
i think it was the most incredibly inappropriate place to have something like that , and actually says it all about the us-and-them divide that people see , she told the bbc .
many of those affected have also expressed disquiet about the fact that moore-bick and the other lawyers appointed to run the inquiry are all white and part of a perceived establishment far removed from their own circumstances .
the experience of many residents of that tower is that they were ignored because of their immigration status , lawyer jolyon maugham , who is advising some residents , told the bbc .
we need someone on the inquiry team that can speak to that experience and at the moment on the panel we have a bunch of white privileged barristers , he said .
one of the difficulties facing the inquiry is that it needs former residents to give evidence but some fear possible deportation .
the government has said it would grant a 12-month amnesty to anyone affected by the fire who was in britain illegally .
supporters say only permanent residency rights will persuade people to come forward .