mexico city ( reuters ) - the united nations said on monday the mexican government is struggling to keep journalists safe and prosecute their oppressors , after officials toured regions of the country that are among the most dangerous in the world for reporters .
mexican federal prosecutors have yet to secure any convictions for crimes against reporters due to ineffective probes and scant resources , said the u.n. s special rapporteur for freedom of expression , david kaye , and his counterpart from the inter-american commission on human rights , edison lanza .
they released a preliminary report describing a profound crisis of safety after a week-long tour of mexico city and the violent states of veracruz , guerrero , tamaulipas and sinaloa , and plan to release detailed recommendations in the spring .
past prosecutors didn t have the same political will to actually get the job done , said kaye , expressing cautious hope that current prosecutors will do more to address the problem .
there s a bit more attention to getting this done right .
i hope what we heard wasn t just words because we are here , he added after the two met with 250 reporters on their trip .
a news photographer in the state of san luis potosi last october was the 11th journalist murdered so far this year , according to advocacy group article 19 , equaling the death toll in 2016 , which was the bloodiest year for journalists on record in mexico .
murders are on track to reach a record high this year , as mexico continues grappling with turf wars between violent drug gangs that have convulsed the country for more than a decade .
in the past 17 years , 111 journalists have been killed in mexico , 38 of them under the administration of president enrique pena nieto .
kaye said the prosecutor s office tasked with investigating attacks on reporters , formed in 2006 , needs to deter such crimes by committing substantial resources to solving a single high-profile case , or a handful of them .
until that happens , there will be very little prevention , and very little ending of this cycle of violence , kaye said .
he and lanza also said mexico s government must devote more funding and staff to a journalist protection program launched in 2012 , taking measures such as daily monitoring of the situation in states where reporters are most at risk , and helping them to continue to work if they are forced to leave their homes .
it has an amount of money that s absurdly insufficient for the emergency that it s facing , lanza said .