mazar-i-sharif , afghanistan ( reuters ) - german defence minister ursula von der leyen on monday said the withdrawal of international troops from afghanistan in recent years had been too rapid and she called for a longer-term commitment in the hindu kush mountain range .
visiting troops in the northern city of mazar-i-sharif , von der leyen criticized the rapid reduction in forces since the nato-led international security assistance force ( isaf ) ended its mission in afghanistan in 2014 but said the international community had now learned it needed to be more patient .
i haven t forgotten how it was at the beginning when we got out of isaf too quickly with too big a reduction in troop numbers , she said , adding that everyone knew the security situation in afghanistan remained tense .
she said afghans continued to need support , advice and training from foreign soldiers , adding : there s still a lot to do but i m convinced that we re going in the right direction with our mission there .
we ll need to have a lot of stamina - afghanistan will occupy us for a long time yet , von der leyen said .
u.s. president donald trump announced a new open-ended policy toward afghanistan in august , authorizing an increase in u.s. troop numbers to advise and train afghan security forces and conduct counter-terrorism operations , with the aim of reversing territorial gains by taliban insurgents and compelling them to agree to peace talks .
at the peak of the isaf mission around 150,000 foreign soldiers were deployed in hindu kush compared with around 17,000 now - of which 10,000 are americans .
u.s. officials are pressing germany to send more troops to afghanistan as part of the increased international presence but say they do not expect any decisions until after the formation of a new german government .
the german parliament voted last week to extend by three months germany s military support for the afghanistan mission to allow a new government to consider a longer-term extension .