madrid - catalan regional leader carles puigdemont planned on tuesday to address a session of the regional parliament that might adopt a unilateral declaration of independence from spain .
below are the main points of the catalan legal framework that permitted the oct. 1 referendum on independence and would underpin a new state before a constitution is established .
spain s constitutional court has suspended the new laws .
what does legislation say about declaration of independence ?
legislation passed in the catalan parliament on sept. 6 states that the outcome of the referendum is binding , and if it produces more affirmative than negative votes , this implies the independence of catalonia .
within two days of the official announcement of the result of the referendum , the catalan parliament will formally declare independence , explain the effects of the decision and start the process of founding a republic .
the legislation describes catalonia as a social and democratic republic of law , in which the people of the region are sovereign .
it says european union and international law continue to apply , and defines the sovereign territory of catalonia .
the law says eu rules in force in catalonia when independence is declared , whether enforced by national or regional institutions , will continue to apply under the same conditions established by the law of the bloc .
it also says eu laws passed after an independent state is declared will be automatically integrated into catalan law .
not clear .
a break from spain would leave catalonia outside the eu , but it could aim to continue using the euro , as non-eu members kosovo and montenegro do .
exit from the bloc would mean catalan lenders cease to be supervised by the european central bank , whose deposit insurance scheme protects bank customers .
how would catalonia manage trade relations and immigration ?
the exact terms of future trade relationships have not been set out , but the legislation says the catalan government acts in accordance with the customs and excise regime set out in eu law .
international treaties signed by spain are incorporated into catalan law provided that they are considered compatible with application there .
the catalan government will decide within one year which treaties to authorize .
foreigners have the same rights and obligations as catalan citizens , but citizenship is required for those holding positions of public power .
anyone born in catalonia who does not have any other legal citizenship is considered catalan .
the current supreme court of justice of catalonia becomes the new supreme court of catalonia .
the current civil and criminal court is divided into separate civil and criminal chambers .
a superior court of guarantees is created to handle any appeals and conflicts of jurisdiction .
this consists of the chairman of the supreme court , the chairmen of the other four chambers and two judges appointed by parliament .
spanish citizens resident in catalonia since before dec. 31 2016 are deemed citizens , while those who took up residency after dec. 31 , 2016 but before the self-determination law takes hold can apply for citizenship after two years .
those who were born in catalonia , have catalan parents or have lived in the region for at least five years in the past , but are not resident there , can also apply for citizenship .
babies born to or adopted by catalan parents after independence is declared are considered citizens .
catalan citizenship can be acquired by legal and continuous residence in catalonia for a period of five years immediately prior to the request .
for foreigners , the legal residence time includes that which has elapsed before the law comes into force .
an applicant to be a catalan citizen does not have to give up their citizenship of spain or any other country .