san juan , puerto rico ( reuters ) - food shortages and looting on caribbean islands hammered by hurricane irma sparked growing criticism of the government response , prompting british billionaire richard branson to call for a marshall plan to help the region recover .
irma ripped through the tiny easterly leeward islands last week as one of the atlantic s strongest ever storms , killing two dozen people , uprooting trees , tearing down power cables and severely damaging the homes of poor locals and the global jet-set alike .
across the whole of the caribbean , irma killed nearly 40 people and devastated basic services , tearing cracks in law and order .
looting erupted on some caribbean islands where residents and tourists were stranded with little food , shelter or drinking water .
jenn manes , who writes a blog on u.s. virgin island st. john , detailed a list of robberies and break-ins on the island after irma struck , saying she had to install a bar on the inside of her door to keep out would-be burglars .
this is not st. john anymore .
i m not sure what it is .
what i do know is that i am scared .
my friends are scared .
and we don t know what to do , she wrote .
despite sending reinforcements and ships to deliver help , france , britain and the netherlands have been criticized for not doing enough for the islands that they oversee .
britain s defence minister michael fallon at the weekend said his government s effort was as good as anybody else s. the dutch government on sunday described the situation as fragile on its half of the island of st. martin , where an undisclosed number of arrests of looters were made after irma damaged or destroyed 70 percent of the local housing stock .
alex martinez , a 31-year-old american trapped on the dutch part of st. martin by irma , said looters tried to raid his near-deserted hotel before he and others chased them off .
we had to fend for ourselves , he told reuters .
struggling to get answers about loved-ones , many people resorted to sharing information and making pleas on a facebook page set up to help people on st. martin .
dutch king willem-alexander and interior minister ronald plasterk on monday visited st. martin , reviewing the damage done to the battered island with local leaders .
french president emmanuel macron was expected in the caribbean on tuesday .
following the passage of hurricane luis in 1995 , which killed at least 15 people in the caribbean and damaged 60 percent of housing on st. martin , the u.s. national hurricane center estimated the cost to st. martin alone at $ 1.8 billion .
businessman branson , who has lived in the british virgin islands for the past 11 years , said in a blog post on www.virgin.com that the region needed a disaster recovery marshall plan to rebuild and revitalize its economy - a reference to the multibillion-dollar u.s. program that helped rebuild western europe after the devastation of world war two .
we must get more help to the islands to rebuild homes and infrastructure and restore power , clean water and food supplies , said branson , head of the virgin group conglomerate .
he said he was writing from puerto rico , where he was mobilizing aid efforts , and that he would be returning to the virgin islands soon for recovery work .
branson said the british government had a massive role to play in rebuilding its territories , including the british virgin islands , an offshore financial center .
the premier of the british virgin islands , orlando smith , also appealed for urgent aid from britain , saying the situation was critical and calling for a comprehensive package .
the plan should include the possibility of more extreme weather as the effects of climate change continue to grow , he said .
still , on monday , blogger manes on u.s. virgin island st. john reported the situation was improving , saying police were patrolling the streets and that a navy ship had arrived to help .