mogadishu ( reuters ) - somalia s government rebuked its three semi-autonomous regions on thursday for cutting ties with qatar , saying it was determined to stay neutral in the gulf nation s dispute with other arab states .
the region of galmudug issued a statement on wednesday saying it stood with the united arab emirates and saudi arabia in the regional row , followed similar declarations last month by the regions of puntland and hirshabelle .
somalia s federal government responded by saying only it had the authority to speak on foreign affairs .
saudi arabia , the uae , bahrain and egypt cut political and trade ties with qatar on june 5 , accusing it of supporting terrorism and their arch-foe iran - charges that doha denies .
the spat about it in volatile but strategically located somalia illustrated how far the political ripples from qatar s dispute have spread .
somalia s open stance is important for qatar - somalia s airspace remains open for qatar airways , a critical lifeline amid the blockade .
gulf arab states have meanwhile been pouring resources into the semi-autonomous regions .
( the arab states ) are trying to give more energy and emphasize more their relations with these regional governments , trying to pressure them to go against the federal government , said nairobi-based somalia expert ahmed roble .
the choice by those regions to break from the federal government and reject qatar , is unsurprising , roble added .
somalia s position also underlines its delicate position - dependent on trade from saudi arabia , but increasing close to turkey , which is backing qatar in the dispute .
saudi arabia in somalia s top export partner , and the united arab emirates supplies the horn of africa country with key imports from electronics to building materials .
turkey has poured in more than $ 1 billion in aid since president tayyip erdogan s visit to somalia in 2011 and is expected to open a military base in mogadishu this month .
the cabinet reaffirms the federal government s decision in june ... that somalia is neutral about the conflict of gulf countries , read a statement issued by the office of prime minister hassan ali khaire .
the statement called on the conflict be solved brotherly , peacefully and diplomatically .