accra ( reuters ) - at least seven people were killed and dozens injured , mostly suffering burns , after a huge explosion at a fuel distribution site in ghana s capital , local authorities said on sunday .
the blast on saturday evening was heard across much of the city , sending a giant fireball into the sky above the eastern part of accra and causing frightened residents to flee their homes in large numbers .
others were forcibly evacuated .
at least seven people died and 132 were injured , a statement from the ministry of information read out on local radio said on sunday .
about half of them had already been treated and discharged , it said the site includes a liquefied petroleum gas storage depot and two service stations run by state-owned goil and oil major total .
it was not immediately clear where or how the explosion began .
witnesses said people had already began fleeing the area ahead of the blast because of the pungent odor of gas - a factor that likely reduced casualties .
neither total nor goil responded to requests for comment .
ghana , a relatively new oil and gas producer , has suffered several recent accidents including an explosion in 2015 that killed around 100 people .
like many teeming african cities , accra s infrastructure has failed to keep up with its population , which has shot up to 7 million .
at the scene of the fire on sunday , scattered fruit and broken coconuts from street vendors were strewn near the wreckage next to burnt-out cars and a fuel lorry , a reuters witness said .
vice president mahamudu bawumia described the accident as one too many and promised to toughen safety measures .
several onlookers there expressed anger that the government had not done more to prevent another fatal accident in the city .
it s annoying to see all the big men in our society trooping to this place as if this is the first time we have such an incident , said joshua vokeh , a 38-year-old mini bus driver .
they visit , talk tough and make promises , drive off and it ends there .