sydney ( reuters ) - the citizenship crisis engulfing australian prime minister malcolm turnbull s government deepened on tuesday as an eighth lawmaker exited parliament and the main opposition party drafted in a high-profile candidate for a key by-election .
turnbull s center-right government has already lost its majority in parliament , accounting for four of the eight lawmakers to be forced out or to resign from parliament in recent weeks because they were dual citizens .
that status is banned under the australian constitution to prevent split allegiances .
adherence to that rule in a country where more than half the population of 24 million was either born overseas or has a parent who was born overseas has only come under the spotlight in the current crisis , with the high court confirming a strict interpretation of the law .
jacqui lambie , an independent and outspoken senator for the island state of tasmania , confirmed on tuesday that she was the eighth lawmaker in a parliament of 226 to fall foul of the dual citizenship law , with political analysts warning that several more are likely to fall .
the opposition labor party upped the stakes on tuesday by announcing it was putting forward former state premier kristina keneally to contest the seat vacated by a lawmaker in turnbull s liberal party .
the by-election in the inner sydney seat of bennelong , along with another one for the seat of former deputy prime minister barnaby joyce , who was ejected by last month s high court ruling , will be key to restoring turnbull s small majority in parliament .
this is a chance which i think a lot of people in australia would like to have that has fallen to the people of bennelong to send a message against the dysfunction and the chaos of the current government , the policy paralysis , the failure of leadership , labor leader bill shorten told reporters on tuesday .
while joyce is widely expected to win back his safe rural seat after renouncing his new zealand citizenship , the entry of the popular keneally into the sydney race has made that contest far less certain .
previously a safe conservative seat , it fell to the labor party in 2007 , before the conservatives won it back in 2010 .
elections are notoriously volatile , anything is possible , nicholas economou , a political scientist at monash university , told reuters .
voters often use by-elections to give a stinging rebuke to a government that s at war with itself and that s what this government is .
it s game on in bennelong .
the citizenship crisis has hit turnbull hard , with a poll released on monday showing he had slipped to a new low in voter popularity amid criticism that he has failed to act decisively .
independent lawmakers have threatened to use their new-found power in the lower house to push through controversial legislation that has been blocked by the government , including a royal commission into the banking sector .
the government and main opposition party cobbled together a deal on monday to agree to a deadline of dec. 1 for all politicians to disclose the birthplace of their parents and grandparents .
lambie vowed to immediately renounce her uk citizenship , granted by descent courtesy of her scottish-born father .
i won t be laying down , i ll just get up and get back on and go again , simple as that , she told local radio .
lambie , 43 , a former army corporal , has become one of australia s most recognizable and colorful politicians in her short time in office .
she has garnered headlines for a range of controversial comments , including her belief that china could invade australia and applauding russian president vladimir putin s very strong leadership .