abidjan ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel on wednesday stressed the importance of ending smuggling and slavery while creating a legal route for africans to come to europe as she faces pressure at home to tackle a migrant influx .
speaking at an eu-africa summit in abidjan , merkel is seeking to show germany can take foreign policy action despite still being under a caretaker government two months after an election .
the influx of more than a million migrants since mid-2015 , many of them fleeing the middle east and africa , was largely to blame for the rise of the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) in the sept. 24 election .
by taking votes from merkel s conservative bloc and others , they surged into parliament for the first time , leaving merkel facing complicated coalition arithmetic .
she is grappling to form a new government with the centre-left social democrats ( spd ) after discussions on forming a three-way tie-up with the pro-business free democrats and the greens failed , in part because of the thorny issue of migration .
there is a common interest in ending illegal immigration , merkel said .
this plays a role all over the african continent now because there are reports that young african men are being sold like slaves in libya .
libya is now the main departure point for mostly african migrants trying to cross to europe .
smugglers usually pack them into flimsy inflatable boats that often break down or sink .
merkel , who in 2015 decided to open germany s borders to migrants , said legal options should be created for africans to be able to get training or study in an eu country .
speaking on the sidelines of the summit , german foreign minister sigmar gabriel , from the spd , suggested that europe could offer several hundred thousand places each year as long as those people returned voluntarily after three or four years .
but guenter nooke , merkel s africa envoy from her christian democrats ( cdu ) , was more sceptical : no interior minister will let hundreds of thousands in if he is not sure that most of them will return , he told reuters .
the difference between gabriel and nooke suggests that migration will be a contested subject in coalition talks between the cdu and the spd , but perhaps less so than in the three-way talks that failed as the two parties policies are closer .
more important than creating legal migration options was to create more opportunities for young people at home , nooke said , noting that africa s population could double from a current 1.2 billion by 2050 .
it s all about creating seeds for growth , with industrial parks and special economic zones .
it is a question of jobs , jobs , jobs , jobs , he said .
the summit was due to focus on education , investment in youth and economic development to discourage refugees and economic migrants from attempting the treacherous journey across the mediterranean .