hong kong ( reuters ) - hong kong s leader denied on friday that china had taken over immigration controls in the city after a british activist was refused entry , but she couldn t rule out barring even the last colonial governor and frequent china critic , chris patten .
chief executive carrie lam defended hong kong s autonomy amid deepening questions over the chinese-ruled financial hub s reputation as a free and international city , after a conservative party rights activist , benedict rogers , was barred from entering on wednesday .
when asked on a radio talk show whether patten , who has criticized perceived chinese interference in hong kong affairs , would be the next to be barred , lam stopped short of ruling it out .
i can t exclude any possibilities because immigration matters will change depending on the case , she told public broadcaster rthk .
patten , who spoke extensively during a recent hong kong visit and was critical of the jailing of several democracy activists , has angered some in the pro-beijing establishment .
britain handed hong kong back to chinese rule in 1997 amid promises that its widespread freedoms and autonomy would be respected under a one country , two systems formula .
but china s foreign ministry said it had the right to allow or refuse any persons wanting to enter hong kong , in response to rogers case , as this was a matter of state sovereignty .
the promise of autonomy is enshrined in the mini-constitution , known as the basic law , that creates a separate hong kong legal and policing regime , including immigration controls .
but china has sovereign control over defense and foreign affairs - which critics fear beijing is exploiting to erode the city s freedoms .
i want to clarify any worries ... that this whole matter of immigration is now being taken over by the central people s government .
that s certainly , definitely not the case , lam said .
the case has to be regarded and treated and fall under what constitutes a foreign affairs matter .
patten did not immediately respond to a reuters request for comment .
china lodged a diplomatic complaint with london after british foreign secretary boris johnson demanded an urgent explanation from hong kong and china for rogers expulsion .
the case has also sparked outcry from the city s pro-democracy activists , including former number two official anson chan , who said beijing was using the case to send a message .
local english newspaper the standard wrote in an editorial on friday that if the situation is allowed to evolve into such a state that whoever disliked is barred , it could be the moment we begin to lose our international appeal .the u.s. consulate in hong kong also expressed concern .
we urge china to respect hong kong s high degree of autonomy consistent with the principle of one country , two systems , u.s. consulate spokeswoman kristin haworth told reuters .
the chinese embassy in london , in an email reply to reuters late on thursday , did not respond directly to rogers allegation that it had warned him through a middleman that he could be refused entry to hong kong .
it is a matter of chinese sovereignty whether or not to allow entry of any foreigners , it said , echoing the foreign ministry .