what would a speech from a modern democrat be if they didn t include the lgbt crowd and embrace illegal aliens ?
it s almost as if they were trying to divide our nation in order to gain votes . ?
? the mayor of kansas city , kansas , in an address to the radical socialist organization national council of la raza , bragged that his city is no longer majority white and the city s schools now have students who speak 62 different languages.according to the 2010 u.s. census , kansas city , kansas , was 52 percent white.but in a speech before the la raza national affiliates luncheon earlier this week in kansas city , mayor mark holland boasted that only five years later his city s white population has been reduced to 40 percent.he seemed to suggest that la raza was at least partly responsible for the progress .
but he also cited the refugee resettlement work of the united nations and u.s. state department for the city s transformation into a gleaming example of multicultural diversity.kansas city , he said , is very proud of the work of national council of la raza .
kansas city , kansas , is a city with no ethnic majority .
kansas city , kansas , is 40 percent white , 28 percent latino , and 26 percent african-american , holland said .
our school district speaks 62 different languages by the children every single day .
and kansas city , kansas , has a proud heritage of welcoming all people into the community , people who are not welcome in other places .
latinos started coming with the santa fe railroad more than 100 years ago , to build the railroad , he said .
another railroad , the underground railroad , brought african-americans to kansas .
if they could get across the river they were free and settled in a township of quindero .
we continue to have a number of groups of refugees from around the world , he added , mentioning the large hmong community that came in the 1970s and 80s following the vietnam war.in recent years , the city has welcomed more refugees from other parts of the world , including muslim somalia , afghanistan and iraq , hindus from bhutan and buddhists and muslims from burma.lgbts welcome in kckansas city has also thrown open its arms to the lgbt community , holland said , even though most of the state of kansas leans republican.he said the city is the home of another persecuted group the democrats .
the democrats still have a foothold in kansas city and we re very proud of that , said the democrat mayor .
and because democrats are in wyandotte county , we welcome our gay and lesbian brothers and sisters and celebrate their life and their love , and always will .
holland , an ordained methodist minister , then went on the attack against any christians who don t share his liberal theological views on same-sex marriage.he applauded the recent 5-4 supreme court decision that redefined marriage for all 50 states .
but we can not let our guard down .
this religious freedom component , i believe is the confederate flag of religious bigotry , being flown long after the fact , holland said .
as an ordained united methodist pastor myself , i m offended to note , when they say christians are offended by the ruling .
in fact , many of us christians celebrate the ruling and the continued welcome and recognition of all people .
but i want to close by saying we just couldn t be more proud that la raza is here in kansas city and it s an honor to be able to greet you .
the u.s. state department , working with the united nations , has sent 2,371 international refugees to kansas city , kansas , since 2002 .
the state department s database does not include u.n. refugees dispersed throughout the u.s. before 2002 but the program has been ongoing in its current form since 1980 .
the u.n. picks about 95 percent of the refugees sent to the u.s .
the state department , working with nine major contractors such as the u.s. conference of catholic bishops , hebrew immigrant aid society and lutheran immigration and refugee service , distributes about 70,000 refugees annually from mostly third world nations into 190 u.s. cities and towns.u.n .
sends kc 2,371 refugees since 2002the refugees , unlike most other classifications of immigrants , immediately qualify for a smorgasbord of state and federal welfare benefits and are placed on a fast-track toward full citizenship , which is obtainable within five years.since 2002 kansas city has received 1,090 refugees from burma , 577 from bhutan , 190 from somalia , 126 from iraq , 47 from liberia , 37 from eritrea , 36 from russia , 34 from burundi , 33 from afghanistan , 26 from vietnam , 24 from sudan , 18 from uzbekistan , and 11 from iran , according to state department data.via : wnd