( reuters ) - u.s. democrat senator claire mccaskill on thursday asked kaleo pharmaceuticals to justify the more than 550 percent surge in the price of its device to treat painkiller overdoses , becoming the second senator to question evzio ’ s $ 4,500 price tag .
evzio contains the overdose-reversing drug naloxone and can be used in emergencies by people without medical training .
privately held kaleo has raised the price of a twin-pack to $ 4,500 , from $ 690 in 2014 , according to a kaiser health news report .
( bit.ly/2kfzxaq ) the concerns over evzio ’ s price comes at a time when pharmaceutical companies are facing intense scrutiny over “ price-gouging ” , and as lawmakers struggle with the epidemic of opioid abuse .
the centers for disease control and prevention estimates at least 91 americans succumb every day to opioid overdose , which experts partly blame on unrestricted painkiller prescriptions .
`` at a time when congress has worked to expand access to naloxone products and to assist state and local communities to equip first responders with this life-saving drug , this startling price hike is very concerning , '' mccaskill said in a letter to kaleo chief executive spencer williamson .
( bit.ly/2kybump ) the letter , which was signed by 30 u.s. senators , asked kaleo for information on evzio ’ s price structure and why the company chose to adjust prices .
“ we received the letter from the senators and are in communication with them to ensure all questions are addressed , ” williamson told reuters in an e-mailed statement .
democrat senator amy klobuchar sent kaleo a letter earlier this month , voicing similar concerns .
williamson said that americans with commercial insurance and a prescription could get evzio , which was approved in 2014 , for no out-of-pocket cost , or for $ 360 if they paid cash .
he added that people without insurance and with household income under $ 100,000 could get evzio for no out-of-pocket cost .
kaleo ’ s other product is auvi-q , an emergency allergy auto-injector that is a rival to mylan nv ’ s epipen , which came under intense criticism last year for its high price .
kaleo said last month that it would offer auvi-q at no cost to many consumers , but set a list price – to be used as the benchmark cost to insurance companies – at a whopping $ 4,500 .