but what about that whole unfair student debt thing that hillary and bill are so concerned about ? while arizona state university has almost doubled its tuition over the past 10 years amid claims that it needs more state money , the school somehow had the funds to give half a million dollars to the clinton foundation.according to the arizona republic , the public university paid $ 500,000 to the clinton foundation to host the former president-bill clinton ; former-secretary of state hillary clinton ; and their daughter , chelsea , during a clinton global initiative university ( cgi u ) event in 2014 .
former secretary of state hillary clinton , bill s wife , is the current front-runner for the democratic nomination for the 2016 presidential race.mark johnson , an asu spokesman , told the republic that the university was a payment for the event not a contribution to the clintons .
asu played host to the cgi university in march 2014 , which featured former president bill clinton and former secretary of state hillary clinton in a program aimed at bringing together college students to find practical , innovative solutions to global challenges , johnson told the newspaper .
the report you cited reflects the fact that the university co-invested in this educational and promotional opportunity , which was co-produced for our students , and for students from around the world .
no state funds were used for this purpose .
the republic also reported that while the university has lobbied the state department , university officials claim the lobbying occurred after hillary stepped down from the position.the cgi u website also boasts that more than 1,100 students attended the event to raise $ 60,000 and participate in a day of action in the community .
student attendees had the opportunity to attend plenary sessions , working sessions , and other special events covering topics across cgi u s five focus areas and allowing them to network with their peers , build skills , and identify potential partnerships , the website for the event states .
youth organizations , topic experts , and celebrities joined students at the cgi u meeting to help them gain the skills and knowledge needed to take action on their commitments .
earlier this month arizona s board of regents voted to approve tuition increases for both undergraduate and graduate students at asu , the university of arizona , and northern arizona university .
arizona gov .
doug ducey ( r ) also recently approved a budget that cut more than $ 100 million from public universities , the arizona state press reported .
in this regard asu seems to hold themselves accountable to their own pet projects , as opposed to asu students , richard moorehead , a senior history major at asu , told campus reform .
the money they wasted on the clinton foundation event could have been used for scholarships and genuine education .
i realize bringing high-profile speakers can raise the profile of the university , but no speaker s time is worth $ 500,000 , especially if that money is funneled into a presidential campaign , moorhead said .
he did not attend the cgi u event.ryan hartwig , a recent asu graduate , told campus reform that the $ 500,000 was way too much for any celebrity or politician .
it really makes me question what asu does with their money , while they continue to complain about state budget cuts , hartwig said.the washington free beacon reported that asu has said it did not use state funds to pay the clintons , but the university has not disclosed where the money actually came from.sen .
john mccain ( r-ariz. ) participated in the event last year but told the republic that had he known the price tag , it wouldn t have been worth it .
frankly , if i had known that that was the situation , that they were being paid $ 500,000 , i would have spoken up at the time that i thought it was outrageous , mccain said.via : campus reform