london ( reuters ) - two decades after yusuf karodia launched mancosa , a distance learning school to teach south africans business skills , he sold up to uk private equity firm actis .
from nurseries to exam tutoring and adult education , teaching businesses are booming as populations rise and cash-strapped governments fail to keep up with demand .
with 263 million children out of school worldwide , according to 2014 data from the united nations , investors are keen to access a growing sector with few publicly-listed companies .
karodia said actis was one of a stream of interested private investors .
we had about an overture a week to partner with someone , he told reuters .
mancosa is now part of actis s expanding higher education portfolio in africa .
it has spent $ 275 million since 2014 , investing in education institutes across the continent which it groups under the brand name honoris universities and plans to list on a stock market in the next two to three years .
karodia , who will also get a stake in honoris , says there is huge demand for education in africa .
quality education - especially coming from the private sector - is going to play an ever increasingly important role , he said .
the international commission on financing global education opportunity estimates that international financing for education in low- and middle-income countries will need to increase from today s estimated $ 16 billion per year to $ 89 billion by 2030 .
jetilde carlos is a 22-year old final year finance student at the varsity college in cape town , owned by johannesburg-listed advtech group .
carlos missed out on a place at a state university .
its not that my parents had the money but they really wanted a better life for me .
they didn t want me to sit at home looking for job when i might not even find one , she said .
the degree is worth it in the end investors are keen for a slice of the market because the fee-paying structure guarantees a regular income stream .
the sector is also relatively resilient to economic ups and downs as parents increasingly prioritize their children s education .
it goes with the whole consumer spending ( trend ) in emerging markets , and as income levels rise and there is more disposable income available what you re seeing is the population is looking to spend in areas such as education , said patricia ribeiro , an equity portfolio manager at american century investments .
carlos paid a deposit of 25,000 rand ( $ 1,876.38 ) .
if you pay up front the total is 70,500 rand but the monthly payments that she has chosen bring the total to about 90,000 rand for one year s tuition .
the sector is dominated by private equity players .
msci s emerging equity index contains only three education stocks - new york-listed chinese firms tal and new oriental education and brazil s kroton .
morgan stanley describes shares in chinese education operators as attractive .
china s education market catering for children from nursery to end of secondary school will grow 8 percent annually to become a 3 trillion yuan ( $ 460 billion ) market in 2020 , the bank told clients .
recent regulatory changes are set to benefit private tutoring firms , many of which prepare high-school pupils for university .
tal said in july that student enrolment was up more than 60 percent year-on-year , with a matching rise in revenue .
its stock has soared 180 percent since january .
new oriental education projects revenue growth of as much as 24 percent in the three months to end-august .
its shares are up 114 percent since the start of 2017 .
china is very exam-driven from kindergarten on and they are competing more and more with u.s. schools , said sandra ackermann-schaufler , senior portfolio manager for emerging markets at sei .
if anyone thinks it s tough to get into u.s. universities they should look at the top chinese universities .... the growth you could see is explosive growth .
valuations are soaring , possibly because fund managers are chasing too few companies .
tal s price-to-earnings ( p/e ) ratio is nearly 130 , while new oriental education hovers around 50 .
in contrast , msci s emerging equity index trades at a p/e of around 12 .
if you look at pe historically or if you look at pe this year , they look very expensive , julian mayo , portfolio manager at charlemagne capital .
brazil became another destination for those seeking exposure to education stocks after 2009 when the government boosted loan programs for students attending for-profit colleges .
one of the main beneficiaries was brazil s largest for-profit college operator kroton educacional .
while the recent recession in latin america s biggest economy led to a fall in student loans , the biggest companies are already well-established , fund managers said .
results published last month showed revenue growing near double-digits on the quarter , with gross margins well above 70 percent .
kroton s stock has risen more than 50 percent since the start of the year .
the gulf region also offers opportunities .
kuwait-based humansoft , which establishes and manages private universities and colleges listed in 2005 .
united arab emirates-based gems education , which operates more than 250 schools across 14 countries and counts blackstone among its stakeholders , has indicated plans to list .
in africa , many governments want more private investors in education but they are approaching it cautiously .
they want regulations in place to ensure the quality is high .
pelonomi venson-moitoi , minister of international affairs and cooperation in botswana said some young people had left private universities with certificates that opened no doors .
she said it was difficult to make sure the people who are investing in education are not fraudsters , what we are finding is that some people are not there to deliver quality education .
we learned this very badly ourselves ... but now people come in and invest , and this is taking a huge load off the government , she said .