you won t believe this judge and how he berates a family that was terrorized in a home invasion .
can a three-year old help how she feels after this traumatic event ? the reason judge olu stevens of louisville , kentucky berated a family that was terrorized by two black home invaders in court and on facebook will knock your socks off .
in all my years , i don t think i ve ever seen such an egregious example of race-card abuse.the judge was troubled and offended by the fact that a three year victim was so traumatized by a violent home invasion , she is now fearful of black males.jordan and tommy gray s 3-year old daughter was watching spongebob when two black armed men broke into her home and robbed her family at gunpoint one of the perps pointing a gun in her father s face.mom and dad honestly noted on the their victim impact statement that she is still afraid of black men 2 years later .
whenever we are running errands , if we come across a black male , she holds me tight and begs me to leave , the mother said .
it has affected her friendships at school and our relationships with african-american friends .
tommy gray also wrote that since the crime , his daughter had been terrified of black males and that probation was not sufficient punishment for gregory wallace , 27 , who had pleaded guilty to robbery .
if holding a little girl at gunpoint gets you probation , then our system is flawed , gray said.but when wallace was brought up for sentencing feb. 4 in jefferson circuit court , it was the parents , not wallace , who suffered judge olu stevens wrath .
i am offended .
i am deeply offended that they would be victimized by an individual and express some kind of fear of all black men , he said .
this little girl certainly has been victimized , and she can t help the way she feels , he said .
my exception is more with her parents and their accepting that kind of mentality and fostering those type of stereotypes .
the grays were not in court as stevens denounced their statements and granted probation to wallace , whom he said deserved the opportunity to redeem himself.but they did see when stevens condemned their statements again , in a post on facebook .
do three year olds form such generalized , stereotyped and racist opinions of others ?
he wrote .
i think not .
perhaps the mother had attributed her own views to her child as a manner of sanitizing them .
that a supposedly unbiased judge would ask such an ridiculously biased leading question does not speak well of him.it s obviously true that three year olds generally don t develop generalized , stereotyped and racist opinions ( as if you could call her fears those things ) on their own .
this young tot had a little help she was traumatized when a couple of black home invaders terrorized her family .
is this judge stupid ? the family is obviously unhappy that the ordeal has negatively impacted their daughter s view of blacks .
how did he miss that ?
it s why they listed it it on the impact statement.later stevens said , i wasn t criticizing the victims , i was criticizing a statement that i thought was a generalization against an entire race of people .
he was criticizing the feelings of a three year old victim of a crime .
shame on him .
# smdhmeanwhile wallace and his accomplice , marquis mcafee , both 27 , were arrested about three weeks after the robbery .
both pleaded guilty and mcafee , who was on probation for a prior crime , was sentenced to 10 years in prison , which he is serving.assistant commonwealth s attorney richard elder objected to probation for wallace , who pleaded guilty to a 20-year sentence , saying he was guilty as hell and put a gun in that little girl s father s face .
via : nice deb