( reuters ) - wisconsin ’ s republican-controlled state assembly voted 59-30 on thursday to approve a bill that paves the way for a $ 3 billion incentives package for a proposed liquid-crystal display plant by taiwan ’ s foxconn .
the plan still needs to be approved by the joint finance committee , which has members from both the assembly and the state senate , as well as the senate before it can go to the governor .
the finance committee and senate are also controlled by republicans .
foxconn , an electronics manufacturer formally known as hon hai precision industry co ltd ( 2317.tw ) , hopes to open a $ 10 billion plant in 2020 at a 1,000-acre site in southeastern wisconsin .
foxconn is a major supplier to apple inc ( aapl.o ) for its iphones .
“ we are ready to take advantage of this historic opportunity ... and build a long-lasting relationship with foxconn , ” wisconsin governor scott walker , a republican who helped negotiate the deal , said in a statement .
walker ordered the legislature into special session on aug. 1 to consider the incentives package , which would award foxconn $ 3 billion over 15 years in mostly cash incentives .
foxconn , walker , president donald trump and other leaders announced the deal on the incentives last month in a white house ceremony .
the 20-million-square-foot lcd plant would initially employ 3,000 people , but walker and foxconn said the company could ultimately employ 13,000 at the site .
“ we look forward to continuing to work with them to transform wisconsin ’ s economy and make it a center of worldwide high-tech manufacturing , ” foxconn said in a statement , referring to the legislature .
proponents have touted the project ’ s investment potential and job creation , including an expected 22,000 ancillary and 10,000 construction jobs .
critics including some democrats have attacked the plan as corporate welfare , too expensive , rushed and potentially harmful to the environment .
“ i think we need more time , ” democratic representative jill billings said .
“ i want a better deal and more guarantees for my taxpayers. ” thursday ’ s vote did not follow strict party lines ; three democrats voted in favor and two republicans voted against .
early in a debate that lasted several hours , democrats proposed referring the matter to the finance committee for review , which would have stopped the debate .
the assembly rejected the proposal with a 57-32 vote .
the assembly also voted to ignore three amendments proposed by democrats .
wisconsin would not break even on the incentive package for at least 25 years , a legislative analysis released last week said .