bill penzey , the owner of penzeys spices , wrote two separate letters on the penzeys spices facebook page , accusing all trump s voters of openly embracing racism .
isn t it funny how liberals think they can use the most hateful and divisive language against fellow americans , then excuse their open hate as an act of love or unity ?
we re asking trump supporters and anyone who disagrees with a company owner calling half of america racists to boycott penzeys spices .
( list of states where penzeys spice stores are located can be found below ) here is an excerpt from his first letter : please give us a moment to share something we hope you will find very valuable.our customers come from all walks of life .
the kindness of cooks knows no borders or divides .
in the aftermath of the election , seeing the intentional damage inflicted on so many outside the white heterosexual male world , we raised our voice .
we felt we had to .
we did this because we are penzeys .
the spice business is so intertwined with history that it s not really possible to have one without the other .
it became clear to us that we are now in a moment history will long have its eyes upon .
for the sake of our customers , and for the sake of future generations , we felt the time had come to stand on the right side of history.and while the reasons for why we took a stand might be specific to our unique outlook , what we learned actually applies to all commerce in the united states .
what we learned is that president-elect donald trump has no real support .
voters , sure , but no constituency .
running a campaign on that horrible-terrible-woman who should be locked up , while at the same time working to raise fear of minorities among white voters with limited access to education , clearly achieved its goal .
but none of it left americans with any sense of connection to the candidate they actually voted for.willing to take a hit for what is right , we did what we did .
in the two weeks since , online sales are up 59.9 % , gift box sales up 135 % .
and we didn t have a catalog arrive in this window this year , while last year we had 1.1 million !
yes , maybe for the moment we have lost 3 % of our customers because of the so-called right wing firestorm .
and , yes , they send emails of rage , and all caps , and bad language with the hope of creating the perception that they are bigger than they really are .
but what we learned is that , in terms of retail spending , donald trump simply has no one supporting his views for america .
he has no constituency.in this moment there is finally the real chance to unite our nation in our shared rejection of sexism , homophobia , and racism .
this is your chance to stand up for america s values and make january a tent pole in your company s history .
opportunities to do the right thing at the time when doing the right thing makes all the difference come once in a lifetime .
make your history proud.for entire letter , see facebook post below :