washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump put north korea back on a list of state sponsors of terrorism on monday , a designation that allows the united states to impose more sanctions and risks inflaming tensions over pyongyang s nuclear weapons and missile programs .
the republican president , who has traded personal insults with north korean leader kim jong un but has not ruled out talks , said the treasury department will announce additional sanctions against north korea on tuesday .
the designation came a week after trump returned from a 12-day , five-nation trip to asia in which he made containing north korea s nuclear ambitions a centerpiece of his discussions .
in addition to threatening the world by nuclear devastation , north korea has repeatedly supported acts of international terrorism , including assassinations on foreign soil , trump told reporters at the white house .
this designation will impose further sanctions and penalties on north korea and related persons and supports our maximum pressure campaign to isolate the murderous regime .
trump , who has often criticized his predecessors policies toward pyongyang , said the designation should have been made a long time ago .
north korea is pursuing nuclear weapons and missile programs in defiance of u.n. security council sanctions and has made no secret of its plans to develop a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the u.s. mainland .
it has fired two missiles over japan and on sept. 3 fired its sixth and largest nuclear test .
south korea s spy agency said on monday the north may conduct additional missile tests this year to improve its long-range missile technology and ramp up the threat against the united states .
experts say the designation will be largely symbolic as north korea is already heavily sanctioned by the united states , a reality that secretary of state rex tillerson seemed to acknowledged while saying it would help dissuade third parties from supporting pyongyang .
the practical effects may be limited but hopefully we re closing off a few loopholes with this , he told reporters .
the united states has designated only three other countries - iran , sudan and syria - as state sponsors of terrorism .
some experts think north korea does not meet the criteria for the designation , which requires evidence that a state has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism .
in his remarks , trump remembered otto warmbier , the college student from ohio who died in june shortly after his return from north korea , where he was held for more than a year .
his death caused outrage in the united states and further inflamed tensions with pyongyang .
a u.s. intelligence official who follows developments in north korea expressed concern that trump s move could backfire , especially given that the basis for the designation is arguable .
speaking on condition of anonymity , the official said kim could respond in a number of ways , including renewing missile or nuclear tests in a very volatile environment .
the move also could undercut trump s efforts to solicit greater chinese cooperation in pressuring north korea to halt its nuclear and ballistic missile tests , the official said .
in any case , it will do little to open the way for u.s. dialogue with north korea , which china - pyongyang s main ally - and others have been pushing for .
i don t see how this helps , and it might just be an important miscalculation , said robert gallucci , the chief u.s. negotiator during the 1994 north korean nuclear crisis .
in february , plans for talks in the united states between former u.s. officials and north korea were scrapped when the state department denied a visa for a top envoy from pyongyang after the murder of kim s half brother , kim jong nam , in malaysia .
north korea was put on the u.s. terrorism sponsor list for the 1987 bombing of a korean air flight that killed all 115 people aboard .
but the administration of former president george w. bush , a republican , removed pyongyang in 2008 in exchange for progress in denuclearization talks .
some members of congress had been pushing for years for north korea to be put back on the list , but others questioned whether the reclusive regime met the criteria of actively sponsoring international terrorism .
u.s. representative ed royce , the republican chairman of the house of representatives foreign affairs committee , called the decision an important step in our efforts to apply maximum diplomatic and financial pressure on kim jong un .
democratic senator edward markey said the designation ratchets up the rhetoric but does nothing to hold north korea accountable for its weapons program .
the designation could prove counterproductive , said harry kazianis , director of defense studies at the conservative center for the national interest .
sadly , this action by the trump administration just further cements a dangerous game of escalatory brinkmanship where neither side is giving the other any off-ramp , he said .