tallinn ( reuters ) - germany said on thursday that russia was planning to send more than 100,000 troops to war games on nato s eastern flank this month , disputing moscow s version that only 13,000 russian and belarussian servicemen would participate .
the sept. 14-20 exercises known as zapad , or west in belarus , the baltic sea , western russia and the russian exclave of kaliningrad , are stirring unease in nato despite moscow s assurances troops would rehearse a purely defensive scenario .
it is undisputed that we are seeing a demonstration of capabilities and power of the russians , german defence minister ursula von der leyen told reporters at an eu defense ministers meeting in tallinn .
anyone who doubts that only has to look at the high numbers of participating forces in the zapad exercise : more than one hundred thousand , she said in a joint news conference with her french counterpart florence parly .
( for a graphic on russia 's zapad war games click tmsnrt.rs/2xqtywh ) while baltic nations have voiced concerns about a bigger-than-reported exercise and while nato s secretary-general expects more than 13,000 troops , von der leyen s remarks are the first time a top western politician has called out russia publicly on what nato sees as the true size of the war games .
such numbers would be legal under international treaties on war games , but would require inviting international observers .
with less than 13,000 troops , international observation of the drills is not mandatory , russia says .
in a sign of efforts to contain tensions , nato general petr pavel held his first face-to face meeting in more than two years with russia s top general , valery gerasimov , in azerbaijan on thursday , the alliance said .
nato said in a statement the meeting showed a clear mutual interest to maintain the military lines of communication .
an exercise on that scale is one of nato s most pressing concerns .
france , for one , believes the war games are no simple military drill , even though russian deputy defence minister alexander fomin told western military attaches in moscow in august the west had nothing to fear .
russia accuses nato of building up forces on its frontiers in a manner reminiscent of the cold war .
but nato says it is protecting the interests of member states bordering russia who are troubled by moscow s annexation of ukraine s crimea and links to pro-russian rebels in eastern ukraine .
previous large-scale exercises in 2013 employed special forces training , longer-range missiles and unmanned aerial vehicles that were later used in the crimea annexation and in actions in eastern ukraine and syria , nato diplomats said .
russia has a global strategy of a visible , deliberate demonstration of force , parly said before heading to meet french troops in estonia as part of nato s deployment of deterrent forces in the baltics and poland .
they have a strategy of intimidation , parly said , warning that any attack on a baltic country or poland by russia would be considered an attack on all of the u.s.-led nato alliance .