bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand s foreign ministry , in a rare statement on an ongoing crisis in neighboring myanmar s rakhine state , said late on saturday that it was closely following the situation and would provide aid to the governments of myanmar and bangladesh .
violence erupted in rakhine last month when rohingya militants attacked security posts , triggering a crackdown by the myanmar army .
more than half a million ethnic rohingya - a mostly muslim minority who are denied citizenship by myanmar - have fled to bangladesh since then .
those who fled accuse myanmar s army , backed by buddhist mobs , of a brutal killing campaign .
the united nations has described as ethnic cleansing a sweeping government offensive in the north of rakhine state in response to those attacks .
thailand is closely following the situation in the rakhine state with concern , the ministry said .
the royal thai government has always placed great importance to providing care and protection to myanmar displaced persons , it added , pointing to some 100,000 refugees from myanmar who live in nine camps along the thai-myanmar border .
but many of those living in the camps are long-term residents who fled conflict decades ago .
none are rohingya , according to non-governmental organizations who work there .
the thai foreign ministry said its statement was in response to views raised by some human rights groups regarding thailand s position on the unrest in rakhine .
amnesty international last week said thailand must not push back rohingya fleeing violence and that it should provide refugees formal legal status and protection .
thailand does not recognize the status of any refugees or recognize the rohingya as legitimate migrant workers .
thailand said it supported a statement on the issue by the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) , a grouping of 10 nations .
in the statement , asean foreign ministers condemned the attacks on myanmar s security forces and all acts of violence which resulted in loss of civilian lives .
malaysia , an asean member , disassociated itself from the statement , saying it misrepresented issues relating to the exodus of hundreds of thousands of rohingya .
so far , none of the affected victims from the august unrest in rakhine state have been found in thailand , the thai foreign ministry said .