durham , n.h. ( reuters ) - democrat hillary clinton went on the attack against rival bernie sanders on thursday in their most contentious presidential debate yet , questioning whether his ambitious proposals were viable and accusing him of an “ artful smear ” in suggesting she could be bought by political donations .
sanders fought back repeatedly , questioning clinton ’ s progressive credentials and portraying her as a creature of the political establishment in a debate that featured heated exchanges on healthcare , college tuition funding and efforts to rein in wall street .
the intensity reflected a race that has seen clinton ’ s once prohibitive lead in polls shrivel against sanders as the two vie for the democratic nomination for the nov. 8 election .
one of clinton ’ s most forceful remarks came in response to a suggestion by sanders that she could be influenced by political donations by wall street .
“ enough is enough .
if you ’ ve got something to say , say it directly , ” she said .
“ but you will not find that i ever changed a view or a vote because of any donation that i ever received .
“ so i think it ’ s time to end the very artful smear that you and your campaign have been carrying out , ” she said .
clinton charged that sanders ’ proposal for single-payer universal healthcare coverage would jeopardize obamacare , calling it “ a great mistake , ” and said his plans for free college education would be too costly to be realistic .
“ i can get things done .
i ’ m not making promises i can ’ t keep , ” clinton said .
sanders said he would not dismantle obamacare but would expand it , pointing to the many other countries that provide universal healthcare .
“ i do not accept the belief that the united states of america can ’ t do that , ” sanders said .
“ by moving forward , rallying the american people , i do believe we should have healthcare for all. ” sanders said his proposal for free tuition at public universities would be paid with a tax on wall street speculation .
“ the middle class bailed out wall street in their time of need .
now , it is wall street ’ s time to help the middle class , ” he said .
five days before new hampshire holds the second of the state-by-state presidential nominating contests , opinion polls show sanders , a u.s. senator from neighboring vermont , with a double-digit lead over clinton after surprising the front-runner by finishing just barely behind her in iowa on monday .
clinton seemed energized by her underdog status in new hampshire , delivering her most aggressive debate performance of the campaign .
it was reminiscent of her 2008 run against barack obama , when she also began as the front-runner but became a sharper and less cautious candidate as she began to lose .
the debate was the first since former maryland governor martin o ’ malley dropped out on monday after a poor finish in iowa , giving the two candidates more freedom to directly engage each other .
sanders accused clinton of representing “ the establishment , ” while saying he represented “ ordinary working americans. ” he also noted her super pac had taken contributions from wall street firms and that clinton received big speaking fees from goldman sachs .
clinton disputed the establishment label , saying it was “ quite amusing ” to accuse “ a woman , running to be the first woman president , as the establishment. ” the two battled over who best represented progressive ideals .
sanders said he would lead a “ political revolution , ” but clinton questioned his ability to get his proposals through a republican-led congress .
“ a progressive is someone who makes progress , ” she said .
and she attacked sanders ’ own credentials as a progressive , bringing up his votes against the 1993 brady bill that mandated federal background checks on gun purchases and his 2005 vote for a bill to protect gun manufacturers and dealers from lawsuits .
“ if we ’ re going to get into labels , i don ’ t think it was particularly progressive to vote against the brady bill five times , ” she said .
“ i don ’ t think it was progressive to vote to give gun makers and sellers immunity. ” sanders repeated his earlier pledge not to attack clinton on the controversy over her use of a private email account and a private server for government business when she was secretary of state .
“ i will not politicize it , ” he said .
but sanders renewed his attacks on clinton for her senate vote to authorize the u.s. invasion of iraq , which she has since called a mistake .
he pointed out he voted against the war , which he said had led to the rise of the islamic state militant group .
“ look we did differ , ” clinton responded .
“ a vote in 2002 is not a plan to defeat isis .
“ we have to look at the threats that we face right now. ” clinton has tried to play down expectations for her performance in new hampshire , where she came from behind for an upset victory in the 2008 campaign just days after losing badly to obama in iowa .
the surprisingly strong performance by sanders in iowa is likely to prolong a race that clinton entered as the presumptive front-runner .
in addition to previously scheduled debates in wisconsin and florida , the candidates added one in march in flint , michigan , to draw attention to the city ’ s contaminated water crisis ahead of the michigan primary .
they also will debate in april and may .
( additional reporting by alana wise and megan cassella ; writing by john whitesides ; editing by leslie adler and jonathan oatis ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .