raqqa , syria/beirut ( reuters ) - kurdish groups who led the fight against islamic state in its former capital raqqa must navigate a complex peace to avoid ethnic tension with the city s arab majority and to secure critical u.s. aid .
the kurdish-dominated syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) which finally vanquished islamic state in raqqa on tuesday face a big task rebuilding a city left in ruins by months of intense fighting and heavy air strikes by the u.s.-led coalition .
the political challenge is no less daunting in a city that falls outside the kurdish-dominated regions of northern syria .
the fall of raqqa , where islamic state staged euphoric parades after its string of lightning victories in 2014 , is a potent symbol of the jihadist movement s collapsing fortunes .
its self-declared caliphate is also crumbling fast in eastern syria , helping president bashar al-assad and his iranian and russian allies to recapture swathes of territory .
keenly aware of raqqa s ethnic and tribal sensitivities , the sdf has been working hard to put arabs at the heart of plans for local government and policing post-islamic state , analysts say .
in the short term , the raqqa civil council ( rcc ) set up under sdf auspices must urgently provide security , repair infrastructure and supply aid to win the backing of a population exhausted by conflict , and to allow the people of raqqa to return home .
longer term , raqqa s political destiny is tied to the wider fate of the war that has shattered syria into a patchwork of areas over the last six years , including swathes of the north controlled by the kurdish ypg militia that leads the sdf .
ultimately , the syrian state wants to recover control of this city on the euphrates river , meaning it may eventually become the arena of a new conflict with damascus , or a bargaining chip in eventual negotiations over possible kurdish autonomy .
whoever leads us , kurd or arab , we want them to provide us with services , said a man from raqqa , speaking outside the rcc headquarters in ain issa , north of the city .
safety and security is the most important thing , said the man , a government employee before the war who cited lingering fear of the syrian state as his reason for staying anonymous .
raqqa was not a target for the ypg earlier in the war but gradually became one as the militia emerged as the main syrian partner for the u.s.-led coalition .
the u.s.-led coalition says arab fighters battling under the sdf banner made up the bulk of the force in the raqqa campaign .
but kurdish commanders and fighters of the well-organised ypg appeared the leading force throughout the four-month campaign .
syria s main kurdish party , the pyd , and its allies may hope raqqa will eventually join a new federal system of autonomous regions they are establishing in the north .
but kurdish leaders say it is too early to discuss that for now , underlining local and international sensitivities surrounding the political project opposed by their u.s. allies and neighbouring turkey .
while syrian kurds say they want to remain part of syria , regional concern over kurdish separatism has deepened since iraqi kurds voted for independence , triggering military action by iraq and tough measures by turkey and iran .
turkey , in particular , views rising syrian kurdish power at its border as a threat to its security , and unsuccessfully pressed washington to abandon its alliance with the ypg in the run up to the raqqa attack .
turkey plays host to a rival raqqa civil council which regards the ypg as a foreign occupation force .
kurdish politicians say raqqa s future is now entirely in the hands of its people .
so far we have not seen any reactions to indicate there will not be acceptance of the sdf , or the rcc , said fawza youssef , a senior kurdish politician , in an interview .
the ones who will remain in raqqa will be the internal security forces and the rcc , she said .
the security forces that are being prepared are all volunteers from raqqa .
some ypg fighters quickly began pulling back from the city on tuesday , handing their positions to non-kurdish elements of the sdf , a witness and field commanders said .
the sdf applied a similar model in the northern syrian city of manbij last year after capturing it from islamic state .
the ( rcc ) is still closely linked with ypg/pyd power structures , but they have put more time and effort into emphasising inclusivity than we have seen in some other areas , senior international crisis group analyst noah bonsey said .
but the risk of unrest would rise if kurdish groups were perceived to be micro-managing the city .
there is also the risk of covert interference from the outside : is sleeper cells , and the syrian regime may see an interest in using loyalist networks to destabilise things .
either of those dynamics could heighten ethnic tension .
yasser al-sayyed , a 43-year-old former car salesman from raqqa , said people are happy with the sdf now , of course , because they re free from daesh ( islamic state ) .
but this needs to be followed up with aid , reconstruction and jobs .
the united states has deployed a team of diplomats to syria to work on humanitarian and stabilisation efforts .
the u.s. state department said washington would take the lead in helping to clear rubble and restore basic services .
we will assist and take , essentially , the lead in bringing back the water , electricity and all of that , state department spokeswoman heather nauert told a briefing .
but eventually the governance of the country of syria is something that i think all nations remain very interested in .
but analysts question how long u.s. support will last .
a u.s. official involved in post-raqqa planning said support could not be channelled to a pyd political project of expansion into this part of the country , and the united states would not support the pyd project to make an autonomous administration .
for example , the official said schools could only get aid if they were teaching a variant of the syrian state curriculum , rather than an entirely new one .
we re not going to support a separatist entity ... that s cut and dry , the official said .
though mcgurk said nobody living in sdf-held areas wanted a return of syrian state control , damascus may be planning to reassert its influence .
a syrian government official forecast trouble ahead for the sdf in raqqa and other arab majority areas of syria .
there is a contradiction , said one syrian official , speaking on condition of anonymity .
the manpower is with the arabs , but the military power is with the kurds .