washington ( reuters ) - the republican party on monday stepped up its fight against any supreme court nominee put forward by president barack obama while the president ’ s allies hit back against a conservative group ’ s attack on a judge who had been considered for the job .
the republican party ’ s move to create a task force to coordinate advertising and other steps to assail obama ’ s nominee to fill the vacancy left by the feb. 13 death of conservative justice antonin scalia is the latest indication that the political fight could become very nasty .
“ it ’ s clear what republicans are planning to do , ” white house spokesman josh earnest said .
“ they are planning to tear down the president ’ s nominee , without regard to who that person is. ” the republican national committee said the task force will contract and team up with america rising squared , a conservative group , in the effort .
“ this will be the most comprehensive judicial response effort in our party ’ s history , ” rnc chairman reince priebus said in a statement .
“ if the president wants to break with decades of precedent by pushing through a nominee in an election year , we ’ re going to vet that person and put their real record on display , ” priebus said .
earnest declined to say when obama would announce his choice to fill the vacancy , beyond saying it would not be on monday .
the republicans who control the senate have vowed not to hold confirmation hearings or an up-or-down vote on anyone obama picks , saying the choice should belong to the next president who takes office in january after the nov. 8 presidential election .
the nomination requires senate confirmation .
the stakes are high , as obama ’ s selection could pivot the nine-member court to the left for the first time in decades .
in an interview with cnn espanol that aired on monday , obama said he will make his decision “ soon. ” he said he is looking for someone with “ impeccable credentials ” who “ should be a consensus candidate. ” senate democratic leader harry reid denounced on the senate floor what he called a “ smear ” campaign against federal appeals court judge jane kelly , who had been on obama ’ s short list of potential nominees .
sources familiar with the selection process said on friday kelly was not among the final three under consideration , federal appeals court judges sri srinivasan , merrick garland and paul watford .
reid was referring to an ad campaign mounted by a conservative activist group called the judicial crisis network referring to kelly as a “ a liberal extremist ” with a “ disturbing background. ” it cited her prior work as a public defender in iowa for a man charged with possessing child pornography who was later convicted of first-degree murder and sexual assault in the death of his former girlfriend ’ s 5-year-old daughter .
the group , in a news release , called the ads the next phase of its “ national campaign to educate and inform the public about what ’ s at stake in filling the supreme court vacancy. ” reid referred to the group as “ a dark money , right-wing political organization that operates in total secrecy. ” “ the accusations leveled against judge kelly are despicable , ” reid said , calling on iowa ’ s u.s. senators including republican chuck grassley , the chairman of the judiciary committee who in the past praised kelly , to denounce to the group ’ s charges .
the senate voted to confirm kelly to her current position in 2013 in a 96-0 vote .
obama administration lawyers continued to review the legal opinions of three finalists , weighing whether elements could become a flashpoint for opponents on the right or even the left .
the current finalists generally are considered more moderate than liberals in the tradition of obama ’ s two previous appointments , sonia sotomayor and elena kagan .