americans need to put american citizens first and dump macy s. macy s has a customer service department phone number that should be ringing off the hook with americans who love their country and are sick and tired of the left bullying us into submission .
tell them it s time to put american citizens first and you appreciate donald trump standing up for legal immigration : 1 ( 800 ) 289-6229 i ll be canceling my macy s credit card today .
macy s just lost its magic # makeamericagreatagain .dump macy s ! real-estate mogul and gop presidential candidate donald trump called for a boycott of macy s on wednesday after the retail company said it would drop trump s products .
earlier in the day , macy s said it was snubbing trump because of the disparaging characterizations he made about mexican immigrants during his campaign launch .
among other things , trump accused mexico of sending its rapists and drug dealers to the us.in addition to blasting macy s in an official statement , trump attacked macy s in a series of tweets for being weak on border security : those who believe in tight border security , stopping illegal immigration & smart trade deals w/other countries should boycott @ macys .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 1 , 2015for all of those who want to # makeamericagreatagain , boycott @ macys .
they are weak on border security & stopping illegal immigration .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 1 , 2015macy s is only the latest in a string of businesses that have cut ties with trump in the past week .
nbc , univision , and the mexican media company televisa all recently announced they would not show trump s miss universe organization beauty pageants because of his comments about immigrants .
when mexico sends its people , they re not sending their best ; they re not sending you , trump said in his june announcement speech , according to a transcript .
they re sending people that have lots of problems , and they re bringing those problems with us .
they re bringing drugs .
they re bringing crime .
they re rapists .
and some , i assume , are good people .
trump , who said he was criticizing the mexican government and not its people , has aggressively responded to the companies that are ending their relationships with him .
he said he was suing univision for $ 500 million .
he denounced nbc as weak .
and he insisted that he was the one cutting ties with macy s not the other way around.he also argued that the macy s snub proved how difficult it was for billionaires like him to seek political office .
i have always said that if you are successful , it is very hard to run for office , especially the office of president , he said in his wednesday statement .
i have also continually stated that i am not beholden to anyone , and this includes nbc and macy s. clearly , nbc and macy s support illegal immigration .
trump products at macy s include $ 70 dress shirts , $ 65 ties , and a fragrance called success .
via : business insider