ottawa ( reuters ) - canadian prime minister justin trudeau defended his finance minister on wednesday amid criticism that bill morneau did not place his assets in a blind trust , moving to dampen a growing controversy that threatens to overshadow the government s agenda .
questions about morneau s potential conflict of interest follow weeks of backlash over the finance minister s attempt to reform small business taxes and have become a major stumbling block for trudeau s two-year-old liberal government .
morneau , the multimillionaire former chief executive officer of human resources management firm morneau shepell inc , asked on tuesday to meet with the federal ethics watchdog to discuss his decision not to put his assets into a blind trust , as trudeau himself has done .
the conflict of interest and ethics commissioner gave clear advice to the minister of finance , which he followed , and which he will continue to follow , trudeau said in parliament , declining to answer questions about when he knew morneau had not used a blind trust .
morneau has said he sought the advice of ethics commissioner mary dawson to avoid conflicts of interest .
the troubled tax reform and focus on morneau s personal wealth risk derailing the liberal agenda just as the government heads into the second half of its four-year mandate facing newly elected opposition leaders .
while morneau has been a relatively low-profile finance minister , he has been the face of the government s plan to boost infrastructure spending , a project expected to boost economic growth and widely supported by financial market players .
marc chandler , global head of currency strategy at brown brothers harriman , said financial markets would be largely unaffected if morneau leaves his job , as long as he is replaced by somebody with the same views and fiscal plans .
if you were to tell me that the criticism of him is really partly a veiled criticism of fiscal expansion strategy and that his demise could trigger a change in fiscal policy , it would be somewhat more important , chandler said , adding markets are more worried about the possible demise of nafta and future rate hikes by the bank of canada than the tempest over morneau .
morneau is expected to provide a fall fiscal update soon , possibly as early as next week , forecasting a gradual reduction in the budget deficit from an estimated c $ 28.5 billion this year .
he denied rumors in september that he was unhappy in his post , saying he has enjoyed this job from day one , but his rise from obscurity to the most scrutinized cabinet ministers has happened fast .
the problem is that to the extent people don t know much about bill morneau , they are learning about him now , and it s kind of all the wrong things , said ipsos public affairs pollster darrell bricker .
bricker said the liberal lead over the conservatives has been trimmed to just 3 or 4 percentage points in recent weeks , a surprising tightening given trudeau s personal popularity at home and abroad .
the next federal election is in 2019 .
a morneau spokesman declined on tuesday to say whether the minister holds any morneau shepell shares or what he did with his assets and holdings to guard against conflict of interest .
according to public disclosure documents available through the office of the ethics commissioner , morneau is full or part owner of two holding companies as well as several real estate holding companies , and is party to a conflict of interest screen to ensure he abstains from decisions related to his company .