baghdad/london ( reuters ) - after helping iraq stifle a kurdish push for independence , iran is now positioning itself to take control of oil exports from the region s giant kirkuk field , with the first deliveries expected within days , officials and trading sources said .
in the weeks since september s failed kurdish independence referendum , iraq has agreed for the first time to divert crude from kirkuk province , which it retook from the kurds , to iran , where it will supply a refinery in the city of kermanshah .
iran is locked in a proxy war with its regional rival and u.s. ally , saudi arabia .
as well as iraq , it has been extending its influence in syria , yemen and lebanon , raising increasing concerns in washington and riyadh .
under the new arrangement , the first oil will be trucked across the border in the coming days .
initially iran will receive 15,000 barrels per day worth nearly $ 1 million , rising gradually to 60,000 bpd , according to iraqi officials and trading sources .
baghdad and tehran have also revived a project to build a pipeline to carry oil from iraq s kirkuk fields to central iran and onwards for export from the gulf .
hamid hosseini , the iranian secretary-general of the iran-iraq chamber of commerce , said iran want to build a pipeline that can take as much as 650,000 bpd of kurdish oil for its domestic refineries and for exports .
the pipeline would replace existing export routes for crude from northern iraq via turkey and the mediterranean and would be a blow to ankara s hopes of becoming an energy hub for europe .
it would also be evidence of a u.s. failure to prevent a rapprochement between its ally iraq and one of its biggest political foes , iran , which is rapidly regaining influence in the middle east .
that is in part due to general qassem soleimani , commander of the quds force , the international branch of the revolutionary guards , which is also taking a keen interest in iran s oil business in iraq .
soleimani visited iraqi kurdistan in september to warn the region against holding an independence vote .
he was also involved in the iraqi army s recapture of kirkuk .
in iraq , iranian forces are working to sow discord as we recently saw in kirkuk , where the presence of quds force commander , qassem soleimani , exacerbated tensions among the kurds and the government in baghdad , u.s .
senator john mccain said in washington last week .
the kurdish dream of being a big oil exporter is in tatters , said a source close to the government in erbil , who predicted that iran will be king of the game .
the kurds bid for independence angered turkey and iran , which both have large kurdish populations and condemned the referendum as destabilizing the region .
the united states also called on kurdistan to scrap the vote .
but it was probably internal kurdish divisions which doomed the referendum to failure , local political sources believe .
oil was at the heart of this dispute .
the kirkuk fields were controlled by iraq s state oil firm somo before being taken over by kurdish forces in 2014 , when the iraqi army retreated in the face of attacks by islamic state .
the patriotic union of kurdistan party ( puk ) , in sulaimaniya , then accused the ruling kurdistan democratic party ( kdp ) party of then president massoud barzani , based in the capital erbil , of not sharing the oil wealth .
the puk wanted to export oil from kirkuk to iran .
we tried to make barzani accept joint management between erbil and sulaimaniya over the fields but he strongly opposed it , said sherzad yaba , a political adviser close to the puk .
to put an end to the illegitimate control of the kdp over kirkuk oil , senior members from the puk contacted both baghdad and tehran and encouraged the iranians to build a pipeline to export kirkuk crude through bandar abbas port , said yaba .
the project lay dormant even though iraqi oil minister jabar al-luaibi and his iranian counterpart bijal zanganeh signed a memorandum on the project in february .
after the referendum , the kdp accused the puk of striking a deal with iran to withdraw from kirkuk , which the puk denies .
the recapture of kirkuk was coordinated with soleimani and left iraqi government troops in control of half of all kurdish oil output .
as kurdish engineers fled the fields , output from kirkuk was suspended and has remained shut for the past five weeks as baghdad and erbil argue over the revenue split .
with output of over 300,000 bpd suspended since mid-october , losses are approaching $ 1 billion , according to kurdish industry sources .
to stop the losses , iraq and the puk resumed talks with iran , according to iraqi and kurdish officials .
officials from iraq s and iran s state oil firms , somo and nico , met last month to iron out details of oil sales to the kermanshah refinery , the acting chief of somo , alaa al-yasiri , said .
he also said active discussions were taking place about the pipeline project .
even though discussions between baghdad and tehran have been conducted between oil ministry officials and the chamber of commerce , the revolutionary guards are poised to step in .
any oil transaction between iran and iraq should be approved by the revolutionary guards , not the oil ministry .
said reza mostafavi tabatabaei , president of london-based enexd , a firm involved in the energy equipment business in the middle east .
those dealings are overseen by the desk responsible for iran s investments in iraq at the president s office and are run by the revolutionary guards .
the pipeline project will be the revolutionary guards reward to the kurds for helping with the recapture of kirkuk , said tabatabaei .