yangon ( reuters ) - the u.s. labeling of a myanmar army crackdown on rohingya muslims as ethnic cleansing is unhelpful and could aggravate the situation , russia s ambassador to the southeast asian nation said on thursday , criticizing excessive external intervention .
rights groups have accused the military in mostly buddhist myanmar of carrying out mass rape and other atrocities during a ferocious military sweep launched in late august in retaliation for attacks by rohingya muslim militants in rakhine state .
that drove 620,000 rohingya refugees , many traumatized with gunshot wounds and burns , to flee to bangladesh , joining hundreds of thousands who have sheltered there for years after previous spasms of violence in the former burma .
the military operation amounted to ethnic cleansing , the united states said on wednesday , echoing an accusation first made by top u.n. officials in the early days of the humanitarian crisis .
i don t think that it will help to solve this problem , russian ambassador nikolay listopadov told reuters in an interview in yangon , when asked about the u.s. move .
on the contrary , it can aggravate the situation , throw more fuel , he said in english , citing concern over how the buddhist community in rakhine would react to such a designation .
this month , russia and china agreed to a un security council statement urging myanmar to ensure no further excessive use of military force and expressing grave concern over reports of human rights violations , but they have opposed tougher steps and further pressure on myanmar .
we are against excessive external intervention , because it won t lead to any constructive results , listopadov said .
just pressure and blaming and accusing - it simply won t work .
on a visit to myanmar last week , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson urged the government of nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi to lead a credible and impartial inquiry , saying those who committed abuses should be held responsible .
but prospects for such an inquiry remain dim and suu kyi s government refused to cooperate with a mission launched by the united nations human rights council in march after a less intense bout of violence in rakhine .
the so-called independent investigation demanded by tillerson was absolutely out of the question for myanmar , listopadov said .
it s absolutely not acceptable for the myanmar side - it will never accept it ... it won t work - it s counterproductive , said listopadov .
independent investigation means international ( investigation ) - no , it s not acceptable .
moscow s approach was for the rakhine issue to be solved by political means , political dialogue , he added , without elaborating .
he welcomed talks being held in myanmar s capital of naypyitaw between myanmar and bangladesh on the repatriation of rohingya refugees , stressing it was important to start this process .
we wish them success , said listopadov , this complicated rakhine issue can be solved mostly only by negotiations and agreements between the two sides , because they re the most involved , he said , referring to bangladesh and myanmar .
china wants closer ties with myanmar s military to help protect regional peace and security , a senior chinese general told the visiting head of the southeast asian country s army this week .