miss him yet ? here s an up-close look at a quality-of-life offense the city council wants to decriminalize.this urinating vagrant turned a busy stretch of broadway into his own private bathroom yesterday an offense that would result in a mere summons if council speaker melissa mark-viverito and her pals get their way.wrapped in rags and a mets blanket the hobo wandered into traffic at around 10:30 a.m. and relieved himself as cabs , cars and buses whizzed by between west 83rd and 84th streets on the upper west side.he finished his business at a nearby garbage bin , then strolled back to the front of a victoria s secret store at broadway and 85th street , where he camped out for the rest of the day.mark-viverito in april announced plans to decriminalize public urination along with five other low-level offenses : biking on the sidewalk , public consumption of alcohol , being in a park after dark , failure to obey a park sign and jumping subway turnstiles .
police commissioner bill bratton who in the early 90s implemented a broken windows approach to policing to dramatically cut crime is against the new plan , saying such offenses lead to more serious crimes.bill caprese , 38 , who lives on 82nd street with his 6-year-old daughter , was appalled by the street urinator .
it s absolutely a failure of government .
it s a total abject failure , he said .
the mayor could fix it .
the governor could fix it .
we need asylums .
unfortunately for nyc , radical socialist mayor deblasio turned his back on the nypd , whose job it is to control the crime .
an employee at the victoria s secret , where the homeless man often lounges , said he drives away business .
he curses people out , threatens lives , said the employee , who works in the lingerie chain s loss-prevention department .
customers complain about him all the time .
and the growing problem isn t solely on city streets .
transit hubs , including penn station , are plagued by surging numbers of homeless people who publicly masturbate , harass bystanders and demand free food as the city looks the other way , commuters complain .
it reminds me of the pre- [ rudy ] giuliani era , said jim hoover , 60 , who has been commuting through penn station since 1986 .
the police aren t chasing them away anymore .
just outside the port authority bus terminal , a homeless man drunkenly knocked a woman to the floor while stumbling around the sidewalk.the bum , who goes by monk , was arrested by a cop at the scene and taken away by an fdny ambulance .
he s going to get a hospital bed and a slap on the wrist , said timothy arroyo , who was watching from a crowd that gathered .
he ll be back out here tomorrow .
a pa source said there has been a noticeable uptick in vagrants at the terminal in recent months.via : nyp