toulon , france ( reuters ) - france has decided to arm its surveillance drones in west africa as part of counter-terrorism operations against islamist militants , defense minister florence parly said on tuesday .
french president emmanuel macron has made fighting islamist militants his primary foreign policy objective and the move to armed drones fits into a more aggressive policy at a time when it looks increasingly unlikely paris will be able to withdraw from the region in the medium to long-term .
france currently has five unarmed reaper reconnaissance drones positioned in niger s capital niamey to support its 4,000-strong barkhane counter-terrorism operation in africa , and one in france .
beyond our borders , the enemy is more furtive , more mobile , disappears into the vast sahel desert and dissimulates himself amidst the civilian population , parly said in a speech to the military .
facing this , we can not remain static .
our methods and equipment must adapt .
it is with this in mind that i have decided to launch the process to arm our intelligence and surveillance drones .
a further six of 12 reaper drones , built by u.s. firm general atomics and ordered after france s 2013 intervention in mali to eventually replace its eads-made harfang drones , are due to be delivered by 2019 .
the defense ministry said on tuesday the new drones would be delivered with hellfire missiles while the existing six would be armed by 2020 , possibly with european munitions .
previous french administrations have shied away from purchasing armed drones , fearing a possible increase in civilian casualties .
al qaeda s north african wing aqim and related islamist groups were largely confined to the sahara desert until they hijacked a rebellion by ethnic tuareg separatists in mali in 2012 , and then swept south .
french forces intervened the following year to prevent them taking mali s capital , bamako , but they have since gradually expanded their reach across the region , launching high-profile attacks in mali , burkina faso and ivory coast , as well as much more frequent , smaller attacks on military targets .
at the end of july , at the military base in niger , officers and pilots had told reuters it was imperative to arm the drones to be more efficient and quick in tackling jihadist groups .
in the future , armed drones will enable us to accompany surveillance ... with the capacity to strike at the opportune moment .
we will be able to gain in efficiency and limit the risk of collateral damage , parly said .
france is also working with germany , italy and spain to develop a european drone , which is expected to be ready by 2025 .