washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. federal government is working on a long-term plan to help puerto rico rebuild after hurricane maria tore up the island territory ’ s power grid and other infrastructure three weeks ago , an administration official said on wednesday .
the u.s. house of representatives is set to vote on thursday on a disaster relief bill that includes a $ 4.9 billion loan for puerto rico and the u.s. virgin islands as part of a $ 36.5 billion package to help americans recover from hurricanes and wildfires .
but the loan is intended to be a short-term measure to help the cash-strapped island territory pay urgent bills , the official said , speaking on condition of anonymity .
“ the community disaster loan can not and does not address the recovery , rebuilding and future of puerto rico , which the administration intends to address with a more long-term solution in concert with the puerto rican government , oversight board , court and congress , ” the official said .
the broader package set for the house vote includes $ 576.6 million for wildfire efforts , $ 16 billion for the national flood insurance program and a provision enabling low-income puerto ricans to receive emergency nutrition assistance .
house speaker paul ryan is set to travel to puerto rico on friday with a bipartisan group of lawmakers to see the hurricane damage , a spokesman said .
the white house last week asked government agencies to begin estimating how much money is needed to help hurricane-hit states and territories recover and rebuild .
puerto rico , home to 3.4 million american citizens , is in a particular bind , already grappling with nearly $ 72 billion in debt before hurricane maria - the worst storm in almost a century - hit its shores .
estimates of the cost to its economy range as high as $ 95 billion .
puerto rico ’ s governor ricardo rossello has asked for $ 4.6 billion as a “ down payment on hurricane recovery efforts , ” including $ 3.2 billion in block grants .
the oversight board charged with resolving puerto rico ’ s debt crisis told the u.s. treasury department that the island ’ s government would run out of money at the end of the month without help .
the loan is earmarked for payroll and pensions , but can not be used for debt service .