officially , history will record president-elect donald trump as having won the 2016 presidential race in michigan by some 10,704 votes.but dr. jill stein , the green party s presidential candidate in the 2016 election , believes that the numbers would be different if all 4.8 million votes cast in the wolverine state were recounted.that won t happen , stein conceded in a rally in downtown detroit on saturday , a day after the non-recused members of the michigan supreme court ruled , by a 3-2 margin , against stein s appeal , leaving the candidate with no recourse .
we may be moving out of the court of law , but we re moving into the court of public opinion , stein said.the rally lasted about 40 minutes in freezing temperatures , and attracted dozens of the candidate s supporters .
it took place near the foot of a street named ceremonially for congressman john conyers , washington boulevard .
bell , a green party member who helped supervise the vote-counting effort at cobo , became emotional several times during her brief remarks , during which she called the election system in michigan a flaming hot mess , a language stein would herself adopt .
even if the results of the 2016 election won t change , and even if there won t be a full recount in michigan , stein said , the state needs election reform.bell called out voting irregularities she d learned of , like how a polling place in ionia county allegedly used a garbage can as a ballot box , or one in gibraltar that sealed a ballot box with mere duct tape , or a precinct in detroit that tabulated 300 votes but only 50 were found in the box .
hot mess !
hot mess !
bell said before handing the microphone to stein .
count every vote , and make sure every vote counts , stein said .
this dysfunction in our elections flows downhill .
it flows to communities that do not have resources the equipment that s used is prone to break .
and it s not just the 87 scanners that failed in detroit on election day .
what raised a red flag in michigan , stein said , was the 75,000 ballots cast without also making a choice in the presidential race .
mlive