dublin ( reuters ) - as the public face of the irish republican army during its bombing campaigns , then peacemaker and mainstream politician , gerry adams has been a defining figure of northern ireland s 50-year journey from sectarian torment to relative stability .
adams announced his intention to step down as leader of the irish nationalist sinn fein party on saturday with his ultimate goal of a united ireland still elusive .
but the party he leaves is not only the dominant irish nationalist force in the british-ruled province , but also strong enough across the border in the irish republic to have a chance of entering government there , too .
during the 1970s and 80s , at the height of an ira bombing campaign to end british rule over northern ireland , sinn fein operated as the ira s political wing .
as its leader from 1983 onwards , adams thus became , for many in britain and northern ireland , the face of the ira .
as a result , he was loathed by pro-british unionists and the british government , but lionized in equal measure by irish nationalists .
yet when the prospect of political progress arose , he showed himself ready to compromise , working with late former ira commander martin mcguinness to swing the ira and the province s roman catholic minority behind a 1998 deal with the pro-british protestant majority .
the good friday agreement gave the province s catholics a share of power and largely ended a conflict in which some 3,600 people had been killed , many at the hands of irish republican groups such as the ira , and others by pro-british unionist paramilitaries and british security forces .
since then , adams has helped to build sinn fein into the dominant irish nationalist party in northern ireland , overseeing its agreement in 2007 to share power with its bitter rival , the democratic unionist party and , in recent months , its efforts to restore power-sharing after it collapsed in january .
adams also announced on saturday that he would not stand for re-election to the dublin parliament , where he has sat since 2011 , moving sinn fein from the fringes to become the irish republic s third party and its main left-wing force .
adams was born into a belfast family steeped in revolutionary politics , several of his relatives having been involved in armed republicanism .
at 20 , he left his job as a barman to help defend fellow catholics from what they saw as a hostile british state , and to fight for northern ireland to split from the united kingdom and unite with the irish republic .
like his father , adams was interned - held without trial - on suspicion of being a senior ira commander .
he has always denied membership of the ira , although accusations from former ira fighters that he was involved in its campaign of killings have dogged him throughout his career .
between 1988 and 1994 , adams was banned from speaking on british airwaves .
while his oversized glasses and red-tinged beard were instantly recognizable , his voice was unknown as broadcasters had actors dub his words .
former british conservative prime minister john major , one of the architects of peace in northern ireland , once said the thought of sitting down to talk with adams had turned my stomach .
but adams was at the time walking a political tightrope - between ira hawks who argued that only a continuation of violence would chase britain from the island , and doves who said that negotiations were the route to a united ireland .
he emerged from the political cold in october 1997 when he shook hands with the new labour prime minister , tony blair , at their first meeting .
sinn fein had polled 17 percent in northern ireland s elections and returned adams to the british parliament , although he refused to take his seat .
within a year , adams and mcguinness had helped to broker a peace deal that largely ended the violence in the province .
since that deal , his role as statesman has grown , and he has made several visits to the white house .
he was arrested in 2014 as part of an investigation into one of the province s most controversial murders , but no charges were brought .
latterly he has used social media to create a grandfatherly image in the irish republic , with posts about his dog and his taste in cartoons .