harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s ruling zanu-pf party called on friday for president robert mugabe to resign , the main state newspaper the herald reported , the latest sign that the aging leader s authority has collapsed after an army takeover .
the newspaper said that zanu-pf branches in all 10 provinces had met on friday and had also called for mugabe s wife grace , whose ambitions to succeed her husband triggered the unfolding political crisis , to resign from the party .
mugabe appeared in public on friday for the first time since the army took charge , as the ruling party made plans to force him to step down after almost four decades in power .
the president , who is 93 , opened a graduation ceremony at zimbabwe open university in harare .
he wore blue and yellow academic robes and a mortar board hat and appeared to fall asleep in his chair as his eyes closed and his head lolled .
mugabe led the country s liberation struggle and has dominated its politics since independence in 1980 .
a senior member of the zanu-pf ruling party said it wanted him gone .
if he becomes stubborn , we will arrange for him to be fired on sunday , the source said .
when that is done , it s impeachment on tuesday .
the herald reported that zanu-pf would convene a special central committee meeting on sunday to realign the revolutionary party with current political developments .
the military , which seized power on wednesday , has so far treated mugabe carefully .
it said in a statement on national television it was engaging with mugabe , referred to him as commander in chief and said it would announce an outcome as soon as possible .
zanu-pf has also called for a mass meeting in the capital on saturday to show its support for the war veterans group in their bid to remove mugabe .
the veterans , mugabe s former comrades from the liberation war , who enjoyed a privileged position under his rule for decades , had chafed in recent years as his wife grace positioned herself to succeed him .
they finally turned on him decisively after he sacked vice president emmerson mnangagwa last week .
the herald newspaper on friday said that zanu-pf wanted mnangagwa reinstated as vice president because he was dismissed without endorsement of the central committee .
many zimbabweans suspect the military s plan is to hand power to mnangagwa , a long-serving mugabe confidant and liberation war veteran nicknamed the crocodile .
if so , the generals may be waiting until mnangagwa can be reinstated as vice president before arranging for mugabe to resign .
mugabe is revered as an elder statesman and independence leader but he is also viewed by many in africa as a president who crippled his country by remaining in power too long .
he calls himself the grand old man of african politics .
zimbabwe s official newspaper , the herald , ran photographs late on thursday showing mugabe grinning and shaking hands with military chief general constantino chiwenga , who led the army takeover .
the images stunned zimbabweans who said it meant mugabe was managing to hold out against chiwenga s coup .
some political sources said he was trying to delay his departure until elections scheduled for next year .
the zanu-pf source said he would not be able to stay that long .
anxious to avoid a protracted stalemate , party leaders were drawing up plans to dismiss mugabe at the weekend if he refused to quit , the source said .
there is no going back , the source told reuters .
it s like a match delayed by heavy rain , with the home side leading 90-0 in the 89th minute .
the army is camped on his doorstep .
grace mugabe is under house arrest and her key political allies are in military custody .
the police , once a bastion of support for mugabe , have showed no signs of resistance to the army .
furthermore , he has little popular backing in the capital , a stronghold of support for opposition parties that have tapped into the anger and frustration at his handling of the economy , which collapsed after the seizure of white-owned farms in 2000 .
after stabilising briefly when mugabe was forced to work with the opposition in a 2009-2013 unity government , the economy has collapsed again .
unemployment is now running at nearly 90 percent and chronic shortages of hard currency have triggered hyperinflation , with the prices of imports rising as much as 50 percent a month .
mugabe has won a series of elections but his critics in africa and the west say his handling of the economy has been disastrous and he has used violence to maintain power .
botswana s president ian khama told him to resign .
i don t think anyone should be president for that amount of time .
we are presidents .
we are not monarchs .
it s just common sense , khama said .
still , african states are keen that whatever outcome is achieved in zimbabwe , it happens within the framework of the constitution , which may give mugabe some leverage over the terms of his departure .
we note with great concern the unfolding political development in zimbabwe and we hope that they will not lead to unconstitutional change of government , south african president jacob zuma said at a southern african development community meeting in botswana s capital gaborone .
dumiso dabengwa , a zimbabwean liberation war veteran and kgb-trained former intelligence chief , said mugabe s fate was sealed but old age was causing him to dig in his heels .
at his age , everybody becomes very stubborn and he would be no exception , he told reporters in johannesburg .
he certainly will not do it easily , but i think the people will show him that he s no longer wanted .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson on friday urged a quick return to civilian rule in zimbabwe .
zimbabwe has an opportunity to set itself on a new path , one that must include democratic elections and respect for human rights , tillerson told african foreign ministers ahead of a meeting in washington .
( for a graphic on 'zimbabwe 's struggling economy ' click here )