this is not some small obscure community college .
disallowing our law enforcement to attend a school sponsored event in favor of protecting lawbreakers is a big deal !
this school with over 30,000 students has managed to marginalize these brave men and women who put their lives on the line every day to protect and defend our borders ! u.s .
customs and border protection ( cbp ) has reversed its decision to participate in a career fair at the university of california-irvine in response to a petition signed by hundreds of students.according to the new university student newspaper , cbp s withdrawal represents an unexpected victory for student activists , whose claims that the border patrol s involvement in the fall career fair this thursday would be insensitive to undocumented students had previously failed to convince the university to rescind the agency s invitation .
organizations like the us customs and border patrol are the organizations that are tasked with various roles including targeting undocumented communities , which is against the nature of our campus s values for welcoming communities regarding their background , associated students of uc irvine ( asuci ) president parshan khosravi wrote in an email to the career center sunday night .
this message right now is saying that undocumented students are not welcome , he asserted , adding , that s the type of message that i do not want to see as someone who is a student on this campus , as someone who is a student leader on this campus , and [ as ] someone who believes in [ sic ] the values of our campus are inclusivity and a safe space .
the next day , monday morning , student amy yu and another individual visited the career center in person to voice their concerns directly to administrators .
despite their warnings that undocumented students might experience trauma and discomfort from such close proximity to law enforcement , though , the center refused to disinvite cbp , explaining that the purpose of the fair is to provide job opportunities for all students .
we care about and value all students .
we have a diverse student body made up of individuals with many wonderful talents and personal values , career center director suzanne helbig told new university .
to serve all students , we bring employers to campus and let students use their own judgement to decide which ones fit their skills , interests , and values .
undeterred by the career center s response , yu proceeded to create a change.org petition in the hope of effecting cbp s removal by appealing to a higher authority .
we , as students from uc irvine , are demanding that the cbp be removed as participants [ sic ] for the upcoming fall career fair , the petition states .
the undocumented community is directly affected by deportation and detention policies that are carried out by border patrol , and having border patrol agents on campus is a blatant disregard to undocumented students safety and well-being .
prior to being closed amidst declarations of victory wednesday , the petition had garnered 659 signatures in roughly two days , which was apparently enough for cbp to decide that participating in the jobs fair was not worth enduring a potentially hostile reception from uc-irvine students .
as of this morning , u.s. customs & border patrol has decided not to attend the campus career fair on thursday , oct. 22 , uc-irvine senior director of communications cathy lawhon told the college fix wednesday .
however , the agency will continue to utilize uci s career center on-line job postings system to list available positions for those students interested in working with cbp .
while undocumented students may rejoice , though , others are less thrilled about losing the chance to engage with the largest law enforcement agency in the world .
i feel that these efforts are an attempt to politicize a jobs fair that is supposed to help college students find much needed work once they graduate , uc irvine s college republicans president rob petrosyan told the college fix .
if you don t approve of u.s. customs , don t apply to work for them , it s that simple .
via : campus reform