abdul razak ali artan , a somalian refugee came to the us in 2014 , and he is already a us citizen .
how does a muslim refugee from somalia become a us citizen so quickly ?
while others wait in line for years , refugees who come to the us through the state dept .
sponsored refugee resettlement program are given , food stamps , free health-care , free education , housing , a monthly stipend , in many cases , they are given free furniture , and best of all , they are fast-tracked to us citizenship .
what was it that trump was criticized about again ?
wasn t it something about how we needed to stop the flow of muslim refugees into america until we can find a better way to vet them ?
i m pretty sure most of the students on the osu campus are rethinking their opposition to trump s plan after today ( at least those who were mowed down by his vehicle or stabbed by the butcher knife he was wielding during his planned attack ) .
authorities had previously confirmed that the suspect was a somali refugee , legally residing in ohio.artan fled somalia with his family in 2007 before landing in pakistan.he moved to the united states in 2014 , where he was granted legal , permanent status.it should be noted that ohio state s online directory only lists one student with the name , abdul artan.furthermore , the lantern osu s campus newspaper ran an interview with artan just a few months ago , in which he criticized the school for not having muslim prayer rooms on campus .
i wanted to pray in the open , but i was kind of scared with everything going on in the media , he stated .
i m a muslim , it s not what the media portrays me to be .
i don t blame them , he continued .
it s the media that put that picture in their heads so they re just going to have it , and it s going to make them feel uncomfortable .
authorities maintain that the attack was done on purpose and are treating the incident as a possible terrorist act .
dcmedia would like us to believe they are unsure of the motive behind his attack .