washington ( reuters ) - massive changes to the consumer financial protection bureau - or the financial reform law that established it - could hurt u.s. mortgage borrowers who use the agency to fight erroneous charges and foreclosures , according to trulia , an online real estate marketplace .
president donald trump recently ordered a review of the dodd-frank wall street reform law that created the cfpb after the 2007-09 financial crisis to protect individuals from fraud and bad lending , with an eye to cutting it down .
meanwhile , congress is considering legislation to radically reorganize the cfpb in a way that many bureau supporters say would defang it .
“ that could be a blow for thousands of mortgage borrowers who have used the cfpb ’ s dispute resolution to act as an intermediary in their cases , ” the managing editor of trulia ’ s economics research team , david weidner , wrote in an analysis released on wednesday .
using complaint data from the cfpb spanning dec. 1 , 2011 through april 10 , 2017 , trulia found that borrowers in housing markets hardest hit by the mortgage crisis and those in expensive areas rely heavily on the cfpb for help in dealing with their loans .
the complaint rate was highest in miami , florida - with 1.6 percent of mortgage holders turning to the bureau compared to 0.46 percent nationally .
even though members of the armed services only represent 1.2 percent of the working age population , they made up 5 percent of all mortgage complaints .
in the same vein , people 62 or older represented 10 percent of complaints .
that was a high proportion given that roughly 80 percent of americans own their own homes by the time they turn 65 , trulia said .
the researchers also found that since 2012 complaints for veterans affairs , federal housing administration and reverse mortgages have spiked .
the first two are part of federal programs intended to make housing more affordable for veterans and low-income workers .
reverse mortgages are payments financial services firms make to people who own their homes , with the principal , interest and fees deducted from the future sale of the house .
they are increasingly popular among retirees who may own real estate but are short on cash .
for all three types of loans , complaints more than doubled in just four years , according to trulia , which said the high rate was caused by the lack of expertise lenders and servicers may have in the specialized products .