new york ( reuters ) - republican presidential front-runner donald trump suffered a legal setback on tuesday when a new york state court allowed a multimillion-dollar fraud claim against trump university , filed by the state ’ s attorney general , to proceed .
the claim is part of a lawsuit that accuses trump and the now-defunct for-profit venture of misleading thousands of people , who paid up to $ 35,000 to learn the billionaire businessman ’ s real estate investment strategies .
trump university , which trump chaired , has become a target for his rivals for the republican presidential nomination , particularly marco rubio .
attorney general eric schneiderman ’ s lawsuit , filed in 2013 , seeks $ 40 million in restitution plus penalties and other costs , his office said .
the ruling by a four-judge panel of a mid-level appeals court in manhattan brings the case closer to a potential trial .
it could make it easier for the trump venture ultimately to be held liable , because the claim does not require proof that there was intent to defraud .
the judges also extended the statute of limitations for the claim back to 2007 instead of 2010 , as trump ’ s attorneys want .
the program stopped taking students in 2010 .
“ today ’ s decision is a clear victory in our effort to hold donald trump and trump university accountable for defrauding thousands of students , ” schneiderman said in a statement .
the trump organization ’ s general counsel , alan garten , said he would seek to appeal the ruling , and called the case “ politically motivated. ” schneiderman is a democrat .
“ we think all these claims are without merit and baseless , ” garten said .
“ ninety-eight percent of those who participated in the programs filled out written surveys giving the programs the highest grades. ” class actions are pending in california on similar claims by former trump university students .
rubio , who hammered trump over trump university at last week ’ s republican presidential debate , on tuesday pointed to the new york court ’ s decision at a rally in minneapolis .
the u.s. senator from florida said prospective trump university students increased the borrowing limit on their credit cards in order to pay for the course .
“ some graduated , some didn ’ t , but in the end the only thing you got was a piece of paper that was worthless and a picture with a cardboard cutout of donald trump , ” he said .
“ that ’ s a fraud case and it is outrageous , ” rubio said .
“ ... what he did to those people is what he is doing to americans now. ” at the debate , trump told rubio he had won most of the lawsuits involving trump university .
the appeals court ’ s decision revived a second claim for fraud .
a lower-court judge had allowed schneiderman to proceed only on a type of fraud known as common-law fraud , which would have been more difficult to prove .
the lower-court judge in manhattan has already determined that trump and his university are liable for operating illegally in new york state as an unlicensed educational institution .
new york notified trump in 2005 that he was violating state education law by using the word “ university ” when it was not actually chartered as one .
in 2010 , trump university changed its name to trump entrepreneur initiative and later that year notified the state department of education that it had ceased operations .
( reporting by karen freifeld ; editing by jonathan oatis and alexia garamfalvi ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .