paris ( reuters ) - two years after militants killed 130 people in coordinated attacks across paris , french officials say there remains an unprecedented level of internal threat from both within and outside the country .
with islamic state losing ground in iraq and syria , hundreds of french citizens - and in some cases their children - have started to return to france , leaving the government in a quandary over how to deal with them .
for the first time as president , emmanuel macron will pay tribute on monday to the victims of the mass shootings and suicide bombing that took place across paris and in the city s northern suburb of saint-denis on nov. 13 , 2015 .
the attacks , the deadliest on french soil since world war two , prompted the country to strike back , joining international military operations targeting is and other islamist militant groups in iraq , syria , libya and elsewhere .
there has also been the passage of more stringent french legislation , with the most recent law , effective this month , giving police extended powers to search properties , conduct electronic eavesdropping and shut mosques or other locations suspected of preaching hatred .
conservative politicians say the regulations don t go far enough , while human rights groups express alarm , saying security forces are being given too much freedom to curtail rights .
macron - often parodied for his on the one hand , on the other hand policy pronouncements - has emphasized the need to balance security and liberty .
while he has ended the state of emergency brought in after the attacks , heavily armed soldiers still patrol the streets of paris daily , and barely a week goes by without a police operation to round up suspects .
according to the interior ministry , extraordinary measures have helped intelligence agencies thwart more than 30 attacks in the last two years .
last week , the police arrested nine people and another was apprehended in switzerland in a coordinated counter-terrorism operation .
what worries us are plans for terrorist attacks prepared by teams that are still operating in fighting zones in syria and iraq , laurent nunez , head of france s internal intelligence agency dgsi told french daily le figaro in a rare interview .
the risk of a home-grown attack also remains strong , with a risk of more attacks from isolated individuals using low-cost methods such as cars or knives to kill , he said .
the hypothesis of a car bomb attack or suicide bomber can not be excluded either although his services had not uncovered any such plan , he said .
of particular concern is what to do about hundreds of french citizens who went to fight with is and may now seek to return home , now that the militant group has lost nearly all the territory its self-proclaimed caliphate ruled in syria and iraq .
we know that the will of the jihadists to take action is intact , nunez said .
visiting abu dhabi last week , macron said those returning would be studied on a case-by-case basis .
some of them will be coming back ( by their own means ) , others will be repatriated and some , in specific circumstances , will be facing trial with their families in the countries where they are currently , iraq in particular , he said .
a majority doesn t want to come back to france given the legal proceedings they face upon their return .
but some women , widows , with their children , are inclined to travel back , french prosecutor francois molins said .
we should not be naive .
we are dealing with people who are more disappointed than sorry .
( this version of the story adds dropped words in first paragraph )