wellington ( reuters ) - new zealanders go to the polls on saturday in the most volatile and hard-fought race in recent history , which could usher in a change in openness to migration and trade and the central bank s approach to monetary policy .
volatile opinion polls have shown a neck-and-neck race , although the ruling national party of prime minister bill english has led in recent polls , with two giving it a lead of nearly 10 points .
a change in the labour party leadership last month turned what had been expected to be a dull campaign into a nail-biting event , with 37-year old jacinda ardern vying to become the third woman prime minister and the youngest of recent times .
it s tight , ardern , whose popularity prompted media to coin the term jacindamania , said on friday .
it shows that every single vote will count and that turnout will determine this election .
labour hopes to ride a worldwide wave of change that most recently propelled france s emmanuel macron to become its youngest head of state since napoleon .
english , a 55-year-old former finance minister who took over after john key s shock resignation last year , is making his second bid to be elected leader after a failed attempt in 2002 .
both leaders are expected to stay the course in terms of fiscal prudence , but will probably differ on monetary policy , trade and immigration , spelling ramifications for the new zealand dollar , the world s 11th most traded currency in 2016 .
ardern wants to add employment to the central bank s inflation-targeting mandate , which could mean more stimulatory monetary policy .
she also wants to cut migration and renegotiate certain trade deals , which some worry could hurt two key sources of growth for new zealand s small , outward-looking economy .
election uncertainty could have temporarily weighed on the economy , by making firms more cautious over investments and hiring , said philip borkin , a senior economist at anz .
a tight outcome could weigh on the currency as could one foreshadowing a change in government , he added .
if it comes in and shows there is a decent chance of a change in government , i think that could be a factor weighing on the currency , just from an unknown point of view .
given new zealand s german-style proportional representation system , it could take weeks to determine the composition of the new government , with minority parties expected to have an outsize impact .
about 986,000 ballots have already been cast , says the electoral commission , accounting for almost a third of the 3.2 million voters enrolled .
in past elections , advanced votes pointed to the final results .
but special votes , from voters overseas and outside their home constituencies , could sway the outcome .
this category , which made up 12 percent of votes in 2014 , will only be announced on oct. 7 .
the new government s make-up will also depend on negotiations between parties that could last weeks , particularly if the results are close .
winston peters , leader of the nationalist new zealand first party , which is likely to become the kingmaker , has declined to say which bloc of parties will get his support until the results become official on oct. 12 .
with a loss in momentum in the labour campaign , the latest polls suggest it is more likely that peters will join forces with national , said oliver hartwich , executive director at the new zealand initiative think tank .
it would be hard for him to argue why he would give it to labour if they are really 8 to 9 percentage points behind , he added .
for a graphic on new zealand 's parliamentary elections , click : tmsnrt.rs/2jojzgv for a graphic on new zealand markets react to opinion polls , click : tmsnrt.rs/2famawe