communities like ferguson , baltimore and now milwaukee , didn t ask for this war on cops , it was thrust upon them .
it was organized , paid for and well-orchestrated by obama and other democrats players from a variety of backgrounds .
former attorney general eric holder was caught paying protesters with taxpayer money to come to sanford , fl to march against george zimmerman in the trayvon martin case that got obama s race war/war on cops started back in march , 2012 .
with so many stories about the violence and crime coming out of milwaukee , a bright ray of hope comes from a prayer rally created by a community torn apart by obama s war on cops.a young girl bravely speaks out against the violence in her neighborhood .
the sadness and despair in her shaking voice is truly heartbreaking .
these people are trapped in a neighborhood overrun with crime , violence and despair .
they re trapped in a neighborhood run by greedy democrat politicians who have substituted government control for self-respect and dignity .
they have taken away these citizens desire to do better , they have stripped them of the belief that they truly can escape their situation .
they ve set up planned parenthood abortion mills on every corner to keep their population down and have given them just enough to sustain themselves , but not too much to escape government control.rotten school officials and union leaders tasked with improving their education are only out for themselves , always looking for the next pay raise or special perk that comes with the job .
what these self-serving politicians and school administrators are giving to these communities of mostly fatherless kids are a poor education , low self-esteem and no hope for a better life.these young adults are choosing a life of crime over a job .
they re choosing to drop out of school instead of getting a job at a local fast-food restaurant while attending a local community college or technical training center .
these young adults don t know , or understand the value of sacrificing today for a future tomorrow , because the democratic party has convinced them they don t need to worry about the future .
they ve convinced them they don t need to be self-sufficient .
the only thing they need is the government and that s enough .
that s also the reason this frightened little girl seen in the video below , is trapped in this tragic neighborhood filled with violence and crime and may never get out as long as democrats continue to fool the voters in these crime-ridden cities they are on their side.thank goodness these citizens , ( who are truly a ray of hope in these uncertain times ) are able to turn to god for guidance and to ask for protection for their community , and for law enforcement officers who keep their neighborhoods safe .