harare ( reuters ) - when he came to power , zimbabwe s robert mugabe was feted as an african liberation hero in a nation that had endured nearly a century of white colonial rule .
mugabe has not been seen since the military seized power in the early hours of wednesday , targeting criminals around the veteran president .
south african president jacob zuma said mugabe had told him he was confined to his home but was otherwise fine .
educated and urbane , mugabe came to power after seven years of a liberation bush war .
but nearly four decades after independence in 1980 , many see him as power-obsessed and willing to unleash death squads , rig elections and trash the economy in the relentless pursuit of control .
the 93-year-old is the only leader zimbabwe , formerly known as rhodesia , has known since independence from britain .
while the west regards him as an autocrat , some in africa see him as an anti-colonial champion .
mugabe has said he wants to seek another five years in office and last week he dismissed his putative successor , vice president emmerson mnangagwa , 75 , in a boost for mugabe s wife grace , 52 , also seen as a contender but whose whereabouts are unclear .
mugabe travels frequently to singapore for medical treatment as age has taken its toll .
the leader of zimbabwe s influential liberation war veterans , chris mutsvangwa , told reuters : it s the end of a very painful and sad chapter in the history of a young nation , in which a dictator , as he became old , surrendered his court to a gang of thieves around his wife .
born on a catholic mission near harare , mugabe was educated by jesuit priests and worked as a primary school teacher before going to south africa s university of fort hare , then a breeding ground for african nationalism .
returning to rhodesia in 1960 , he entered politics but was jailed for a decade four years later for opposing white rule .
after his release , he rose to the top of the powerful zimbabwe african national liberation army , known as the thinking man s guerrilla on account of his seven degrees , three of them earned behind bars .
later , as he crushed his political enemies , he boasted of another qualification - a degree in violence .
after the long bush war ended , mugabe was elected as the nation s first black prime minister .
initially , he offered reconciliation to old adversaries as he presided over a booming economy .
but it was not long before mugabe began to suppress challengers such as liberation war rival joshua nkomo .
faced with a revolt in the mid-1980s in the western province of matabeleland which he blamed on nkomo , mugabe sent in north korean-trained army units , provoking an international outcry over alleged atrocities against civilians .
human rights groups say 20,000 people died , most from nkomo s ndebele tribe .
the discovery of mass graves prompted accusations of genocide against mugabe .
after two terms as prime minister , mugabe changed the constitution and was elected president in 1990 , shortly before the death of his first wife , sally , seen by many as the only person capable of restraining him .
when , at the end of the century , he lost a constitutional referendum followed by a groundswell of black anger at the slow pace of land reform , his response was uncompromising .
as gangs of blacks calling themselves war veterans invaded white-owned farms mugabe said it was a correction of colonial injustices .
perhaps we made a mistake by not finishing the war in the trenches , he said in 2000 .
if the settlers had been defeated through the barrel of a gun , perhaps we would not be having the same problems .
the farm seizures helped ruin one of africa s most dynamic economies , with a collapse in agricultural foreign exchange earnings unleashing hyperinflation .
the economy shrank by more than a third from 2000 to 2008 , sending unemployment above 80 percent .
several million zimbabweans fled , mostly to south africa .
an unapologetic mugabe portrayed himself as a radical african nationalist competing against racist and imperialist forces in washington and london .
britain once likened him to adolf hitler but mugabe did not mind , saying the nazi leader had wanted justice , sovereignty and independence for his people : if that is hitler , then let me be a hitler ten-fold .
the country hit rock bottom in 2008 , when 500 billion percent inflation drove people to support the challenge of western-backed former union leader morgan tsvangirai .
facing defeat in a presidential run-off , mugabe resorted to violence , forcing tsvangirai to withdraw after scores of his supporters were killed by zanu-pf thugs .
an increasingly worried south africa squeezed the pair into a fractious unity coalition but the compromise belied mugabe s de facto grip on power through his continued control of the army , police and secret service .
as old age crept in and rumors of cancer intensified , his animosity toward tsvangirai eased , with the two men enjoying weekly meetings over tea and scones , a quirky nod to mugabe s affection for british tradition if not authority .
on the eve of the 2013 election , mugabe dismissed cries of autocracy and likened dealing with tsvangirai to sparring in the ring .
although we boxed each other , it s not as hostile as before , he said .
it s all over now .
we can shake hands .
at the same time , mugabe s agents were finalizing plans to engineer an election victory through manipulation of the voters roll , the tsvangirai camp said .
the subsequent landslide was typical of a man who could always out-fight and out-think opponents .
to give the devil his due , he is a brilliant tactician , former u.s. ambassador christopher dell wrote in a cable released by wikileaks .
but whatever the outcome of this week s events , they could usher in a generational change for the southern african nation .