( reuters ) - the trump administration s effort to combat violence and poverty in central america will not mean greater militarization in honduras , the country s president , juan orlando hernandez , said in an interview .
under a plan formulated by u.s. president donald trump s chief of staff john kelly when he was secretary of homeland security , the united states is seeking to shore up central america by financing development projects and getting mexico to do more to stem the flow of immigrants from the region .
non-governmental organizations and think tanks have voiced concern that the plan , pitched as an effort to boost central american economic growth , could instead herald a greater militarization in a violent region where coups and gang killings have been commonplace .
central america is one of the most violent regions on earth , though the murder rate in honduras fell to 59 killings per 100,000 people last year from 90.4 in 2012 .
but the trump administration has not provided any increase in military support aside from police training and a modest bump in support from usaid , hernandez told reuters during an interview in new york .
still , honduras president says the relationship between the united states and honduras is probably better than ever , noting improved cooperation hernandez believes will boost investment and security in the central american region .
we are closer than before , hernandez said .
it is really important for them what s going on with central america and we are working together on economic growth , which is very important , investment , creating jobs and we are working together on security .
hernandez said the security of honduras was of a primary interest to americans , even if they were not completely aware of it .
we have a saying ( in honduras ) , if the people in washington realize that lack of security , lack of preparedness in central america is dangerous , very dangerous for the u.s. they have to work together with us to create in central america a region of prosperity , investment , opportunities , he said .
that s going to be one of the best investments of the ( american ) people , in their best interest and in ours .
additionally , honduras will continue to work with the international monetary fund , hernandez said , provided his government is victorious in this year s election .
the imf recently finished a review mission in the country .