manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte taunted the head of the commission on human rights ( chr ) on saturday , asking if he was a pedophile because of his focus on the killing of teenagers in the government s bloody war on drugs .
duterte also suggested to lawmakers that the chr s proposed 678 million philippine peso ( $ 13.2 million ) budget could be used to equip police with body cameras if the legislators preferred not to restore funding for the agency , with which he has repeatedly clashed over his anti-drugs campaign .
the chr requested a budget of 1.72 billion pesos for 2018 , but the government proposed 678 million instead .
duterte s allies in the lower house of congress then voted to allocate it just 1,000 pesos ( $ 20 ) , in what critics of the drugs war said was retaliation for its efforts to investigate thousands of killings in the past 15 months , including those of two teenagers in august .
why is this guy so pre ... suffocated with the issue of young people , especially boys ?
are you a pedophile ?
duterte asked , referring to chr head chito gascon .
why are you smitten with teenagers ?
are you ?
i m having my doubts .
are you gay or a pedophile ?
he asked .
chr spokeswoman jacqueline de guia said the president s remarks deviated public attention away from a critical human rights issue in the country .
these are remarks that do not show respect for the dignity of others .
the public must understand that the death of children concerns us all as they are especially vulnerable and need state protection , de guia told reuters in a mobile phone message .
duterte also accused gascon of being a spokesman for the opposition and criticized his scrutiny of police anti-drug activities .
why can t you move on to other issues that are besetting this country ?
duterte said , citing the suffering of the people in the besieged southern city of marawi .
critics say police are executing suspects under what is effectively a government policy .
duterte has rejected that claim while the police say they only kill in self-defense .
the chr has long said it lacks the manpower and resources to fully investigate the killings , the majority of which activists say are of drug users and small-time peddlers , with few high-profile arrests .
vice president leni robredo , who was not duterte s running mate and has locked horns with him numerous times , said the lawmakers move regarding chr s budget effectively abolishes the constitutional body .
filipinos largely support the crackdown as a means to tackle rampant crime , which duterte says stems from drug addiction .
duterte reiterated there will be no let-up in the campaign , which he said was targeted at organized criminals trafficking in drugs and not at teenagers without a sin .
the firebrand leader , who is also fighting communist rebels following a breakdown in peace talks with the government , said he remained open to resuming negotiations to end the conflict that has dragged on for nearly five decades .