brasilia ( reuters ) - three senior brazilian law enforcement officials , including the former prosecutor general , said new leaders of the federal police and prosecutors offices are curbing an anti-corruption drive that challenged centuries of impunity in latin america s biggest country .
rodrigo janot , who until mid-september was brazil s prosecutor general and remains an influential senior prosecutor , told reuters this week he believes that president michel temer , whom he charged on three different counts of corruption , appointed a new head of federal police specifically to divert graft investigations .
separately , two other senior law enforcement officials said that raquel dodge , janot s replacement as prosecutor general , told some senior prosecutors in the capital brasilia to shift away from corruption probes and stop talking publicly about anti-graft efforts .
in a statement , the president s office said the police chief was appointed after consultations with the police force .
it criticized any suggestions the new director would hinder investigations .
only someone ill-informed or ill-intentioned could suppose that interference in investigations is possible , temer s office said .
a spokeswoman for dodge said the new prosecutor general was vigorously combating corruption on numerous fronts .
fernando segovia , the new police director , in an email to reuters said his office will strengthen the fight against corruption .
brazil s crackdown on graft in recent years led to dozens of convictions of senior politicians , government officials and corporate executives , inspiring many brazilians to believe that a longstanding culture of impunity was changing .
it also helped spawn similar crackdowns elsewhere in latin america .
but in brazil , where congress recently shielded temer from charges , some investigators and prosecutors say that elected officials are finding ways to outmaneuver them , especially as they seek , before elections next year , to retain seats that give them constitutional safeguards against prosecution .
the sprawling nature of many of brazil s inquiries , conducted by investigators in dozens of far-flung offices , would make any concerted effort to derail them difficult , corruption experts said .
but janot s dissent , and growing criticism expressed by other senior officials , reveal a growing rift at the top levels of brazilian law enforcement at a time when some investigators believe temer and congressional allies are out to quash landmark investigations .
now is the time to speak up , janot told reuters , so that all this effort will not have been in vain .
the effort , including operation car wash and several other major investigations , involves probes into kickbacks by private construction firms to government officials and politicians in exchange for public works and other contracts .
it uncovered billions of dollars worth of illicit payments and led to sharing of evidence with 40 other countries , many of which launched their own probes and convicted officials based on brazilian investigators findings .
during a rare , two-hour interview in brasilia , janot was especially critical of segovia s appointment to head the federal police , which spearheaded car wash and other investigations .
the 61-year-old prosecutor , who stepped down as prosecutor general because the second of his two terms in the office expired in september , said he believes that segovia was named to complete a mission to divert the focus of the investigations .
janot cited public commentary made by the new police chief , including segovia s criticism of prosecutors investigations at a press conference shortly after he took office .
by the statements he has made , it appears he was selected for the mission to discredit the investigation , janot added .
segovia , 48 , who has spent over two decades on the force , in the email said he seeks to strengthen investigations of crimes against public coffers and involving corruption .
i have made clear in all my public statements that we will broaden and strengthen operation car wash , he added .
the new police chief was appointed with strong support from temer s ruling brazilian democratic movement party , or pmdb .
his appointment surprised some within the federal police because segovia has never held what is considered one of the force s major posts , according to other investigators and law enforcement experts .
during a press conference on nov. 20 , ten days into the new job , segovia criticized prosecutors for their case against temer , calling it a rushed investigation .
he belittled the evidence , including a video shot by federal police of a temer aide accepting a bag with 500,000 reais ( $ 150,000 ) in cash .
a single bag does not provide the criminal evidence needed , segovia said , prompting widespread scorn in brazilian press and social media .
it can not be denied that the statements made by the new director of the federal police were extremely unfortunate , read an editorial in the folha de s. paulo , brazil s largest newspaper , afterward .
when dodge took office on sept 19 , she was widely criticized by police , prosecutors and many others in brazil for failing in a speech to acknowledge the historic car wash probe .
the two senior law enforcement officials , who requested to remain anonymous , said that the new prosecutor general has told other prosecutors to shift their focus from graft .
dodge also told some prosecutors to stop using the word corruption so much in public , they said .
the prosecutor general s spokeswoman did not respond to questions about whether dodge told prosecutors to avoid the word corruption or whether she told prosecutors to de-emphasize graft cases .
janot declined to comment on dodge s dealings with other prosecutors , saying he has a professional and respectful relationship with his successor .
although it is early in the tenure of both dodge and segovia , some prosecutors and police investigators say they are already seeing a significant slowdown in procedures necessary to pursue some cases .
janot , for instance , said dodge s office has filed far less paperwork with brazil s supreme court than would have been expected given the caseload when she took over .
the paperwork is a key step in many big investigations because only the top court can authorize probes involving elected federal officials .
a spokeswoman for the top court did not respond to a request for comment on the volume of the paperwork .
before his term expired , the prosecutor general s office this year sent an average of 302 requests related to the car wash corruption investigations to the supreme court each month , janot said .
dodge s office said it had filed a total of 450 requests since she took office in mid-september , representing an average of 180 per month , or a roughly 40 percent drop .
some experts say it is too soon to know whether a shift away from corruption investigations is underway or even possible to orchestrate , particularly because of the number of investigators pursuing cases across brazil .
more time is needed , they say , to evaluate dodge s administration .
even if dodge and segovia were strategically appointed to stop or create delays in investigations , i doubt they would succeed because the process has become decentralized , said carlos pereira , a professor of public administration at the getulio vargas foundation in rio de janeiro and a leading expert on corruption .
still , those involved in ongoing cases are troubled by any prospect of a slowdown , particularly with national elections looming next october , which would prolong constitutional protections for many office-holders facing charges .
the risks increase exponentially as the elections approach , said carlos lima , the top regional prosecutor in curitiba , the southern city where the car wash investigations began .
during his conversation with reuters , janot criticized segovia s support from temer and his allies , some of whom are also facing investigations and charges .
a person with close ties to these people some under investigation , some charged i can not say if they should be allowed to run an institution of the size and importance of the federal police , janot said .
in the email , segovia said i have no type of political or party ties with the pmdb or any other political party .
temer , who has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing , staved off prosecution largely because allies in the lower house of congress , which must authorize charges against a sitting president , voted against it .
the vote outraged many brazilians because some of those who voted against the charges in congress are also being investigated .
temer will still face charges once he leaves federal elected office .
the pushback is such that a congressional committee is now investigating how federal prosecutors carried out their probe against temer .
we re going to investigate those who have always investigated us , said carlos marun , a pmdb congressman and temer ally , who danced on the lower house floor after it voted against sending the president for trial .
marun himself is facing a corruption trial in his home state of mato grosso do sul .
he has denied any wrongdoing .