berlin ( reuters ) - germany should be more assertive in setting foreign policy according to its own interests rather than to those of the united states , the german foreign minister said on tuesday .
traditionally close ties between berlin and washington have soured since u.s. president donald trump took office in january .
trump is at odds with germany over iran and north korea , has denounced germany s trade surplus with the united states , accused berlin and others of owing vast sums to nato and worried partners by deciding to ditch the paris climate accord .
the traditional view of the united states as having a protecting role was beginning to crumble , sigmar gabriel told an audience of politicians and government representatives at the koerber foundation .
the u.s. s retreat ( from its international role ) is not due to the policies of only one president .
it will not change fundamentally after the next elections , he said .
germany should continue to invest in its partnership with the united states as a trading partner but must be more assertive in representing its own interests when the two countries are at odds .
gabriel gave the example of sanctions against russia that the u.s. congress agreed on in the summer and which could ultimately affect germany s energy supply as they affect russian pipelines .
gabriel also warned against ending the nuclear deal with iran , saying this would increase the risk of war and affect national security , and against any move by the united stales to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel .
germany can not afford to wait for decisions from washington , or to merely react to them .
we must lay out our own position and make clear to our allies where the limits of our solidarity are reached , gabriel said in the speech , excerpts of which had been published by sueddeutsche zeitung ahead of time .
germans see u.s. president donald trump as a bigger challenge for german foreign policy than authoritarian leaders in north korea , russia or turkey , a survey published by the koerber foundation showed .
post-war germany has pursued a cautious foreign policy embedded in the principles and institutions of the european union , due to the legacy of world war two but has gradually taken on a more active global role in the last decade or so .
gabriel s social democrats ( spd ) have said they will launch talks with chancellor angela merkel s conservatives on forming a government next week if members of his center-left party gave him the green light at a congress this weekend .