washington ( reuters ) - saudi arabia has completed the main wave of arrests in its sweeping crackdown on corruption and is preparing to channel billions of dollars of seized funds into economic development projects , a saudi minister said on monday .
as far as i know , this is the case , minister of commerce and investment majid bin abdullah al-qasabi told reuters when asked whether authorities had finished taking large numbers of top officials and businessmen into custody .
now the government will not keep its mouth shut when it sees a corrupt case .
so definitely it will act .
but this is in terms of its magnitude , in terms of scale , in terms of how , in terms of why , in terms of now , that s it , he said .
dozens of princes , officials and businessmen were detained last month , about 200 people questioned , and over 2,000 bank accounts frozen in the purge , which has strengthened the authority of crown prince mohammed bin salman .
some suspects will go to court but authorities are seeking to reach financial settlements with most and said last week that the first deals had been done .
senior prince miteb bin abdullah , once seen as a leading contender for the throne , was freed after agreeing to pay over $ 1 billion , officials said .
a special ministry of finance account has been opened to receive such funds , which the public prosecutor s office has estimated should eventually total between $ 50 billion and $ 100 billion , qasabi said during a visit to washington to meet u.s. businessmen .
this money definitely will be used for housing , for the general public needs , because it is the money for the people .
it will not be used for any other issue but for development projects .
the public prosecutor is expected in a few days to issue a statement on the status of the investigation , including how many people are detained and how many face legal charges , qasabi added .
riyadh is seeking huge amounts of u.s. and foreign investment to reduce its dependence on oil exports .
qasabi conceded that u.s. businessmen were somewhat concerned by the potential impact of the crackdown on corruption .
they re worried about if this is ... will be , the end of it or where it will stop , he said .
but they all think this will be good for the country , because the country s leadership stood visibly to fight corruption , and ultimately this will be a level playing field for everybody .
the economic reforms include a privatization program that is to raise some $ 300 billion .
in the past 18 months , there has been little concrete progress as deals have been slowed by red tape , legal uncertainties and high asking prices for assets , foreign businessmen say .
qasabi said the program was on track and the government , having identified sectors to be privatised , was working on the complex mechanics of asset transfers that would take place by mid-2019 .
sea ports will be a major area of activity , he said .
privatization of grain mills under the saudi grains organisation is in its final phase and could be completed by mid-2018 , qasabi added .
the economy has been hit hard in the past couple of years by low oil prices and government austerity measures .
authorities have promised stimulus steps and qasabi noted they had this year increased the capital of the saudi industrial development fund , which makes soft loans to businesses .
more stimulus measures are likely to be announced with the 2018 state budget , expected to be released in late december , or before then , he added .
financial incentives offered by the government could total 70 billion riyals ( $ 18.7 billion ) .
qasabi chairs a program that encourages strategic saudi companies to expand globally in sectors such as food , logistics , pharmaceuticals and petrochemicals .
the government will allocate money to help them grow by acquiring other firms locally , he said .