washington ( reuters ) - hillary clinton has one of the strongest resumes of anyone ever to run for u.s. president , with stints as first lady , senator and secretary of state , but she is also a polarizing figure and a washington insider with decades of political baggage .
should democrat clinton , 69 , defeat republican donald trump , 70 , in tuesday ’ s election , she would become the first woman elected u.s. president , having already been the only first lady to win elected office and the first woman nominated for president by a major u.s. party .
clinton fell short in her first presidential bid in 2008 , losing her party ’ s nomination to barack obama .
her time on the american political scene has come during an era of intense partisanship and gaping divisions in u.s. society .
americans hold dramatically differing views of clinton .
clinton ’ s admirers consider her a tough , capable and sometimes inspirational leader who has endured unrelenting efforts by political enemies to chop her down .
her detractors consider her an unscrupulous and power-hungry opportunist .
clinton entered the 2016 race as her party ’ s odds-on favorite , but was an establishment figure , the ultimate insider with decades of political baggage , at a time when voters seemed enamored with outsiders .
she staved off an unexpectedly stiff challenge from u.s .
senator bernie sanders , who describes himself as a democratic socialist , to claim the democratic nomination in july .
for decades clinton has battled conservatives and republican adversaries and weathered controversies including her husband bill clinton ’ s infidelity , a failed republican effort to remove him from office , investigations into past business dealings and her use of a private email server as secretary of state .
she famously complained in 1998 during her husband ’ s presidency about a “ vast right-wing conspiracy. ” many democrats back her for championing women 's rights at home and abroad , social justice and access to healthcare , but opinion polls show a majority of u.s. voters do not trust her .
[ polling.reuters.com/ # ! poll/tm752y15_2 ] against trump , she portrayed her candidacy as a bulwark against a unique threat that she said the real estate developer posed to american democracy .
as president obama ’ s secretary of state from 2009 to 2013 , she grappled with civil wars in syria and libya , iran ’ s nuclear program , china ’ s growing clout , russian assertiveness , ending the iraq war , winding down the afghanistan war , and an unsuccessful bid to settle the israeli-palestinian conflict .
clinton was already running for president when , during a testy 11-hour congressional hearing in october 2015 , she deflected republican criticism of her handling of a 2012 attack by militants in benghazi , libya in which the u.s. ambassador died .
that hearing and another in january 2013 while she was still secretary of state focused on allegations of state department security lapses related to the attack .
a mistrust of rivals and the media has long prompted clinton to keep her guard up .
“ the truth is , through all these years of public service , the ‘ service ’ part has always come easier to me than the ‘ public ’ part , ” clinton said in accepting the 2016 democratic nomination .
“ i get it that some people just don ’ t know what to make of me. ” at the same convention , obama cited her years of experience and said , “ there has never been a man or woman , not me , not bill - nobody more qualified than hillary clinton to serve as president of the united states. ” republicans have accused clinton of breaking the law while corresponding through a private email server as secretary of state .
in july , fbi director james comey called clinton “ extremely careless ” in her handling of classified information by email , but obama ’ s justice department accepted his recommendation not to bring criminal charges .
“ if i had to do it over again , i would , obviously , do it differently , ” clinton said during a sept. 26 debate with trump , referring to her use of the private server as a “ mistake ” for which she took responsibility .
the controversy flared again on oct. 28 when comey told u.s. lawmakers the fbi was investigating a new trove of emails as part of its probe , but said their significance was unclear .
trump seized on the probe into clinton ’ s email , deriding her as “ crooked hillary , ” saying he would seek to put her behind bars if elected and encouraging his supporters to chant “ lock her up. ” clinton portrayed trump as a racist hate-monger , a sexist and a tax-dodger enamored with russian president vladimir putin and unfit to serve as president and commander in chief .
“ such a nasty woman , ” trump retorted during their oct. 19 debate when she suggested he would try to get out of paying the higher taxes she advocates for the wealthy .
born in chicago on oct. 26 , 1947 , hillary rodham clinton was the eldest of three children of a small-business owner father she called a “ rock-ribbed , up-by-your-bootstraps , conservative republican ” and a mother who was a closet democrat .
she said she inherited her father ’ s distinctive laugh - she called it “ a big rolling guffaw ” - and americans have heard it frequently .
she attended public schools , then enrolled in 1965 at all-female wellesley college in massachusetts , where she headed the young republicans club .
in a wellesley commencement address , she seized the spotlight by starting her speech with extemporaneous remarks challenging comments made by the preceding speaker , a u.s. senator .
her political views changed during the 1960s civil rights struggles and vietnam war escalation .
she attended the 1968 republican convention that nominated richard nixon , but soon became a democrat .
at yale law school , she met a similarly ambitious fellow student from arkansas , bill clinton , and they became a couple .
she moved to washington to work for a congressional panel in the impeachment drive against nixon , who resigned as president in 1974 during the watergate scandal .
she moved to arkansas to be with bill , married him in 1975 , and was hired by a top law firm .
he jumped into politics , eventually being elected governor , at age 32 , in 1978 .
she gave birth to the couple ’ s only child , daughter chelsea , in 1980 .
as arkansas ’ first lady , she was a high-powered lawyer in the capital little rock and a wal-mart corporate board member .
most americans were introduced to her during her husband ’ s bid for the 1992 democratic presidential nomination .
bill clinton said voters would get “ two for the price of one ” if they elected him .
she unapologetically said she was not a woman who “ stayed home and baked cookies. ” after a woman named gennifer flowers accused bill clinton during the campaign of a sexual affair , hillary clinton appeared on tv with her husband and referred to singer tammy wynette ’ s song , “ stand by your man. ” “ you know , i ’ m not sitting here , some little woman standing by my man like tammy wynette , ” she said , adding that she loved and respected her husband .
“ and you know , if that ’ s not enough for people , then heck , don ’ t vote for him , ” she added .
conservative critics painted her as a radical feminist and a threat to traditional family values .
bill clinton defeated incumbent republican president george h.w .
bush in november 1992 .
as first lady from 1993 to 2001 , she was unusually exertive , diving into policy matters unlike many of her predecessors .
critics assailed her failed effort to win congressional passage of healthcare reform , deriding it as “ hillarycare. ” at a 1995 u.n. conference in china on women , she declared that “ human rights are women ’ s rights and women ’ s rights are human rights. ” she and her husband faced a long investigation into past business dealings but ultimately no criminal charges were brought .
a real estate venture known as whitewater faced scrutiny , spawning an independent counsel investigation that later encompassed bill clinton ’ s sexual relationship with a white house intern named monica lewinsky .
deputy white house counsel vince foster , a figure in the whitewater controversy and a close friend of the clintons from arkansas , was found dead of a gunshot in 1993 .
his death was ruled a suicide .
in a 2003 memoir , hillary clinton blasted “ conspiracy theorists and investigators trying to prove that vince was murdered to cover up what he ‘ knew about whitewater. ’ ” in 2000 , the independent counsel investigation concluded there was insufficient evidence to show the clintons had been involved in any criminal behavior related to whitewater .
in december 1998 , the republican-led house of representatives voted to impeach a president for only the second time in u.s. history , charging bill clinton with “ high crimes and misdemeanors ” for allegedly lying under oath and obstructing justice to cover up his relationship with lewinsky .
the republican-led senate acquitted clinton in february 1999 .
hillary clinton called the impeachment an abuse of power by republicans with a “ soviet-style show trial ” and condemned what she called “ an attempted congressional coup d ’ etat. ” she also said she “ wanted to wring bill ’ s neck ” for the affair and upbraided him privately .
ultimately , she said , she decided she still loved him and remained after they went through counseling .
“ all i know is that no one understands me better and no one can make me laugh the way bill does , ” she wrote in her 2003 book “ living history. ” hillary clinton soon launched her own bid for elected office .
she bought a house in the town of chappaqua to officially become a new york resident .
she won election as a u.s. senator the same month her husband left office in january 2001 .
she served until 2009 .
she entered the race for the 2008 democratic presidential nomination as the front-runner , but then-senator obama won the party ’ s nomination and beat republican john mccain to become the first black president .
in 2016 , obama campaigned vigorously for her against trump .
“ what sets hillary apart is that through it all , she just keeps on going , and she doesn ’ t stop caring , and she doesn ’ t stop trying .
and she never stops fighting for us , even if we haven ’ t always appreciated it , ” obama told a september rally .