bucharest ( reuters ) - romanian protesters clashed with riot police on saturday when they stopped construction workers from building a christmas fair at the site of anti-corruption demonstrations in bucharest .
victory square saw big street protests at the beginning of the year following attempts by the ruling social democrats to decriminalize some corruption offences and has been a gathering place for largely peaceful protests since .
further demonstrations have been announced on social media as parliament gears up to approve a judicial overhaul that has been criticized by thousands of magistrates , centrist president klaus iohannis , the european commission and the u.s. state department .
earlier this week bucharest mayor gabriela firea , a senior social democrat member , said she would stage a christmas fair for most of december in the square - a decision which social democrat prime minister mihai tudose said was not the most inspired .
on saturday , protesters began dismantling the scaffolding and fences for the fair , waving flags and chanting we won t give victory square up , and firea , don t forget , this square is not yours .
three protesters were taken to a police station , riot police spokesman georgian enache told state news agency agerpres .
he added one of them was accused of hitting another citizen .
we are asking bucharest city hall to abandon immediately ... the move to fence in victory square , protest activists said in a statement on facebook page corruption kills .
we urge citizens to protest firmly but non-violently .
we must stop this treacherous and rudimentary attempt by mayor gabriela firea to discourage protests at a time when they will be crucial for the future of this country .
this means the beginning of anarchy , firea said in a statement later .
she said she would find another place to locate the fair .
if the capital s city hall was prevented from organizing an event in a public space which belongs to everyone today , similar events could happen tomorrow at the presidential office , parliament and other public institutions .