( note : readers might find some language offensive in paragraph 2 ) london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may has ordered an investigation into a report that one of her ministers asked a female secretary to buy sex toys for him , as she tries to tackle a culture of sexual harassment in politics .
mark garnier , a junior international trade minister , asked secretary caroline edmondson to buy two sex toys and he also called her sugar tits , the mail on sunday reported .
garnier told the paper that the comment was part of an amusing conversation about a television show , and that asking her to buy the toys was good humored high jinks .
edmondson , in comments to the paper , disputed garnier s recollection of the incidents , including his assertion that they were high jinks .
the report came after another british newspaper , the sun , on friday described a culture of sexual harassment among lawmakers and their staff working in parliament .
garnier was not immediately available for comment to reuters through his constituency or parliamentary offices .
may s spokeswoman said on friday after the sun s report that any unwanted sexual behavior was completely unacceptable and any minister who acted inappropriately would face serious action .
health minister jeremy hunt said on sunday may had asked officials to investigate if garnier , whose role is outside the cabinet immediately surrounding may , had broken the government ministers code of behavior .
these stories , if they are true , are obviously totally unacceptable , hunt told bbc television .
the cabinet office will be conducting an investigation as to whether there has been a breach of the ministerial code in this particular case , but as you know the facts are disputed .
may , in a letter released to media , also asked john bercow , the speaker of the lower house of parliament , the house of commons , on sunday for his advice about changing the culture there .
i believe it is important that those who work in the house of commons are treated properly and fairly , as would be expected in any modern workplace , may said in the letter .
she said measures such as a disciplinary procedure suggested by the independent parliamentary standards authority and a voluntary code of conduct offered by the conservative party to its lawmakers did not go far enough .
i believe that we must establish a house-wide mediation service complemented by a contractually binding grievance procedure available for all mps ( lawmakers ) irrespective of their party banner , she said in the letter .
it is vital that staff and the public have confidence in parliament , and resolving this employment irregularity on a cross-party basis can play an important role in this .
reports of inappropriate behavior in british politics , and in other industries , came in the wake of dozens of allegations against hollywood producer harvey weinstein .
weinstein has denied having non-consensual sex with anyone .
britain s environment minister michael gove apologized on saturday after he likened being interviewed by a bbc radio presenter to entering weinstein s bedroom .
after the analogy was widely criticized , gove , a cabinet minister , apologized for what he said was a clumsy attempt at humor .
the sun newspaper said on friday that women working in politics in westminster had created a whatsapp instant messaging group to discuss their experiences of harassment and warn others about potential perpetrators .
the prime minister was very clear when we responded to the reports about harvey weinstein in the last few weeks that any unwanted sexual behavior is completely unacceptable , and that is true in any walk of life including politics , may s spokeswoman said on friday .