washington ( reuters ) - the white house promised on wednesday that it would be able to uphold u.s. commitments to an international climate change agreement , as a court ruling heightened concerns about the stability of the global carbon reduction pact reached last year .
shares of coal companies reflected the uncertainty the day after the u.s. supreme court ruling .
after jumping nearly 7 percent early in the session , the thomson reuters u.s. coal index was down 3 percent in afternoon trading .
the court dealt a serious blow to the obama administration ’ s climate change agenda on tuesday when it took the unusual step to delay implementation of the clean power plan until legal challenges to the regulation are completed .
a centerpiece of the obama administration ’ s climate change policy , the clean power plan was designed to lower carbon emissions from u.s. power plants by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels .
the decision to temporarily block the rule came after the united states entered into a landmark agreement in december with countries around the world to reduce greenhouse gas emissions .
while the clean power plan was expected to be the main tool for the united states to fulfill its part of the pact , white house spokesman eric schultz told reporters in a briefing that it was only one part of the nation ’ s response to climate change .
the long-term extension of the tax credits for renewable energy last year will continue to provide momentum that will transition the power sector toward cleaner sources of energy , schultz said .
“ the inclusion of those tax credits is going to have more impact over the short term than the clean power plan , ” he said .
but french government spokesman stephane le foll quoted outgoing foreign minister laurent fabius as saying after a cabinet meeting that the decision was “ not good news , ” even if the debate will continue in the united states .
claudia salerno , a venezuelan diplomat who leads the country ’ s delegation at u.n. climate talks , described the ruling as “ truly damaging ” to the outcome of the pact in a twitter message late on tuesday .