strasbourg ( reuters ) - the european parliament savaged the british government s handling of brexit negotiations on tuesday , voting against opening talks on future trade and condemning disarray in prime minister theresa may s team .
the leader of the european union legislature s biggest party , a german ally of conservative chancellor angela merkel , said cabinet in-fighting was putting a deal at risk and called on may to get rid of her own foreign secretary , boris johnson .
please sack johnson , said manfred weber , a leading figure in the assembly , which must approve any deal struck by eu negotiator michel barnier before britain leaves in march 2019 .
opening the debate in strasbourg , barnier and eu chief executive jean-claude juncker repeated their view that a fourth round of negotiations last week did not produce enough agreement for the eu to yield to may s demands for immediate talks on a free trade deal and a transition to it after brexit .
juncker last week said it would take miracles for talks next week to unblock a move to a new phase by the end of this month , let alone in time for eu national leaders to approve such a shift when they meet for a summit on oct. 19-20 .
the test the eu has set is to make sufficient progress which it has not defined on agreeing rights for eu citizens in britain after brexit , border arrangements with ireland and how much london will pay brussels on its departure .
echoing barnier , parliament called on eu leaders by 557 votes to 92 to delay making a decision on that progress unless there is a major breakthrough in line with this resolution in all three areas during the fifth negotiation round .
may won some approval for pledging , in a sept. 22 speech in florence , to strengthen legal guarantees for expatriates and to pay into the eu budget during a two-year post-brexit transition .
but critics pointed to london s refusal to let the european court of justice be the ultimate arbiter on rights or to commit to paying substantial sums due beyond 2020 .
many were critical of conflicting signals from may , johnson and others on where negotiating red lines lie for britain .
who shall i call in london ?
theresa may , boris johnson , or even david davis ?
weber asked , describing may s conservative government as trapped by their own party quarrels .
please no more speeches , he urged her on a day when johnson , a brexit campaigner and potential may challenger , was to speak at the party conference .
show leadership on content .
and the best probably would be , please sack johnson .
guy verhofstadt , the liberal leader and parliament s brexit point man , urged may to offer clarity in her conference speech on wednesday .
but critics of the eu s approach were also vocal .
hans-olaf henkel , a german industrialist who sits with the british conservatives , called on verhofstadt to drop his arrogance , on barnier to stop seeming to want to punish britain and on johnson to stop stirring things up .
nigel farage , who led the uk independence party to victory in last year s brexit referendum but saw its vote slashed in the june election , described may s florence speech as a pitiful attempt to appease a bully and said she should resign .
she s a waste of space .
she needs to go , farage said .
a new prime minister should call europe s bluff , he said , and walk out of the eu without a deal if barnier refused to settle .