beirut ( reuters ) - iran opened a border crossing with the kurdistan region of iraq wednesday after having closed it following last month s vote in favor of independence in the kurdish area , iranian state media reported .
iran backs the shi ite-led central government in baghdad in its opposition to kurdish secession , and iranian-backed militias assisted government forces when they seized a number of kurdish cities last week .
the decision comes on the same day as the kurdish regional government offered to put their independence drive on hold , stepping up efforts to resolve a crisis in relations with baghdad via dialogue rather than military means .
after the referendum and changes within the kurdistan region our borders with the kurdistan region of iraq were closed ... today the bashmagh border is open , jahangir bakhshi , the head of customs for the border crossing , said , according to the islamic republic of iran broadcasting ( irib ) news agency .
the report made no mention the krg s offer for resolving the dispute through talks .
the bashmagh border crossing is located approximately 50 kilometers ( 31 miles ) east of the city of sulaimaniya in iraqi kurdistan .
last week , iraqi security forces took control of several cities , including the oil-rich kirkuk , from kurdish forces in a lightning assault .
shi ite fighters from the popular mobilization forces ( pmf ) , many of whom have been armed and trained by iran , took part in the military action .
prior to the assault , major-general qassem soleimani , commander of foreign operations for iran s elite revolutionary guards , traveled to iraq s kurdistan region to encourage kurdish leaders to withdraw their forces , known as peshmerga , from kirkuk .
peshmerga commanders have accused iran of orchestrating the operation , a charge iranian officials have denied .
bakshi said on wednesday that it was not clear when the other borders points between iran and the kurdistan region of iraq would reopen .
there is approximately 20 billion dollars of annual cross border trade through the bashmagh border point bakhshi said , according to irib .