stockholm/chicago ( reuters ) - u.s. academic richard thaler , who helped popularize the idea of nudging people towards doing what was best for them , won the 2017 nobel economics prize on monday for his work on how human nature affects supposedly rational markets .
influential in the field of behavioral economics , his research showed how traits such as lack of self-control and fear of losing what you already have prompt decisions that may not have the best outcome in the longer term .
i think the most important impact ( of my research ) is the recognition that economic agents are human and economic models have to incorporate that , thaler , a professor at the university of chicago booth school of business , said in a call broadcast at the nobel news conference .
asked at a separate news conference in chicago if it was difficult to get traditional , data-oriented economists to embrace his ideas , thaler said it was `` impossible ... economists do n't do a lot of embracing actually . ''
awarding the 9 million swedish crown ( $ 1.1 million ) prize , the royal swedish academy of sciences said : richard thaler s contributions have built a bridge between the economic and psychological analyses of individual decision-making .
his empirical findings and theoretical insights have been instrumental in creating the new and rapidly expanding field of behavioral economics , which has had a profound impact on many areas of economic research and policy .
thaler brought to prominence the idea of nudge economics , where individuals are subtly guided toward beneficial behaviors without heavy-handed compulsion , the theme of a 2008 book he co-wrote which caught the eye of policymakers around the world .
in research focused on self control - or the lack of it - thaler touched on an age-old problem : why new year s resolutions to change aspects of your life are notoriously hard to keep .
the issue has relevance for economics as individuals tendency to fall prey to temptation often negatively affects plans to , for instance , save for retirement .
together with professor cass sunstein , he argued that society - while maintaining freedom of choice - should actively try to guide individuals in the right direction .
their book , titled nudge : improving decisions about health , wealth , and happiness became popular with some western politicians seeking ways to encourage their citizens to save and live healthily , without incurring voters wrath for raising taxes or banning behavior outright .
this has also been used in public pension systems in the united states and the general idea of nudging ... has made a breakthrough in public policy making , torsten persson , economics prize committee member , told reuters .
there s also a nudging unit for the uk government , there s one for the australian government , it even affects the swedish government when they think about these things .
david laibson , chair of harvard university s economics department , said many of thaler s theories have been widely applied by business and government , aiming to get individuals to do a range of actions such as paying parking tickets and getting flu shots .
if you live in a developed country , there s some firm or entity that has read these ideas and started to affect your life , laibson said .
influential in academic circles , the movie-going public may have noticed thaler make a brief cameo in the 2015 film the big short , explaining the so-called hot-hand fallacy where past success is expected to also warrant success in the future , with pop star selena gomez .
i basically have made a career stealing ideas from psychologists , thaler joked at the chicago news conference .
asked how he would spend his prize money , he said : i will spend it as irrationally as possible .
the economics prize , officially called the sveriges riksbank prize in economic sciences in memory of alfred nobel , was established in 1968 .
it was not part of the original group of awards set out in dynamite tycoon nobel s 1895 will .
economy is the last of this year s nobels , with prizes for physiology or medicine , physics , chemistry , literature and peace awarded last week .
the united states has dominated the economics prize , with american economists accounting for roughly half of laureates since the inception of the award .
indeed , between 2000 and 2013 , u.s. academics won or shared the prize every year .
while americans have dominated the nobel science and economics prizes , another category of researchers - women - have been few and far between .
indeed only one woman - elinor ostrom in 2009 - has won the economics prize to date , and not a single individual woman won any nobel award in 2017 .
we are disappointed looking in a larger perspective that there aren t more women who have been rewarded , the academy s secretary general goran hansson said .
he said the academy would hold a conference to discuss the issue and nominators will be asked to identify women scientists for recognition and also consider ethnic and geographic diversity .
we are concerned , we are taking measures .
i hope that in five years , 10 years , we will see a very different distribution , hansson said .
( for graphic on nobel prize winners , click - tmsnrt.rs/2hmj6aq )