we ve heard about hillary clinton s bad behavior before but this tell-all book goes right into details of what clinton was like as first lady hillary clinton has a jekyll and hyde personality that left white house staffers scared stiff of her explosive and even physical outbursts , an ex-secret service officer claims in a scathing new tell-all.gary byrne , who was posted outside the oval office when bill clinton was president , portrays hillary as too erratic , uncontrollable and occasionally violent to become leader of the free world , according to advance promotional materials exclusively obtained by page six.the allegations from byrne , a 29-year veteran of the military and federal law enforcement , threaten to derail her campaign days before she is expected to clinch the democratic presidential nomination.he describes hillary clinton as acting friendly one moment , then raging the next .
what i saw in the 1990s sickened me , he writes in the intro of the book , crisis of character : a white house secret service officer discloses his firsthand experience with hillary , bill , and how they operate .
the book claims she repeatedly screamed obscenities at her husband , secret service personnel and white house staffers all of whom lived in terror of her next tirade.secret service agents had discussions about the possibility that they would have to protect bill from his wife s physical attacks , byrne writes , and the couple had one violent encounter the morning of a key presidential address to the nation.meanwhile , a paranoid hillary clinton tried to have the secret service banned from the white house and once tried to ditch her security detail , byrne says .
hillary clinton is now poised to become the democratic nominee for president of the united states , but she simply lacks the integrity and temperament to serve in the office , he writes.linda tripp weighs in on hillary s days as first lady after twenty years of silence : linda tripp , who once was a white house aide with an office next to hillary s spoke to the daily mail exclusively .
she labeled hillary clinton a destroyer who stopped at nothing to crush the women who were linked sexually to bill clinton over the years .
his efforts were so terrifying and unethical , and tripp believes hillary must be stopped from becoming president at all costs ! it was the scandal that saw bill clinton impeached and which threatened to bring down his presidency .
for many , it continues to define it to this day.but according to the woman who outed monica lewinsky as the president s mistress , the real story was never about monica .
it was about subornation of perjury , obstruction of justice a true abuse of power .
and it was about hillary.because , according to linda tripp , it was hillary who manipulated and stage managed the story , converting herself from a lackluster first lady with unimpressive approval ratings to admirable first victim the blindsided wife standing by her man.she made him forgivable .
she orchestrated the cover up and she made damn sure that she moved on .
nothing , and no-one , was going to stand in her way.linda tripp , whose recorded conversations with lewinsky submitted to independent counsel kenneth starr exposed the truth of the affair that both lewinsky and clinton had sought to deny , has never spoken fully until now .
she noted what we all are thinking hillary was really in charge of the clinton white house , because she would stop at nothing to get her way : she describes hillary as the true ruler of the white house through her husband s administration ; tells how she watched hillary blatantly lie to the american people ; describes her as utterly ruthless in her pursuit of power ; and voices her belief that hillary must never gain the presidency the position that has always been her goal and to which she has always believed herself entitled .
read more : political insidervia : nyp