george soros is sticking his nose into voter id laws and throwing money into lawsuits in several states to get the law overturned .
is this a true effort to overturn the laws or just an effort to gin the base up to vote ?
there s absolutely nothing wrong with having voter id !
soros needs to slither away .hillary clinton s top campaign lawyer is behind a multi-state push challenging voter identification laws implemented in recent years , efforts that are expected to reach numerous other states ahead of the 2016 elections.marc elias , a top campaign lawyer for hillary clinton and a partner at the washington , d.c. , law firm perkins coie , has filed lawsuits in three states thus far .
the nationwide campaign is being fueled with money from the liberal billionaire george soros.elias first began exploring the possible challenges back in january 2014 .
soros then became involved , vowing to throw his weight behind the effort in collaboration with elias .
we hope to see these unfair laws , which often disproportionately affect the most vulnerable in our society , repealed , soros told the new york times .
it is disingenuous to suggest that these laws are meant to protect against voter fraud , which is nearly nonexistent , soros political adviser michael vachon added .
clearly they are meant to give republicans a political advantage on election day .
soros has pledged $ 5 million to propel the campaign .
elias did not return a request for comment concerning his dealings with soros or the total number of lawsuits they plan on bringing forward .
a request for comment from george soros s press office was also not returned by press time.democrats ramped up their efforts last month to challenge voter id laws implemented by republican legislatures and governors , claiming that the laws disenfranchise minority voters.the first in the series of lawsuits was filed in ohio on may 8 .
three weeks later , on june 1 , a second suit was filed in wisconsin .
on june 11 , a third lawsuit was filed in virginia .
further suits are expected to follow in other states.elias is working independently on behalf of his firm , perkins coie , though the clinton camp supports the effort .
perkins coie has pulled in more than $ 40 million from democratic clients since 2000.the suits came as hillary clinton made comments about voting in a number of public speeches.during a speech in houston on june 4 at historically black texas southern university , hillary clinton called for a universal , automatic voter registration for 18-year-olds along with early voting up to 20 days before an election .
i call on republicans at all levels of government with all manner of ambition to stop fear-mongering about a phantom epidemic of election fraud and start explaining why they re so scared of letting citizens have their say , clinton said during the speech.true the vote , a right-leaning vote-monitoring organization , sees the campaign as a political stunt to rile up apathetic voters who may not have the same excitement for clinton as they did for obama.read more : wfb