donald trump is seriously stupid.considering all of the sexual assault allegations against him , the fact that he wants to bang his daughter , the fact that he has hit on teen girls , and talked about dating a girl when she was just ten-years old , one would think trump would know better than to bring a girl on stage at one of his rallies.but that s exactly what he did on monday night when he invited the child to the podium .
trump then picked her up , told her how beautiful she is and then tried to kiss her repeatedly , including on the lips , which the girl clearly did not appreciate .
you can see it on her face as she tries to avoid trump s lips and then runs back to her parents.here s the video via youtube.the optics here are absolutely terrible .
if trump had done this a year ago this probably wouldn t be much of a story .
but we are three weeks out from election day and donald trump is embroiled in a mountain of sexual assault allegations and is still experiencing fallout because of his comments about groping women and not waiting to kiss women he considers beautiful .
apparently , that disgusting personal policy includes little girls , too.of course , trump trying to kiss a little girl horrified america , and they let trump know about it on twitter.about the gross video of trump trying to kiss a little girl against her will : i don t even try to hug my daughter when she s not feeling it .
bearded tombstoner ( @ beardedstoner ) october 18 , 2016that s right children !
do not let creepy men like trump force you to kiss them !
good job !
tonight via @ goangelo pic.twitter.com/7uxzme2okh riotwomenn ( @ riotwomennn ) october 18 , 2016given what we know about trump , i don t find the gif of the little girl pulling away from his kiss funny .
like , at all .
jessica valenti ( @ jessicavalenti ) october 18 , 2016i ll admit , i wasn t ready to see trump trying to kiss a little black girl on the mouth .
who the hell does that to someone else s child ?
jamil smith ( @ jamilsmith ) october 18 , 2016this is extremely painful to watch .
that poor girl was so uncomfortable .
trump is a disgusting , perverted man .
https : //t.co/fzjiw8pxng izzy galvez ( @ iglvzx ) october 18 , 2016seriously , trump is a 70-year-old man .
he should know better.featured image via screen cap