massive planned mall fights broke out across the us on monday forcing many of the malls to evacuate shoppers and close their doors.december 26 is one of the busiest shopping days of the years with after christmas specials.beachwood place mall outside of cleveland , ohio officers used pepper spray to disperse a large crowd after a fight that prompted a lockdown of beachwood place on monday evening , police said.at least one juvenile is in custody in connection with the fight that broke out just after 6:30 p.m. near the mall s food court , police said .
the juvenile is accused of assaulting a police officer who arrived to break up the disturbance.officers were initially called to the scene for a report of shots fired , but have since confirmed there were no gunshots , police at the scene said .
cleveland.comthey shooting in beachwood mall tho pic.twitter.com/mnbees9gip doe beezy/freebandz ( @ doeboyofficial ) december 27 , 2016gunshot-like noise during fight leads to chaos at jersey gardens mall https : //t.co/czlblgdh7x steven p. miller ( @ sparkermiller ) december 27 , 2016a total of seven arrests were made during a huge fight that broke out at the shoppes at buckland hills in manchester , causing the mall to shut down early monday night.manchester police said hundred of teens were involved , and that several fights broke out .
the mall was shut down shortly before 6 p.m. and cleared out in response .
it was supposed to remain open until 9 p.m.according to manchester police capt .
chris davis , it s typical to see more teens in the mall during the holidays .
kids are out of school .
a lot of them aren t hanging out in the streets so they come here , typically , and hang out at the mall .
the mall released the following statement tuesday morning : buckland hills has closed for the evening .
the well-being of our shoppers and retailers is our number one priority , and we take matters very seriously that disrupt the peaceful , safe environment we strive to create for our community .
we are working closely with law enforcement and direct all inquiries to the manchester police department .
the shopping center will be open tuesday.according to police , about 8-10 teens started fighting at around 5:30 p.m. , and officers who were already at the mall broke up the fight .
then , several hundred teens at various other locations throughout the mall started fighting at the same time.davis said some veteran manchester officers who were at buckland hills on monday night noticed more teens than usual .
they just kind of sensed that something was amiss , previous to the fights actually starting .
so it was just kind of a sixth-sense by some of our officers .
fox61 fox valley mall wildin pic.twitter.com/uu7p0qq7gs velma ( @ bfitman ) december 27 , 201614 malls nationwide shut down due to large fights , reports of shots fired , etc .
ashley michels ( @ reporterashley ) december 27 , 2016social media update on aurora tc mall fight .
waiting for more info from police now pic.twitter.com/gwf8mxcyfg ashley michels ( @ reporterashley ) december 27 , 2016 gateway pundit