new delhi ( reuters ) - india will provide myanmar with $ 25 million for development projects including prefabricated houses in troubled rakhine state to enable the return of rohingya muslims who have fled the area , the foreign ministry said on thursday .
more than 600,000 rohingya have escaped to bangladesh after attacks by insurgents on myanmar security forces in august triggered a military crackdown that the united nations has called ethnic cleansing .
the international community demands the rohingya be allowed to go home in safety , and bangladesh and myanmar have begun talks on repatriation , but huge doubts remain about the rohingya ever being able to return in peace to rebuild homes and till fields .
india , which is concerned about the influx of the refugees into its territory , has stressed economic development of the rakhine region as a way to help lower tensions .
foreign secretary subrahmanyam jaishankar held talks with myanmar leaders on wednesday and signed a memorandum of understanding to support development of rakhine and help create jobs .
this is intended to help the government of myanmar achieve its objective of restoration of normalcy in rakhine state and enable the return of displaced persons , the indian foreign ministry said in a statement .
under this mou , government of india proposes to take up , among others , a project to build prefabricated housing in rakhine state so as to meet the immediate needs of returning people .
india will spend $ 25 million over the next five years on development of the impoverished region , foreign ministry spokesman raveesh kumar said .
besides housing , the proposals include building schools , healthcare facilities and building bridges and roads .
india has been trying to promote economic cooperation with myanmar to try to push back against china s expansive involvement in infrastructure development across south asia .
beijing has also stepped into the rohingya crisis and proposed a three-phase plan including a ceasefire , bilateral talks and then tackling poverty long-term .