madrid ( reuters ) - spain is pushing for the european union to adopt restrictive measures against members of the venezuelan government as a way of encouraging a return to constitutional order in the crisis-hit country , the spanish foreign ministry said on tuesday .
the head of venezuela s opposition-led congress , julio borges , visited spain on tuesday to meet prime minister mariano rajoy as part of a european tour seeking support against venezuelan president nicolas maduro .
maduro s government has been criticized by the united nations , washington and other governments for failing to allow the entry of foreign aid to ease an economic crisis , while it overrides congress and jails hundreds of opponents .
against the progressive worsening of the situation in venezuela , the spanish government is pushing ... for the adoption of restrictive , individual and selective measures , which don t hurt the venezuelan population , the ministry said in a statement .
the spanish government was working with its partners in the eu on these measures and was in constant contact with other latin american countries , the ministry said .
a foreign ministry spokesman did not say what the measures would be .
after the meeting with borges , the ministry underlined spain s support for a peaceful , democratic solution and called for the release of all political prisoners .
spain s foreign minister , alfonso dastis , also met representatives of human rights activist lilian tintori , the wife of venezuela s best-known detained political leader , who was barred from flying out of the country to join borges on the tour .
venezuela s foreign minister , jorge arreaza , criticized the opposition leaders meeting with rajoy , saying they were unpatriotic in backing sanctions that he said would hurt the venezuelan economy .
@ marianorajoy assaults venezuelan dignity , representing the worst colonial past , defeated and expelled by our liberators , arreaza tweeted on tuesday .
the venezuelan opposition won control of congress in 2015 .
but maduro s loyalist supreme court has tossed out every major law it has passed as the oil-rich country slips deeper into a recession exacerbated by triple-digit inflation and acute shortages of food and medicines .
maduro has said he faces an armed insurrection designed to end socialism in latin america and let a u.s.-backed business elite get its hands on the opec nation s crude reserves .