monrovia ( reuters ) - liberians voted on tuesday in an election expected to mark the first democratic transfer of power in over seven decades in a country haunted by a civil war that ended nearly 15 years ago .
outgoing president ellen johnson sirleaf , who won the 2011 nobel peace prize , is praised for maintaining peace since taking over after the end of the west african country s 14-year conflict in which child fighters were used .
liberia s policy of prioritizing reconciliation over justice , however , has meant that prominent figures responsible for the violence that killed a quarter of a million people are still present on the political landscape .
there is no clear frontrunner but prince johnson , a former rebel leader who finished third in the last election in 2011 , is among 20 candidates on the ballot .
the ex-wife of warlord-turned-president charles taylor , now imprisoned in the uk for war crimes committed in sierra leone , is the running mate of another favorite : former soccer star george weah .
i am just voting for peace .
we want peace right now , said james marthics , a voter in paynesville , a suburb of the capital monrovia .
residents queued before dawn at polling stations in monrovia , some bringing small wooden chairs with them , and formed queues as vendors sold them soft drinks and palm wine .
materials including ballot boxes arrived late in some locations and some people struggled to find their names on voter rolls .
state broadcaster elbc reported a party chair in lofa county was detained for distributing money to voters .
elections commission head jerome korkoya said some individuals were arrested for trying to vote more than once , but he said voting went smoothly overall .
liberia is africa s oldest modern republic .
it was founded by freed u.s. slaves in 1847 but its last democratic power transfer dates back to 1943 .
johnson sirleaf , africa s first elected female president , won a surprise victory in 2005 following a post-war transition .
she was re-elected in 2011 but is barred from seeking another term .
among the favorites to replace her is vice president joseph nyuma boakai .
weah , who has won fifa s world player of the year , was greeted at his polling station by supporters in football shirts .
he came second to johnson sirleaf in 2005 .
ex-rebel leader johnson won around 12 percent of the vote in 2011 .
a widely-circulated video showed him sipping a beer as he directed the torture of president samuel doe shortly before his murder in 1990 .
ballot counting started soon after polls officially closed at 6 p.m. ( 1800 gmt ) , though voting continued in some areas where there had been delays .
results are expected to begin arriving later this week .
but most analysts think it will be difficult for any single candidate to win an outright majority on tuesday , raising the likelihood of a run-off election next month .
few believe there is a real risk of a return to war but in a national address on monday johnson sirleaf called for peace .
though held in high esteem internationally , many liberians , who call her simply ellen , say they are disappointed she has not achieved more in her 12 years in office .
liberia is currently 177th out of 188 countries ranked by the u.n. human development index , and johnson sirleaf has faced accusations of nepotism and failing to crack down on corruption .