( reuters ) - u.s. president-elect donald trump has formally named republican representative ryan zinke of montana , a former navy seal commander , as his pick for interior secretary , the trump transition team said in a statement on thursday .
the following is a list of republican trump ’ s selections for top jobs in his administration ; all the posts but those of national security adviser , the white house chief of staff , white house director of the national economic council and white house strategist require senate confirmation : sessions , 69 , was the first u.s. senator to endorse trump ’ s presidential bid and has been a close ally since .
son of a country store owner , the alabama senator and former federal prosecutor has long taken a tough stance on illegal immigration , opposing any path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants .
u.s. representative pompeo , 52 , is a third-term congressman from kansas who serves on the house of representatives intelligence committee , which oversees the cia , national security agency and cyber security .
a retired army officer and harvard law school graduate , pompeo supports the u.s. government ’ s sweeping collection of americans ’ communications data and wants to scrap the nuclear deal with iran .
ross , 79 , heads the private equity firm w.l .
ross & co. his net worth was pegged by forbes at about $ 2.9 billion .
a staunch supporter of trump and an economic adviser , ross helped shape the trump campaign ’ s views on trade policy .
he blames the north american free trade agreement with canada and mexico , which went into force in 1994 , and the 2001 entry of china into the world trade organization , for causing massive u.s. factory job losses .
mattis is a retired marine general known for his tough talk , distrust of iran and battlefield experience in iraq and afghanistan .
a former leader of central command , which oversees u.s. military operations in the middle east and south asia , mattis , 66 , is known by many u.s. forces by his nickname “ mad dog. ” he was once rebuked for saying in 2005 : “ it ’ s fun to shoot some people. ” devos , 58 , is a billionaire republican donor , a former chair of the michigan republican party and an advocate for the privatization of education .
as chair of the american federation for children , she has pushed at the state level for vouchers that families can use to send their children to private schools and for the expansion of charter schools .
perry , 66 , adds to the list of oil drilling advocates skeptical about climate change who have been picked for senior positions in trump ’ s cabinet .
the selections have worried environmentalists but cheered an oil and gas industry eager for expansion .
perry , who also briefly ran in the 2016 presidential race , would have to be confirmed by the senate to head the energy department , which is responsible for u.s. energy policy and oversees the nation ’ s nuclear weapons program .
environmental protection agency administrator : scott pruitt an ardent opponent of president barack obama ’ s measures to stem climate change , oklahoma attorney general pruitt , 48 , has enraged environmental activists .
but he fits with the president-elect ’ s promise to cut the agency back and eliminate regulation that he says is stifling oil and gas drilling .
pruitt became the top state prosecutor for oklahoma , which has extensive oil reserves , in 2011 , and has challenged the epa multiple times since .
u.s. representative price , 62 , is an orthopedic surgeon who heads the house budget committee .
a representative from georgia since 2005 , price has criticized obamacare and has championed a plan of tax credits , expanded health savings accounts and lawsuit reforms to replace it .
he is opposed to abortion .
the final leadership role of kelly ’ s 45-year career was head of the u.s. southern command , responsible for u.s. military activities and relationships in latin america and the caribbean .
the 66-year-old retired marine general differed with obama on key issues and has warned of vulnerabilities along the united states ’ southern border with mexico .
carson , 65 , is a retired neurosurgeon who dropped out of the republican presidential nominating race in march and threw his support to trump .
a popular writer and speaker in conservative circles , carson previously indicated reluctance to take a position in the incoming administration because of his lack of experience in the federal government .
carson is the first african-american picked for a cabinet spot by trump .
zinke , 55 , a first-term republican representative and a member of the house subcommittee on natural resources , has voted for legislation that would weaken environmental safeguards on public lands .
he has taken stances favoring coal , a fossil fuel that suffered during the obama administration .
the league of conservation voters , which ranks lawmakers on their environmental record , gave zinke an extremely low lifetime score of 3 percent .
puzder , chief executive officer of cke restaurants inc [ apolot.ul ] , which runs the carl ’ s jr. and hardee ’ s fast-food chains , has been a vociferous critic of government regulation of the workplace and the national labor relations board .
puzder , 66 , has argued that higher minimum wages would hurt workers by forcing restaurants to close , and praises the benefits of automation , so his appointment is likely to antagonize organized labor .
cohn , 56 , president and chief operating officer of investment bank goldman sachs , had widely been considered heir apparent to lloyd blankfein , ceo of the wall street firm .
trump hammered goldman and blankfein during the presidential campaign , releasing a television ad that called blankfein part of a “ global power structure ” that had robbed america ’ s working class .
retired lieutenant general flynn , 57 , was an early trump supporter and serves as vice chairman on his transition team .
he began his army career in 1981 and was deployed in afghanistan and iraq .
flynn became head of the defense intelligence agency in 2012 under president barack obama but retired a year earlier than expected , according to media reports , and became a fierce critic of obama ’ s foreign policy .
tillerson , 64 , has spent his entire career at exxon mobil corp , where he rose to serve as its chairman and ceo in 2006 .
a civil engineer by training , the texan joined the world ’ s largest energy company in 1975 and led several of its operations in the united states as well as in yemen , thailand and russia .
as exxon ’ s chief executive , he maintained close ties with moscow and opposed u.s. sanctions against russia for its incursion into crimea .
mcmahon , 68 , is a co-founder and former chief executive of the professional wrestling franchise wwe , which is based in stamford , connecticut .
she ran unsuccessfully as a republican for a u.s. senate seat in connecticut in 2010 and 2012 , and was an early supporter of trump ’ s presidential campaign .
chao , 63 , was labor secretary under president george w. bush for eight years and the first asian-american woman to hold a cabinet position .
she is a director at ingersoll rand , news corp and vulcan materials company .
she is married to u.s. senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , a republican from kentucky .
mnuchin , 53 , is a successful private equity investor , hedge fund manager and hollywood financier who spent 17 years at goldman sachs before leaving in 2002 .
he assembled an investor group to buy a failed california mortgage lender in 2009 , rebranded it as onewest bank and built it into southern california ’ s largest bank .
housing advocacy groups criticized the bank for its foreclosure practices , accusing it of being too quick to foreclose on struggling homeowners .
haley , 44 , has been the republican governor of south carolina since 2011 and has little experience in foreign policy or the federal government .
the daughter of indian immigrants , she led a successful push last year to remove the confederate battle flag from the grounds of the south carolina state capitol after the killing of nine black churchgoers in charleston by a white gunman .
recently re-elected to serve as republican national committee chairman , priebus will give up his party post to join trump in the white house , where the low-key washington operative could help forge ties with congress to advance trump ’ s agenda .
the 44-year-old was a steadfast supporter of trump during the presidential campaign even as the party fractured amid the choice .
chief white house strategist , senior counselor : steve bannon the former head of the conservative website breitbart news came aboard as trump ’ s campaign chairman in august .
a rabble-rousing conservative media figure , he helped shift breitbart into a forum for the alt-right , a loose confederation of those who reject mainstream politics and includes neo-nazis , white supremacists and anti-semites .
his hiring signals trump ’ s dedication to operating outside the norms of washington .
as white house chief of staff , bannon , 63 , will serve as trump ’ s gatekeeper and agenda-setter .