i m doug hughes , i m 61 years old and i m a mailman working out of riverview , florida .
no sane person would do what i m doing .
i had carefully planned it so that no one would get hurt , including me especially me .
i thought about being 75 years old and watching the collapse of this country , and thinking that i had an idea that might have arrested the fall and didn t do it .
and i will tell you , completely honestly that i d rather die in the flight than live to be 80 years old and see this country fall .
the wife of a florida man who was arrested after he landed a one-man gyrocopter on the west lawn of the u.s. capitol building to protest money in politics insists that her husband is a patriot.while she says that she was not aware that her husband was going to attempt the illegal flight to washington , alena hughes nonetheless believes that her husband is a patriot who loves his country .
i think he s a patriot and i m proud of him , mrs. hughes told the media.still , the whole incident has been stressful , alena said.doug hughes , 61 , a post office employee from tampa bay , florida , told capitol police that his gyrocopter mission was to highlight money in politics and he intended to deliver a letter to each member of congress to urge them to initiate campaign finance reform.since his arrest , the 61-year-old also claimed that the 2012 suicide of his son , john joseph , also motivated him to make his protest flight.hughes hired an attorney in washington , but mrs. hughes also hired paul carr , her own attorney , just in case.mrs .
hughes attorney had an interesting take on mr. hughes actions .
tell me what restrictions mailmen have to deliver mail , carr said .
the attorney went on saying , he has a right to deliver mail .
in fact , it s his obligation .
purportedly getting money out of politics has been a long-time goal of the left-wing .
but hughes is fighting against several supreme court decisions that holds that donating to politicians and political causes equates to a protected right of free speech .
via : breitbart newshere is the video footage taken by a teacher outside of the white house as hughes made his landing on the white house lawn :