vienna ( reuters ) - coalition talks between austrian conservative sebastian kurz s party and the far-right freedom party began in earnest on monday as they combed through the nation s finances in search of billions in savings to fund planned tax cuts .
kurz , who is just 31 , needs a coalition partner to form a stable government since his people s party won this month s parliamentary election but fell well short of a majority .
he started coalition talks with the third-placed freedom party last week .
although both parties similarly hard lines on immigration dominated the campaign , they have also promised billions in tax cuts and said much of the funding will come from greater efficiency in austria s administration , which includes a generous welfare state .
having laid out a roadmap for negotiations at their first round of talks on wednesday , an overview of the country s finances was the main order of business at their second meeting , on monday .
what we can say today is that there is a significant potential for greater efficiency and that of course we will sound out in the coming days what can be done politically , elisabeth koestinger , chairwoman of kurz s party and part of his negotiating team , told a news conference after monday s talks .
neither she nor the freedom party s envoy to the joint news conference would be drawn on where those savings would be found .
we did not find any holes , the freedom party s deputy leader , norbert hofer , who came close to winning last year s presidential election , told the news conference .
the issue will be better administering this state , reducing loss-causing inefficiencies and then making this released potential available through ( tax ) relief , he added .
talks in the 10-person group that includes kurz and strache will continue through the week and negotiations in 20 more specialized groups will begin on tuesday , koestinger said .
we had a rough overview ( of the public finances ) from civil servants in the finance ministry and we will go into more detail in the coming days , koestinger said .
little of substance has emerged from the talks so far .
kurz has said he hopes a deal can be reached before christmas , and the atmosphere has appeared to be good .
freedom party leader heinz-christian strache said last week the talks made a very , very good start .
kurz said on wednesday that he and strache , 48 , address each other with the informal german du .
strache told tabloid daily kronen zeitung the same day that they are on first-name terms , adding : he calls me hc .