athens ( reuters ) - greece called on spain s ambassador to athens on sunday to rescind statements to a greek newspaper suggesting that athens was not supportive of spanish unity , revealing strains between the european union partners over a catalan independence drive .
it is with surprise that we note the comments made by the ambassador of friend and ally spain , criticising publicly the greek government , the greek foreign ministry said in a statement .
eu leaders , wary of encouraging separatists across the bloc , have largely backed the madrid government during a deepening political crisis which culminated last week in the catalan parliament voting to unilaterally declare the region s independence from spain .
the spanish ambassador to greece , enrique viguera , was quoted in sunday s eleftheros typos newspaper as saying that while he had clear assurances of support for spanish unity from greece s conservative opposition and from president prokopis pavlopoulos , the same was not true of prime minister alexis tsipras s left-wing government .
statements on the issue from the part of the ( greek ) government are absent .
however , other european governments warmly supported the territorial integrity of spain and our government s position , he said .
on saturday , greece , through its government spokesman , said it fully supported spain s territorial integrity and cohesion as well as any initiative to restore democratic dialogue in the framework of spain s constitution .
we are particularly concerned over the situation in spain and reiterate that europe can only advance united .
unilateral actions can not be acceptable , government spokesman dimitris tzanakopoulos said in a statement .
the foreign ministry accused the ambassador of insulting greece s constitution by suggesting that the country s president did not speak for the government .
it also said that by adopting the arguments of the political opposition , spain s ambassador was interfering in greece s domestic politics .
we call on the ambassador to avoid behaving in a way that is not in line with diplomatic norms and expect that he will proceed to rescind his unfortunate statements and provide the greek government with the necessary explanations , the ministry said .