berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel s failure to forge a three-way coalition government has plunged europe s largest economy into uncharted waters , raising pressure on the three-term conservative chancellor to maintain stability .
the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) abruptly pulled out after more than four weeks of negotiations with merkel s conservative bloc and the ecologist greens , citing irreconcilable differences .
the euro recovered from a two-month low on monday as investors brushed off the broader political risks .
but germany now faces a prolonged period of political wrangling and uncertainty .
the path to a new election would be difficult and involve more than one vote in parliament .
many fear a new election could further strengthen the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party that surged into parliament in the sept. 24 election after winning nearly 13 percent of the vote .
afd leaders have pushed for new elections for weeks as the coalition talks failed to reach agreement .
current opinion polls predict little change compared to the september vote .
a forsa poll released last week showed conservatives on 32 percent , the social democrats on 20 percent , the fdp 12 percent , the greens 10 percent and the afd 12 percent .
it was not immediately clear what impact the latest development would have on the parties support .
leaders of the other parties expressed shock about the fdp s move since negotiators had been on the cusp of an agreement .
the greens accused the fdp of a pre-meditated move to oust merkel .
here s what could happen next , and possible scenarios for the coming weeks : the political crisis hands significant power to german president frank-walter steinmeier , a member of the social democrats ( spd ) and a former foreign minister under merkel who assumed the normally ceremonial post in february .
merkel was to meet with steinmeier on monday to discuss the most serious political crisis to confront germany in the post-war era .
steinmeier had already urged negotiators on saturday to uphold their civic responsibilities and avoid new elections .
he is expected to repeat that message in a statement later monday , according to the rnd newspaper chain .
steinmeier could push the fdp and its leader christian lindner to return to the negotiating table .
but political experts say it would be difficult to rebuild any sense of trust among the would-be coalition partners after sunday s events .
merkel looks into continuation of grand coalition merkel is likely to approach the spd , which served for four years as junior partner in her grand coalition , but spd leaders have vowed to return to opposition after the party s worst election result since 1933 .
labour minister andrea nahles reaffirmed that view in an interview with broadcaster zdf on monday , saying voters had clearly voted against a further tie-up of germany s two largest parties .
if they agreed to talks , the spd - which saw its support slide in the september election after it lost stature as junior partner in the often awkward coalition dominated by merkel - would probably insist on her departure , according to party insiders .
the spd is in a much stronger negotiating position now , said tyson barker at the aspen institute .
but i just don t see the incentives there for the spd .
the grand coalition is just teetering on a majority .
if coalition talks fail , the only way to trigger a new election under the german constitution would be for steinmeier to suggest a parliamentary vote on merkel as chancellor .
if merkel wins a majority in such a vote , he would name her as chancellor .
if she doesn t raise a majority , parliament can vote again within 14 days .
if she again misses the majority , parliament votes again and the candidate with the most votes wins .
then steinmeier could name merkel - or whoever wins the most votes - as chancellor , but is not required to do so .
if he refrains , he would dissolve parliament and new elections must be held within 60 days .
if she is elected as chancellor , merkel could form a minority government with a variety of partners , including just the christian social union ( csu ) , the bavarian sister party of her christian democrats , or among conservatives with the fdp .
she could also form a minority coalition with the greens .
juergen hardt , foreign policy spokesman for the conservative bloc , said such a tie-up was promising and could convince steinmeier to agree to a minority government .
a minority government would require merkel to find changing majorities for her policies , but it would allow the smaller parties to maintain an independent profile , said christian odendahl , chief economist at the centre for european reform .
he said that could be helpful for the csu , which has said it needs to pursue a more hardline position on immigration and security as it gears up for state elections in september 2018 , given massive losses to the far-right afd on sept. 24 .