( reuters ) - republicans kept control of both chambers of the u.s. congress in tuesday ’ s election , empowering the party to reshape washington along with donald trump , who won the white house .
the following outlines what was at stake in the races , and results based on television projections and state election boards : u.s. senate , 100 seats with a handful of races still to be decided , republicans had secured 51 seats in the 100-member senate , dashing democrats ’ hopes to take control of the chamber .
senators serve six-year terms .
a third of the senate is up for re-election every two years .
procedural rules in the senate mean 60 votes are needed to advance major initiatives .
republicans entered the election with 54 seats , led by kentucky ’ s mitch mcconnell , versus the democrats ’ 44 seats and two independents .
the democrats ’ leader in the next senate is expected to be new york ’ s chuck schumer .
the republicans this year were defending 24 seats .
the democrats defended 10 seats and gained only one , in illinois .
u.s. house , 435 seats television networks declared that republicans , as expected , retained their majority in the house of representatives and lost fewer seats than anticipated .
members of the house serve two-year terms and all are up for re-election every two years .
to advance most bills in the house , 218 votes or more are needed .
republicans went into the elections holding 246 seats to the democrats ’ 186 .
there were three vacancies .
the republican leader is speaker paul ryan of wisconsin ; the democrats ’ leader is nancy pelosi of california .
to win a majority , democrats had needed to gain 30 seats .
in a blow to democrats , republicans were on pace to lose only nine seats in the house , well below the double-digit losses some analysts had predicted .
senate races , with results from television projections and state election offices : alabama - senate banking committee chairman richard shelby , as expected , won a sixth term , defeating democrat ron crumpton .
alaska - republican senator lisa murkowski defeated democratic challenger ray metcalfe .
arizona - veteran republican senator john mccain , 80 , defeated democratic u.s. representative ann kirkpatrick , 66 .
arkansas - republican senator john boozman beat democrat conner eldridge .
california - state attorney general kamala harris , a democrat , won the seat held by retiring democratic senator barbara boxer .
harris defeated fellow democrat loretta sanchez .
colorado - democratic senator michael bennet won a third term , turning back a challenge from republican darryl glenn .
connecticut - democratic senator richard blumenthal won a second term , defeating republican dan carter .
florida - incumbent republican marco rubio , the failed presidential contender , defeated democratic representative patrick murphy .
georgia - republican senator johnny isakson won his race against democrat jim barksdale .
idaho - republican senator mike crapo defeated democrat jerry sturgill .
indiana - democrat evan bayh , 60 , failed in his bid to recapture his senate seat , defeated by republican representative todd young , 44 .
illinois - democratic representative tammy duckworth unseated republican senator mark kirk .
duckworth , 48 , is a double-amputee iraq war veteran .
kirk , 57 , suffered a stroke that sidelined him for much of 2012 .
iowa - republican senate judiciary committee chairman chuck grassley , 83 , won a seventh term , defeating democrat patty judge .
kansas - republican senator jerry moran won a second term , defeating democrat patrick wiesner .
kentucky - republican senator rand paul won a second term against democrat jim gray .
paul unsuccessfully ran for president this year .
louisiana - a runoff election will be held on dec. 10 to decide whether republican john kennedy or democrat foster campbell replaces republican senator david vitter , who is retiring .
maryland - democratic representative chris van hollen will replace retiring senator barbara mikulski .
van hollen defeated republican kathy szeliga .
missouri - republican senator roy blunt turned back a stiff challenge from democrat jason kander , missouri ’ s secretary of state .
nevada - catherine cortez masto , 52 , a former democratic state attorney general , beat republican representative joe heck , 55 , in a battle to replace retiring democratic senator harry reid .
new hampshire - democratic governor maggie hassan , 58 , led senator kelly ayotte , a 48-year-old republican , by a few hundred votes with a handful of precincts still to be counted .
new york - senator chuck schumer , who is expected to become the next senate democratic leader , defeated republican wendy long in the heavily democratic state .
north carolina - republican senator richard burr , 60 , won re-election against democrat deborah ross , 53 , a former state legislator .
north dakota - republican senator john hoeven won a second term , defeating democrat eliot glassheim .
ohio - republican rob portman , 60 , defeated democratic challenger ted strickland , 75 , a former governor .
portman initially endorsed trump , but later withdrew that and pointedly refused to appear with trump or talk about him .
oklahoma - senator james lankford won a second term , defeating democrat mike workman in this overwhelmingly republican state .
oregon - senator ron wyden , the senior democrat on the senate finance committee , defeated republican mark callahan .
pennsylvania - republican senator patrick toomey , 54 , defeated democratic challenger katie mcginty , 53 , in the most expensive u.s. senate contest in the country .
south carolina - senator tim scott , the only african-american republican in the senate , beat democrat thomas dixon .
south dakota - senator john thune , a member of the senate republican leadership , won a third term , defeating democrat jay williams .
utah - conservative republican senator mike lee , in this heavily republican state , won against democrat misty snow .
vermont - senator patrick leahy , the longest-serving democrat in the senate , beat republican scott milne .
washington - as expected , senator patty murray , a member of the senate democratic leadership , defeated republican chris vance .
wisconsin - democrat russ feingold , 63 , failed to oust republican ron johnson , 61 , according to projections .
johnson unseated feingold in 2010 and was seen as one of the most vulnerable republicans going into the 2016 campaign .