washington ( reuters ) - u.s. state department investigators last year issued a subpoena to the bill , hillary and chelsea clinton foundation seeking documents about projects run by the charity that may have required u.s. government approval when hillary clinton was secretary of state , the washington post reported on thursday .
a u.s. official said the matter was being investigated by the inspector general , the state department ’ s internal watchdog .
citing unnamed sources for the report , the post said the subpoena issued in the fall also asked for records related to senior clinton aide huma abedin , who for six months in 2012 simultaneously worked for several employers including the state department , the foundation , and clinton ’ s personal office .
the report follows a reuters investigation last year that found the clinton foundation ’ s flagship health project did not submit new or increased payments from at least seven foreign governments to the state department for review , in breach of the ethics agreement clinton signed with the incoming obama administration in order to become secretary of state .
clinton , who is running for the democratic nomination in the nov. 8 presidential election , has been criticized for using a private email account hosted on a private computer while secretary of state from 2009 to 2013 , a matter the fbi is investigating .
spokesmen for clinton ’ s campaign and the clinton foundation and a lawyer for abedin did not immediately respond to reuters requests for comment .
a spokesman for the inspector general also declined to comment .
the post quoted an unnamed foundation representative as saying the initial document request had been narrowed by investigators and that the foundation was not the focus of the probe .
it said there was no indication that the investigators were looking at clinton .
“ the full scope and status of the inquiry , conducted by the state department ’ s inspector general , were not clear from the material correspondence reviewed by the washington post , ” the paper said .
sources familiar with investigations into the controversy surrounding clinton ’ s private email server said they had no reason to believe any government agency was conducting any kind of inquiry into possible criminal violations related to the former secretary of state .