msnbc the cable news station who hired tax cheat , fbi snitch and paid race baiter , al sharpton as a mouthpiece to spew hate for the sniveling leftists who run the pathetic low ratings network after being called out by the gateway pundit , msnbc took down a video mocking a police officer being dragged from a car by a suspect fleeing the officer.msnbc deleted their report but not before the gateway pundit saved a screengrab of it the video , which was posted friday night , was removed saturday afternoon from msnbc s facebook and twitter accounts within an hour of publication of the gateway pundit report.the video was titled , does it count as a police chase if you take the cop along for the ride ?
msnbc subsequently posted an apology to twitter , but the statement did not state what precisely was being apologized for , nor was there an apology to the law enforcement community.a video tweeted from @ msnbc friday evening has been removed .
the material was inappropriate .
it should not have been posted and we 're sorry .
msnbc ( @ msnbc ) may 16 , 2015 a video tweeted from @ msnbc friday evening has been removed .
the material was inappropriate .
it should not have been posted and we re sorry .
the takedown of the videos and apology by msnbc came within one hour and twenty minutes of the 2:57 p.m. cdt posting of the article at tgp.the msnbc video was posted in conjunction with nowthisnews and was also deleted from the twitter account of nowthisnews saturday after the gateway pundit report.commenters at the facebook page slammed msnbc : erick delumeau : msnbc you have shown your true colors again .
irresponsible reporting .
a family member just had this happen to his partner and his partner suffered a head injury .
so everyone who allowed this to air with circus music , deserves to be fired .
walter daniel bosak : you re network is disgusting .
this officer could have been killed all because this individual thinks it s ok to resist a lawful investigation partly because networks like yours have advocated violence against police .
tiffany eve : you should be ashamed of yourselves msnbc ! ! !
these men and women in uniform serve and protect us all , and this is how you treat them ?
an apology to all law enforcement officers and their families should be in order .
kyle bodenhorn : way to go msnbc .
you once again proved why cops around the world have a great disdain for media .
this officer is lucky to be alive and you made jokes about his being dragged .
surely you feel that adding fuel to the fire of the hatred for police is a better news story than the thousands of police who have spent the week in d.c. honoring slain police as it is police memorial week .
estela ramirez : msnbc how is this comical with this head line and music like this is a joke .
the cop could have or was probably injured because of this .
if it was a black man being dragged by a cop this head line would be different .
this is tasteless and just shows how the media works to its own benefits .
via : gateway pundit