wuhan , china ( reuters ) - call them china s bubble generation .
they were born after the crushing of the tiananmen square pro-democracy protests , raised mostly without siblings during an unprecedented economic boom , and came of age as xi jinping , china s strongest leader in decades , ascended to power .
it s a generation that grew up in an era of prosperity and peace ; one that has not eaten bitterness - or struggled - as their parents and grandparents did .
with xi starting another five years as china s top leader , reuters sought to get to know some members of this bubble generation - 10 people who graduated from university and entered the workforce when xi s first term started five years ago .
they are the class of 2012 .
the 10 men and women represent just a fraction of the 190 million people born in the 1990s , but they provided key insights into xi s china and the generation that will inherit his legacy .
they live in beijing , shanghai , chengdu , wuhan and putuan , in hubei province .
their backgrounds are diverse .
they are the sons and daughters of a former factory owner , restaurateurs , a doctor , a construction worker , a local official , and a school administrator .
they attended three different universities china s leading trade and economics college in beijing , a regional university in the central city of wuhan , and a third-tier technology school in the southwestern city of chengdu .
that makes them somewhat privileged in a country where relatively few people get to pursue higher education .
their experiences differ , often widely .
and yet , they have much in common .
they are optimistic , open-minded and tend to have a free-spirited streak , even though family roots and obligations remain important .
for the unmarried among them , some feel acute pressure to find a mate .
others actively reject the traditional path .
a good thing about our generation is that , i think , we have more direction in our lives , said wu qiong , the 27-year-old daughter of an insurance saleswoman and a kindergarten headmaster in wuhan .
really , you know how you want to live your life , rather than everyone living the same way .
they crave travel and experiences , and grew up in comfort for the most part .
most have had everything they ve needed - food and clothing - and often more , things like nintendo gameboys or vacations .
they ve all known extraordinary economic growth year in and year out , making a painful slowdown hard to imagine .
property prices only rise in their world a double edged sword for young adults trying to get established .
china s upward trajectory is a given .
i think the world is getting better and better , said qin lijuan , 28 , a personal finance consultant in chengdu .
even if we face an economic crisis , as long as you make safe plans your life is still worry-free .
members of the class of 2012 , like many in china , project political apathy reflecting perhaps instinctual caution on a sensitive topic in the presence of journalists , or possibly genuine insouciance .
i don t care about politics because my job has nothing to do with politics , said zheng yue , 27 , an interior designer in chengdu .
and also i can t solve political problems .
even if i cared a lot about it , it s no use .
i can t change anything .
when political issues are injected into their daily lives , as with internet censorship , they always find a workaround so they can see their favorite television shows or news stories they re interested in .
xi faces deep socio-economic challenges , and has made it clear that he believes more government control - not less - is what the country needs .
but what if things go sideways , if the china narrative shifts , or if the economy slows significantly , as many economists think is inevitable ?
what if it hits a brick wall ?
young chinese seem to share with young americans of the 1950s and 1960s a near-unbridgeable generation gap and a huge optimism , said michael pettis , a finance professor at the guanghua school of management at peking university .
but , he said , they are probably ill-prepared for future shocks , despite the experiences and advice of their parents .
try telling that to wu .
born and raised in wuhan , the capital of hubei province some 700 km ( 435 miles ) inland from shanghai , she is in many ways emblematic of the class of 2012 .
articulate and cheerful , wu decided after graduating from university that the english degree she earned was insufficient to pursue her ambitions - so she got a master s degree in accounting .
she now works in the international settlements department of a foreign bank .
she hasn t been able to buy property herself , but she recently persuaded her mother to invest some of her life savings in an apartment in a development called cambridge city .
the buildings are next to a subway line under construction .
their plan is to flip it in a couple years .
the appreciation in house values is much bigger than the return on fixed-term deposits at banks , wu said .
for sure it won t go down .
in terms of job security , wu also doesn t seem to worry .
in my life i m not afraid of the future at all , she said .
i don t fear change .
and , she adds , if some day there s a big economic crisis and the financial sector falls into recession i think i could go back and be an english teacher .