clark freeport zone , philippines ( reuters ) - the threat from north korea has grown to a critical and imminent level and the united states , japan and south korea must address the matter , japanese defense minister itsunori onodera told his u.s. and south korean counterparts in talks on monday .
onodera s remarks underscored the deep concern in tokyo after north korean weapons tests , including test firing missiles over japan , as pyongyang seeks to develop a nuclear-tipped missile capable of reaching the united states .
his comments broke from more measured language on monday by u.s. defense secretary jim mattis and south korean defense minister song young-moo , as the three men met on the sidelines of a gathering of asian defense chiefs in the philippines .
( the ) threat posed by north korea has grown to the unprecedented , critical and imminent level .
therefore , we have to take calibrated and different responses to meet with that level of threat , he said , speaking through a translator , at the start of talks in the philippines .
south korea s song also acknowledged that north korea s provocative behavior is becoming worse and worse , in public remarks before reporters were escorted out of the meeting room .
mattis renewed sharp criticism of north korea s tests , saying they threaten regional and global security .
mattis , who kicked off a week-long trip to the region on monday , has been eager to emphasize diplomatic efforts to resolve the crisis peacefully as escalating tension between washington and pyongyang stoked fears of armed confrontation .
asked about his conversation with onodera after the two met earlier in the day , before joining south korea s song , mattis said they discussed maintaining stability and peace in support of the diplomats .
meanwhile , former u.s. president jimmy carter said he is willing to travel to north korea on behalf of the trump administration to help diffuse the situation , the new york times reported .
mattis has been more cautious in his public remarks than u.s. president donald trump , who has been locked in a war of words with north korean leader kim jong un , threatening to destroy north korea if necessary to defend the united states and its allies .
kim has blasted trump as mentally deranged .
mattis is at the start of a week-long trip to asia and will attend meetings hosted by defense ministers from the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) in the philippines .
asean defense ministers , in a joint statement , expressed grave concern over north korea s nuclear and missile programs and urged the reclusive country to meet its international obligations and resume communications .
they underscored the need to maintain peace and stability in the region and called for the exercise of self-restraint and the resumption of dialogue to de-escalate tensions in the korean peninsula .
mattis trip , which will include a stop in thailand , comes before trump s first visit to asia next month , including a stop in china .
trump has been pressuring china to do more to rein in north korea s missile and nuclear program .
china is north korea s neighbor and biggest trading partner .
mattis , while in the philippines , said he will commend the military for defeating insurgents in marawi city on the islandof mindanao .
the philippines said on monday it has ended five months of military operations in marawi after a fierce and unfamiliar urban war that marked the country s biggest security crisis in years .
some experts see the marawi insurgency as a prelude to a more ambitious bid by islamic state loyalists to exploit mindanao s poverty and use its jungles and mountains as a base to train , recruit and launch attacks in the region .
it was a tough fight , mattis told reporters on his flight to the philippines , adding he thought the philippines military had sent a very necessary message to the terrorists .
on thursday , mattis will lead the u.s. delegation inthailand for the cremation rites for the late king bhumibol adulyadej .