washington ( reuters ) - a top u.s. senate republican said on thursday congress should considering ending the three-decade old federal subsidy for telephones and internet access for low-income americans after a government audit found significant fraud .
senator ron johnson , who chairs the homeland security and government affairs committee , said at a hearing congress should consider ending the program , known as “ lifeline , ” which spends about $ 1.5 billion annually to help 12.3 million u.s. households afford landline and mobile phones .
“ the lifeline program has been plagued by waste , fraud and abuse , ” johnson said .
“ this is a real head shaker. ” senator claire mccaskill , the top democrat on the panel , said “ the combination of ineffective oversight and the greed of some private carriers has led to hundreds of millions in wasted taxpayer dollars. ” she questioned why the federal communications commission , which manages the program , had been unable to halt fraud and continued to pay funds to companies that have defrauded the program .
a government accountability office audit this year found significant fraud in the program and investigators could not confirm whether more than 1.2 million individuals sampled actually qualified .
they also could not confirm how many of the 12.3 million participants enrolled received phones .
undercover investigators could typically enroll without proper credentials , the report found .
the program , in place since 1985 , gives participants a $ 9.25 monthly mobile phone subsidy and in 2016 the fcc expanded the program to include broadband internet access .
the program is funded by the universal service fee paid by telecommunications providers and typically added to monthly bills .
fcc chairman ajit pai said the commission is taking steps to crack down on fraud .
“ it is a top priority , ” pai said .
senator gary peters , a democrat , said he was angered by “ scammers ” that endangered a program that provides “ vital services ” to people who struggle to afford phone or internet service .
the fcc has estimated that some 95 percent of u.s. households with incomes of at least $ 150,000 have access to high-speed internet , while less than half of households with incomes lower than $ 25,000 have internet access at home .
the gao report found that just a third of the nearly 39 million eligible u.s. households are enrolled in the program .
since 1998 , about $ 20.2 billion has been allocated to the lifeline program .