chicago ( reuters ) - a group of black pastors boycotted chicago mayor rahm emanuel ’ s annual martin luther king breakfast on friday , over his handling of police killings , and one pastor attended the event but interrupted it with protest chants before being escorted out .
a handful of religious leaders joined protesters who blocked one entrance to the hyatt hotel where the breakfast was being held , chanting demands that emanuel step down .
but hundreds of chicago ’ s african-american leaders did attend the breakfast - started in the 1980s by the city ’ s first black mayor , harold washington - and the event to honor civil rights leader king .
“ this boycott is not in opposition to harold washington nor martin luther king jr .
this boycott stands for the very cause that they stood for , it was through protesting that achievement was made .
to sit by and do nothing is to endorse what is going on , ” said bishop edgar mullins , pastor of grace family worship center church , one of the boycotters .
local media showed footage of rev .
matthew ross interrupting the breakfast and chanting “ 16 shots and a cover-up , ” in reference to the 2014 fatal shooting of laquan mcdonald , before security guards escorted him from the conference room .
police killings , mostly of men of color , have led to protests around the united states in the past year and a half .
a wave of protests over police killings in chicago , mostly of young black men , has forced emanuel to fire his police chief and accept a federal probe of the police department .
the city has also reversed its previous policy not to release video footage of police killings .
on thursday officials made public the images from surveillance cameras that show police killing cedric chatman , 17 , in january 2013 .
lawyers for his family say the video contradicts police statements that chatman , a carjacking suspect , had a dark object that he pointed at them .
alderman anthony beale of the city ’ s ninth ward was among black leaders who attended the breakfast on friday .
he said he was there to honor king ’ s legacy , which made protests possible .
“ either you ’ re part of the problem or part of the solution .
i choose to be part of the solution ... now is a golden opportunity for us to put real change in this city , ” he said .