washington ( reuters ) - the obama administration will announce as soon as friday an overhaul of how the united states manages coal development on federal land , according to government and conservationist sources , in a further move to confront climate change .
in his state of the union address on tuesday , democratic president barack obama said he would “ change the way we manage our oil and coal resources , so that they better reflect the costs they impose on taxpayers and our planet. ” the new plan will require federal officials , when weighing land use decisions , to consider how mining and burning coal adds to greenhouse gas pollution , said environmental group sources familiar with the plans .
the overhaul also will aim to maximize returns for taxpayers by updating royalty rates when mining companies pull coal from federal land , said the sources .
“ we ’ re working to have this tomorrow , ” said a bureau of land management official who declined to give details on the administration ’ s plans .
environmentalists have urged the white house to freeze new coal leases on federal land until it accounts for how that fossil fuel development contributes to climate change .
a moratorium on coal leases could be part of the reform , said environmental sources familiar with the effort .
coal leases are often awarded without a competitive bidding process , frequently going to a single bidder , and officials can undervalue the fuel heading to market , the nonpartisan government accountability office has concluded .
“ public lands should be developed in the public interest but taxpayers have been shortchanged for decades , ” said theo spencer of the natural resources defense council , an environmental group .
the energy information administration says roughly 41 percent of u.s. coal production occurs on federal land .
the coal industry had been battered in recent years by competition from cheap natural gas and clean-air regulations that have raised costs for burning the black rock .
this week , arch coal , one of the nation ’ s largest coal companies , filed for bankruptcy - the latest mining company to seek protection from creditors in the current downturn .
the national mining association was not immediately available for comment .