washington ( reuters ) - the trump administration and major u.s. states appear to be headed for a showdown over landmark rules aimed at doubling the fuel efficiency of vehicles sold in the united states .
at an environmental protection agency public hearing on wednesday on the fuel rules in washington , california air resources board official annette hebert warned that the state could withdraw from a nationwide vehicle emissions program if the epa weakens the regulations or ignores the technical record .
new york state also urged the administration not to weaken the rules .
“ science doesn ’ t change based on election results , ” hebert said , referring to the november election of republican president donald trump .
in march , trump ordered a review of u.s. vehicle fuel-efficiency standards from model year 2022 through 2025 established under the obama administration , and suggested he would reduce regulatory requirements .
“ the assault on the american auto industry is over , ” he told automakers in michigan .
automakers want the white house and california to reach agreement on revisions because a legal battle over the rules could result in lengthy uncertainly for the industry .
they also want changes in the rules to address lower gas prices and a shift in u.s. consumer preferences to larger , less fuel-efficient vehicles .
federal law prohibits states from setting their own vehicle emissions rules , except for california , which can seek waivers to federal policy under the clean air act .
other states can choose to adopt california ’ s rules .
julia rege of global automakers , a group representing automakers including toyota motor corp ( 7203.t ) and hyundai motor co ( 005380.ks ) , said at the hearing that automakers need national rules , and urged u.s. regulators and california to “ be as actively involved in the process as before , and work to keep the national program intact. ” with just over six months before the 2025 rules must be finalized , there have been no vehicle emission talks between california , automakers and u.s. officials .
the white house has held talks with automakers about the review in recent months , reuters reported last month .
in june , new york state ’ s attorney general , eric schneiderman , and 12 other top state law enforcement officials said they would mount a court challenge to any effort to roll back vehicle emission rules .
united auto workers legislative director josh nassar said at the hearing that the national program should be continued to “ prevent chaos , lawsuits , uncertainty. ” the obama administration ’ s rules , negotiated with automakers in 2011 , were aimed at doubling average fleet-wide fuel efficiency to about 50 miles ( 80 km ) per gallon by 2025 .
the obama administration said the rules would save motorists $ 1.7 trillion in fuel costs over the life of the vehicles but cost the auto industry about $ 200 billion over 13 years .
a number of environmental advocates and retired military leaders at the hearing urged u.s. regulators not to weaken the standards .
automakers want changes .
“ to keep costs reasonable for buyers and maximize future production levels and fleet turnover , it is vital to clearly focus on consumer preferences and market realities , ” said chris nevers , an official with the alliance of automobile manufacturers , a trade group representing general motors co ( gm.n ) , toyota , volkswagen ag ( vowg_p.de ) and others .
u.s. regulators disclosed earlier that they may revise fuel efficiency requirements starting with the 2021 model year , a year earlier than trump announced in march .