this should come as no surprise to anyone who has watched these thugs in action .
there is no line the union bosses won t cross to keep the unions dues flowing .the list , obtained by the 7 investigators , is creating a stir among current and ex-union members in southeast michigan.the warren chapter of the uaw , local 412 , appears to publicly shame those opting out of the union listing 43 workers who , choose not to pay their fair share .
paying members are encouraged to virtually shun them , the union saying , do not share any tools , knowledge or support for any of these employees .
here s a little sample ( video below ) of mi union workers and how they bully and harass anyone who tries to prevent them from forcing workers from joining .
this video was taken in lansing , mi prior to the passage of the right-to-work legislation .
leisa and i ( patty ) were present at this event when these bullies spent days walking around threatening anyone who opposed them .
they knocked over our podium and cut down banners on the stairs leading up to the state capitol that we reserved .
male union members physically and verbally assaulted us and even went so far as to cut down the tent that afp rented with several people inside , including a disabled woman with an oxygen tank .
critics say the union is , trying to use co-workers to peer pressure [ them ] to pay the union , says vincent vernuccio with the mackinac center for public policy .
we ve seen other locals use it .
its just simply intimidation and bullying .
local 412 has a different take on this .
they say its simply informational.in the letter , the chapter claims the list is to make sure those ex-members are barred from events and other benefits.the president of local 412 didn t answer our calls for comment.one of those ex-members singled out in bold by the union is robert patchett .
in an interview with 7 action news , he said he feels like he has a target on my back .
he says a number of union workers have visited his office inquiring about him since the december list came out and he fears what that may mean .
via : wxyz