zagreb ( reuters ) - croatian police arrested eight former senior executives of agrokor [ agrok.ul ] in a series of raids on monday as part of an investigation into alleged financial irregularities at the heavily indebted food producer and retail conglomerate .
the state prosecutor s office dorh said in a statement the investigation targeted 15 individuals suspected of economic crimes and fraud .
local media reported that some 300 police officers were engaged in the operation .
dorh did not issue any official statement after the arrests but local media said those detained would be taken to dorh premises for questioning on tuesday .
among those arrested were ivan crnjac , agrokor s former deputy finance and strategy president , and ljerka puljic , the ex-supervisory board member and top aide of founder ivica todoric , as well as the board member tomislav lucic , the state news agency hina said .
the police also detained agrokor s former management members piruska canjuga and damir kustrak , former vice-president mislav galic and another two executives , marijan alagu i and alojzije pand i .
todoric s lawyer , jadranka slokovic , said that his residence was also raided but she could not provide any more details .
she said the arrests of agrokor s former executives was the start of a political showdown with todoric , hina reported .
but prime minister andrej plenkovic dismissed such allegations , saying : there is no political persecution .
it is in our utmost interest to fully disentangle this issue .
it is important to establish its causes and consequences and how to proceed further , plenkovic added .
agrokor , the biggest employer in the balkans with around 60,000 staff , was put into state-run administration in april after suffering a liquidity and debt crisis .
todoric said in a blog post on monday he was not currently available but was willing to put himself at the disposal of the judiciary and a parliamentary commission .
he denied any wrongdoing by himself or his associates .
croatian lawmakers approved the appointment of a parliamentary commission to investigate how agrokor ran into trouble , after crisis manager ante ramljak said he had pressed for criminal charges against those responsible for financial irregularities .
[ l8n1mh1zy ] an audit ordered by the company s state-appointed management and performed by pricewaterhousecoopers ( pwc ) , also showed a net loss in 2015 of 3.6 billion kuna ( $ 565 million ) against a net profit of 1.2 billion kuna released by the previous management .
in the audit the value of agrokor s net worth for 2015 and 2016 was reduced by 22 billion kuna .
agrokor has yet to say how much it owes .
creditors include suppliers , bondholders and banks , with the biggest portion of debt , around 1.1 billion euros ( $ 1.30 billion ) , held by russia s sberbank , creditors have said .