washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump is likely to announce next week that the united states recognizes jerusalem as israel s capital , a senior administration official said on friday , a move that would upend decades of american policy and possibly inflame tensions in the middle east .
trump could make the controversial declaration in a speech on wednesday though he is also expected to again delay his campaign promise to move the u.s. embassy to jerusalem from tel aviv .
the senior official and two other government sources said final decisions had not yet been made .
the palestinians want jerusalem as the capital of their future state , and the international community does not recognize israel s claim on all of the city , home to sites holy to the jewish , muslim and christian religions .
word of trump s planned announcement , which would deviate from previous u.s. presidents who have insisted the jerusalem s status must be decided in negotiations , drew criticism from the palestinian authority and was sure to anger the broader arab world .
it could also unravel the u.s. administration s fledgling diplomatic effort , led by trump s son-in-law and senior adviser jared kushner , to restart long-stalled israeli-palestinian peace talks and enlist the support of u.s. arab allies .
nabil abu rdainah , spokesman for palestinian president mahmoud abbas , said u.s. recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital would destroy the peace process and destabilize the region .
such a move , however , could help satisfy the pro-israel , right-wing base that helped trump win the presidency and also please the israeli government , a close u.s. ally .
the senior u.s. official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said details were still being finalized and could still change .
another u.s. official said trump appeared to be heading toward recognizing israel s claim to jerusalem but that it was not a done deal .
we ve nothing to announce , said a spokesperson with the white house national security council .
trump s impending decisions on jerusalem , one of the most sensitive core issues of the israeli-palestinian conflict , follow intense internal deliberations in which the president has personally weighed in , one white house aide said .
trump is likely to continue his predecessors practice of signing a six-month waiver overriding a 1995 law requiring that the u.s. embassy be moved from tel aviv to jerusalem , two officials told reuters on thursday .
but seeking to temper his supporters concerns , another option under consideration is for trump to order his aides to develop a longer-term plan for the embassy s relocation to make clear his intent to do so eventually , the officials said .
it was unclear , however , whether any public recognition by trump of israel s claim on jerusalem would be formally enshrined in a presidential action or be more of a symbolic statement .
trump pledged on the presidential campaign trail last year that he would move the embassy from tel aviv to jerusalem .
but in june , trump waived the requirement , saying he wanted to maximize the chances for a new u.s.-led push for what he has called the ultimate deal of israeli-palestinian peace .
those efforts have made little , if any , progress so far and many experts are skeptical of the prospects for success .
the status of jerusalem is one of the major stumbling blocks in achieving peace between israel and the palestinians .
israel captured arab east jerusalem during the 1967 middle east war and later annexed it , a move not recognized internationally .
arab governments and western allies have long urged trump not to proceed with the embassy relocation , which would reverse long-standing u.s. policy by granting de facto u.s. recognition of israel s claim to all of jerusalem as its capital .
visiting washington this week , jordan s king abdullah warned lawmakers that moving the u.s. embassy could be exploited by terrorists to stoke anger , frustration and desperation , according to the jordanian state news agency petra .
some of trump s top aides have privately pushed for him to keep his campaign promise to satisfy a range of supporters , including evangelical christians , while others have cautioned about the potential damage to u.s. relations with muslim countries .