oslo ( reuters ) - the international campaign for the abolition of nuclear weapons issued the following statement after winning the 2017 nobel peace prize on friday : it is a great honor to have been awarded the nobel peace prize for 2017 in recognition of our role in achieving the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons .
this historic agreement , adopted on 7 july with the backing of 122 nations , offers a powerful , much-needed alternative to a world in which threats of mass destruction are allowed to prevail and , indeed , are escalating .
the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons ( ican ) is a coalition of non-governmental organizations in one hundred countries .
by harnessing the power of the people , we have worked to bring an end to the most destructive weapon ever created the only weapon that poses an existential threat to all humanity .
this prize is a tribute to the tireless efforts of many millions of campaigners and concerned citizens worldwide who , ever since the dawn of the atomic age , have loudly protested nuclear weapons , insisting that they can serve no legitimate purpose and must be forever banished from the face of our earth .
it is a tribute also to the survivors of the atomic bombings of hiroshima and nagasaki the hibakusha and victims of nuclear test explosions around the world , whose searing testimonies and unstinting advocacy were instrumental in securing this landmark agreement .
the treaty categorically outlaws the worst weapons of mass destruction and establishes a clear pathway to their total elimination .
it is a response to the ever-deepening concern of the international community that any use of nuclear weapons would inflict catastrophic , widespread and long-lasting harm on people and our living planet .
we are proud to have played a major role its creation , including through advocacy and participation in diplomatic conferences , and we will work assiduously in coming years to ensure its full implementation .
any nation that seeks a more peaceful world , free from the nuclear menace , will sign and ratify this crucial accord without delay .
the belief of some governments that nuclear weapons are a legitimate and essential source of security is not only misguided , but also dangerous , for it incites proliferation and undermines disarmament .
all nations should reject these weapons completely before they are ever used again .
this is a time of great global tension , when fiery rhetoric could all too easily lead us , inexorably , to unspeakable horror .
the specter of nuclear conflict looms large once more .
if ever there were a moment for nations to declare their unequivocal opposition to nuclear weapons , that moment is now .
we applaud those nations that have already signed and ratified the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons , and we urge all others to follow their lead .
it offers a pathway forward at a time of alarming crisis .
disarmament is not a pipe dream , but an urgent humanitarian necessity .
we most humbly thank the norwegian nobel committee .
this award shines a needed light on the path the ban treaty provides towards a world free of nuclear weapons .
before it is too late , we must take that path .