cape town ( reuters ) - illegal miners in south africa are swallowing unrefined gold and platinum in condoms as a new tactic to avoid arrest for smuggling that is costing the industry $ 1.5 billion a year , the police told parliament on friday .
illegal mining has plagued south africa s mining sector for decades , and extends from small time pilfering to global organized crime networks .
the crime costs the industry and government an estimated 20 billion rand ( $ 1.5 billion ) a year in lost sales , taxes and royalties , the chamber of mines , an industry body , says .
they are ingesting the amalgam concealed in condoms and this is done for two principle reasons .
one is to be able to bypass mine security and the other is also to prevent being robbed by opposing groups , brigadier ebrahim kadwa , a commander in south africa s hawks organized crime unit , said , showing parliament slides of gold-filled condoms in miners x-rays .
potentially toxic clumps of mercury and gold concentrate can be refined to extract gold once passed through the body .
illegal mining in south africa involves a complex criminal web that extends from desperate unemployed workers , many from neighboring countries , to gun-toting gang bosses and front companies exporting refined products to global markets .
the threat posed by illicit mining and related crimes continues to proliferate across the country , kadwa said , adding that the majority of incidents were in gold mines owned by harmony gold and sibanye .
however , hundreds of incidents occurred throughout the country and targeted other minerals such as diamonds and chrome .
high rates of unemployment and a stagnant economy helped entice illegal miners to the dangerous work , which is also being driven by rising commodity prices .
kadwa said a weakening of the rand currency between december 2015 to april 2016 , saw the relative gold price rise , encouraging illegal smuggling .
in february , 22 illegal miners were given lengthy sentences after being found guilty of 577 charges , ranging from theft of gold to racketeering and money laundering .
this is a landmark moment in the fight against illegal mining in the country , kadwa said .