washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama ’ s plan to loosen some requirements of a visa law spurred by the deadly attacks in paris met with open resistance from both democrats and republicans in the u.s. congress on wednesday .
the measure , which went into effect in late january , requires that citizens of 38 countries who previously were able to travel to the united states for up to 90 days without a visa must now obtain one if they have visited iran , iraq , sudan or syria since march 1 , 2011 .
ed royce , the chairman of the house foreign affairs committee , on wednesday said he wanted to add libya to the list of countries covered by the restrictions .
at a hearing of the house of representatives homeland security committee , lawmakers voiced particular concern over exempting from the new visa clamp-down some travelers who visit iran , including those conducting business .
“ nowhere does the law include this authority .
in fact , congress explicitly rejected the waivers requested by the white house , ” chairman michael mccaul , a republican , said .
lawmakers enacted the visa restrictions on fears that travelers from the mainly european countries in the visa waiver program could easily travel to the united states even if they have , for example , visited countries like syria , iran or iraq , where militants are active .
the nov. 13 attacks in paris stirred fears about such travel .
some of the islamic state attackers who killed 130 people that day held european passports that would have allowed them easy entry to the united states .
representative bennie thompson , the homeland security committee ’ s top democrat , echoed republican concerns about obama ’ s announced plan to allow visa waivers for foreign business people who travel to iran .
“ i have some questions about how the ( department of homeland security ) would go about determining the legitimacy of the business-related purposes , ” he said .
administration officials countered that they wanted to shield journalists , humanitarian aid workers and employees of other international organizations , as well as business people helping economic reconstruction efforts in iran and iraq in particular , from the tougher requirements .
individuals must qualify for the visa waiver program , with background checks against u.s. counter-terrorism and law enforcement databases .
state department counter-terrorism official hillary johnson told the committee there are regular reviews of those who are approved .
gil kerlikowski , u.s. customs and border protection commissioner , told the committee an estimated 500,000 people who come into the country under the waiver program have overstayed their visas .
he said he did not know how many of them might have traveled to iran , iraq , syria or sudan .
administration officials expressed concern that if the united states fails to loosen some of the new restrictions , foreign governments might cut back on information sharing , or impose awkward new visa requirements on americans who travel to their countries .