attorney dario navarro was one of several leftists who were all of a sudden concerned about the constitutionality of president trump s actions.if trump issued pardon with specific intent to obstruct justice , it could be challenged as unconstitutional abuse of discretion .
# dems pic.twitter.com/1p9981yymd dario navarro ( @ darionavarro111 ) june 15 , 2017even the new york times , who helped to sell barack obama s horrific obamacare plan is concerned about sheriff joe arpaio s pardon.good case for # arpaiopardon to be considered unconstitutional.of course , we 'd need a congress with a spine first https : //t.co/8z5m1rvr8u dimitri ( @ dimitriwillert ) august 26 , 2017on july 25 , 2016 , america s sheriff joe arpaio was found guilty of misdemeanor criminal contempt without the benefit of a jury of his peers.here are a 6 interesting facts that breitbart news laid out , regarding the sheriff joe arpaio case , that every american crying foul over president trump s pardon yesterday needs to know : the us district judge who tried the case against sheriff arpaio was a bill clinton appointee .
1 .
the guilty ruling , by bill clinton-appointed u.s. district judge susan bolton , is the latest chapter of a nearly decade-long saga of legal proceedings against sheriff joe initiated by leftist groups opposed to his aggressive policing of illegal aliens.the charges against 85 year old arpaio stem from a civil rights suit demanding he cease racial profiling in his maricopa county sheriff s office s immigration enforcement operations .
after a federal judge issued an order demanding certain practices , arpaio was charged with contempt for continuing to try to enforce the law as he saw fit.the misdemeanor charge was a ploy to prevent sheriff arpaio from having a jury trial .
2 .
because arpaio was charged only with a misdemeanor punishable by a maximum of six-months in jail , the u.s. constitution does not guarantee him a right to trial by a jury of his peers .
arpaio and his attorneys repeatedly petitioned for a jury , only to be denied by judge bolton in march and again in may .
sources familiar with the proceedings have told breitbart news the decision to charge only the misdemeanor was likely a ploy by federal prosecutors to avoid a jury trial in the community where arpaio served as sheriff for more than 20 yearsaccording to the ncpd president , the doj had no evidence to make their case against sheriff arpaio.3 .
national center for police defense ( ncpd ) president james fotis , who was present in the courtroom , was highly skeptical a phoenix jury could have ever found arpaio guilty .
he told breitbart news : i sat through three days of testimony and it was clear from the beginning that the doj had no evidence to make their case .
in fact , all of the doj s witnesses made it clear that judge snow s order was unclear and ambiguous .
there is no way a jury would have determined that the sheriff willfully and intentionally violated the judge s order .
judge bolton s ruling has caused me to lose my faith in the court system and the federal judicial system , fotis added in a ncpd press release.over 40,000 signatures were gathered on a petition by current and former law enforcement officers in support of sheriff joe arpaio who they claimed spent his entire career upholding and defending the constitution .
4 .
fotis was hardly the first or only commentator to question the impartiality of arpaio s prosecution .
in june , his group managed to assemble over 40,000 signatures from current and former law enforcement officers in support of arpaio , delivering them to the department of justice in washington , dc .
after devoting 56-years of his life to upholding and defending the constitution , sheriff arpaio deserves our nation s eternal gratitude not jail time , those petitions read.the judge in the case should have recused himself , but refused to do so .
5 .
the initial racial profiling suit that eventually led to this conviction also took on political dimensions and its conduct was criticized .
the judge in that case , g. murray snow , ignored calls to recuse himself based on the fact his brother-in-law is a partner at covington & burling , the firm representing those suing arpaio and the maricopa county sheriff s office.president obama spent much of his 8 years in office trying to find a way to take down america s toughest sheriff on illegal immigrants , who also headed up an independent investigation into the alleged fake birth certificate that would prove barack obama was not born in the united states .
6 .
the decision to criminally prosecute arpaio was taken while the doj was run by attorney general loretta lynch .
it would be highly unusual for new leadership to intervene and drop an ongoing prosecution , and no such step was taken , despite the aforementioned petitions .