havana ( reuters ) - after hurricane irma wrought havoc on havana s decrepit buildings and killed four in building collapses there , city authorities held a rare media briefing to stress they were prioritizing solving the capital s longstanding housing needs .
a quarter of buildings in the cuban city are in bad or regular shape , according to the provincial housing authority , due largely to a punishing tropical climate , lack of adequate maintenance and passage of time .
some havana residents complained irma would not have been as deadly if authorities had addressed their housing needs , a criticism authorities rejected .
euclides santos , in charge of havana housing , told a small group of foreign reporters the city had put a strategy in place in 2012 to repair housing as well as provide new homes even if lack of resources made it hard to fulfill its goals .
around 50,000 families in total were in need of new housing , santos said .
we have delivered 10,000 or so homes so far to people in shelters which means the program is achieving results , he said on friday , noting the city had nearly doubled annual spending on construction in that time to around 185 million cuban pesos , equivalent to some $ 7.7 million .
some cubans had been waiting in communal shelters for more than 20 years at the start of the program , said santos , pointing to the economic crisis cuba went through after the fall of the soviet union .
the country has also suffered from the decades-long u.s. trade embargo .
havana had focused first on providing homes for those cubans , then for those who had been waiting 15-19 years .
now it was looking to resolve housing needs of those who had been waiting 10-14 years .
there is a strategy to reduce the time families have to spend in these places , santos said , adding that around 7,000 people were residing in havana s 109 shelters .
families have little privacy in the shelters , where flimsy walls or even washing lines are often used to crudely divide the units .
many cubans say they would rather risk their lives staying in their crumbling homes than move to one .
others say they would prefer to remain in existing homes in the city center , even though they are falling apart , rather than move to new houses they complain are shoddily built and out of town .
the city s aim had been to build 3,000 homes per year , which would have solved 80-90 percent of havana s housing needs by 2020 , santos said .
however , a lack of resources meant it had only managed to build between 2,200 and 2,300 homes per year so far .
with shipments of cheap oil from venezuela reduced and cuba s exports down , the cash-strapped island nation has had to cut imports over the past two years .
irma added to those woes .
while the eye of the hurricane did not reach havana , tropical-storm force winds and heavy rains of its outer bands , as well as a storm surge , lashed its buildings .
nearly 200 were completely destroyed .
two brothers were killed in densely packed canter havana when a wall fell on their flat .
santos said authorities had urged them to evacuate the building which they knew was in bad shape .
the actual owner of the flat had already been given a new home and they were squatting there , he said .