tokyo ( reuters ) - japan will curb asylum seekers rights to work and detain any not deemed refugees or who have made multiple applications , the yomiuri daily reported on tuesday , in a move to further tighten one of the developed world s toughest refugee systems .
from as early as mid-november , japan will only allow those it regards as bona fide refugees the right to work .
the justice ministry estimates that the new rule will effectively deny the right to work for more than 10,000 asylum seekers a year who don t qualify for refugee status , the yomiuri said , without citing sources.others , including those who fail to qualify as refugees in initial checks and multiple asylum applicants , will be held in detention centers after their permission to stay in japan expires , the report said .
at present , asylum seekers with valid visas receive renewable permits allowing them to work in japan while their refugee applications are reviewed - a system the government says encourages people to seek asylum in order to work .
we are looking at policies , including that in the ( yomiuri ) article .
we haven t decided whether to put it into action , said yasuhiro hishida , a justice ministry official overseeing refugee recognition .
japan accepted just three refugees in the first half of 2017 despite a record 8,561 fresh asylum applications , and only 28 in 2016 .
human rights watch in january described the country s record on asylum seekers as abysmal .
the prospect of the crackdown drew criticism from japan s most prominent refugee organization , which said that asylum seekers would struggle to make ends meet without work permits .
it s essential that minimum living conditions are ensured while people apply for asylum , said eri ishikawa of the japan association for refugees .
the world s third biggest economy has remained unwelcoming to immigration despite a shrinking , aging population that has exacerbated the worst labor shortages in four decades and drags on an already slow economic growth .
japan s reluctance to accept foreign workers and refugees is in contrast to the policies of other industrialized countries , and has forced labor-hungry industries including construction and manufacturing to rely on asylum seekers with work permits .
immigration remains a controversial subject in japan , where many pride themselves on cultural and ethnic homogeneity .
almost six in 10 japanese think diversity of ethnic groups , religions and races makes their country a worse place , a poll this month by the pew research center showed .