new york ( reuters ) - puerto rico , struggling to make its debt payments , outlined an increase in its financing gap on monday , saying it now projects a $ 16.06 billion hole to fill , cumulatively , over the next five years , an increase of $ 2.1 billion from a september projection .
the government development bank said in an updated fiscal and economic growth plan ( fegp ) released on monday that at the request of creditors , it had added a 10-year financing gap projection .
it now estimates its debt financing hole to grow to $ 23.9 billion through 2025 .
facing over $ 70 billion in debt and a 45 percent poverty rate , puerto rico is trying to solve an economic crisis before it hits substantial debt payments in may and july .
it has defaulted on some of its debt and is trying to persuade creditors to take concessions .
the increases in the financing gaps occur , “ even with the inclusion of economic growth and the implementation of all of the proposed measures in the fegp , ” the government development bank ( gdb ) said in a separate statement .
“ since the release of the fegp in september , the fiscal and humanitarian crisis on the island has worsened , and the commonwealth is now facing even larger estimated financing gaps in both the near and long term .
specifically , the general fund revenues included in the fegp have decreased from a previous estimate of $ 9.46 billion for fy ( fiscal year ) 2016 to $ 9.21 billion , ” the gdb said .
gdb said that as of jan. 10 , it had $ 667 million of total net liquidity and $ 535 million in debt service payments during the next 6 months .
“ as previously indicated , we expect to sit with our creditors shortly and put forth a comprehensive restructuring proposal , ” melba acosta , president of the gdb said in the statement .
puerto rico , as a commonwealth of the united states with 3.5 million people , is not allowed to restructure its debt under existing bankruptcy law .
it has sought unsuccessfully to convince the u.s. congress to vote for a change .
however , in one development highlighted on monday by its representative to congress , pedro pierluisi , puerto rico ’ s hospitals will now receive the same basic reimbursement rate , known as the base rate , by the u.s. centers for medicare and medicaid services ( cms ) .
this was included in the budget passed by the u.s. congress in december .
“ the congressional budget office ( cbo ) estimates that , as a result of this legislative change , puerto rico hospitals will receive $ 618 million more in federal reimbursement payments between 2016 and 2025 , an average of over $ 60 million per year , ” said a statement released by pierluisi on monday .