the audio of hillary clinton laughing about getting a child rapist a lighter sentence is pretty shocking for a couple of reasons : the accent on hillary is very different from the many other accents she s presented to the public .
it s strange because she s from illinois !
what the heck !
check it out and tell us what you think .
the other thing that s so shocking is hillary s blatant disregard for the victim in this case .
it s actually really sickening to hear her speak of the 12-year old with such disregard .
it s rare that we get a glimpse into the real hillary so here it is in all its glory pretty scary huh ? a child rape victim says she can not forgive hillary clinton for defending her rapist in court 40 years ago , saying the democratic presidential candidate attacked her credibility despite knowing that her assailant was guilty and later laughed about it in a taped interview.kathy shelton was just 12 years old when a 41-year-old drifter raped her on the side of a desolate arkansas road in 1975.now , four decades later , she has agreed to be named and pictured for the first time in this daily mail online exclusive because she is furious that her rapist s defense attorney hillary clinton has been portraying herself as a lifelong advocate of women and girls on the campaign trail .
it s put a lot of anger back in me , said shelton , now 54 , in an exclusive interview at her springdale , arkansas , home in august .
every time i see [ clinton ] on tv i just want to reach in there and grab her , but i can t do that .
in 1975 , clinton served as the defense lawyer for thomas alfred taylor , a 41-year-old factory worker accused of raping shelton after luring her to his car.taylor pleaded down to unlawful fondling of a minor and served less than a year in prison after clinton was able to block the admission of forensic evidence that linked her client to the crime.in a lengthy interview with the daily mail online , shelton said clinton is lying when she claims to be a lifelong defender of women and girls .
hillary laughs when discussing getting child rapist off with light sentence : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=tor00iwuhdqread more : daily mail