berlin ( reuters ) - leaders of german chancellor angela merkel s conservative party agreed on sunday to pursue a grand coalition with the social democrats ( spd ) to break the political deadlock in europe s biggest economy .
merkel , whose fourth term was plunged into doubt a week ago when three-way coalition talks with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and greens collapsed , was handed a political lifeline by the spd on friday .
under intense pressure to preserve stability and avoid new elections , the spd reversed its position and agreed to talk to merkel , raising the prospect of a new grand coalition , which has ruled for the past four years , or a minority government .
we have the firm intention of having an effective government , daniel guenther , conservative premier of the state of schleswig holstein , told reporters after a four-hour meeting of leading members of merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) .
we firmly believe that this is not a minority government but that it is an alliance with a parliamentary majority .
that is a grand coalition , he said .
the meeting came after the conservative state premier of bavaria threw his weight behind a new right-left tie-up .
an alliance of the conservatives and spd is the best option for germany - better anyway than a coalition with the free democrats and greens , new elections or a minority government , horst seehofer , head of the bavarian csu , told bild am sonntag .
an emnid poll also showed on sunday that 52 percent of germans backed a grand coalition .
several european leaders have emphasised the importance of getting a stable german government in place quickly so the bloc can discuss its future , including proposals by french president emmanuel macron on euro zone reforms and brexit .
merkel , who made clear on saturday she would pursue a grand coalition , says that an acting government under her leadership can do business until a new coalition is formed .
the youth wing of merkel s conservatives raised pressure on the parties to get a deal done by christmas , saying if there was no deal , the conservatives should opt for a minority government .
in an indication , however , that the process will take time , the cdu agreed on sunday evening to delay a conference in mid-december that had been due to vote on the three-way coalition .
the spd premier of the state of lower saxony said he feared there was no way a decision would be reached this year .
it is a long path for the spd , said stephan weil on ard television .
merkel is against going down the route of a minority government because of its inherent instability , but pundits have said one possibility is for the conservatives and greens to form a minority government with informal spd support .
the greens have said they are open to a minority government .
even before any talks get under way , the two blocs have started to spar over policy priorities .
merkel , whose conservatives won most parliamentary seats in a sept. 24 vote but bled support to the far right , has said she wants to maintain sound finances in germany , cut some taxes and invest in digital infrastructure .
she has to keep bavaria s csu on board by sticking to a tougher migrant policy that may also help win back conservatives who switched to the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) .
the spd needs a platform for its policies after its poorest election showing since 1933 .
leading spd figures have outlined conditions including investment in education and homes , changes in health insurance and no cap on asylum seekers .
most experts believe the spd has the stronger hand and several prominent economists said they expected the spd to wield significant influence in a new grand coalition .
if there is a grand coalition or even if there is toleration ( of a minority government ) i would expect more emphasis on the spd s programme , clemens fuest , president of the ifo institute , told business newspaper handelsblatt .
that would mean higher state spending and smaller tax cuts than would have been agreed with other potential partners .
the spd is divided , with some members arguing that a grand coalition has had its day .
the spd premier of the state of rhineland palatinate , malu dreyer , said she preferred the idea of the spd tolerating a minority government over a grand coalition , making clear that the party would not agree to a deal at any price .