johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa s ruling african national congress has adopted a resolution calling for the nationalization of the central bank and land expropriation without compensation , a senior party official said on wednesday .
any mention of nationalization in south africa is enough to spook investors , since left-wing elements of the anc have also called for mines and banks to be state-owned .
similarly , land is an emotive issue two decades after the end of apartheid , and the anc has been under pressure to redress racial disparities in land ownership .
unlike most central banks in the world , the south african reserve bank has been privately owned since it was established in 1921 .
but its shareholders have no control over monetary policy , financial stability policy or banking regulation .
following a meeting of party delegates , the head of the anc s economic transformation committee , enoch godongwana , told reporters changing the ownership of the south african reserve bank would not affect its independence .
he said the party had also agreed to initiate amendments to the constitution to achieve land expropriation without compensation , but gave no timeline .
he said there would be no illegal occupation of land .
following the proposal made in july by the anc at a policy conference to nationalize the bank s shareholding , south africa s reserve bank said that changing its shareholding would not affect its mandate , because that mandate is derived from the constitution .
godongwana said no timeline had been laid down for the plan to acquire the central bank s shares or for any directives to parliament to change the country s laws to effect the change .
no change in the constitution , no change in the reserve bank act , he said .
we ve also said it s not likely to have an impact at all because shareholders in the reserve bank do not affect monetary policy in any way .
godongwana said the changes would come after more work was done to prepare for the bank s nationalization .
in july , when the party said it would like the central bank to be wholly state-owned , investors were initially worried and knocked the rand .
the currency was little changed on wednesday immediately after the announcement by godongwana , but analysts said markets would react negatively .
the sarb resolution will spook the markets even if it is ultimately unlikely to be implemented , said anne fruhauf political analyst with consultancy teneo .
on the land issue , godongwana said some of the delegates became rowdy during the heated debate that nearly collapsed the conference .
anc officials rejected reports that delegates had come to blows during the debate .
godongwana said the delegates eventually agreed to initiate some amendments to the constitution in order to achieve expropriation of land without compensation .
the condition is that it must be sustainable and not impact on food production and food security , he said , adding that there should be no illegal occupation of land .
asked how the markets would react , godongwana said : my suspicion is they are going to say wow and react badly ... my sense is , if i was the markets , i would simply hold off .
most of south africa s land remains in white hands 23 years after the end of white minority rule .
experts say the plan to expropriate land in south africa will not signal the kind of often violent land grabs that took place in neighboring zimbabwe , where white-owned farms were seized by the government for redistribution to landless blacks .
however , some economists and farming groups have said the reform could hit investment and production .
around 8 million hectares ( 20 million acres ) of land have been transferred to black owners since apartheid ended , equal to 8 to 10 percent of the land in white hands in 1994 , the government says .
the total is only a third of a 30 percent target by 2014 set by the anc .