donald trump is insane.in yet another tweet demonstrating that he is poised to wipe out humanity , trump called for expanding america s nuclear capability because he thinks the only way to convince the world that nukes are bad is if we make more of them.the united states must greatly strengthen and expand its nuclear capability until such time as the world comes to its senses regarding nukes donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) december 22 , 2016but america already has an arsenal of over 6,000 nuclear warheads at the ready , and even that s too much since we could blow up the world over a dozen times and still have some nuclear weapons left.only russia has more nuclear weapons than us while most nations have an arsenal of a couple hundred or less , according to the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons.anyway , lots of people are like , but we need more nukes to defend ourselves !
reality https : //t.co/jh70cx6ctp pic.twitter.com/xrwzuo9pcn parker molloy ( @ parkermolloy ) december 22 , 2016in short , expanding our capability would be a waste of taxpayer money and would do absolutely nothing to keep americans safe .
instead , it would force other nations to ramp up their own nuclear warhead production and increase the chances of a nuclear weapon falling into the hands of terrorists.and let s not forget that donald trump has already inquired into using nuclear weapons and suggested that he would use nuclear weapons in europe.and now that trump will have the nuclear codes and the ability to launch them whenever at whomever he pleases , this latest tweet makes it clear how dangerous trump is .
in fact , nothing stops him from nuking someone over the smallest of slights .
and we damn sure have to wonder if trump is set to financially profit from increased nuclear weapon production.understandably , many twitter users are freaking out now .. @ realdonaldtrump expanding our nuclear weapons program is how we got into this mess in the first place .
you are going to get us all killed .
danielle muscato ( @ daniellemuscato ) december 22 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump i agree .
the world must come to its senses .
your impeachment will be a good start .
nick jack pappas ( @ pappiness ) december 22 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump america has just elected a human weapon of mass destruction .
nick jack pappas ( @ pappiness ) december 22 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump we just invested over $ 1 trillion in the nuclear arsenal , what the hell are you talking about ken klippenstein ( @ kenklippenstein ) december 22 , 2016 .
@ realdonaldtrump the world hasn t used nukes .
that s as sensible as it gets .
please don t buck that trend .
isaac saul ( @ ike_saul ) december 22 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump was just thinking we need to build tons more nukes and give control to guy who can t control his rage at rosie o donnell .
pourmecoffee ( @ pourmecoffee ) december 22 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump this is not how a president handles communicating about nuclear weapons .
are you trying to * literally * destroy the world ?
brandan robertson ( @ brandanjr ) december 22 , 2016donald trump and his republican enablers are pushing our country toward war .
trump is stacking his cabinet with former generals , thus blurring the lines between the military and civilian leadership .
he has been angering our allies by violating decades of policy and is laying the groundwork for pulling american support from nato , which would allow russia to be more aggressive towards europe.every day that trump is allowed to be president puts this country more at risk.and now he wants to start another nuclear arms race .
this is not good.featured image via pixabay