between hollywood and our elected officials , it s hard to keep track of who has the worst record when it comes to being a disgusting hypocrite when president trump was running for office , alabama s republican governor robert bentley was one of the first politicians to announce that he would not support him over the exposed private conversation he had with a guy on a bus about a woman .
he proudly claimed his support would be given to governor kashich of ohio ap bentley comments came as state alabama u.s. reps. martha roby and bradley byrne , on saturday called for trump to step aside from the gop ticket .
trump is under fire for his remarks about him groping women in a 2005 recording.roby was one of the first republicans to speak out against trump on saturday , leading what would soon be a chorus of voices against the gop nominee .
now , it is abundantly clear that the best thing for our country and our party is for trump to step aside and allow a responsible , respectable republican to lead the ticket , roby said in a statement .
hillary clinton must not be president , but , with trump leading the ticket she will be .
but that was yesterday before anyone knew what a hypocrite scumbag governor bentley was.in june 2014 , alabama gov .
robert bentley and first lady dianne bentley agreed to a divorce settlement , ending their 50-year marriage , the governor s office said monday.the settlement was filed just four weeks after the first lady filed for divorce , saying their marriage had suffered an irretrievable breakdown .
the governor said he has asked a judge to unseal the case file so the public and media can see it .
cbs newsafter a tumultuous day in montgomery , governor robert bentley has resigned from office .
the time has come for me to look at new ways to serve the people of our great state .
i have decided it is time for me to step down as alabama s governor .
this comes hours after a house committee began impeachment hearings , and about one hour after bentley was booked in the montgomery county jail on misdemeanor charges .
he pleaded guilty to the charges .