youtube celebrity adam saleh has accused delta air lines of kicking him off flight because he spoke arabic to his mom on the phone before takeoff.in a statement , delta said : two customers were removed from this flight and later rebooked after a disturbance in the cabin resulted in more than 20 customers expressing their discomfort .
we re conducting a full review to understand what transpired .
we are taking allegations of discrimination very seriously ; our culture requires treating others with respect .
saleh has more than 1.6 million subscribers to his truestoryasa youtube channel , and more than 2.2 million subscribers to his adam saleh vlogs youtube channel .
saleh s youtube channels are full of prank videos as well as videos about muslim life , and he is a self-described professional idiot .
he said when he was speaking to his mom , a woman in the seat in front of him turned around and told him he ought to speak english .
saleh said he told her he can speak whatever language he likes , and her husband responded by standing up and screaming at him.then about 20 people allegedly said they were uncomfortable with saleh and his arabic-speaking companion .
the pair were approached by the captain , who saleh said seemed ashamed and embarassed when he asked them to leave the plane because of the other passengers complaints.in one video saleh posted to twitter that was retweeted 83,000 times in just 2 hours , saleh can be seen getting escorted off the plane .
cbs newshere is the video saleh posted to twitter of he and his buddy being escorted off the plane : we got kicked out of a @ delta airplane because i spoke arabic to my mom on the phone and with my friend slim wtffffffff please spread pic.twitter.com/p5dqce0qos adam saleh ( @ omgadamsaleh ) december 21 , 2016ooops !
it appears this isn t the first time saleh has created a disturbance on an airplane .
he makes money every time someone clicks on one of his you tube videos .
the more controversial the video the more clicks .
but do the passengers on these flights really think a muslim man who intentionally creates unnecessary drama and attention to himself on their flight is funny ?
is it okay for him to make the other customers uncomfortable so he can earn insane amounts of money on you tube ? here are some previous posts by saleh shared by mark dice on twitter : it appears this delta airlines incident may be the result of another sick prank by the muslim youtuber .
look at his track record : pic.twitter.com/r78alenpty mark dice ( @ markdice ) december 21 , 2016watch outrage expressed by you tuber muslim adam saleh vlog over being checked by a muslim security officer as he was going through airport security at heathrow airport in london .
according to saleh , it s apparently not okay for a muslim who is working at airport security to check another muslim .
who knew ? crying discrimination isn t anything new to the attention obsessed saleh who tells his viewers how worried he is about our racist president-elect donald j. trump .
it was viewed over 1 million times :