geneva ( reuters ) - the united states and france called on russia on wednesday to deliver the delegation of president bashar al-assad to syria peace talks in geneva after discussions on ending the six-year war resumed with no sign of the government attending .
the eighth round of negotiations began last week and after a few days with little apparent progress , u.n. mediator staffan de mistura said the government delegation , led by bashar al-ja afari , was returning to damascus to consult and refresh .
de mistura expected talks to resume around tuesday dec. 5 , but ja afari left geneva on saturday and said he might not come back because the opposition had stated that assad could not play a role in a future interim government .
a source close to the syrian government s negotiating team told reuters the delegation was still in damascus on wednesday .
we have said to the russians it is important that the syrian regime be at the table and be part of these negotiations and part of the discussion , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson told a news conference in brussels .
we have left it to the russians to deliver them to table .
a diplomat in geneva said it was likely , but not confirmed , that the delegation would return to geneva on friday .
russia s ria news agency quoted an unnamed source as saying they would arrive on sunday or monday .
syrian officials have not said if ja afari will return to the talks but opposition spokesman yahya al-aridi said on monday a government boycott would be an embarrassment to russia , which is keen to see a negotiated end to the war .
the opposition negotiating team arrived at the u.n. offices in geneva on wednesday morning to resume talks with de mistura , who declined to comment late on tuesday when asked about the absence of ja afari s negotiators .
it takes two to tango , but at the same time you need to talk to the other party , aridi told reporters on wednesday .
if they are quite serious about bringing peace to syria , well they should show up .
france , a key backer of the syrian opposition , accused the government of blocking the u.n.-led effort and refusing to engage in good faith to achieve a political solution .
this refusal highlights the obstruction strategy of the political process carried out by the damascus regime , which is responsible for the absence of progress in the negotiations , french foreign ministry deputy spokesman alexandre georgini told reporters .
he also said that russia , as one of assad s main supporters , needed to assume its responsibilities so that the syrian government finally entered the negotiations .
the russian mission in geneva did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
during last week s sessions , de mistura shuttled between representatives of the warring sides , who did not meet face-to-face .
he had planned to continue the round until dec. 15 .