seoul/beijing ( reuters ) - china will allow travel agencies in beijing and shandong to partly resume sales of group tours to south korea , in a sign of thawing relations between the nations that have been locked in a year-long diplomatic standoff .
however , executives from tour agencies in the regions said they had been told not to include in their travel packages units of south korean retail-to-chemicals giant lotte group - which provided land for the installation of a u.s.-backed anti-missile system that beijing vehemently opposed .
china had banned all group tours to the neighboring country since march in the wake of south korea s decision to install the u.s. terminal high altitude area defense system .
beijing worries the thaad s powerful radar can penetrate chinese territory .
in south korea , a halving of inbound chinese tourists in the first nine months of the year cost the economy $ 6.5 billion in lost revenue based on the average spending of chinese visitors in 2016 , official data shows .
but a late october agreement between the countries to move past the dispute had boosted hopes group tours may be allowed in the near future .
[ l3n1ne1mn ] china national tourism administration will allow resumption of only over-the-counter sales of package tours from beijing and shandong to south korea , park yong-hwan , deputy director at korea tourism organization , and executives at chinese travel agencies said on tuesday .
online sales of package tours , and chartering flights or cruise trips are still banned , park said .
according to the executives at travel agencies , restrictions on including lotte group units , such as lotte duty free , in tour packages also remain .
the executives declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter .
lotte , south korea s no.5 conglomerate , has faced a major setback in the wake of deteriorating bilateral relations , with most of its hypermarkets in china being shut down after fire inspections .
the south korean travel ban is expected to be be in place for other chinese regions for now and be gradually lifted going forward , park said .
shares in south korean tourism and retail companies rallied after the news of the partial lifting of the ban , first reported by yonhap earlier in the day .
asiana airlines gained 3.1 percent and duty free store operator hotel shilla rose 2.8 percent .
casino operator paradise rose 2.2 percent , while cosmetics maker lg household & health care added 3.7 percent .