washington ( reuters ) - five u.s. republican lawmakers raised concerns on thursday with the obama administration about implementation of a law meant to make it harder for people to enter the united states if they have visited certain countries , in a letter seen by reuters .
kevin mccarthy , top republican in the house of representatives , and four other house members said in the letter that the department of homeland security is making overly broad exemptions to allow people to skirt the new requirements .
the bill was enacted into law in december following the nov. 13 attacks in paris and the dec. 2 shootings in san bernardino , california .
the law was designed to keep people who have traveled to syria , iraq , iran and sudan from coming to the united states except through the normal visa process .
under the existing u.s. visa waiver program , citizens of 38 mainly european countries can travel for up to 90 days to the united states visa free .
the new law required that travelers who have been to syria , iraq , iran or sudan since march 1 , 2011 , must get a visa to come to the united states .
several of the islamic state attackers who killed 130 people in france held european passports that would have allowed them to easily enter the united states under the waiver system .
according to the letter , the u.s. department of homeland security is making exceptions to the new law for people who visited the four specified countries to do humanitarian work , journalism or for “ legitimate business-related purposes. ” “ these exemptions from the travel restrictions were not provided for in the law , are contrary to congressional intent , and are in breach of the agreement we reached with members of your administration , ” the letter said .
the lawmakers said the department of homeland security must provide congress with details of every visa waiver for those who have traveled to the listed countries on a monthly basis , including name and nationality of each traveler and the justification for granting the visa waiver .
the letter asked the administration to provide no later than feb. 12 emails and other documents that led them to the decision on making exemptions .
“ had your administration complied in good faith with the bipartisan agreement we reached , we would not be writing you today , ” the letter said .
the letter was signed by kevin mccarthy , michael mccaul , bob goodlatte , edward royce and candice miller .