detroit/washington ( reuters ) - president-elect donald trump on tuesday threatened to impose a “ big border tax ” on general motors co ( gm.n ) for making some of its chevrolet cruze compact cars in mexico , an arrangement the largest u.s. automaker defended as part of its strategy to serve global customers , not sell them in the united states .
trump ’ s comments marked his latest broadside aimed at an american company over jobs , imports and costs before he takes office on jan. 20 , signaling an uncommon degree of intervention for an incoming u.s. president into corporate affairs .
“ general motors is sending mexican made model of chevy cruze to u.s. car dealers-tax free across border .
make in u.s.a. or pay big border tax ! ” trump said in a post on twitter .
trump did not provide further details but previously vowed to hit companies that shift production from america to other countries with a 35 percent tax on their exports into the united states .
he also has denounced the north american free trade agreement between the united states , mexico and canada .
trump ’ s tweet came hours before gm ’ s rival ford motor co ( f.n ) announced it would cancel a planned $ 1.6 billion factory in mexico and would invest $ 700 million at a michigan factory , after it also came under criticism from the republican president-elect for its mexican investment plans .
ford ’ s executive chairman , bill ford jr. , said he personally notified trump of the decision , but after trump ’ s early-morning gm tweet .
gm , the world ’ s no .
3 automaker , said it sold about 190,000 cruze cars in the united states in 2016 .
all of the sedan versions sold in the united states , or about 185,500 , were built at its plant in lordstown , ohio .
about 4,500 hatchback versions of the cruze were assembled in mexico and sold in the united states .
“ gm builds the chevrolet cruze hatchback for global markets in mexico , with a small number sold in the u.s. ” it said in a statement posed on its website .
the cruze is one of gm ’ s best-selling cars , although its sales numbers were down significantly in 2016 .
shares of gm ( gm.n ) rose 1 percent to $ 35.19 after falling about 1 percent following trump ’ s tweet before the market opened .
since winning the nov. 8 presidential election , trump has targeted gm ’ s rival ford motor co ( f.n ) , united technologies inc ( utx.n ) , boeing co ( ba.n ) and lockheed martin corp ( lmt.n ) .
trump also has touted decisions by companies to keep some production in the united states , including united ’ s carrier unit in indiana .
“ in this case , the tweet was specific to general motors .
but i think you ’ ve seen an overall philosophy during the campaign and since he was elected to stand up for american workers and make sure that american companies don ’ t benefit from moving their companies overseas and leaving american workers behind , ” trump transition team spokesman sean spicer said .
last month , trump announced the formation of a council to advise him on job creation comprised of leaders from a variety of major u.s. corporations including gm chief executive officer mary barra .
gm said in 2015 it would build its next-generation chevrolet cruze compact in mexico as automakers look to expand in the latin american nation to take advantage of low labor costs and free trade agreements .
the company said in 2015 it would invest $ 350 million to produce the cruze at its plant in coahuila as part of the $ 5 billion investment in its mexican plants announced in 2014 , creating 5,600 jobs .
gm said last year it would import some cruze cars from mexico .
trump , a republican who will succeed democratic president barack obama , campaigned for president using tough rhetoric on trade and promises to protect american workers , and targeted several companies by name .
according to automotive news , gm began producing the cruze in mexico last year , making 52,631 cars there .
in comparison , it built 319,536 of them in the united states .
previous versions of the cruze sold in mexico were made in a gm south korea plant , it reported .
the shift is part of a larger trend among detroit ’ s big three automakers to produce more small cars for the north american market in mexico in an effort to lower labor costs , while using higher-paid u.s. workers to build more profitable trucks , sport utility vehicles and luxury cars .
in november , gm said it planned in early 2017 to lay off 2,000 employees at two u.s. auto plants , including the one in lordstown .
u.s. small car sales have been hurt by lagging consumer demand and low gas prices .
gm ’ s u.s. cruze sales were down 18 percent through november .
gm will halt the third shift at the lordstown plant on jan. 23 , cutting 1,250 jobs .