berlin ( reuters ) - firmly on course for re-election , chancellor angela merkel on wednesday spurned her rival s request for a re-run of a head-to-head television debate in which he failed to dent her opinion poll lead .
with voting taking place on sept. 24 , martin schulz s left-leaning social democrats ( spd ) trail merkel s conservatives by around 14 percentage points .
schulz challenged her to a second debate in a letter , arguing that they failed to address many key issues in the first encounter on sept. 3 , billed as a one-off and in which he at times rattled the chancellor .
her christian democratic union ( cdu ) party rejected the idea , with an official saying : angela merkel enjoyed taking part in the a tv duel .
the format worked out well .
and she is leaving it at that .
the spd s andrea nahles , who is germany s labor minister , accused the conservatives of cowardice for not allowing a second debate to tackle issues like health , education and pensions that she said were barely touched on in the sept. 3 duel .
in my view , this is weak of mrs merkel , she told reuters in a television interview .
schulz , 61 , is a more natural public speaker than merkel , 63 , but he failed to land a knock-out blow during the debate partly because the two camps agree on many policy areas .
when he did try to stake out stronger positions , such as by accusing u.s. president donald trump of bringing the world to the brink of crisis with his tweets , she was able to appear more considered .
deploying her credentials as a global stateswoman , merkel said she would work with trump to achieve a diplomatic solution to the north korea crisis a moderate approach that appealed to risk-averse german voters .
a survey by infratest dimap for ard television after the debate showed merkel s overall performance was viewed as more convincing by 55 percent , compared to 35 percent for schulz .
in his letter to merkel , a copy of which was seen by reuters , schulz argued they had not addressed voters questions about the digital economy , the future of the labor market , pensions and education in the debate .
schulz , whose spd has ruled as junior partner in a grand coalition with merkel s conservatives for the last four years , has tried to appeal to voters with a campaign for social justice but the message has not resonated widely .
merkel , in power since 2005 , has told voters not to risk allowing an untested , spd-led left-wing alliance to take power , urging them to stick with her in turbulent times .