ask your liberal friends to tell you more about these poor women and children who are fleeing persecution from radical islamists in the middle east the recent surge of migration into europe has been unprecedented in scope , with an estimated 1 million migrants from the middle east and north africa this past year alone , making for a massive humanitarian crisis , as well as a political and moral dilemma for european governments .
but one crucial dimension of this crisis has gone little-noticed : sex or , more technically , sex ratios.according to official counts , a disproportionate number of these migrants are young , unmarried , unaccompanied males .
in fact , the sex ratios among migrants are so one-sided we re talking worse than those in china , in some cases that they could radically change the gender balance in european countries in certain age cohorts .
politicoa leaked german government report has warned , that up to 6.6 million people are waiting in countries around the mediterranean to cross into europe , according to details of the classified report leaked to bild newspaper.here s a video that s being circulated on social media today , of a boatload of young , male immigrants who are speaking arabic as they record their trip on a smartphone .
note to bleeding heart liberals : these are clearly not impoverished men or women and children who are escaping persecution by islamic extremists.new boatload of scared/hungry women and children on their way to europe .
at least they had their smart phone to document the journey .
pic.twitter.com/svluy6mo9k based monitored ( @ basedmonitored ) august 22 , 2017the high percentage of young males flooding european countries will soon be a very serious problem : politico as many governments , including in the united states , debate how many migrants to accept onto their shores , they would be wise to take gender balance into consideration .
that might sound sexist on the surface , but years of research has shown that male-dominated societies are less stable , because they are more susceptible to higher levels of violence , insurgence and mistreatment of women .
in germany , scores of women recently reported being attacked on new year s eve by men whom the authorities describe as of north african or arabic descent .
while it is not yet known whether the alleged perpetrators were migrants , the attacks may finally be alerting policymakers to the risks of a male-dominated migration wave.why would european societies , many of which rank highest on global measures of gender equality and stability and peace , jeopardize those hard-won and enviable rankings ? that imbalance might not sound radical , but it is , especially when you look more closely at who those males are .
it s true that many male migrants hope that , if granted asylum , they will be joined in europe by their wives and children , who would help balance out national sex ratios .
but importantly , more than 20 percent of migrants are minors below the age of 18 , and the iom estimates that more than half of those minors traveling to europe are traveling as unaccompanied minors 90 percent of whom are males .
this heavily male subset is all but guaranteed asylum because of their status as unaccompanied minors , but they get no special dispensation to bring spouses , especially since the european court of human rights recently ruled that european union countries are not required to recognize the legality of child marriages among migrants .