warsaw ( reuters ) - after britain decided to leave the european union , emilia kos , a 31-year-old mother of three from scunthorpe in eastern england , faced a choice of her own .
she could visit her family in poland once a year , or she could take a holiday abroad .
the plunge in the value of the pound after the june 2016 referendum on eu membership meant she could only afford one .
that , coupled with a fear they are no longer welcome in scunthorpe , persuaded her to move back to poland last month , after nine years in britain .
a weaker pound meant we had to choose between a holiday and a visit home , kos said at her new home in wroclaw .
we can afford to live in britain , but it isn t comfortable to have to tell your family that you won t come for christmas because you want to go to greece .
she is not alone .
families like hers that headed to britain after the ex-communist states of eastern europe joined the eu in 2004 increasingly are heading back .
economics are one reason .
the local economies are booming and unemployment has dropped to record lows .
but it s not the only factor .
brexit was an official statement from the brits : we don t want you here , said szymon kudzma , a 33-year-old it specialist who lives in rushden in northamptonshire , england .
he plans to return to poland before the end of the year , after 14 years in britain .
for immigrants like him , the economic benefits of living in the west no longer outweigh a sense of alienation abroad and the hostility toward migrants in britain .
the roughly 800,000 poles living there fuelled an emotive debate over immigration that helped the leave side win the brexit vote .
we could feel brexit in the air for a long time , said kos , who lived in lincolnshire , a relatively euro-sceptic part of britain .
we felt pressure from the english .
a friend of mine wasn t able to speak polish at work ... clients sometimes walked out of my partner s store when they learned he was polish .
uk statistical data showed last month that net migration fell to its lowest in three years in the 12 months to the end of march .
the biggest drop came from eight eastern european countries , including poland and hungary , that joined the eu in 2004 [ nl8n1la2bh ] .
in poland , official data show fewer than 3,000 people registered with the authorities as emigrating to britain in 2016 , down from more than 7,000 in 2014 .
more than 3,000 poles registered as returning last year .
we see very clearly that more and more poles are coming back to poland .
our analyses show that this trend has accelerated after the brexit vote , said michal brzezinski , chief executive at a polish moving company , clicktrans .
in the first quarter of 2017 , moves to poland from abroad recorded by clicktrans were almost three times greater than the moves from poland abroad .
in 2014 , more poles wanted to emigrate than return .
more than 80 percent of moves organized by clicktrans so far this year between poland and britain were returns .
two years ago , the same number emigrated to britain as came back .
many of the returnees say the economic calculations don t add up anymore , even if average wages in poland are still a fraction of pay in britain .
the wage gap has narrowed since 2004 , unemployment is down to 7 percent from more than 20 percent , and warsaw conservative government introduced child subsidies in 2016 .
britain s decision to leave the eu has also improved employment prospects at home .
london-based banks and other financial services are looking for new bases for some operations in countries that will remain in the eu , such as poland .
i don t think our living standards will change significantly after we return , said kudzma , the it specialist in northamptonshire .
the it sector is well-paid in poland .
our wages will be smaller than in britain , but the cost of living is lower .
the balance should remain the same .
for many of the returnees , the pound s decline means their savings are dwindling or the help they send to families in poland costs more .
sterling has lost 20 percent of its value against the zloty since the brexit vote and 35 percent since poland joined the eu , according to reuters data .
for us , the worst thing is that we had already been thinking about going back , and the decline of the pound means we lost a lot of money , said monika , 35 , an accountant living outside of warsaw while on maternity leave from her uk employer .