danang , vietnam ( reuters ) - asia-pacific nations must uphold multilateralism , chinese president xi jinping said on friday , countering u.s. president donald trump s message at a summit that the united states would stay out of trade deals that surrender its sovereignty .
globalization is an irreversible trend , but the world must work to make it more balanced and inclusive , xi told leaders gathered in the vietnamese resort city of danang for the asia pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) meeting .
his comments came moments after trump told the same audience the united states would not tolerate chronic trade abuses from partners .
should we steer economic globalization , or should we dither and stall in the face of challenge ?
should we jointly advance regional cooperation or should we go our separate ways ?
xi asked .
openness brings progress , while self-seclusion leaves one behind , he said .
during the past year , xi has positioned china as a defender of globalization in speeches around the world , contrasting himself with trump , who has pursued his america first agenda , and pulled the united states out of the regional trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) trade deal .
trump s predecessor saw the deal as a way for the united states , and not china , to write asia s trade rules .
having just concluded a state visit to china , trump said the united states was ready to make a bilateral deal with any country in the indo-pacific region , but only on the basis of mutual respect and mutual benefit .
he blasted the world trade organization and multilateral trade deals , and some analysts expect tougher action may be imminent from the white house to fight bilateral trade imbalances with china exacerbated by beijing s state-led economic model .
but xi s efforts to seize the mantle of free trade have rung hollow to critics of china , who argue it erects more market barriers to foreign companies , using state-driven industrial plans , than any major economy .
in danang , xi said china would significantly ease market access for foreign firms , and all businesses registered in china would be treated as equals .
soon after trump left beijing , china said it would raise foreign ownership limits in financial firms , a move cautiously welcomed by business groups as an important step in opening up a tantalizing multi-trillion-dollar financial services market .
the 11 countries still party to the tpp have been looking for a way forward for the deal on the sidelines of the apec meeting .
japan had lobbied hard to proceed with the pact that could also help to contain china s growing regional dominance , as it is not involved .
xi has been selling an alternate vision for regional trade by promoting the beijing-backed regional comprehensive economic partnership ( rcep ) , which includes australia , india and more than a dozen other countries , but not the united states .
the rcep is seen as an alternate to the tpp for a path to the broader free trade area of the asia-pacific ( ftaap ) that apec aspires to .
we should support the multilateral trading system and practice open regionalism , to allow developing members to benefit more from international trade and investment , xi said .
china will speed up negotiations with partners on free trade pacts , and work for the speedy conclusion of rcep talks , he added .