jerusalem ( reuters ) - israel signaled on sunday that it would keep up military strikes across its frontier with syria to prevent any encroachment by iranian-allied forces , even as the united states and russia try to build up a ceasefire in the area .
u.s. president donald trump and russian president vladimir putin on saturday affirmed joint efforts to stabilize syria as its civil war wanes , including with the expansion of a july 7 truce in the southwestern triangle bordering israel and jordan .
a u.s. state department official said russia had agreed to work with the syrian regime to remove iranian-backed forces a defined distance from the golan heights frontier with israel , which captured the plateau in the 1967 middle east war .
the move , according to one israeli official briefed on the arrangement , is meant to keep rival factions inside syria away from each other , but it would effectively keep iranian-linked forces at various distances from the israel-held golan as well .
those distances would range from as little as 5-7 kms and up to around 30 kms , depending on current rebel positions on the syrian golan , the official said , speaking on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the issue .
moscow did not immediately provide details on the deal .
israel has been lobbying both big powers to deny iran , lebanon s hezbollah and other shi ite militias any permanent bases in syria , and to keep them away from the golan , as they gain ground while helping damascus beat back sunni-led rebels .
in televised remarks opening israel s weekly cabinet meeting on sunday , prime minister benjamin netanyahu did not speak about the new u.s.-russian arrangement for syria .
his regional cooperation minister , tzachi hanegbi , sounded circumspect about the deal , telling reporters that it does not meet israel s unequivocal demand the there will not be developments that bring the forces of hezbollah or iran to the israel-syria border in the north .
there s reflection here of the understanding that israel has set red lines , and will stand firm on this , hanegbi said .
that was an allusion to israeli military strikes in syria , carried out against suspected hezbollah or iranian arms depots or in retaliation for attacks from the syrian-held golan .
in the latest incident , the israeli military said it shot down a spy drone on saturday as it overflew the golan .
israeli defense minister avigdor lieberman blamed the drone on the syrian government .
damascus did not immediately respond .
repeating israel s warnings to iran and hezbollah , lieberman said : we will not allow the shi ite axis to establish syria as its forefront base .
russia , which has a long-term military garrison in syria , has said it wants foreign forces to quit the country eventually .
the u.s. state department official , who briefed reporters on condition of anonymity on saturday , said that goal could be served by russia s pledge to remove iranian-linked fighters from the truce zone in southwestern syria .
if this works , this is an auspicious signal , would be an auspicious signal , that our policy objective - the objective that i think so many of us share , of getting these guys out of syria ultimately - that there s a path in that direction , the official said .