how did we ever get to the point where we would even consider electing a woman who is the most well-known liar in america ?
the media has been buzzing since what many consider an inappropriate private conversation that donald j. trump had with another man 11 years ago was released .
funny how the media is willing to gloss over a shameful career of a congenital liar simply because her last name is clinton ( wife of the former president bill clinton who was impeached for lying under oath to a grand jury ) and because she comes equipped with the right genitatlia americans of all political persuasions are coming to the sad realization that our first lady a woman of undoubted talents who was a role model for many in her generation is a congenital liar.drip by drip , like whitewater torture , the case is being made that she is compelled to mislead , and to ensnare her subordinates and friends in a web of deceit.1 .
remember the story she told about studying the wall street journal to explain her 10,000 percent profit in 1979 commodity trading ?
we now know that was a lie told to turn aside accusations that as the governor s wife she profited corruptly , her account being run by a lawyer for state poultry interests through a disreputable broker.she lied for good reason : to admit otherwise would be to confess taking , and paying taxes on , what some think amounted to a $ 100,000 bribe.2 .
the abuse of presidential power known as travelgate elicited another series of lies .
she induced a white house lawyer to assert flatly to investigators that mrs. clinton did not order the firing of white house travel aides , who were then harassed by the f.b.i .
and justice department to justify patronage replacement by mrs. clinton s cronies.now we know , from a memo long concealed from investigators , that there would be hell to pay if the furious first lady s desires were scorned .
the career of the lawyer who transmitted hillary s lie to authorities is now in jeopardy .
again , she lied with good reason : to avoid being identified as a vindictive political power player who used the f.b.i .
to ruin the lives of people standing in the way of juicy patronage.3 .
in the aftermath of the apparent suicide of her former partner and closest confidant , white house deputy counsel vincent foster , she ordered the overturn of an agreement to allow the justice department to examine the files in the dead man s office .
her closest friends and aides , under oath , have been blatantly disremembering this likely obstruction of justice , and may have to pay for supporting hillary s lie with jail terms.again , the lying was not irrational .
investigators believe that damning records from the rose law firm , wrongfully kept in vincent foster s white house office , were spirited out in the dead of night and hidden from the law for two years in hillary s closet , in web hubbell s basement before his felony conviction , in the president s secretary s personal files before some were forced out last week.why the white house concealment ?
for good reason : the records show hillary clinton was lying when she denied actively representing a criminal enterprise known as the madison s. & l. , and indicate she may have conspired with web hubbell s father-in-law to make a sham land deal that cost taxpayers $ 3 million.why the belated release of some of the incriminating evidence ?
not because it mysteriously turned up in offices previously searched .
certainly not because hillary clinton and her new hang-tough white house counsel want to respond fully to lawful subpoenas.one reason for the friday-night dribble of evidence from the white house is the discovery by the f.b.i .
of copies of some of those records elsewhere .
when clinton witnesses are asked about specific items in lost records which investigators have the white house finds its copy and releases it .
by concealing the madison billing records two days beyond the statute of limitations , hillary evaded a civil suit by bamboozled bank regulators.another reason for recent revelations is the imminent turning of former aides and partners of hillary against her ; they were willing to cover her lying when it advanced their careers , but are inclined to listen to their own lawyers when faced with perjury indictments.therefore , ask not why didn t she just come clean at the beginning ?
she had good reasons to lie ; she is in the longtime habit of lying ; and she has never been called to account for lying herself or in suborning lying in her aides and friends.no wonder the president is fearful of holding a prime-time press conference .
having been separately deposed by the independent counsel at least twice , the president and first lady would be well advised to retain separate defense counsel .
new york times