berlin/hanover ( reuters ) - germany s social democrats ( spd ) defeated angela merkel s conservatives in a vote in the northern state of lower saxony on sunday , a setback for the chancellor as she prepares for tricky coalition talks at the national level this week .
the spd , which has governed the swing state home to carmaker volkswagen ( vowg_p.de ) with the greens for four years , won 37.3 percent , well up from 32.6 percent in the last election there in 2013 , according to projections on public broadcaster ard .
merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) took 33.4 percent of the vote in the rich agricultural state which has around six million eligible voters , down from 36 percent in 2013 .
disgruntled with merkel s liberal migrant policy , germans abandoned her party in droves in september s national election to hand the conservatives their worst result since 1949 .
if confirmed , sunday s result would be the poorest showing for the cdu in lower saxony in 58 years , further weakening merkel as she tries to put together an alliance with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmentalist greens .
those parties will this week begin discussions about entering a marriage of convenience untested at the federal level that could drag into 2018 .
peter tauber , the cdu s secretary general , said all three parties involved in national coalition talks had lost support in lower saxony , but dismissed the idea that the state vote would have a big impact on the talks .
it wouldn t be wise to think this will weigh us down , he said .
we have a clear mandate and we take that very seriously and we are talking about serious and important topics ... that s why we re now talking seriously and looking forward .
the projections showed the environmentalist greens , currently junior coalition partner to the spd in lower saxony , on 8.9 percent .
the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) won 7.4 percent .
both performed considerably worse than in 2013 .
the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) cleared the 5-percent threshold to enter parliament with 6.2 percent - albeit far weaker than the 12.6 percent it scored nationally in september .
merkel s poor showing in september , along with the spd s insistence on going into opposition , left her with no viable option other than a jamaica coalition , so named because the three parties colors correspond with the black , yellow and green of jamaica s flag .
it means the prospective partners will need to overcome huge differences on issues ranging from immigration to european union reform , tax and environmental protection .
katrin goering-eckhardt , leader of the greens in parliament , said forming a coalition would not be easy : it remains difficult but we can at least get started .
a deal brokered last weekend between merkel s cdu and its conservative bavarian sister party , the csu , to cap the number of immigrants is likely to be hard for the greens to swallow .
merkel has acknowledged the difficulties ahead but added that unusual combinations can of course bring the opportunity to find some solutions to things that had seemed unsolvable until now .
so now we need to put our noses to the grindstone , she said on the campaign trail in lower saxony on thursday .
an spd-green coalition has ruled the state for four years , but lost its majority when a greens lawmaker defected to the cdu , triggering a snap election .
lower saxony s incumbent spd premier stephan weil said he would talk to all parties except the afd about forming a coalition .
it was the first time the spd has been the biggest party in the state since 1998 .
turnout was about 63 percent , according to broadcaster ard - higher than in 2013 .
sunday s win was the first victory for the spd under martin schulz , who was nominated as its leader in january and suffered three state election defeats earlier this year and then the spd s worst national result in the post-war era in september .