berlin ( reuters ) - germany s greens on saturday all but ruled out a three-way coalition with chancellor angela merkel s conservatives and the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) after the sept. 24 election and a conservative said such an alliance would not be ideal .
polls show merkel s conservatives are likely to win the election with around 38 percent of the vote but will be left in need of a coalition partner .
their rival social democrats ( spd ) are lagging on around 22 percent .
possible coalition options include a repeat of the current grand coalition between the conservatives and spd or a jamaica coalition of the conservatives , fdp and greens - the name referring to the black , yellow and green colors of the jamaican flag .
katrin goering-eckhardt , one of the greens two top candidates , told regional newspaper passauer neue presse : i can t imagine jamaica .
coalitions tend to be tested at the state level before they are formed at the national level .
a jamaica alliance was formed in the coastal state of schleswig-holstein after merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) won an election there in may .
but goering-eckhardt said the greens and fdp had diametrically opposed positions on issues including climate protection , emission thresholds for clean cars and refugees .
i can t see how it could work at the national level , she said .
fdp leader christian lindner told focus magazine he was also unable to envisage a jamaica coalition given the hurdles to reaching agreement with the greens on immigration and energy .
interior minister thomas de maiziere , a senior conservative , told regional newspaper rheinische post neither the conservatives nor the spd wanted to continue the current grand coalition because it is not good for democracy , referring to the small parliamentary opposition that such a tie-up leaves .
but he added that it would be harder to reach agreements with the greens and fdp on domestic security than it has been with the spd .
from a security perspective it would be good if the conservative bloc could choose a two-way alliance , he said .
cem ozdemir , the greens other top candidate , said in an interview with tagesspiegel am sonntag newspaper that his party wanted to be in the next federal government , which he suggested would be formed by merkel : the race for first place seems to be over - angela merkel is out in front .
but the latest polls show merkel s conservatives and the greens would not be able to muster enough support between them to form a two-way alliance .
while support for the greens has dropped to single digits this year - it is on 8 percent in the latest polls - a forsa survey published this week showed half of germans would welcome the greens being part of the post-election government .
merkel on saturday reiterated her warning to voters about a coalition between the spd , radical left party and greens , telling voters in the southwestern city of reutlingen that a red-red-green tie-up would be bad for our country and germany should not embark on any experiments at a time of uncertainty .
a red-red-green alliance , which had seemed a possible option early this year , has not been able to get a majority in polls for weeks .