myebon , myanmar ( reuters ) - buddhist villagers in relatively peaceful parts of myanmar s rakhine state are enforcing a system of local apartheid that punishes people trading with minority muslims , fuelling fears that violence in the far northwest could spread to new areas .
ethnic rakhines , who form the majority in central parts of the state , have set up committees in several districts that have meted out sanctions ranging from fines to public beatings and expulsions .
they say the measures are necessary to protect their communities from rohingya muslim militants .
muslim residents say they are being cut off from essential supplies and accuse authorities of turning a blind eye .
aid workers fear thousands will attempt to escape via perilous sea routes to thailand and malaysia when the monsoon rains abate .
about 250,000 muslims live in central rakhine , an area not directly affected by a military offensive against rohingya militants who attacked security forces in the northern part of the state in late august .
the army operation has forced more than half a million people to flee to bangladesh , in what the united nations has denounced as ethnic cleansing .
in the current situation , it s not possible for different communities to live together , said ashin saromani , a buddhist monk in the central rakhine town of myebon , where one such committee was set up at a meeting in a monastery four days after the aug. 25 militant attacks in the north .
the government can t reconcile them .
that s why we prohibited communication with the muslims , to prevent conflict .
rakhine state government spokesman min aung said he was not aware of efforts to punish buddhists who had contact with muslims .
he said he thought tensions could best be eased by interfaith community groups .
other states and regions have interfaith groups working for peace .
in rakhine there s no group like that , he said .
tension between ethnic rakhines and muslims have simmered for years .
nearly 200 people were killed and 140,000 displaced in communal violence in the state in 2012 .
u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres has warned that the violence seen in the north of the state could easily spread .
the failure to address this systematic violence could result in a spillover into central rakhine , where an additional 250,000 muslims could potentially face displacement , said guterres in a recent speech .
they are outnumbered by rakhine communities , some of whom have engaged in violent acts of vigilantism against their muslim neighbors .
in myebon , about 3,000 muslims have been confined to a camp for displaced people since the 2012 violence , surrounded by tens of thousands of hostile rakhine buddhists .
they have relied on aid from international agencies and fishing , supplemented by a small amount of trade in the town .
since late august , loudspeakers mounted on tricycle rickshaws have rolled around the town , blaring messages from local monks and rakhine community leaders exhorting buddhists to avoid contact with muslims .
one rakhine woman who ignored the warnings , 35-year-old soe chay , told reuters she was surrounded by a mob on sept. 12 after buying goods at a market to sell to muslims .
they beat her , cut her hair and marched through the town with a sign reading national traitor hung around her neck .
kyaw swar tun , deputy director of the rakhine general administration department ( gad ) that overseas the local bureaucracy , said the case was an individual problem that was already being dealt with by the courts .
two women and a man have been charged with assault on soe chay .
the two women were members of the arakan women s network in myebon , which denied taking part in the attack .
people got angry because they don t have a nationalist spirit , even though they know that 30 police stations were attacked and locals from maungdaw were beheaded , said khin thein , leader of the network in the town , describing the incident .
he was referring to the aug. 25 attacks , which concentrated in northern rakhine s maungdaw township .
buddhist community leaders in myebon have also blocked international aid agencies from reaching the camp , saying only the government can deliver aid , which must be checked by buddhists .
we are concerned that if we don t check that boat of the ngos communicating directly with the bengalis , they might include weapons together with the aid , said ashin saromani .
bengali is a derogatory term for the rohingya implying they are interlopers from bangladesh .
similar community-enforced restrictions on aid have been in place elsewhere in rakhine , according to aid workers .
anti-muslim sentiment has been bubbling up elsewhere in mostly buddhist myanmar since the conflict erupted in rakhine .
police had to disperse a mob that attacked muslim homes and businesses in the central magwe division on sept. 10 .
in kayin state in the east , muslims were told last month they must get special permission from authorities before traveling outside of their villages , because of security concerns .
closer to the conflict zone , muslim villagers in rathedaung township say they have been directly pressured to leave by their rakhine neighbors .
in ku taung village , near the besieged muslim villages , a group of 46 rakhine buddhist elders has formed a disciplinary committee .
they have fined buddhists as much as 500,000 kyat ( $ 370 ) for infractions including selling betel leaves to muslims , according to farmer tun thar sein .
some rakhine villages have set up security teams to protect against the spread of militancy .
in mrauk-u and minbya , an area that saw several unexplained explosions last month , residents said muslims were no longer allowed into rakhine villages .
kyaw swar tun , the local administrator , said authorities would deal with any cases brought to them according to the law , but was not aware of any such problems in central rakhine .
back in the myebon camp for displaced people , muslims say they will have to move away .
it s not possible for us to go back and stay together in myebon because the rakhine who destroyed our homes will be afraid to face us .
said cho cho , a muslim resident .
they fear that muslims will take revenge .