new york ( reuters ) - meg whitman , the head of technology firm hewlett packard enterprise co ( hpe.n ) , said on sunday that donald trump was “ unfit ” for the u.s. presidency , and criticized new jersey governor chris christie , whose failed presidential bid she supported , for endorsing him .
but , later in the day , trump picked up another high-profile endorsement , from u.s .
senator jeff sessions of alabama , a leading conservative .
trump ’ s insurgent campaign has riven the republican party , with party leaders openly discussing how to thwart the will of the tens of thousands of members who have voted for trump , helping him comfortably win in three of the four states that have so far held nominating contests .
party leaders are nervous that trump , a billionaire real-estate developer from new york city who deviates from some of the central tenets of republican conservatism , may alienate voters if he is their candidate in the nov. 8 general election .
he has proposed banning muslims from entering the united states and declined a journalist ’ s invitation on sunday to condemn the ku klux klan , the violent white-supremacist group .
christie , who scrapped his own presidential bid earlier this month , became the most prominent republican figure to break ranks with party leadership by endorsing trump on friday ahead of this week ’ s “ super tuesday ” contests , when voters in 11 states go to the polls .
whitman , who was a co-chairwoman of the national finance committee of christie ’ s campaign , said in a statement to reporters that trump would take the country on “ a dangerous journey ” and that christie was aware of this .
“ chris christie ’ s endorsement of donald trump is an astonishing display of political opportunism .
donald trump is unfit to be president ” , said the statement from whitman , who is chief executive and president of hewlett packard enterprise and chairman of hp inc ( hpq.n ) .
she called on christie ’ s donors not to follow him to trump , who has predominantly funded his campaign with personal loans .
representatives of christie and trump did not respond to requests for comment .
earlier on sunday , trump was asked repeatedly if he would unequivocally condemn the klan and other support from white supremacists .
“ i don ’ t know anything about what you ’ re even talking about with white supremacy or white supremacists , ” trump told cnn ’ s jake tapper after being asked about his endorsement by david duke , a former klan leader .
“ if you would send me a list of the groups , i will do research on them and certainly i would disavow if i thought there was something wrong. ” previously , trump had seemed less uncertain about his views on duke .
“ david duke endorsed me ? ” he said in a response to a reporter .
“ alright .
i disavow .
ok ? ” his latest backer , senator sessions , has had to defend his own controversial comments about the klan in the past .
in 1986 , he admitted during an unsuccessful confirmation hearing to become a federal judge that he had said he thought the klan was “ ok ” until he came to believe that some members smoked marijuana .
he explained that these remarks were a joke and has since called the klan “ destestable. ” in a separate interview on sunday , trump also defended posting on his twitter account a quote sometimes attributed to italian fascist leader benito mussolini .
he told nbc news he did not realize that the quote - “ it is better to live one day as a lion than 100 years as a sheep ” - was associated mussolini but said it did not matter because it was a good aphorism all the same .
many party leaders hope u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida will somehow overtake trump before the party ’ s nominating convention in july , despite rubio ’ s not having won any states and lagging behind in trump in opinion polls .
in recent days , rubio has taken to adopting trump ’ s habit of using adolescent insults to denigrate his rival , suggesting on friday that trump urinated in his trousers during last week ’ s televised debate .
rubio and u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , the only republican to yet beat trump in a primary election , both criticized trump ’ s reticence to speak ill of the klan on sunday .
“ we can not be a party that nominates someone who refused to condemn white supremacists and the ku klux klan , ” rubio told a crowd of voters in purcellville , virginia , msnbc reported .
( additional reporting by alana wise in washington ; editing by jonathan oatis ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .