riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabia is celebrating the 87th anniversary of its foundation this weekend with a big program of concerts and performances , including a pageant operetta on saturday evening which allowed women to enter the king fahd international stadium in riyadh for the first time .
the festivities are part of a government move to boost national pride and improve quality of life for saudis .
also on offer is a concert in the red sea city of jeddah featuring 11 arab musicians , plus fireworks , air acrobatics and traditional folk dance shows .
it is the first time i have come to the stadium and i feel like more of a saudi citizen .
now i can go everywhere in my country , said 25-year-old sultana , green and white flags painted on both cheeks as she entered the complex with her girlfriends .
god willing , tomorrow women will be permitted bigger and better things like driving and travel .
several thousand families entered the stadium - where top football matches are held - through a separate gate from single men .
they cheered , flashed peace signs and waved green saudi flags .
a toddler wore a shirt that said in english i ( heart ) saudi arabia while a little girl donned a green dress with the faces of king salman and his son , crown prince mohammed , printed on it .
a young man recited a poem praising the 82-year-old monarch .
the events are the latest entertainment sponsored by the government as part of the vision 2030 reform program launched two years ago to diversify the economy away from oil , create whole new sectors to employ young citizens and open up saudis cloistered lifestyles .
however in a country that adheres to the austere wahhabi brand of sunni islam , which bans gender mixing , concerts and cinemas , the plan s seemingly anodyne goals to empower women , promote sports and invest in entertainment have been criticized .
saudi rulers are also starting to reform areas once the exclusive domain of the clergy , such as education and the law , and have promoted elements of national identity that have no religious component or pre-date islam .
they have increased national day celebrations that were previously attacked by clerics as undermining religious feeling , and are promoting heritage sites , like nabatean rock temples , once seen as embarrassing in the land of islam .
king salman marked the holiday on twitter , writing : the kingdom will remain a bulwark for those who love benevolence , their religion and their country .
the operetta on saturday told the story of the founding of the modern saudi state by ibn saud , king salman s father , following a series of territorial conquests and eight years before the discovery of oil opened the way to making the new kingdom the world s top oil exporter .
the performance , which praised the kingdom s religious and martial past while looking ahead to more development , featured horses , camels and hundreds of men dancing with swords and drums .
an unveiled woman and two dozen girls joined them onstage .
pyrotechnics , dancing fountains and lasers elicited cheers from the crowd which snapped photos on their smartphones .
the final segment featured pictures of crown prince mohammed - visiting troops , meeting world leaders , watching a football match - whose face has become nearly as ubiquitous as his father s since he became heir to the throne in june .
there is widespread speculation , denied by officials , that king salman intends to abdicate to his son , who already dominates economic , diplomatic and domestic policy .
saudi flags and green billboards , often bearing the faces of both men , have gone up across riyadh this week , and at night skyscrapers are flooded in green light - the national color .
companies from telecoms operators to furniture stores have launched patriotic-themed marketing campaigns offering discounts for the holiday weekend .
um abdulrahm al-shihri , who traveled 1100 km ( 685 miles ) from the northwestern city of tabuk , to enter the stadium , said she hoped in the future women would be able to attend football matches and other public festivities which are traditionally the reserve of men .
you can not imagine how happy we are today ... we feel that there is openness towards us , she said , wearing the black niqab covering all but her eyes .
women are at all levels now - women are now ( representatives ) in the shura council , women are now doctors , women are now in big positions .
so why shouldn t we join the men in things that matter to our nation ?
the general entertainment authority , the government agency organizing the national day festivities , expects some 1.5 million saudis to attend events in 17 cities over four days .
vision 2030 reforms are intended to capture up to a quarter of the $ 20 billion currently spent overseas by saudis , who are accustomed to traveling abroad to see shows and visit amusement parks in nearby tourist hub dubai or further afield .
this weekend s events , though , are free to the public .
issa daghiri , attending the operetta in riyadh with his wife and children , said he was encouraged by the acceptance of families at the stadium , which holds about 40,000 spectators .
we had hoped for this for a while and now the opportunity has come , he said .
each year that passes , the kingdom develops .