rome/paris ( reuters ) - italy and france are discussing a ship-building alliance that could lead to partnerships with europe s second and third biggest defense contractors , thales and leonardo , two sources close to the matter said .
the idea has emerged as paris and rome try to resolve a dispute over a shipyard in western france which the french government nationalized to block an attempted takeover by italy s fincantieri .
france was concerned about job losses at the stx shipyard , the only french site big enough to build aircraft carriers and other large warships .
the two governments hope to resolve the stx shipyard dispute in time for a sept. 27 summit in lyon where french president emmanuel macron and italian prime minister paolo gentiloni hope to smooth tensions created by growing french influence over italian businesses .
progress has been made toward the possibility of a european civil and military shipbuilding enterprise , an italian official with access to the bilateral talks told reuters .
it s clear that leonardo , along with thales , can not be ignored , even if it is difficult to say now how they will be involved .
a french official familiar with the discussions said thales and leonardo could be brought in as partners for fincantieri and naval group , another french shipbuilder and a small shareholder in stx .
thales owns 35 percent of naval group .
the official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said thales and leonardo could become shareholders in a wider equity alliance or merely suppliers , but that there was no thales-leonardo deal for now .
thales and leonardo declined to comment .
a spokesman for naval group said , naval group has always made clear its desire for an industrial alliance at the european level .
continuing discussions with fincantieri would allow us to intensify the fruitful cooperation we have and , in time , create a global leader .
he declined to comment on the possibility of widening the alliance to leonardo and thales .
an italian government source said the two nations may work over the next 12 months to study valuations and flesh out ideas on the military part of the proposal .
defence minister roberta pinotti is worried about possible knock-on effects for italians defense companies , among which leonardo is the main one , the source added .