laconia , n.h. ( reuters ) - marco rubio finished third in monday ’ s iowa caucuses , but his republican white house rivals are attacking him as though he were the victor , and on wednesday the u.s. senator from florida peppered his speech with humble caveats that seemed designed to deflect the hits .
as the 2016 candidates looked ahead to tuesday ’ s new hampshire primary , new jersey governor chris christie has called rubio “ the boy in the bubble , ” suggesting he gives the same speech no matter where he goes .
senator lindsey graham of south carolina , who is campaigning for former florida governor jeb bush , said rubio could not win a general election because of his positions on abortion and immigration .
bush and ohio governor john kasich both said the country needed an experienced commander in chief , in what appeared to be a jab at rubio , a first-term senator .
in the run-up to the iowa caucuses , republicans donald trump and ted cruz , two anti-establishment candidates , had dominated the polls in the state while rubio lagged well behind .
but on monday , he racked up a surprisingly strong third-place finish , garnering the support of 23 percent of republican caucus goers , just below trump ’ s 24 percent second-place finish .
cruz , a senator from texas , won iowa with 28 percent .
many pundits had predicted rubio would struggle to get much above 15 percent to 20 percent in the state .
rubio struck a triumphant tone in his post-caucus speech .
“ this is the moment they said would never happen , ” he said , adding that the people of iowa had “ sent a very clear message. ” on wednesday , though , he gave a cautious outlook on his prospects in new hampshire and beyond .
rubio said he was leaving his fate in the republican u.s. presidential primary contests in god ’ s hands , and added that he hoped his children would be proud of him “ no matter how this turns out. ” “ i just want to do as well as we possibly can here in new hampshire , ” rubio told reporters .
after emerging as the leading “ establishment ” candidate competing with trump and cruz , rubio faces high stakes in new hampshire .
his elevated stature in the race has given his rivals added incentive to attack him .
some voters in the state seemed to be warming to him .
grace freije , 63 , of bow , new hampshire , said she had decided to support rubio after gravitating earlier toward christie .
steve mcmahon , 65 , said the same .
“ he ’ s not a divisive person , ” mcmahon said .
“ this guy ’ s got the best shot at winning. ” ( reporting by emily flitter ; editing by caren bohan and jonathan oatis ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .