geneva ( reuters ) - beijing is waging a campaign of harassment against chinese activists who seek to testify at the united nations about repression , while the world body sometimes turns a blind eye or is even complicit , human rights watch said .
in a report released on tuesday , the group said china restricts travel of activists , or photographs or films them if they do come to the u.n. in geneva to cooperate with human rights watchdogs scrutinizing its record .
what we found is that china is systematically trying to undermine the u.n. s ability to defend human rights , certainly in china but also globally , kenneth roth , executive director of human rights watch , told reuters .
this comes at a point where domestically china s repression is the worst it has been since the tiananmen square democracy movement ( in 1989 ) .
so there is much to hide and china clearly attaches enormous importance to muting criticism of its increasingly abysmal human rights record .
chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang dismissed the report s accusations as groundless , saying beijing was playing an active role in the united nations human rights work .
we urge the relevant organization to remove their tinted lenses and objectively and justly view china s human rights development , he told a regular briefing .
rolando gomez , u.n. human rights council spokesman , said the office did its best to protect all participants and had been extremely vigilant in addressing and investigating all acts and perceived acts of intimidation , threats , and attacks brought to its attention , regardless of which state committed them .
the u.n. system offers one of the few remaining channels for chinese activists to express their views , the new york-based rights group said .
its report , the costs of international advocacy : china s interference in united nations human rights mechanisms , is based on 55 interviews .
nip-it-in-the-bud strategy ( chinese president ) xi jinping seems to have adopted a nip it in the bud strategy with respect to activism at home , but increasingly abroad .
that s one of our messages , china s repression isn t stopping at its borders these days , roth said .
in china , activists have decreasing space safe from intimidation , arbitrary detention , and a legal system controlled by the communist party , the report said , decrying a crackdown on activists and lawyers since 2015.some activists who have attended u.n. reviews of china s record have been punished on their return , it said .
others have their passports confiscated or are arrested before departure .
when xi addressed the u.n. in geneva in january , the u.n. barred non-governmental organizations ( ngos ) from attending , human rights watch said .
dolkun isa , an ethnic uighur rights activist originally from china , was attending a u.n. event in new york in april when u.n. security guards ejected him without explanation , despite his accreditation , it added .
jiang tianyong , a prominent human rights lawyer , disappeared last november , months after meeting in beijing with u.n. special rapporteur on poverty philip alston who has called for his release .
jiang , after being held incommunicado for six months , was charged with subversion .
at his trial last month he confessed , saying that he had been inspired to overthrow china s political system by workshops he had attended overseas .
so the signal is clear - don t you dare present an independent perspective to a u.n. investigator , roth said .