madrid ( reuters ) - investment projects in the northeastern region of catalonia have been paralyzed and the sale of a stake in state-run lender bankia put on hold because of the current political uncertainty , spain s economy minister said on thursday .
catalonia s parliament is set to declare independence on monday after going ahead with a banned referendum on oct.1 , while heavy-handed tactics employed by spanish police trying to stop the ballot have been widely criticized .
this is generating uncertainty that is paralyzing all investment projects in catalonia , economy minister luis de guindos told reuters in an interview .
i m convinced that , right now , not one international or national investor will take part in a new investment project until this is cleared up .
catalonia is a center of industry and tourism that accounts for one-fifth of spain s economy .
it is a production base for major multi-nationals from volkswagen to nestle and home to europe s fastest-growing sea port .
on thursday , spain s fifth-largest bank , sabadell , said it was considering whether to shift its headquarters away from catalonia in the first major sign that the wealthy region s push for independence from spain could scare away big business .
caixabank , spain s third largest lender by market capitalization , is also considering moving its legal base outside catalonia , a source with knowledge of the situation said .
a spokesman for the bank said no decision had been taken on a move .
tensions between madrid and barcelona have intensified since the poll , which was overwhelmingly in favor of independence but which nearly 60 percent of catalan voters boycotted .
catalan president carles puigdemont has said he favors mediation to find a way out of the crisis but that spain s central government had rejected this .
prime minister mariano rajoy s government has meanwhile called on catalonia to return to the path of law before any negotiations .
they know very well that independence , which isn t going to happen , would have very negative consequences , de guindos said .
it won t happen because the spanish government won t let it happen .
it s illegal .
de guindos said the crisis had not yet had any effect on the wider spanish economy , which he expects to grow more than 3 percent this year .
for the moment , we ve seen absolutely no economic impact .
preliminary indicators have been positive and show that the spanish economy will continue to show strong growth , he said .
but worries over the situation were growing .
we re starting to see an enormous concern due to the irresponsibility of the catalan government , and alarm has been growing in the last days and hours , de guindos said .
on the government s plans to sell a further stake in bankia , de guindos said madrid would look at the placement again once the catalan situation had been resolved .
de guindos said in july that spain would explore selling a further stake in bankia some time after the summer , estimating the stake sale would be around 7 percent .
spain s bailout fund had an advisor that was looking at different windows of opportunity , he said .
right now catalonia is more important , but as i m convinced the catalan situation will change course and we will fix it , as soon as circumstances and prices improve , we will look at the possibilities ( of a share sale ) , he said .