caracas ( reuters ) - venezuela accused france on wednesday of joining an imperialist campaign after president emmanuel macron portrayed the widely criticized socialist government as dictatorial .
adding to criticism from washington , the united nations and major latin american nations , macron on tuesday called president nicolas maduro s administration a dictatorship trying to survive at the cost of unprecedented humanitarian distress .
many countries are outraged at the venezuelan government s overriding of the opposition-led congress , crackdown on protests , jailing of hundreds of foes and failure to allow the entry of foreign humanitarian aid to ease a severe economic crisis .
authorities say local opposition leaders want to topple maduro in a coup with u.s. support , but its new constituent assembly will guarantee peace .
comments like this are an attack on venezuelan institutions and seem to form part of the permanent imperialist obsession with attacking our people , the government said in a communique responding to macron .
the french head-of-state s affirmations show a deep lack of knowledge of the reality of venezuela , whose people live in complete peace , the statement said .
it added that the assembly and upcoming state elections demonstrated the health of local democracy .
leaders of the fractious opposition coalition boycotted the july 30 election of the assembly , branding it an affront to democracy .
they called for an early presidential election , which maduro would likely lose as his popularity has sunk along with an economy blighted by triple-digit inflation and food shortages .
france s foreign ministry on wednesday reiterated macron s comments and said it was studying the best way to accompany all initiatives that would enable credible dialogue that included regional countries .
it is up to the venezuelan authorities to give quick pledges in terms of respecting rule of law and fundamental freedoms , spokeswoman agnes romatet-espagne told reporters in a daily briefing .
the european union and france will evaluate their relationship with venezuela on this basis .