strasbourg ( reuters ) - transylvania may not seem everyone s idea of a fun weekend away to get over a painful break-up but that is jean-claude juncker s prescription for eu leaders to cope with the blues on the day britain walks out .
sibiu , the picturesque historic home of romania s ethnic germans , will be just the place for the other 27 national leaders to make a public show of unity on saturday , march 30 , 2019 , the european commission president told eu lawmakers on wednesday in his annual state of the european union address .
his proposals for a more united bloc without britain face scepticism from many governments .
but the eu s chief executive has , officials said , calculated that expanding the euro zone and deepening its cooperation can win support from angela merkel and emmanuel macron , leaders of the founding powers france and germany , and heal rifts with newer , poorer members in the east .
his mention of brexit brought cheers from uk independence party members in strasbourg .
they scoffed at juncker s warning that britons would soon regret leaving and said ukip would look forward to that weekend 18 months hence to celebrate britain s liberation from what they call eu diktat from brussels .
but aides say juncker believes many of the 440 million other europeans will only truly wake up to the fact the second-ranked economy is leaving pretty much around when it actually happens .
and to reassure them at what juncker said would be a very sad and tragic moment , their leaders should plan a get-together in romania , one of the newest , and poorest member states , which just happens to be the rotating chair of the eu in early 2019 .
a rich cultural heritage juncker noted that german-speakers like himself know it as hermannstadt , capital of transylvania s centuries-old saxon community makes sibiu a good spot to celebrate the union of europe s diverse peoples .
the whole idea on that day is to focus on ... matters to come for the union , not on the ones who are leaving , one senior eu official said of the sibiu summit , which was welcomed by romanian president klaus ioannis , a former mayor of the city .
and if hostile british commentators might be tempted to link the transylvanian venue to a view of the eu as a bloodsucking vampire on the british taxpayer , romanian locals insist their town has little to do with the region s dracula legend .
aside from altering the atmospherics of what will certainly be a historic weekend for the european union , the success of juncker s vision for sibiu in 2019 will depend on how national leaders respond to the proposals he sketched out on wednesday .
most strikingly , the former luxembourg premier who will step down in autumn 2019 , wants to use the departure of the union s opter-out-in-chief , britain , to end a culture of states picking and choosing which bits of integration they want - for themselves and others - and to bring all 27 or more nations in to the euro currency zone , schengen travel area and bank union .
in a speech that carefully balanced indirect criticisms and praise for different leaders across the bloc , he slapped down macron s embryonic proposals for a separate euro zone budget and plans to push ahead with deeper integration that could leave non-euro countries , especially in the east , on the eu s fringes .
the german government , preparing for an election in two weeks that should hand merkel a fourth term , is skeptical of macron s plans but is also likely to be wary of the ambition of juncker s proposals .
its initial reaction was restrained .
eu officials , however , play down the idea that juncker is making for a head-on confrontation with merkel and macron when he sets his face against a multispeed europe that the veteran eu dealmaker believes bears the seeds of the eu s unraveling .
rather , juncker sees his idea of a euro zone covering the whole eu , with its budget part of the overall eu budget and run from the existing commission , as a practical application of the kind of suggestions macron and merkel seem to support but on which their administrations have offered little concrete detail .
at the same time , eu officials argue , past attempts by paris and berlin to force a lead on integration , such as by merkel and then president nicolas sarkozy at the height of the euro zone crisis in 2011 , failed to gain traction .
juncker , they say , will try to persuade them that his broader approach is more viable .
nonetheless , his suggestion that the likes of poland and hungary , run by deeply eurosceptic governments , should join the strictures of the euro zone is unlikely to win rapid support in warsaw or budapest .
juncker s argument is , however , that if they refuse offers and pressure to join , they can not then complain about being treated as second class members of the union .
juncker , 62 , said he had despaired of the eu at times but wants sibiu to offer eu voters something other than brexit to wake up to , two months before a european parliament election .
the biggest challenge to achieving his long list of ambitions by then will be overcoming entrenched national interests : democracy is about compromise , he said in a blunt warning to the squabbling leaders he wants to come together in transylvania .
europe can not function without compromise .