meanwhile the u.s. keeps funding the war in syria that drove the refugees out of their homes in the first place refugees receive a plethora of services and assistance when they reach the shores of the america , according to a recently released study.the united states conference of catholic bishops posted a pdf on their website breaking down available assistance for refugees resettled in the united states .
the information is based on a report from the u.s. government accountability office.president barack obama initially said he wanted to bring in 10,000 syrian refugees .
the white house is now discussing raising that from 70,000 this year to 85,000 in 2016 and 100,000 in fiscal 2017 , administration officials told bloomberg news.the numbers of refugees appear on track to grow and each refugee is offered a placement grant of $ 1,850 from the department of state .
this includes : pre-arrival , reception , initial housing food , clothing , referral services and social programs .
the benefit eligibility are for those refugees who have been in the u.s. for up to three months.refugees needing cash assistance can get it through temporary assistance for needy families ( tanf ) .
this is temporary financial assistance and social services for those eligible low-income refugees with dependent children .
cash assistance for refugees who do not qualify for tanf can also be obtained through refugee cash assistance .
this is available for those in u.s. for up to 8 months.supplemental security income ( ssi ) is also an option for incoming refugees and those who settled in the u.s. for up to nine years .
this is cash is cash assistance for those low-income individuals who may be elderly , blind , or disabled.refugees who ve been in the united states up to seven years are also offered medical financial assistance through medicaid as well as through the state children s health insurance program ( schip ) .
otherwise , refugee medical assistance is available for up to eight months for those individuals who are not eligible for medicaid.the supplemental nutrition assistance program ( snap ) is made available to refugees for up to nine years while social services for refugees including job training , placement , and retention for those settled in the u.s are available for up to five years.ann corcoran , founder of refugee resettlement watch , first noticed the posting and comments , at the top you will see that each refugee gets $ 1850 as a one time payment from the us dept .
of state ( a family of 6 would receive $ 11,100 ) .
however , the contracting ( non-profit ) agency keeps about $ 750 of each refugee s allotment for its own overhead .
she later noted , but , that is not all the contractor receives , most get tens of thousands of federal dollars to run myriad other programs through their offices including english language lessons , employment counseling , and even are granted federal dollars to develop community gardens for their refugee clients .
via : daily caller