kampala ( reuters ) - a move to change uganda s constitution to allow president yoweri museveni to rule beyond the age of 75 provoked rowdy scenes in parliament on monday in which six legislators were ejected from the chamber .
museveni , 73 , has ruled the east african country for 31 years .
under the current age cap , the constitution would bar him from standing again as president in 2021 .
parliament on monday began debating a bill , presented by a museveni loyalist , that proposes removing the stipulation a presidential candidate can not be more than 75 years old , something which opposition activists and rights groups say opens the door for him to be president for life .
religious leaders and even some mps from museveni s national resistance movement ( nrm ) party have criticized the proposed bill , which needs two thirds of all voting house members to pass .
but the nrm is expected to easily muster enough votes .
protests against the move have been put down with detentions , teargas and live bullets , leaving at least two dead in october .
on monday , debate proceeded amid heavy deployments of police and military personnel at parliament .
after jeering and heckling erupted in the chamber , the six lawmakers were suspended for a single session and ordered out for undermining the authority of the speaker [ and ] undermining decorum in the house , parliament spokesman chris obore told reuters .
the mps had heckled speaker rebecca kadaga and ignored her orders to be seated , obore said .
house proceedings were adjourned for several hours after the mps were sent out and resumed later in the afternoon to hear a report from a parliamentary committee that conducted public hearings on the bill .
a report by the majority of the mps on the committee endorsed the proposal to scrap the age cap and also recommended that the length of a presidential term be extended to seven from the current five years .
some legislators on the committee disagreed and wrote a minority report .
it s our view that the proposal ... only seeks to promote life presidency as well as negate modern practices of constitutionalism , mp monicah amoding , who read the minority report , said .
in the mostly acrimonious debate , legislators often shouted each other down and jeered .
opposition mps , who dominated the debate , tried unsuccessfully to stall the process .
the speaker adjourned the session to tuesday after she said the chamber s microphones were experiencing a glitch .
in late september , lawmakers brawled in parliament for two consecutive days as mps opposed to the bill attempted to filibuster it but were defeated .
at least 25 mps opposed to the proposed constitutional amendment to prolong museveni s tenure were forcibly ejected on orders of the speaker for involvement in fighting .
museveni initially won broad international support for his embrace of market economics and restoring political order after years of turmoil in the east african country .
but in recent years he has come under a growing spotlight for a range of rights violations , corruption and his unwillingness to give up power .
democracy advocates have expressed alarm at the reemergence of a trend by leaders in the region to seek to change laws , delay elections or use other tactics to extend their tenures .
in burundi and the democratic republic of congo such maneuvers have provoked instability .