while us citizens are outraged over the removal of christ from pretty much every aspect of our lives , including christmas , democrat members of congress are working fast and furiously to implement america s first sharia law ... if they get their way they will be stripping us of our basic rights , and we need to be prepared for their terrifying hope and get americans aware of what is happening ! on december 17 , democrat congressmen quietly sponsored house resolution 569 , a resolution that asks lawmakers to condemn violence , bigotry , and hateful rhetoric towards muslims in the united states .
the resolution specifically mentions muslims , no other religious groups , and will serve as a test by which further criminalizing of islamophobia may be introduced.democrats have shamelessly lumped together hate speech with violence in an effort to compare criticism of islam to physically harming muslims .
h. res .
569 threatens to restrict our right to even report facts that tarnish islam s reputation , a law that all sharia-governed countries already have in place.according to congress.gov , the resolution reads : now , therefore , be it resolved , that the house of representatives denounces in the strongest terms the increase of hate speech , intimidation , violence , vandalism , arson , and other hate crimes targeted against mosques , muslims , or those perceived to be muslim ; urges local and federal law enforcement authorities to work to prevent hate crimes ; and to prosecute to the fullest extent of the law those perpetrators of hate crimes muslims are slaughtering innocent people more than any other religious groups combined , all while refusing as a whole to condemn this barbaric islamic terrorism , yet we are working to ensure these silent , consenting moderates have special protection protection that they have never allowed religious minorities in their own countries.in another passage , democrats laughably purport that muslims have contributed to the fabric of american society , but we re assuming they don t mean terrorist attacks on u.s. soil , countless frivolous cair lawsuits , whitewashed islamic education in public schools , or whining about pork products and a lack of taxpayer-funded prayer rooms .
whereas this muslim community is recognized as having made innumerable contributions to the cultural and economic fabric and well-being of united states society still , the bill is purposefully vague in that it mentions prosecuting the perpetrators of hate speech , yet gives no definition for what it considers hate speech .
of course , we who have spoken out about the intolerant fundamentals of islam understand that this means uttering anything critical of islam or its followers , regardless of facts or relevance to the quran.in conclusion , the bill ridiculously compares criticizing islam as a violation of muslims civil rights , as if disagreeing or even openly mocking someone s beliefs is unconstitutional .
our forefathers had exactly political and religious mockery in mind when they penned our amendments , having experience the violation of limited speech and worship by their own king george iii.indeed , free speech was never intended to defend inoffensive speech , because inoffensive speech needs no protection .
freedom of speech is solely for the offensive , meant to prevent those who would limit it because of their opposing beliefs .
via : rwn