brussels ( reuters ) - a leading european rights watchdog called on turkey on friday to ease post-coup state of emergency laws that have seen thousands arrested and restore power to regional authorities .
president tayyip erdogan has overseen a mass purge in the armed forces and the judiciary , as well as a crackdown on critics including academics and journalists since a failed military coup in july last year .
an advisory body to the council of europe , of which turkey is a member , acknowledged in a report the need for certain extraordinary steps taken by turkish authorities to face a dangerous armed conspiracy .
however ... turkish authorities have interpreted these extraordinary powers too extensively , said the experts , known as the venice commission , in an opinion that has no legal force .
it urged ankara to lift laws allowing it to pick mayors , deputy mayors and members of local councils outside of local elections , a reference to rules the turkish government has used to replace local pro-kurdish politicians across the largely kurdish southeast of the country .
the experts at the council of europe , europe s leading human rights organization with 47 member states , recommended turkey set a time limit on the emergency rules and ensure proper judicial oversight of any counter-terrorism measures .
erdogan has accused u.s.-based , islamic cleric fethullah gulen of orchestrating the coup , in which 250 people were killed .
gulen has denied involvement .
since then , more than 50,000 people have been jailed pending trial over links to gulen , while 150,000 people have been sacked or suspended from jobs in the public and private sectors .
rights groups and turkey s western allies - including the european union - have been taken aback by the scale of the purge , sounding alarm that erdogan was using the coup as a pretext to quash dissent .
the government in turkey , a nato member , says it must neutralize the threat represented by gulen s network deeply rooted in the army , schools and courts .