few people , if any , keep track of ratings or public approval numbers for the smithsonian .
however , if they did , those numbers would soon go down dramatically .
why ?
because the man who single-handedly accomplished the nearly impossible feat of turning america against its favorite game , is about to get his own exhibit.most fans were not impressed with kaepernick s disrespect of our american flag and of our national anthem .
according to curators at the museum , currently unemployed nfl quarterback colin kaepernick is about to get his own display at the smithsonian s national museum of african american history and culture on the national mall.in fact , museum officials have already begun requesting various items of significance from kaepernick s protests of last year.according to the washington examiner , artifacts from former san francisco 49ers quarterback colin kaepernick s national anthem protests will reportedly soon be on display at the black lives matter collection at the smithsonian s national museum of african american history .
the national museum of african american history and culture has nearly 40,000 items in our collection , said damion thomas , the museum s sports curator , to usa today .
the colin kaepernick collection is in line with the museum s larger collecting efforts to document the varied areas of society that have been impacted by the black lives matter movement .
incredibly , as pointed out by ijr and the washington times , the museum extends kaepernick this honor while only mentioning african-american supreme court justice clarence thomas , in connection with the sexual harassment charge brought against him by anita hill .
brietbarti was opposed to welfare because i had seen its destructive effects up close in savannah .
most of the older people among whom i had grown up felt as i did , sharing daddy s belief that it would be the ruination of blacks , undermining their desire to wor & provide for themselves .
i added that my own sister was a victim of the system , which had created a sense of entitlement that had trapped her and her children .
i went on to say that i opposed busing , preferring to give school vouchers to poor children .
source : my grandfather s son : a memoir by clarence thomas , p. 132-3 , oct 1 , 2007quotes like the one above from clarence thomas have made him a target of the left .
it really doesn t matter what color you are , if you don t tow the entitlement line that keeps you in the good graces of the democrat party , you will be punished .
in clarence thomas case , the punishment is that he will likely never see himself featured in the smithsonian black history museum.here is a short biography of clarence thomas , that illustrates the unimaginable odds he overcame to become a us supreme court justice : clarence thomas was born in the tiny coastal town of pin point , georgia , on june 23 , 1948 .
as a very young boy he lived in a one-room shack with dirt floors and no plumbing .
when thomas was two years old , his father walked out on the family .
as a result , at the age of seven he and his younger brother were sent to live with their grandfather , myers anderson , and his wife in savannah , georgia .
anderson , a devout catholic and active member of the national association for the advancement of colored people ( naacp ) , sent thomas to a catholic school staffed by nuns.in remarks reported by jet magazine , thomas has said that he grew up speaking gullah , a creole dialect spoken by african americans on the coastal islands of the southeastern united states .
unlike other supreme court justices , he rarely asks questions from the bench during court proceedings .
he has said that he developed this habit of silent listening when he was young because he found it a struggle to speak standard english correctly in school .
nevertheless , he was always a strong student.clarence thomas went on to become a us supreme court justice and champion of our constitution.apparently , the smithsonian can t find space in their museum for supreme court justice clarence thomas , a highly accomplished conservative black man , who was born into poverty , and through sheer determination and hard work , became the longest serving black supreme court justice in america s history .