san carlos , colombia ( reuters ) - farmers who fled war in the colombian andes are returning to revive their abandoned land , cultivating coffee trees that are boosting global supplies of the highest-quality beans .
colombia s five-decade civil war , the longest in the americas , displaced millions and disrupted farming for decades in areas that produce coffee for the most exacting consumer .
the revival of coffee farming in the former conflict zones could help boost colombia s coffee output by 40 percent , according to government estimates .
that would raise global supplies of mild arabica beans by about 13 percent .
the additional supply could reduce the cost of the raw material for the world s top roasters , many of whom are seeking to secure increased supply from colombia .
about 950 coffee-growing families have returned to the san carlos area , representing about 60 percent of the 1,600 families who left during the war , according to data from the colombian coffee growers federation ( fnc ) .
the supply from this region , about 330 kilometers ( 205 miles ) north west of the colombian capital of bogota , could expand further as farmers plant more of their land and more people return to the region to provide the needed labor .
the area now has about 800 hectares of coffee farms , double the low of 400 hectares during the war .
that s still only about half of the 1,500 hectares prior to the conflict , according to fnc data .
among those who returned was libardo garcia , who lost two brothers in the conflict - one was shot and the other killed by a landmine .
he and his family moved back to their 12-hectare ( 30 acres ) farm in 2015 after fleeing in 2001 .
all the coffee trees were dead when we came back , said garcia , who has since planted 8,000 trees on two hectares of steeply sloped land .
arabica is the highest quality coffee bean , and colombia is the world s top producer of mild arabica .
to make that variety , beans are separated from the cherry then dried to increase quality .
arabica makes up about 60 percent of global coffee supplies , with lower-quality robusta beans accounting for the rest .
while some coffee roasters add robusta to their highly secretive blends , premium brands are typically 100 percent mild arabica .
a peace deal between the government and the rebel revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) in late 2016 paved the way for many to return to their homes and farms , including thousands of coffee growers .
about 220,000 people died and millions were displaced in decades of fighting among leftist guerillas , paramilitary groups , criminal organizations and government forces .
the conflict impacted large areas of the country , and the government struggled to exert control over highlands and remote jungle areas in the west and south of the country .
some farmers who stayed through the violence have also switched to coffee from growing coca and other illegal crops that they cultivated during the conflict .
coca is used for cocaine production , and the cash from growing it helped finance armed groups during the war .
the combination of farmers returning to their abandoned land and others switching to coffee could help boost the country s total output to a record 20 million 60-kg bags by 2020 , the government estimates , up from 14.2 million bags in 2016 .
in the andean region of san carlos , the revival in coffee production has advanced quickly since conflict in the region abated around 2014 , when the peace deal was still being negotiated .
the country s conflict with rebels began in 1964 and peaked in this region around 2000 .
after fleeing his farm , garcia spent time in the city of medellin and then in the town of san carlos .
we came back because we love the land , he said , leaning against the fence outside his home , a brick house adorned with baskets of flowers .
wearing a wide-brimmed hat , garcia pointed out a former farc stronghold in the distance , in tree-covered mountains about an hour s walk from his farm .
most of his neighbors have yet to return , he said , either because they are skeptical the peace will last or because they have made lives elsewhere .
before moving his family back , garcia traveled the 13 kilometers from nearby san carlos every weekend for three years to plant new coffee trees and remove the dead ones .
garcia has plenty of land to expand his farm further but can not yet find the labor because too few people have returned to surrounding communities .
new high-yielding trees have helped boost harvests , but the region is still far from reaching its potential because of the labor shortage , said rosa velasques , manager of the local cooperative where about 1,000 local farmers sell their beans .
international roasters have jumped at the opportunity to buy more beans from colombia , the world s third-largest coffee producer and the source of a third of the world s mild arabica supplies .
italian roaster illycaffe has expanded its buying to parts of the country that were unreachable during the violence .
now they ve opened up , said illycaffe chairman andrea illy .
the firm had increased purchases from the region by double digit percentages for the last two to three years , illy said , and it expects growth to continue at similar rates .
in 2016 , nestle nespresso bought its first coffee from a post-conflict region of colombia and launched it this year as a limited edition .
a lot of these regions , nobody had even been in and tasted the coffee until recently , said katherine graham , nestle nespresso s corporate communications manager .
there are some areas with strong potential , graham said .
but it needs a lot of development , a lot of work .
starbucks co expanded its partnership with the united states agency for international development to give 1,000 farmers in post-conflict zones agricultural training .
it also partnered with the inter-american development bank to support 2,000 farmers in colombia - mainly women - with a loan initiative .
colombian entrepreneur gonzalo navarro launched a roasting company called piccolo piacere in medellin earlier this year , focusing on sourcing from small coffee growers , many in former conflict zones .
we have access to farmers who in the past were growing other things , such as coca , he said .
back near san carlos , farmer rubiela cuervo works a remote farm with her family .
she fled to medellin to escape the violence in 2005 but struggled to make a living and returned a year later despite the ongoing violence .
she has expanded the farm as peace returned to the area in recent years .
we hope that peace will bring us more employment , more income for our work , she said .
i m hoping not to be displaced again .
graphic : high-quality coffee output by country tmsnrt.rs/2zc9sau