kabul/jakarta ( reuters ) - thousands of protesters in muslim-majority countries in asia rallied on friday to condemn the u.s. decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital , as authorities tightened security outside u.s. embassies .
leaders in indonesia , malaysia and pakistan have joined a global chorus of condemnation of president donald trump s decision .
hundreds of protesters gathered in afghanistan s capital with placards , effigies of trump and at least one burning u.s. flag .
death to america !
death to trump and israel !
the crowds chanted .
afghan president ashraf ghani , a staunch u.s. ally , has not commented on the trump decision .
in indonesia , a few hundred demonstrators mostly clad in white rallied outside the u.s. embassy in jakarta , capital of the world s biggest muslim-majority country .
some wore checkered scarves and waved palestinian flags .
we re standing here in the name of justice and humanity .
we ve gathered to defend our palestinian brothers and sisters , said one rally leader in jakarta .
trump said on wednesday the united states would move its embassy to jerusalem in the coming years .
protests have erupted in the west bank and the gaza strip as the islamist group hamas urged palestinians to launch a fresh uprising against israel .
the status of jerusalem is one of the thorniest barriers to a lasting israeli-palestinian peace .
its eastern sector was captured by israel in a 1967 war and annexed in a move not recognized internationally .
palestinians claim east jerusalem for the capital of an independent state they seek .
in malaysia , protesters gathered in front of the american embassy in the capital , kuala lumpur .
mr president , this is an illegal announcement .
jerusalem is an occupied territory , minister for youth and sports khairy jamaluddin said through a loudspeaker towards the embassy .
malaysian prime minister najib razak on thursday called on muslims worldwide to strongly oppose any recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital .
about 3,000 people in bangladesh gathered in front of the main mosque in the capital , dhaka , to protest .
in pakistan s major cities , hundreds of islamists hardliners rallied in small groups .
down with america , down with israel and no to israel occupation , chanted protesters in the cities of lahore and peshawar .
controversial pakistani cleric hafiz saeed promised bigger protests over jerusalem and urged the government to convene a conference of muslim-majority states .
pakistan should take the lead , being the only nuclear state of the islamic world , said saeed , who was released from house arrest last month by a pakistani court .
the united states and india blame saeed as the mastermind of the attacks that killed 166 people in india s financial capital , mumbai .
in kashmir , small groups of people protested in srinagar , the capital of the indian portion of the divided muslim-majority region that is claimed by both india and pakistan .
we condemn the idiot trump s decision , said a placard on an effigy of the u.s. president .