there s nothing like a brit telling americans who we should support for president , or a foreigner suggesting we should open our borders to anyone who cares to cross over them .
it s not exactly like britain is immune from the violent muslim invasion taking place across europe .
telling americans which of our candidates do , or do not represent us values adds a special touch don t you think ? perhaps queen clooney should stick to advising britain citizens about who they should or shouldn t vote for .
just because you and your ass-clown of a husband raised $ 15 million for corrupt hillary , doesn t give you the right to tell americans who we should vote for .
george clooney is a clinton supporter but he agrees with sanders on at least one point .
# decision2016https : //t.co/gq8x7yr8ya meet the press ( @ meetthepress ) april 16 , 2016amal clooney , the british-lebanese human rights attorney who has been married to hollywood actor george clooney since 2014 , says populist gop frontrunner trump doesn t represent u.s. values .
in a bbc interview monday evening , the 38-year-old criticized the leading candidate on the republican side for proposing building walls and a temporary pause on muslim immigration into the united states.she then paraphrased trump and defended muslims who she says are not extremist or violent .
if you actually look at what [ trump ] specifically says in that now infamous speech about muslims , he kept saying , they only want jihad ; they don t believe in our way of life ; they don t respect our system , she said.she continued : and when he says they and , you know , you watch the media coverage afterwards and people should ve been saying , do you mean the 1.5 billion people around the world who fit that description ?
do you mean the people who are u.s. citizens , who are members of your military , the vast majority of whom are not extremist or violent in any way ?
her mother is a sunni muslim.amal clooney added she is perplexed by the success of trump s campaign .
if , at the end of all of this , he gets beaten by the person who becomes the first female president of the united states , then i think that would send a very positive message from the electorate back to him as to what they really think of those points of view , clooney said.she concluded : i don t think they are u.s. values .
amal clooney and her husband george both support hillary clinton s white house bid .
mr. clooney , who has pushed for open borders , recently described trump as a xenophobic fascist who want ban muslims from the country during an interview with the guardian.as breitbart news has extensively reported in the past , the clooneys have taken extensive measures to ensure they have privacy and security at their homes , including their $ 10 million lake como estate in laglio , northern italy.roberto pozzi , mayor of laglio , issued an ordinance in 2015 to protect the solace of the couple and their property .
the area surrounding the estate is now off limits to unwanted guests , and anyone who gets too close to the property faces a stiff fine.via : breitbart news