jakarta ( reuters ) - around 1,000 indonesians , led by hardline islamist groups , protested outside parliament on tuesday as lawmakers approved a presidential decree banning any civil organizations deemed to go against the country s secular state ideology .
tuesday s approval puts into law a policy president joko widodo set in a decree in july .
the policy was aimed at containing hardline groups who have cast a shadow over the long-standing reputation for religious tolerance in the world s largest muslim-majority nation .
we have seen mass organizations that are against the pancasila ( state ideology ) and have created social conflict , said arya bima , a lawmaker in favour of the policy .
this law doesn t impede freedom of organization or assembly , it strengthens it .
in late 2016 and early this year , groups such as hizb-ut tahrir indonesia ( hti ) and the islamic defenders front ( fpi ) , which call for islamic law to be imposed in indonesia , led mass street rallies attacking jakarta s governor , a christian , whom they accused of insulting islam .
basuki tjahaja purnama , who in april lost an election to get a new term , was jailed one month later after being convicted of blasphemy , in a court ruling widely criticized in indonesia and overseas as unjust .
the presidential decree widodo signed in july ordered the disbanding of all organizations deemed to be in conflict with the secular state ideology .
hti , which seeks to establish an islamic caliphate , was the first organization to be disbanded under the policy .
pancasila or five principles is indonesia s state ideology , which includes belief in god , the unity of the country , social justice and democracy , and which enshrines religious diversity in an officially secular system .
under the new law , anyone who embraces , develops of spreads ideology that is in conflict with the ( state ideology ) pancasila can face imprisonment of six months to life , according to a copy of the draft law reviewed by reuters .
rights activists and civil organizations have decried the move , saying it harks back to the era of authoritarian ruler suharto , who demanded loyalty to pancasila and took repressive measures against some opponents .
opposition lawmaker al muzamil yusuf said the new law could violate democratic rights and remove checks and balances on the government .
during the protest outside parliament on tuesday , around 5,200 police and military personnel stood guard around the complex in central jakarta .
a hashtag supporting widodo s policy was a top trending topic on indonesian twitter .
this policy is not about ( widodo ) or any political party , it s about safeguarding the unity of the country , said user @ senopati .