new york ( reuters ) - financially troubled puerto rico ’ s push for a debt restructuring program could get a lift from the death of conservative justice antonin scalia , who was viewed as likely to oppose granting such relief in an upcoming u.s. supreme court case .
the highest u.s. federal court in december agreed to hear puerto rico ’ s bid to reinstate a 2014 law called the recovery act after it was struck down by a lower court .
the government of the u.s. territory , which has around $ 70 billion in borrowings , hoped the act would help it to restructure its debt and pull it out of a fiscal crisis .
it would give the caribbean island more power to impose conditions on creditors in a debt restructuring , which could worsen creditor recoveries , bondholders had argued .
“ scalia has been a fairly aggressive defender of contractual rights over the years , ” said height securities analyst daniel hanson , who estimated the chances of a puerto rico victory have risen to around 30 percent from five percent after scalia ’ s death .
scalia , who served on the supreme court for nearly 30 years , died at a ranch in texas last saturday , setting up a major political showdown between president barack obama and the republican-controlled senate over who will replace him on the nine-member court .
a supreme court victory could help strengthen the arguments of island officials and a number of democrats in their campaign to give puerto rico bankruptcy protection rights , which u.s. states already receive .
that effort has been stunted by lack of republican support .
the recovery act was designed to apply to some of puerto rico ’ s public corporations , such as utility prepa , but excluded debt issued by the island and its government development bank .
prepa bondholders oppenheimer funds and franklin templeton sued puerto rico , claiming the act would enable puerto rico to modify debt obligations .
a u.s. federal court in puerto rico a year ago voided the recovery act saying it contravened federal bankruptcy law , and a u.s. appeals court affirmed that last july .
the puerto rican government and its lawyers , as well as a representative for the bondholder plaintiffs , did not respond to requests for comment or declined comment .
scalia ’ s death means that only seven justices are likely to vote on the puerto rico case as justice samuel alito , a conservative , who had investments in funds with puerto rico bonds , last year recused himself .
if there had been a tied 4-4 vote it would have automatically upheld the lower court ’ s decision .
alito could still participate if he divests investments before the oral argument .
of the remainder of the justices , four are viewed as liberals and three as conservatives .
the latter are seen by some restructuring experts as more likely to support creditors on the basis of contractual business rights .
“ the four liberal justices are the justices most likely to be sympathetic to puerto rico ’ s arguments , ” said david skeel , professor at the university of pennsylvania law school , who said scalia ’ s death creates the possibility that the liberal block will prevail by a 4-3 vote .
skeel wrote a brief supporting puerto rico ’ s position in the case .
still , the restructuring experts said that it may be too simple to suggest that scalia would have voted against puerto rico as the case involves complex legal questions .
richard levin , co-head of jenner & block ’ s restructuring and bankruptcy department , said the court tries very hard to apply the law , rather than allow political leanings to dominate its decisions .
carlos del valle cruz , counsel for eduardo bhatia , president of puerto rico ’ s senate , also said that scalia ’ s absence may favor puerto rico .
a complicating factor is a separate case which was just argued in front of the u.s. supreme court .
that concerns the indictment of two men by puerto rico prosecutors on gun charges , and their subsequent indictment by a federal grand jury .
both pleaded guilty to the federal charges and were sentenced to prison but the case in puerto rico continued .
the u.s .
solicitor general donald verrilli has argued that the puerto rico prosecution violated double jeopardy laws that ban trying a defendant twice for the same crime in the same jurisdiction , while puerto rico ’ s government countered that its rights to self-governance were threatened .
nicholos venditti , a portfolio manager at thornburg investment management , said rulings in both cases could “ have significant implications for puerto rico and the u.s. that reach far beyond the $ 70 billion in debt. ” john miller , co-head of fixed income for nuveen asset management , which holds around $ 300 million in par value of insured puerto rican paper , said the concern with the recovery act being reinstated would be the potential for it to be expanded to other issuers beyond the public agencies it was originally designed for .
oral arguments in the supreme court case are scheduled to be held march 22 .