beirut ( reuters ) - the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) said on wednesday its campaign to capture raqqa from islamic state ( is ) was in its final stages and its fighters had seized 80 percent of the city .
in its fight against a separate operation waged by the syrian army and its allies , islamic state has collapsed along the west bank of the euphrates downstream of raqqa , the syrian observatory for human rights said on wednesday .
is has lost swathes of territory in syria this year , attacked from the north by the sdf and from the west by the syrian army , which has pushed it back across the desert to its last strongholds in the euphrates valley .
the sdf , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias , launched its offensive on the jihadist group in raqqa city in june , backed by u.s.-led air strikes and special forces on the ground .
the city had served as islamic state s de facto capital in syria .
in a statement on wednesday , the sdf said it had opened a new front against is on the northern edge of raqqa .
this was a feature of the final stages of the euphrates wrath campaign , which is nearing its end .
we can say that 80 percent of the city of raqqa has been liberated , the statement said .
an sdf media official said the main obstacles facing the alliance in raqqa are avoiding civilian casualties and a high concentration of mines .
he estimated that 700 to 1,000 is fighters remain in the city .
the syrian observatory for human rights said on wednesday that islamic state now controls only 5 percent of the city and its remaining militants there have nearly run out of food and munitions .
in deir al-zor province of eastern syria , islamic state is battling two separate offensives , launched by the sdf on one side and the syrian army and its allies on the other .
the syrian army , backed by russian and syrian war planes , has captured about 100 km ( 160 miles ) of the west bank of the euphrates this month , reaching raqqa provincial border on wednesday , the observatory reported .
syrian troops also crossed to the eastern side of the river on monday .
the sdf s advances have been on the eastern bank of the river .
the convergence of the two rival offensives has increased tensions in deir al-zor .
the u.s.-backed militia on monday warned against any further syrian army advances on the eastern riverbank .
on tuesday , russia s defence ministry said the euphrates had risen as soon as the syrian army began crossing it .
the only way that could have happened was if upstream dams held by the u.s.-backed opposition had been opened , it said .
a fire at a major gas field known as conoco raged through tuesday night and into wednesday , the observatory said , after syrian state media reported that the army was advancing toward it .
islamic state had fled the area , the observatory added .
the hardline militants lost their main stronghold in iraq , the city of mosul , in july to western-backed iraqi forces .