after years of debate , the house on thursday voted to repeal key parts of the affordable care act and replace them with new provisions.the vote , which president donald trump was planning to tout as a big victory , sends the republican-sponsored bill to gut obamacare to the senate for consideration.but winning approval for the bill could be even more difficult in the senate than it has been in the house , where republican leaders struggled for nearly two months to wrangle enough votes in their caucus to secure its passage.the bill passed by a vote of 217 to 213 .
all 193 democrats voting opposed the bill ; they were joined by 20 republicans voting no .
a lot of us have waited seven years to case this vote , house speaker paul ryan , r-wis. , said shortly before the voting began .
many of us are here because we pledged to cast this vote : to repeal and replace obamacare .
this bill delivers the promises we have made to the american people , ryan said.house majority whip steve scalise , r-la. , told msnbc shortly before the vote began , we were elected to do this .
after the vote , protesters outside the capitol building yelled , shame , shame !
at members of congress walking down the front steps .
cnbcwashington free beacon one of the amendments , introduced by rep. tom macarthur ( r. , n.j. ) , co-chair of the tuesday group , allows states to obtain a waiver from federal standards such as essential health benefits and community rating rules .
this measure gained the support of house freedom caucus members , who said it will significantly lower health costs , even if it does not fully repeal obamacare .
the macarthur amendment will grant states the ability to repeal cost driving aspects of obamacare left in place under the original ahca , said the house freedom caucus .
while the revised version still does not fully repeal obamacare , we are prepared to support it to keep our promise to the american people to lower health care costs .
another amendment , introduced by rep. fred upton ( r. , mich. ) adds $ 8 billion to the patient and state stability fund , which helps reduce premiums and out-of-pocket costs .
this amendment would provide additional funding , $ 8 billion over five years , to ensure a strong safety net and reduce premiums , or other out-of-pocket costs , for those with preexisting conditions , said upton.following the amendment , white house press secretary sean spicer said that the white house supported the measure and that president trump has been working to ensure that americans have more affordable care .
overall the efforts that were made , and especially the effort this morning with congressmen long and upton , help bring more people into this effort and make it even a stronger bill , and ensure that americans have a health care system that gets them the care that they need at a price that s affordable , spicer said .
the president has been on the phone constantly , spicer said .
i think we have made this an unbelievable bill and an unbelievable replacement for obamacare , which is failing , and that s what we ve sought to do from the beginning .