shanghai ( reuters ) - an old review of an academic monograph on agrarian revolutionaries in 1930s china is hardly a political third rail in beijing today , even by the increasingly sensitive standards of the ruling communist party .
that such a piece appeared on a list of some 300 scholarly works that cambridge university press ( cup ) said last week the chinese government had asked it to block from its website offers clues about the inner workings of china s vast and secretive censorship apparatus , say experts .
president xi jinping has stepped up censorship and tightened controls on the internet and various aspects of civil society , as well as reasserting communist party authority over academia and other institutions , since coming to power in 2012 .
far from being a well-oiled machine , though , china s censorship regime is fragmented and often undermined by gaps , workarounds , and perhaps even hasty officials , say academics specializing in chinese politics .
crude is the word , said jonathan sullivan , an associate professor at the university of nottingham in britain .
the blunt way in which articles were chosen for censoring ... suggest to me that there was not a lot of thought put into it .
cup , the publishing arm of britain s elite cambridge university , on monday reversed its decision to comply with the request to censor the articles published in the journal china quarterly following an outcry over academic freedom .
china s response remains to be seen .
the education ministry , foreign ministry , cyberspace administration and state publishing authority all declined to comment .
the list of articles the authorities wanted blocked covered topics that are considered sensitive by the government , including the 1989 tiananmen square democracy protests , the 1966-76 cultural revolution , tibet , taiwan and the violence-prone far-western region of xinjiang .
but it was far from thorough or comprehensive .
the article on 1930s agrarian revolutionaries may have got there by mistake , say experts .
what appears to have condemned the scathing but otherwise innocuous 1991 review of kamal sheel s book about a communist base area in china s southern heartland was the fact the place was named xinjiang , and the word appeared in the book title .
the chinese characters are different for xinjiang , the village , and xinjiang , the mostly-muslim region more than 2,500 km ( 1,550 miles ) to the northwest that is beset by ethnic tensions and occasional unrest .
but in english they are indistinguishable .
xu xibai , a doctoral candidate at the university of oxford , tweeted a brief analysis of the list that noted that its creators appear to have hastily searched the china quarterly database for taboo words in titles and abstracts .
the censors probably used a few keyword searches to locate just enough articles to make a nice , long list to impress their superiors , xu s post said .
they did not bother to read the articles or go through the content list manually .
an article defending mao zedong was on the censored list , for instance , while others more critical of the former paramount leader were not .
some sensitive subjects seem to have eluded the officials net .
the communist party tightly controls discourse on the 1958-61 great leap forward , in which millions starved to death due to ill-conceived economic policies .
censors have banned books on the topic but it was apparently not on this list .
nor were the brutal , communist-led land reforms of the 1950s , or the hundred flowers movement , an effort by mao to lure critics out of the woodwork by feigning openness , only to punish them .
the party s efforts to censor news and information have sometimes backfired or left outsiders perplexed .
in 2009 , software designed to check pornographic and violent images on pcs blocked images of a movie poster for cartoon cat garfield , dishes of flesh-color cooked pork and on one search engine a close-up of film star johnny depp s face .
citizen lab , a group of researchers based at the university of toronto , compiled a list of words banned as of last year on popular live streaming sites in china .
among them : moulin rouge , braised rabbit , helicopter and zen .
the request to block the articles was passed to cambridge university press by its import agent , but without knowing where it originated it is hard to draw firm conclusions , said sebastian veg , a china scholar at the school of advanced studies in social sciences in paris .
the censorship system is of course centrally directed , but not uniform , veg said .
lee siu-yau , assistant professor of greater china studies at the education university of hong kong , suspects the request was a trial balloon .
they usually start with something small-scale and gradually expand and make their requirements more difficult , he said .
this might be one of the first steps that the chinese government would take to see if it could actually influence international academic publishers .
( story refiles to add dropped words a and an in paragraphs four and six . )