madrid ( reuters ) - catalonia s deposed president said he might consider a solution to spain s political crisis that did not involve the region s secession , appearing to soften the staunchly pro-independence stance that cost him his leadership last month .
in an interview with belgian daily le soir , carles puigdemont was asked if a non-secessionist option was on the table to resolve a crisis triggered when spain took over control of the region after its parliament declared independence on oct. 27 .
i m ready , and have always been ready , to accept the reality of another relationship with spain ...
it ( another solution ) is still possible , puigdemont said .
i have , being pro-independence all my life , worked for 30 years to have another way of catalonia being anchored to spain , he added , giving no details of what form such a relationship could take .
he posted a link to the interview , which was published on monday , on his twitter feed .
the former president is in self-imposed exile in belgium after running an independence campaign that prompted authorities in madrid to fire his cabinet , dissolve the regional parliament and call new elections for december .
puigdemont , who had previously insisted the independence declaration should form the basis of any political negotiations with prime minister mariano rajoy , is under conditional release after an international arrest warrant was served against him .
he and four other former members of the catalan government with him in belgium face charges of rebellion and sedition .
rajoy has said he was open to talks with catalan leaders on resolving spain s worst political crisis since its return to democracy four decades ago , but only within a legal framework and after the independence drive was dropped as a condition .
in an interview with german newspaper handelsblatt published on monday , rajoy said the position of the former catalan leaders focused on the independence vote and gave little room beyond that for debate .
many blame me for not seeking political solutions .
but i ve been in politics for a long time and ... there was no alternative , rajoy said , adding that the catalan crisis was the largest problem he had had to face as prime minister .
he said had tried to reach a compromise with the regional government , but it was impossible .
the government of catalonia had only one goal - the independence referendum , he said .
the spanish government has called regional elections for dec. 21 , and puigdemont s pdecat has failed to agree on a united ticket with other secessionist party , the erc , denting the pro-independence camp s hopes of uniting behind the secessionist cause .
the head of the erc and former deputy to puigdemont , oriol junqueras , will campaign for his party from a prison cell after being detained with other cabinet members who remained in spain and pending trial on sedition and rebellion charges .
according to an opinion poll released last week , independence supporters would win the election if they ran on a joint ticket , though probably short of a parliamentary majority .