you just can t make this stuff up the leftist rag , daily kos actually wrote a story about how president trump will disproportionately harm blacks after hurricane harvey attacks them in texas.here is the actual tweet pushing their insane story about a racist hurricane harvey : hurricane harvey poised to disproportionately impact blacks in texas , but no one is talking about it https : //t.co/a6jrt6cyup daily kos ( @ dailykos ) august 25 , 2017here s an excerpt from the article : as texas braces itself for hurricane harvey , the trump administration remains woefully ignorant and unprepared .
the current fema director is working to rewrite the federal flood insurance program so that the federal government bears less of the cost when disasters strike and flooding occurs .
on the surface , that might sound like a fiscally responsible move .
but it s loaded with inconsistencies and will most certainly not work out well for local cities , states or residents .
additionally , since trump seems to be firing people weekly but taking his sweet time in hiring them , no one has been appointed to lead both the national oceanic and atmospheric association ( noaa ) and the department of homeland security ( dhs ) .
dhs oversees fema and the coast guard so it s almost guaranteed that the response to this storm will be chaos .
this is shaping up to be another hurricane katrina complete with a devastating impact on black and brown communities.southeast texas and the coastal bend regions of the state are expected to be the hardest hit .
while hispanics make up about 40 percent of the state s population , texas has one of the largest black populations in the country .
and they live concentrated in the areas that are predicted to be hardest hit .
for example , several counties have already been declared a state of disaster by republican gov .
greg abbottnoteworthy also is the high percentage of people in poverty [ in texas ] who are african american women , especially single parents .
of the 24 % of african americans below poverty level , single mothers make up 65 % .
daily kos