barcelona ( reuters ) - tens of thousands of catalans are expected to defy spanish authorities and attempt to vote in a banned independence referendum on sunday , raising fears of unrest in the wealthy northeastern region .
the referendum , declared illegal by spain s central government , has thrown the country into its worst constitutional crisis in decades and raised fears of street violence as a test of will between madrid and barcelona plays out .
in a sign of how the planned vote has polarized the country , thousands of pro-unity demonstrators gathered in spain s major cities , including barcelona , to express their fierce opposition to catalonia s attempt to break away .
in the region itself , hundreds of supporters of the referendum spent the day with their children playing football , board games and ping pong in schools , traditionally used as voting stations in spain , to keep them open until voting starts at 9 a.m. ( 0700 gmt ) on sunday .
the government said just a small percentage of schools were occupied , however , and that it had verified that most of the more than 2,300 earmarked for the vote were closed .
in those where they gathered , parents brought sleeping bags and prepared to bed down on gym mats .
we don t understand why we can t express in a peaceful manner the simplest expression of democracy - a vote , said pablo larranaga , as he stood in a school in barcelona surrounded by parents and small children .
we don t know what is going to happen tomorrow .
we are going to try to vote in the only way we know , which is peacefully .
it is still unclear whether the referendum will go ahead despite the regional government s assertions that it will proceed and madrid s insistence that it will block the move .
the ballot will have no legal status as it has been blocked by spain s constitutional court and madrid for being at odds with the 1978 constitution .
a minority of around 40 percent of catalans support independence , polls show , although a majority want to hold a referendum on the issue .
the region of 7.5 million people has an economy larger than that of portugal .
however much voting takes place , a yes result is likely , given that most of those who support independence are expected to cast ballots while most of those against it are not .
police monitored schools earmarked as polling stations and occupied the catalan government s communications hub on saturday in an effort to prevent the referendum from going ahead .
the catalan police , or mossos d esquadra , who are monitoring the schools , are held in great affection by the catalan people , especially after islamist attacks in the region in august that killed 16 .
but thousands of extra police have been sent to the region in order to enforce a court order banning the referendum , many of whom are billeted in two ships in the port .
a spanish government source said it would be up to police how they carried out orders to remove people from polling stations on sunday .
the head of the catalan police on friday urged officers to avoid the use of force .
organizers urged voters to arrive at 5 a.m. ( 0300 gmt ) at polling stations and to wait in line until the schools opened .
voters must show peaceful resistance to police action , organizers said .
we must be sure there are lots of people present of all ages , they said in instructions disseminated on social media .
any volunteer staffing a voting station with use of a census listing eligible voters would be liable for a fine of up to 300,000 euros , the government source said .
thousands of pro-unity demonstrators waving spanish flags filled the central square outside the seat of the regional government and barcelona city hall .
one man burnt the catalan flag while a group tried to tear down a banner reading more democracy hanging from the front of the town hall to cheers from the crowd .
in the capital madrid , hundreds gathered waving the national flag and chanting spanish unity and don t fool us - catalonia is spain .
many balconies in the capital are draped with the red and yellow spanish flag .