washington ( reuters ) - u.s. forces have captured a militant who is believed to have played a role in a 2012 attack on a u.s. diplomatic compound in benghazi , libya , that killed u.s .
ambassador christopher stevens and three other americans , u.s. officials said on monday .
the officials , speaking on the condition of anonymity , said that u.s. special operation forces captured the militant in libya in the past few days .
two of the officials identified him as mustafa al-imam and said he had played a role in the attack and the ambassador s death .
the officials said the man was now in the custody of the department of justice and being transported back to the united states by the military .
they added that the operation was authorized by president donald trump and had notified the u.n.-backed government of national accord .
in a statement , trump said al-imam will face justice in the united states for his alleged role in the september 11 , 2012 attacks .
[ nw1n1n000y ] attorney general jeff sessions said al-imam was now in custody and the united states would continue to investigate and identify those who were involved in the attack .
the appropriate congressional committees and the families of the americans killed in the 2012 attack had also been notified , the officials said .
the attack on the embassy was the topic of numerous congressional hearings , with republican lawmakers critical of the way in which then-secretary of state hillary clinton responded to the attack .
earlier this month , u.s. prosecutors opened their case against the suspected ringleader , ahmed abu khatallah .
khatallah had been awaiting trial since 2014 , when he was captured by a team of u.s. military and fbi officials in libya and transported on a 13-day journey to the united states aboard a navy vessel .
militants have exploited chaos following muammar gaddafi s 2011 downfall .
islamic state took over sirte in early 2015 , turning it into its most important base outside the middle east and attracting large numbers of foreign fighters to the city .
islamic state militants has shifted to desert valleys and inland hills southeast of tripoli as they seek to exploit libya s political divisions after their defeat in sirte .
the united states has been carrying out strikes against the militant group in libya , striking more than a dozen militants in september .