caracas , venezuela ( reuters ) - venezuelan authorities overnight freed two activists who were in jail for more than a year after being accused of plotting against socialist president nicolas maduro , the opposition said on saturday .
delson guarate , who had been a mayor in central aragua state , and former student leader yon goicoechea were among nearly 400 jailed anti-maduro activists who rights campaigners say are political prisoners but whom the government calls coup-plotters .
i m with my family today , tweeted goicoechea , displaying a photo of himself against the backdrop of caracas avila mountain .
tomorrow i ll address the country .
god is with us .
i m free !
guarate tweeted .
the pair s freedom , with some unspecified conditions attached , was confirmed by opposition parties and a rights group , but the government had no comment .
the releases came as maduro called for one of the most prominent opposition leaders , congress head julio borges , to face treason charges for lobbying against his government in global financial circles .
and the pro-maduro supreme court began moves this week to remove parliamentary immunity for congress deputy leader freddy guevara , so he can be tried for instigating violence .
guevara runs the militant popular will party , which both goicoechea and guarate belong to .
it has been at the forefront of anti-maduro protests , including four months of demonstrations this year that led to 125 deaths .
critics say maduro has turned the opec nation into a dictatorship .
his supporters say the 54-year-old successor to hugo chavez is resisting a western-backed push to oust him .
in a new york times column earlier this year , goicoechea described how a dozen policemen put a black cloth over his head when they arrested him before taking him to a cell without natural light or ventilation .
when i stretched my arms , i could touch two opposite walls , he wrote in the column smuggled out of prison .
the door was blocked with black garbage bags , leaving the room in total darkness .
there was rotten , worm-infested food on the floor alongside scraps of clothing covered in feces .
it felt as if i had been buried alive .
senior officials said goicoechea was an imperialist agent caught with explosives in his possession , while guarate had been financing terrorism .
neither was tried .
popular will , which the government has threatened to proscribe as a terrorist organization , said it would not stop fighting for the freedom of all activists .
the dictatorship s justice is a revolving door , said party legislator juan mejia .
some leave , while others come in at its discretion and to its benefit .