( reuters ) - president barack obama is set on tuesday to unveil his budget proposal for fiscal year 2017 , his final year in office .
but since the republican-controlled congress controls the purse strings , much of obama ’ s plan likely will be shelved .
the following are some of the proposals that will be included : the pentagon will ask for more than $ 7 billion for the fight against islamic state , up about 35 percent from the previous year ’ s budget request to congress , and wants a fourfold increase for military training and exercises in europe to support nato allies .
in a long-shot bid to raise $ 20 billion to expand transit systems and research self-driving cars , obama will propose a $ 10-a-barrel tax on crude oil .
the budget will propose boosting spending on cybersecurity by 35 percent to $ 19 billion and creating a $ 3.1 billion fund to modernize the government ’ s creaky information technology systems .
obama will seek a 20 percent boost for renewable energy research funding to a total of $ 7.7 billion .
obama will propose a $ 2.5 billion tax credit over five years for businesses that invest in community college programs and 05:00 : then hire their graduates .
the white house will ask for $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding to prepare for the zika virus , work on tests and vaccines , and assist puerto rico and countries grappling with the outbreak .
obama will seek an 11 percent hike in funding for the securities and exchange commission to $ 1.8 billion and 32 percent increase for the commodity futures trading commission to $ 330 million .
the budget will propose a 1.6 percent pay increase for military and civilian federal personnel .
obama will ask for $ 1.1 billion in new funding to expand treatment for people addicted to heroin and prescription painkillers , a growing epidemic .
obama pledged more than $ 450 million in aid to colombia to help with security and integrating rebel combatants into society under a pending peace deal to end latin america ’ s longest war .
obama will propose $ 12 billion over 10 years to supplement food stamps for poor families when school meal programs are closed in the summer , $ 2 billion in emergency aid for families in crisis , a combined $ 328 million in education and housing grants to poor neighborhoods , and a $ 15 million pilot program to help poor families move to better neighborhoods .
the budget will include three years of federal funding to 19 state governments that passed up an earlier offer to expand medicaid coverage for more than 4 million low-income people .
obama will ask for tweaks to a tax on certain health insurance plans that is unpopular with labor unions .
the white house will ask for $ 5.5 billion in incentives for businesses that hire young people and $ 200 million for apprenticeship programs .
obama will propose $ 4 billion for states and $ 100 million for school districts to expand computer science in schools .
the budget will include $ 1 billion over five years to help coal-mining regions with economic development .
the white house will ask for $ 755 million for vice president joe biden ’ s “ moonshot ” effort to find new cancer treatments .
the budget will include $ 700 million in agricultural research grants , double the spending level in 2016 .
obama has proposed $ 500 million to boost access to mental healthcare as part of his push to address gun violence .
obama will propose $ 95 million for a new office responsible for background checks for federal employees .
as part of reforms to the criminal justice system , obama will ask for $ 24 million for better housing for inmates with serious mental illnesses .
obama will propose tax credits for small businesses offering 401 ( k ) plans or expanding access to retirement savings programs .
obama will seek to expand unemployment insurance to more types of workers , provide wage insurance for workers moving to lower-paid positions , and provide incentives to states for retraining or relocating workers .
obama will ask for funding to hire 200 new atf staff to enforce gun laws .