lima ( reuters ) - peru s center-right president pedro kuczynski is considering appointing vice president martin vizcarra as his new prime minister in a new cabinet he will swear in on sunday to replace the one congress ousted , two government sources said friday .
kuczynski is also eyeing claudia cooper as his new finance minister , one of the sources said .
a third source also confirmed cooper , currently deputy economy minister , was being considered .
the sources spoke on condition of anonymity because a final decision had not been made .
early on friday , the opposition-ruled congress voted 77-22 to dismiss kuczynski s cabinet in a motion of no-confidence , deepening a political standoff that could lead to new legislative elections if lawmakers reject the next cabinet .
the crisis forced kuczynski to cancel his trip to new york city , where he planned to dine with u.s. president donald trump and deliver a speech at the united nations general assembly .
it also threatens to stifle a nascent economic recovery in the world s no.2 copper producer following a sharp slowdown early this year .
accusing the opposition of undermining his policies , especially on education , kuczynski told peruvians in a televised speech that he would keep working to better their lives .
that s the mandate i have until july 28 , 2021 and i won t retreat one millimeter in that goal , said kuczynski , a former wall street banker who narrowly won last year s election .
kuczynski did not announce any cabinet appointments .
while he can not rename outgoing prime minister fernando zavala as prime minister , kuczynski can reappoint other cabinet members .
zavala , who faced criticism that he was too much of a technocrat , has doubled as finance minister since congress ousted the previous finance minister in june .
lawmakers with the opposition party popular force warned kuczynski not to fill his cabinet with old faces .
the rightwing populist party has a majority in congress and is led by kuczynski s defeated electoral rival , keiko fujimori , the eldest daughter of jailed former autocratic president alberto fujimori .
appointing vizcarra , a former governor of a mining region , could gratify lawmakers who have called for a cabinet with more political experience .
but it might also anger popular force after the party pressured vizcarra to resign as transportation minister over a proposed change to an airport contract .
cooper was also criticized by the opposition in the controversy .
new legislative elections might provide an opening for anti-establishment parties with support for kuczynski s government and congress falling in opinion polls .
despite the sparring , kuczynski and fujimori both support free-market economic policies .
central bank president julio velarde made a rare plea for politicians to refrain from fuelling tensions further .
i hope that doesn t happen .
we re talking about adults , aren t we ?
velarde told reporters at an event friday .