obama has shown favoritism towards the muslim brotherhood terror group almost since the first day of his presidency .
many are convinced obama is tied to the terror group through his brother , and his desire to prevent americans from referring to this group as a terror group doesn t do much to convince us he doesn t have some sort of ties to them .
obama quietly offered his support when the riots arab spring uprisings took place in egypt , paving the way for the muslim brotherhood islamist , mohamed morsy to take over as president of egypt through fair elections the house judiciary committee passed a bill on wednesday calling on the state department to classify the muslim brotherhood as a terrorist group , by a 17-10 party-line vote.the gop leadership under speaker paul ryan supports the legislation , a high-ranking republican source told the investigative project on terrorism ( ipt ) on background .
this makes floor passage more likely.the bill states that it is the sense of congress that the muslim brotherhood meets the criteria for classification as a foreign terrorist organization .
under the bill as amended by committee chairman bob goodlatte ( r-va. ) , secretary of state john kerry would have 60 days to issue a detailed report to congress indicating whether the brotherhood meets the criteria qualifying it as a terrorist group .
the brotherhood s strategic goal in america is a kind of grand jihad in eliminating and destroying the western civilization from within and sabotaging its miserable house from within so that it is eliminated and god s religion is made victorious over all other religions , goodlatte said , quoting the brotherhood s 1991 explanatory memorandum , in a statement given before the vote.here is muslim terror expert , brigitte gabriel explaining the plan by the muslim brotherhood to jihad in north america .
after watching this , you may ask yourself what has taken congress so long to act ?
the brotherhood and its leaders and affiliates , such as hamas , have supported islamist terrorism directly , through fundraising , and through exhortation .
each of these activities constitutes an act of terrorism under the immigration and nationality act .
under the bill , the obama administration would be forced to deny admittance to any foreign national tied to the muslim brotherhood.since obama became president , people connected to the muslim brotherhood have received entry visas despite their open support for terrorist groups such as hamas and hezbollah.there are many who believe the muslim brotherhood has been given special treatment by our very own president , and that he is somehow tied to the group : here , rep louie gohmert ( r-tx ) is asking why the obama regime gave $ 1.5 billion to the muslim brotherhood : previously banned individuals such as sheikh rached ghannouchi , head of tunisia s branch of the brotherhood , and tariq ramadan , grandson of brotherhood founder hasan al-banna , have been welcomed to the us by the obama administration despite their vocal support for hamas .
ramadan fought his ban on entering the us in court , and won an appeal.other foreign brotherhood speakers such as ragheb elsergany exploit the platform given to them by the obama administration to advocate for muslims to support palestinian mujahideen fighting against israel.if the brotherhood were designated as a terrorist group , it would be a crime for people in the united sates to provide material support to it , and the treasury department could force banks to block financial transactions related to the brotherhood .
the bill lists us groups , including the council on american islamic relations ( cair ) , the islamic society of north america ( isna ) , and the north american islamic trust ( nait ) , as groups under the control of the international muslim brotherhood .
the muslim brotherhood continues to pose a global threat .
the jihadist movement actively supports and finances terrorist networks around the world , including al-qaida and hamas .
the united states must recognize and sanction the muslim brotherhood as a terrorist organization as part of our national security strategy , co-sponsor rep. mario diaz-balart , ( r-fla. ) , said in a statement .
via : the alemeiner