united nations ( reuters ) - u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said a missile fired by yemen s houthi group toward saudi arabia on tuesday bears all the hallmarks of previous attacks using iranian-provided weapons as she pushed the u.n. security council to act .
saudi air defenses shot down the ballistic missile and there were no reports of casualties or damage .
in contrast , a u.n. human rights spokesman said coalition air strikes had killed at least 136 noncombatants in war-torn yemen since dec. 6 .
saudi-led forces , backing yemen s government , have fought the iran-allied houthis in yemen s more than two-year-long war .
iran has denied supplying the houthis with weapons , saying the u.s. and saudi allegations are baseless and unfounded .
we must all act cooperatively to expose the crimes of the tehran regime and do whatever is needed to make sure they get the message .
if we do not , then iran will bring the world deeper into a broadening regional conflict , haley told the council .
haley said she was exploring , with some council colleagues , several options for pressuring iran to adjust their behavior .
however , haley is likely to struggle to convince some members , like veto powers russia and china , that u.n. action is needed .
russia s deputy u.n .
ambassador vladimir safronkov told council on tuesday : we need to abandon the language of threats and sanctions and to start using the instruments of dialogue and concentrate on broadening cooperation and mutual trust .
most sanctions on iran were lifted at the start of 2016 under the nuclear deal brokered by world powers and enshrined in a u.n. security council resolution .
the resolution still subjects tehran to a u.n. arms embargo and other restrictions that are technically not part of the nuclear deal .
haley said the security council could strengthen the provisions in that resolution or adopt a new resolution banning iran from all activities related to ballistic missiles .
under the current resolution , iran is called upon to refrain from work on ballistic missiles designed to deliver nuclear weapons for up to eight years .
some states argue that the language of the resolution does not make it obligatory .
we could explore sanctions on iran in response to its clear violations of the yemen arms embargo , haley said .
we could hold the irgc ( iran s islamic revolutionary guard corps ) accountable for its violations of numerous security council resolutions .
a separate u.n. resolution on yemen bans the supply of weapons to houthi leaders and those acting on their behalf or at their direction .