geneva ( reuters ) - the u.n. human rights council voted on friday to extend its investigation into suspected crimes against humanity in burundi , dealing a blow to an attempt by a group of african countries to dial down the level of scrutiny .
burundi had hoped that by promising to cooperate fully with the u.n. human rights office and inviting three experts to the country , the council would drop its commission of inquiry .
it appeared to have succeeded on thursday when the council agreed to send the three experts , backing a resolution that also welcomed burundi s decision to restore full cooperation with the high commissioner for human rights .
burundi s ambassador , renovat tabu , told the council that after that decision , there was no longer any need to continue the commission of inquiry , as demanded by the european union .
there is a clear will of the eu to instrumentalize the council to politicize human rights , he said .
but the eu , with strong backing from the united states , pressed the case for the commission of inquiry .
just days ago , when burundi finally agreed to engage members of this council in discussions for the first time , the burundian ambassador portrayed a rosy picture of his country , with the clear goal of ending the commission of inquiry , which he repeated again today , u.s. diplomat jason mack said .
don t be confused by burundi s last-minute engagement , which is solely to put an end to ongoing investigations , he said .
the commission has said there are reasonable grounds to believe crimes against humanity have been committed since april 2015 when president pierre nkurunziza said he would seek a third term in office .
the opposition has said he acted unconstitutionally by doing so .
burundian officials at the highest level should be held accountable for crimes against humanity and a list of suspects has been drawn up , the commission said earlier this month .
in a statement following the vote , the commission said it would like to believe that the burundian authorities will now respond to a renewed request for dialogue .
among the 22 countries voting to maintain maximum scrutiny were botswana and burundi s neighbor rwanda , alongside european countries and the united states .
other african nations were among the 11 no votes and 14 abstentions .