erbil/london , iraq ( reuters ) - about five million people in kurdish-held areas of northern iraq will be summoned to take part in a non-binding referendum on independence from iraq on monday .
they will be asked to tick a yes/no box next to this question : do you want the kurdistan region and the kurdish areas outside the region s administration to become an independent state ?
the kurds are the largest ethnic group left stateless when britain and france , the colonial powers which won world war one , carved up the ottoman empire .
the region s roughly 30 million ethnic kurds were left scattered , mainly over four countries : iraq , iran , turkey and syria .
all of them suffered persecution and were often denied the right to speak their language .
those in iraq were uprooted under saddam hussein s regime and suffered an attack using chemical weapons .
the autonomous kurdistan regional government ( krg ) in northern iraq says the shi ite ruled central government in baghdad has failed to respect autonomy established after the 2003 overthrow of saddam hussein in a u.s.-led invasion .
the krg says the vote acknowledges the kurds crucial contribution confronting islamic state after it overwhelmed the the iraqi army in 2014 and seized control of a third of iraq .
what s the likely outcome and what s the next move : the outcome is likely to be a comfortable yes .
the krg , led by massoud barzani , plans to use the vote as a legitimate mandate to press for negotiations with baghdad and neighboring countries to achieve independence .
baghdad thinks the vote could lead to a messy breakup of iraq at a time when it is struggling with reconstruction and the return of refugees .
it offers talks to resolve disputes over land , energy and power sharing , including the status of the multi-ethnic oil region of kirkuk .
iraq s powerful neighbors fear separatist contagion for their own kurdish populations .
turkey is home to the largest kurdish minority .
it has been fighting kurdish insurrection in its south-east since 1984 .
iran s kurds are close culturally to iraq s kurds and they speak the same kurdish language .
tehran is also close to the shi ite political parties who have been ruling iraq or holding key security or government positions since 2003 .
syria is embroiled in a civil war in which its own kurds are pressing for self-administration .
about everyone , including the united states and united nations who fear a destabilization of iraq while the war with islamic state is not yet over .
why oil-rich kirkuk is emerging as a flashpoint : kirkuk is a multi-ethnic city .
it lies outside the recognized kurdish region and is home to kurds , turkmen , arabs and assyrian christians .
it sits on susbtantial oil reserves and its crude is exported through a pipeline to the mediterranean that crosses krg territory and turkey .
if turkey decides to close the pipeline , it would deprive the krg government in erbil of most its hard currency income .
iraqi kurdistan produces around 650,000 bpd of crude from its fields , including around 150,000 bpd from the disputed areas of kirkuk .
the region s production volumes represent 15 percent of total iraqi output and around 0.7 percent of global oil production .
the krg aspires to raise production to over 1 million bpd by the end of this decade .
kurdish oil production has been dominated by mid-sized oil firms such as genel , dno , gulf keystone and dana gas .
major oil firms such as chevron , exxon mobil and rosneft also have projects in kurdistan but they are mostly at an exploration stage .
russia s state oil major rosneft , however , has lent over $ 1 billion to the krg guaranteed by oil sales and committed a total of $ 4 billion to various projects in kurdistan .
trading houses vitol , glencore , trafigura and petraco have lent a total of $ 2 billion to kurdistan guaranteed by oil sales while turkey has also provided a total of $ 1.5 billion to support erbil in the past two years .
all registered residents of the kurdish-held region in northern iraq , kurds and non-kurds , are eligible to vote .
the kurdish-held regions include those inside the official boundaries of the krg and surrounding areas that peshmerga fighters seized in the course of the war on islamic state .
kirkuk lies outside the krg and is also claimed by baghdad .
internally displaced people from the disputed territories will be allowed to vote .
iraq s kurdish diaspora will also be allowed to submit electronic ballots on sept. 23 and 24 .
the united nations opposes the referendum and says it will not participate in the process .