berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel piled pressure on monday on the social democrats ( spd ) to rejoin a grand coalition with her conservatives , arguing that the european union and the wider world urgently needed a stable german government in place .
more than two months after its sept. 24 national election , europe s economic and political powerhouse is still without a government and officials say coalition talks may now properly begin only in the new year .
there are european elections in 2019 ... so there is a big expectation that we take positions , she told reporters , referring to proposals by european commission president jean-claude juncker and by french president emmanuel macron on the future governance of the eu s currency and economic union .
merkel also cited conflicts in the middle east , tensions with russia and relations with the united states as factors that required a germany capable of acting .
david mcallister , an executive committee member of merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) , echoed her views in comments to reuters , adding that germany needed to iron out its stance on key eu issues ahead of european parliament elections in 2019 .
diligence definitely comes before speed ( in forming a coalition ) but the government should be formed in time for germany to be capable of acting if decisions need to be made ( in europe ) in 2018 , mcallister said .
the conservatives should signal willingness to compromise and avoid drawing red lines as they prepare for talks with the spd , he said .
preliminary talks are due to begin on thursday .
while the conservatives and spd have different opinions on europe , they managed to work together in a 2013-2017 governing coalition and all major parties in germany agree on fundamental issues relating to the eu , mcallister added .
merkel s initial efforts to forge a three-way coalition with the liberals and the greens collapsed on nov. 19 , forcing her to approach the spd , which had wanted to go into opposition after suffering its worst election result in german postwar history .
spd leader martin schulz , who has previously been strongly opposed to another grand coalition , said on monday he ruled nothing out ahead of the preliminary talks .
stung by their previous experience of serving as junior partner in merkel-led governments - in 2005-09 and again in 2013-17 - the spd rank-and-file membership shares schulz s reticence about joining a new coalition .
many spd members favor a looser arrangement whereby the spd agrees to tolerate a merkel-led minority government , supporting or at least agreeing not to vote against certain measures .
a poll for rtl and ntv television showed 48 percent of spd members were in favor of toleration , an inherently less stable form of government , and only 36 percent in favor of a renewed grand coalition .
merkel herself has said she would prefer a fresh election to presiding over a minority government .
schulz has promised to allow spd members a vote on any deal his party reaches with merkel .