beirut ( reuters ) - the syrian army and its allies are fighting to secure a corridor to troops in deir al-zor , a day after they smashed through islamic state lines to break the jihadist siege .
the army reached deir al-zor city on tuesday in a days-long thrust that followed months of steady advances east across the desert , breaking a siege that had lasted three years .
islamic state counter-attacks lasted through the day , trying to repel the army , the syrian observatory for human rights said .
fierce battles raged around the city , as troops sought to expand the route and allow aid in , the british-based war monitor added .
work is progressing to secure the route and widen the flanks so as not to be cut or targeted by ( islamic state ) , said a commander in the military alliance backing syrian president bashar al-assad .
the next step is to liberate the city , the non-syrian commander said .
it points to a tough battle ahead as the army aims to move from breaching the siege to driving islamic state militants from their half of the city , the sort of street-by-street warfare in which they excel .
syrian state news agency sana said the army had made gains expanding its control near the corridor after heavy artillery and air strikes .
assad and his allies - russia , iran and shi ite militias including hezbollah - will follow the relief of deir al-zor with an offensive along the euphrates valley , the commander said .
the euphrates valley cuts a lush , populous swathe of green about 260 km ( 160 miles ) long and 10 km ( 6 miles ) wide through the syrian desert from raqqa to the iraqi border at al-bukamal .
the area has been an islamic state stronghold in syria but came under attack this year when a u.s.-backed alliance of kurdish and arab militias besieged and assaulted raqqa .
rapidly losing territory in syria and iraq , islamic state is falling back on the euphrates towns downstream of deir al-zor , including al-mayadin and al-bukamal , where many expect it to make a last stand .
still , the jihadist group specializes in urban combat , using car bombs , mines , tunnels and drones , and has held out against full-scale attack for months in some towns and cities .
islamic state has 6,000-8,000 fighters left in syria , despite losing most of its territory across both iraq and syria since september 2014 , the united states-led coalition said .
parallel with their thrust toward deir al-zor , the syrian military and its allies have been fighting islamic state in its last pocket of ground in central syria , near the town of al-salamiya on the homs-aleppo highway .
on wednesday , army advances gained control of four villages there , further tightening the pocket , a military media unit run by lebanon s hezbollah said .
in raqqa , the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces alliance says it has taken about 65 percent of islamic state s former self-declared syrian capital .
deir al-zor lies along the southwest bank of the euphrates .
the government enclave includes the northern half of the city and the brigade 137 military base to the west .
the army also holds an air base and nearby streets , separated from the rest of the enclave by hundreds of meters of is-held ground and still cut off from the advancing army .
government forces will push toward the besieged airbase , the pro-assad commander said .
instead of breaking the siege along the main road from palmyra , stretches of which remain in islamic state hands , the army reached the brigade 137 along a narrow salient from the northwest .
the corridor from the west into brigade 137 was only about 500 meters ( yards ) wide , the commander said .
the united nations has estimated that 93,000 civilians were living under is siege in deir al-zor in extremely difficult conditions , with some high-altitude air drops supplying them .
deir al-zor s provincial governor told state-run television that convoys loaded with food and medicine were on the way , along with ambulances and a mobile clinic .
residents in the enclave had gone years without vegetables , fuel , and other necessities , mohammed ibrahim samra said .
despite all this , the schools kept running , he said .
our people in deir al-zor have suffered a lot ... and they still held on to their land .