new delhi ( reuters ) - air pollution in new delhi hit 18 times the healthy limit on friday under a thick , toxic haze after a night of fireworks to celebrate the hindu festival of diwali - despite a court-ordered ban on their sales .
residents of the sprawling indian capital , which already ranks among the world s most polluted cities , complained of eyes watering and aggravated coughs as levels of pm 2.5 , tiny particulate matter that reaches deep into the lungs , rose alarmingly .
air quality usually worsens in new delhi ahead of diwali , the festival of lights , and the supreme court temporarily banned the sale of firecrackers , aiming to lessen the risk to health .
but many still lit fireworks across the capital late into the night , either using old stocks or buying them from neighboring states .
some environment activists said the court order was poorly enforced and firecrackers were still available to celebrate one of north india s biggest festivals .
breathe nitrate and ammonia , home grown , hand made !
said environmentalist vimlendu jha in a twitter post calling for city authorities to declare a public emergency .
an index of air quality had crossed the hazardous limit of 300 on friday , the most severe level on a u.s. embassy scale of measurement which rates a reading of 50 as good and anything above that as a cause for concern .
some parts of delhi such as mandir marg showed an air quality reading of 941 , close enough to the maximum level of 999 beyond which no readings are available .
the index measures concentrations of pm 2.5 , pm 10 , ozone , nitrogen dioxide and sulfur dioxide among other indicators .
a hazardous level is an alert in which everyone may experience ill effects and are advised to stay indoors .
apart from the firecracker ban , the supreme court also ordered diesel generators and a power plant to be shut down to try to reduce the pollution .
the environment pollution ( prevention and control ) authority also ordered some brick kilns to close and a halt to the burning of rubbish .
dipankar saha , a scientist at the government s central pollution control board , said the still weather had also played a part in the toxic haze hanging over the city .
but pollution levels were better than at last year s diwali when crop burning in nearby states and firecrackers combined .
it was going to be hard to beat last year s level in any case , he said .