taipei ( reuters ) - taiwan s president tsai ing-wen has accepted the resignation of premier lin chuan , the ruling party said on monday , a departure that had been widely expected because of the president s falling public support .
taiwan presidents often shuffle premiers in response to dips in popularity .
lin had faced mounting pressure to step down as tsai s popularity plummeted to 29.8 percent by august , a private foundation survey has shown .
when she took office in may 2016 , her approval rating was as high as 70 percent .
the president has accepted his resignation after sincere talks , tsai s democratic progressive party ( dpp ) said in a statement .
under taiwan s system , the president is the more important office , holding the jobs of commander in chief and head of state .
the prime minister is appointed by the president to lead the cabinet .
tsai is likely to be looking ahead to her 2020 re-election campaign .
frozen relations with china , a backlash over pension reforms and a revised labor rule , among other controversies , have put pressure on her to replace lin , in preparation for that campaign .
lin said the party had reached a point where we must embark on the next stage of the mission .
so i ve resigned to pave the way for the president to re-organize her team and resources for that purpose , he said .
the presidential office said a new premier would be announced on tuesday .
william lai , the popular mayor of the southern city of tainan and a leading dpp figure , is widely expected to replace lin .
a lai premiership would not necessary help the president to improve her ratings , some analysts said .
they need a reboot , because current ratings for both are low , said alex huang , a professor of tamkang university , taipei , referring to tsai and lin , adding that it must have been a hard decision for tsai because of their friendship .
lin is sort of biting the bullet to clear the path ahead for the president and the next premier , huang said .
some representatives of the opposition kuomintang ( kmt ) have expressed scepticism that tsai would build an effective partnership with lai , if he did replace lin .
i d like to see how they both work together , said lai shyh-bao , a kmt legislator .
both tsai and lai have reputations for being overbearing and domineering .
lin has been criticized not just by legislators from the opposition , but also from his own dpp .
tsai had praised him as a great communicator when she introduced him last year .
lin , a close confidant of the president who retains her trust , could become the next central bank governor when current governor perng fai-nan retires next year .