beirut ( reuters ) - a week after u.s. president donald trump delivered a blistering speech about iran s revolutionary guards , the most powerful military and economic force in the islamic republic has shown it has no intention of curbing its activities in the middle east .
in defiance of other world powers , trump chose in a speech last friday not to certify that tehran is complying with a pact to curb iran s nuclear work and singled out the islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) , accusing tehran of destabilizing the region .
a senior irgc commander said after the speech trump was acting crazy and was following u.s. strategy of increasing the shadow of war in the region .
iran s shi ite militia proxies have made formidable military gains in recent months in syria as well as iraq , stretching from northern iraq to a string of smaller cities and this week , after the trump speech , re-captured the oil-rich city of kirkuk .
in the short-run clearly trump has increased the power and aggressiveness of the irgc , said abbas milani , the director of the iranian studies program at stanford university .
the irgc can t back down from a street fight .
their domestic and regional prestige is predicated on the fact that they fight a good fight and they don t back down .
the day after trump spoke , the head of the guards al quds overseas operations , major general qassem soleimani , traveled to iraq s kurdistan region .
he held talks about the escalating crisis between kurdish authorities and the iraqi government after a kurdish independence referendum .
the niece of the late kurdish leader jalal talabani , alaa talabani , told the al hadath tv channel that soleimani met with members of her family on saturday .
he had come to pay respects to jalal , a former iraqi president and founder of the patriotic union of kurdistan ( puk ) party who died this month .
other iraqi and kurdish officials told reuters soleimani held meetings with kurdish leaders to persuade them to retreat from kirkuk ahead of the iraqi army push into the city .
i don t deny that mr. qassem soleimani gave us the advice to find a solution to kirkuk , she said .
he said kirkuk should return to the ( iraqi ) law and constitution and to have an agreement about kirkuk and give up the intransigence about the referendum which was a decision not thought out .
within days , iran s mostly shi ite allies in baghdad launched a lightning assault , pushing kurdish fighters out of disputed territories such as kirkuk and consequently strengthening iran s hand in iraq .
commanders of the kurdish forces , known as the peshmerga , have accused iran of orchestrating the shi ite-led iraqi central government s push into areas under their control , a charge senior iranian officials have denied .
a video posted by the kurdish rudaw channel online on wednesday showed an iraqi shi ite militiaman loyal to iran hanging a picture of iran s supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei in the kirkuk governorate office .
iran , which has a large kurdish minority , has reason to be wary of iraqi kurdish independence .
it fears it might encourage its own kurds , who have also pushed for separatism .
after the independence vote in iraqi kurdistan on september 25 , videos posted online showed hundreds of people celebrating in the streets in the kurdish areas of iran .
front-line player regional analysts say the emergence of iran in iraq , syria , kurdistan and lebanon , where it wields influence through its allied shi ite lebanese hezbollah militia , means tehran has become a front-line player in the region which washington could not afford to ignore .
trump s stupidity should not distract us from america s deceitfulness ...
if the u.s. tears up the ( nuclear ) deal , we will shred it , said khamenei .
americans are angry because the islamic republic of iran has managed to thwart their plots in lebanon , syria , iraq and other countries in the region .
speaking after trump s speech , amir ali hajizadeh , head of the guards aerospace division , said : from the start of the islamic revolution ... ( presidents ) have increased the shadow of war in the region ... dear brothers and sisters today trump is acting crazy to gain concessions through this method .
the ramping up of tension could put the two countries on a collision course in the gulf where clashes have only been narrowly avoided in recent months .
small boats from the revolutionary guards navy veered close to u.s. naval vessels in the gulf at least twice this year , prompting the u.s. military to fire warning shots and flares .
in august , an unarmed iranian drone came within 100 feet ( 31 meters ) of a u.s. navy warplane , risking a crash , according to a u.s. official .
some recent naval showdowns between iran and the united states took place near the strait of hormuz , a waterway where up to 30 percent of global oil exports pass annually .
during the presidential campaign last september , trump vowed that any iranian vessels that harassed the u.s. navy in the gulf would be shot out of the water .
the guards could also target u.s. forces in iraq and syria through tens of thousands of loyal shi ite militia fighters without directly acknowledging a role in any attacks .
the irgc can claim ignorance of shi ite militia attacks against the u.s. military , said ali alfoneh , a senior fellow at the atlantic council who has done extensive research on the guards .
in early october , an american soldier was killed in iraq by an explosively formed penetrator , or efp , a type of roadside bomb which was often used by iran s shi ite militia proxies in iraq , according to the u.s. military .
this is the first time that we ve seen it used in this area , u.s. army colonel ryan dillon , a coalition spokesman , said .
dillon said the u.s. military has not yet concluded who carried out the attack .
dozens of american soldiers in iraq were killed and injured by efps used by militia groups linked to iran after the 2003 invasion of iraq by u.s. forces , according to the u.s. military .
asked about the threat posed by shi ite militias allied with iran in iraq and syria , particularly after trump s speech , dillon said : we re always assessing the threats no matter where they come from .
during certain announcements or certain dates or when certain events happen , we make proper adjustments .
trump s new plan , observers say , will also weaken a group that had made progress in curbing the guards political and economic ambitions in recent years : iranian president hassan rouhani and the pragmatist politicians in his cabinet .
since becoming president in 2013 , rouhani and members of his cabinet repeatedly pushed back against the guards economic influence and involvement in political matters .
now , rouhani s push against the guards has been tempered because of the hardening in trump s approach to tehran , regional observers said .
what this has done is that even those who were critics are now defending the revolutionary guards , said nasser hadian-jazy , a political science professor at tehran university .