beijing ( reuters ) - in xinjiancun , a ramshackle village of migrant workers on the far southern fringe of beijing , demolition machinery tears into buildings as residents drag out the last of their belongings under the gaze of police and security staff .
a citywide fire safety blitz prompted by a deadly blaze this month is forcing thousands of migrant workers out of their homes and businesses , igniting unusually direct criticism of city government measures seen by some people as unfairly targeting the vulnerable underclass .
beijing s municipal government launched the 40-day special operation targeting fire code and building safety violations after a nov. 18 apartment fire in xinjiancun killed 19 , almost all of them migrants .
the beijing government said it had acted on more than 25,000 violations in the operation s first week , which it described as purely for the lives and safety of the people .
tens of thousands of people are believed to be affected , activists said .
while restaurants and shops not up to code in more affluent areas have not been immune , the safety blitz has mostly targeted outlying parts of beijing where enforcement of construction codes has tended to be lax , and where migrant workers congregate due to cheaper rent .
to say that this special operation is to drive out the low-end population is irresponsible and baseless , the beijing government said in a statement carried by state media on sunday .
some of the migrant population choose these places to work and live in , but they don t understand the danger they re in .
one resident said her family of six , including her nine-month old grandson , had been suddenly rendered homeless , spending the previous night huddled in the back of their minivan in sub-freezing temperatures .
we are also chinese people .
why are we being treated this way ?
said the woman , from central china s hubei province .
what are we to do , where can we go to raise grievances ?
no one dares to , she said , asking not to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter .
local authorities attributed the nov. 18 blaze to faulty electrical wiring in an illegally modified two-storey property housing shops and a cold storage facility in the basement , with the top floor subdivided into small , crowded living quarters .
more than a dozen residents of xinjiancun said at least 50 uniformed security guards and chengguan - an urban management force which assists police - had smashed their stores signage and issued threats to ensure compliance .
the beijing city government and the daxing district government , which covers the southern part of the city , did not respond to requests for comment .
xia xiaocong , a 44-year-old supermarket owner , said he was told to move everything out and leave within 48 hours , after security guards cut his electricity and trashed the front of his shop .
i told them i have all the legal documents , and they said you have to close and get lost , he told reuters inside the damaged store , its shelves emptied .
residents and supermarket staff confirmed details of xia s account .
in dingfuzhuang , a logistics hub in beijing s east , residents on saturday said authorities had cut off electricity and running water to force them out .
in 2008 , it was beijing welcomes you , said liang yinghui , from northern hebei province , referring to the slogan of the 2008 beijing olympics .
now , in 2017 , beijing loathes you , and wants to throw you out .
an open letter to the chinese government from more than 100 prominent academics , lawyers and intellectuals said the measures against beijing s migrant population were illegal , unconstitutional and seriously trampled on human rights .
such open criticism of government is increasingly rare as officials have clamped down on various aspects of civil society under president xi jinping .
some non-profit groups that sought to offer assistance said they have been obstructed by police , with their online advertisements blocked by censors .
tongzhou jiayuan , a private community service centre in beijing s tongzhou district , said it was shut by police soon after posting a notice on social media welcoming struggling migrant workers to come and stay .
on monday , beijing party secretary cai qi said authorities should have given more time for residents to relocate and called for the operation to be carried out in a more orderly fashion , according to the official beijing daily .
some 8.23 million beijing residents came from outside the capital , almost 40 percent of its population of nearly 22 million , according to a 2016 report by the state-run chinese academy of social sciences .
while the city says the clean-up is for safety , it is also consistent with policies to control growth .
in september , the central government approved beijing s plan to cap its population at 23 million in 2020 .
ma zhitao , 32 , who arrived in beijing at the start of the year to work as a laborer in the hope of providing a better life for his 10-year-old son back home in rural shaanxi province , said he was now forced to return home .
i thought it would be different , said ma , whose power and water had been cut off at his home in dingfuzhuang .
it s the capital after all .