geneva ( reuters ) - bangladesh called on myanmar on monday to allow nearly 1 million rohingya muslim refugees to return home under safe conditions , saying that the burden had become untenable on its territory .
about 600,000 people have crossed the border since aug. 25 when rohingya insurgent attacks on security posts were met by a counter-offensive by the myanmar army in rakhine state which the united nations has called ethnic cleansing .
this is an untenable situation , shameem ahsan , bangladesh s ambassador to the united nations in geneva , told a u.n. pledging conference .
despite claims to the contrary , violence in rakhine state has not stopped .
thousands still enter on a daily basis .
vital humanitarian aid must continue , ahsan said , adding : it is of paramount importance that myanmar delivers on its recent promises and works towards safe , dignified , voluntary return of its nationals back to their homes in myanmar .
bangladesh s interior minister was in yangon on monday for talks to find a durable solution , he said .
but myanmar continued to issue propaganda projecting rohingyas as illegal immigrants from bangladesh , ahsan said , adding : this blatant denial of the ethnic identity of rohingyas remains a stumbling block .
myanmar considers the rohingya to be stateless , although they trace their presence in the country back generations .
filippo grandi , u.n. high commissioner for refugees , later told journalists that the two countries had begun talks on repatriation .
conducive conditions have to be recreated in rakhine , he said .
this must include a solution to the question of citizenship , or rather lack thereof for the rohingya community , grandi said .
khaled al-jarallah , deputy foreign minister of kuwait , called on myanmar authorities to cease the practice of stripping the rohingya minority of their right of citizenship , which as a result deprives them of the right to property and employment .
jordan s queen rania visited rohingya refugee camps on monday and called for a stronger response from the international community to the plight of the rohingya who fled to bangladesh to escape systematic persecution in myanmar .
one has to ask , why is the plight of this muslim minority group being ignored ?
why has the systematic prosecution been allowed to play out for so long ?
she asked after touring the camps .
the united nations has appealed for $ 434 million to provide life-saving aid to 1.2 million people for six months .
a total of $ 344 million has been raised so far , a final u.n. statement said .
we need more money to keep pace with intensifying needs .
this is not an isolated crisis , it is the latest round in a decades-long cycle of persecution , violence and displacement , u.n. humanitarian chief mark lowcock told the talks .
an estimated 1,000-3,000 rohingya still enter bangladesh daily , william lacy swing , head of the international organization for migration ( iom ) said .
he called them : these most rejected and vulnerable people in the world .
joanne liu , president of the charity medecins sans frontieres ( msf ) or doctors without borders , described them as the walking dead .
there are only 210 hospital beds for 1 million refugees , malnutrition is on the rise and latrines are lacking to prevent contamination , she said .
the camp is a time-bomb , ticking towards a full-blown health crisis .