phnom penh ( reuters ) - washington s ambassador to cambodia on tuesday rejected government accusations of interference by the united states as inaccurate , misleading and baseless and called for the release of detained opposition leader kem sokha .
it was the strongest u.s. response since the sept. 3 arrest of kem sokha , who has been charged with treason and accused of plotting with the united states to take power from prime minister hun sen , a former khmer rouge commander who has ruled cambodia for more than 30 years .
hun sen , now one of china s closest regional allies , has stepped up rhetoric against washington alongside a crackdown on opponents , independent media and other critics ahead of a general election next year .
the u.s.-funded radio free asia said on tuesday that the pressure had forced it to stop operations in cambodia .
on dozens of occasions over the past year , the united states has been subject to intentionally inaccurate , misleading and baseless accusations , ambassador william heidt said in a statement .
all of the accusations you have heard in recent weeks about the united states - every one of them - are false .
heidt called for the release of kem sokha , an end to pressure on civil society and dialogue between the government and opposition to salvage elections and restore ties between the two countries .
if cambodia s national elections were held today , no credible international observer would certify them as free , fair and reflecting the will of the cambodian people , heidt said .
american and western companies were feeling less welcome in cambodia and fewer will invest , he said .
government spokesman phay siphan said the evidence of american collusion came from kem sokha himself and that cambodia did not see the united states as an enemy .
we just use our rights to tell the u.s. not to interfere in our domestic affairs , he told reuters .
on monday , 65-year-old hun sen threatened that kem sokha s cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) would be dissolved if it continued to back him .
kem sokha , 64 , is the only serious election rival to hun sen , who could face his biggest electoral challenge next year .
the opposition will not boycott the july 2018 general election in which it faces hun sen s ruling cambodian people s party ( cpp ) , senior cnrp member son chhay told a news briefing on tuesday .
the evidence presented against kem sokha so far is a video recorded in 2013 in which he discusses a strategy to win power with the help of unspecified americans .
his lawyers have dismissed it as nonsense , saying he was only discussing election strategy .
complaining of a relentless crackdown on independent voices , washington-based radio free asia said it was being forced to close its local bureau after almost 20 years in the country .
recent developments have intensified to an unprecedented level , as cambodia s ruling party shamelessly seeks to remove any obstacle or influence standing in its way of achieving absolute power , said the station s president , libby liu .
she said rfa would continue to cover cambodia .