the genie is out of the bottle .
europe will never be the same .
it s rich history and the uniqueness of each country is gone.even eu officials are now finally admitting that a lot or , rather , most of the people we have been calling refugees are not refugees .
they are economic migrants with no more right to be called european citizens than anybody else in the world .
even frans timmermans , vice president of the european commission , made this point this week .
in his accounting , at least 60pc of the people who are here are economic migrants who should not be here are from north african states such as morocco and tunisia .
as he told dutch television : - these are people that you can assume have no reason to apply for refugee status .
swedish officials are coming to a similar conclusion , saying that as many as 80,000 of the mainly young men who have gone to sweden as refugees in the past year alone are no such thing.now there are the usual attempts to crowd-please from certain politicians and officials who are talking about how they might have to deport these people .
but they won t , will they ?
does anybody honestly believe that the swedish authorities are currently preparing to deport 80,000 fake asylum seekers from their country ? or let us assume that the 60pc figure is correct for germany and that 60pc of the people who have arrived in germany in the past year alone should not be there .
given that it has taken in more than a million people in the last twelve months , is germany now going to deport as many as three quarters of a million fake asylum seekers from its territory ?
of course not .
they will not even attempt it .
everybody in europe knows that .
and everybody following events and weighing up their chances from outside europe knows that.everybody on earth now knows that europe s present leaders lack either the will or the means to enforce their own laws .
so more people will come next year , and the year after that and the year after that .
all in the knowledge that once you re in , you re in .
if the facts were otherwise then sweden , germany and other countries across the continent would currently be preparing to ship hundreds of thousands of people out of europe and back to their countries of origin .
but they re not.and so the numbers coming in will increase , and the politicians will keep posing , and the european peoples will rightly get more and more enraged at the fact that their continent is being taken away from them .
eventually perhaps even the constant bogeyman warnings about the far-right will lose their capacity to scare .
not good times ahead , i d say .
via : ukspectator is there is enough courage in america to fight the mass invasion of muslims into our nation ?
we have generations of men and women who have given their lives to make america the greatest nation on earth .
are we willing to sit back and let progressive politicians and radical leftist organizations like moveon.org turn our country into another syria , with warring muslim factions hell-bent on the destruction of christianity and judaism ?