istanbul ( reuters ) - turkey appealed to northern iraq s kurdish region on friday to drop plans for an independence referendum , saying it would threaten security and force ankara to slap sanctions on a neighbor and trading partner .
turkish government spokesman bekir bozdag told a news conference that all options were on the table regarding its response to the referendum , although he stopped short of giving details on what sanctions could entail .
it is not possible for us to accept the postponing of the referendum either .
we demand a total cancellation , so that we won t have to impose sanctions , bozdag told reporters .
bozdag s comments followed back-to-back meetings of turkey s cabinet and national security council , both of which were chaired by president tayyip erdogan .
the president has also said parliament will convene on saturday to discuss the response to the referendum .
earlier , the council called on the president of the northern iraqi kurdish region , massoud barzani , to stop the referendum .
the council said turkey retained the rights defined in bilateral and international agreements if the vote were held .
it did not elaborate on the nature of those rights .
turkey , home to the largest kurdish population in the region and fighting a kurdish insurgency , has warned that any breakup of neighboring iraq or syria could lead to a global conflict .
turkish prime minister binali yildirim said the referendum was a matter of national security for the country and ankara would never accept a change of status in iraq or syria .
an action that will change the status in syria and iraq is an unacceptable result for turkey , and we will do what is necessary , yildirim said .
erdogan has threatened to impose sanctions against kurdish northern iraq .
on monday , the turkish army launched a highly visible military drill near the habur border crossing , which military sources said was due to last until sept. 26 , a day after the planned referendum .
turkey has for years been northern iraq s main link to the outside world .
it has built strong trade ties with the semi-autonomous region , which exports hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil per day through turkey to international markets .