beijing ( reuters ) - china s largely rubber-stamp parliament is considering jail terms of up to three years for people who disrespect the national anthem or flag in public , while an existing anthem law will be applied in hong kong , state media said on tuesday .
xi jinping has ushered in new legislation aimed at securing china from threats both within and outside its borders since taking over as president in 2013 , as well as presiding over a sweeping crackdown on dissent and free speech .
china passed a new law in september mandating up to 15 days in police detention for those who mock the march of the volunteers national anthem , a law that also covers the chinese territories of hong kong and macau .
parliament is now looking at whether to amend china s criminal law to include criminal penalties for disrespect of the national anthem , including intentionally distorting the lyrics or tune , xinhua said .
the tougher penalties also apply to desecration of the national flag , or emblem , including burning , defacing or trampling on it in public , the report said .
that , too , had previously been punishable by up to 15 days detention .
a draft amendment has been submitted for deliberation at a bi-monthly session of parliament s standing committee , which started on monday .
violators in this regard may face punishments of up to three years of imprisonment , according to the draft , it said .
it was not clear when the amendment might be passed but it could be at the end of the week , when parliament s standing committee closes its current session .
the national anthem law , which went into effect on oct. 1 , will also be included in an annex of hong kong s basic law , or mini constitution , xinhua added , though it s not clear if that will include three-year jail terms .
the national anthem law has fueled concern in hong kong , whose residents have grown nervous over china s perceived encroachment of the city s autonomy following such events as the disappearance of booksellers who later emerged in mainland chinese custody .
in 2015 , hong kong football fans booed the chinese anthem during a world cup qualifier , prompting a fine for the territory s football association from world body fifa .
in recent years , incidents of disrespecting the national anthem had occurred in hong kong , challenging the bottom line of the principle of one country , two systems and social morality and triggering rage among chinese including most hong kong residents , said zhang rongshun , deputy head of parliament s legislative affairs commission , according to xinhua .
it is urgent and important to apply the national anthem law in hong kong , in a bid to prevent and handle such offences .
the asian football confederation on tuesday warned the hong kong football association about their fans behavior at a match against malaysia on oct 10. in hong kong , where some booed the national anthem .