our 44th president just doing his part to keep the racial fire stoked barack obama claimed the united states was still infected with racism and dropped the n-word to make his point in his first ever podcast interview released this morning .
the president said : racism , we are not cured of it .
and it s not just a matter of it not being polite to say n * * * * r in public .
that s not the measure of whether racism still exists or not .
it s not just a matter of overt discrimination .
societies don t overnight completely erase everything that happened 200 to 300 years prior .
the president said that attitudes about race had improved significantly since he was born to a white mother and black father 53 years ago.but the nation s history of slavery casts a long shadow , and that s still part of our dna that s passed on .obama made the remarks in a podcast for comedian marc maron following the fatal shooting of nine people last wednesday at a historical black church in charleston , south carolina.echoing his own thursday statement on the shootings , the president said the nation must determine how it can respect the rights of firearm owners while keeping weapons out of the hands of the mentally unstable .
the question is just : is there a way of accommodating that legitimate set of traditions with some commonsense stuff that prevents a 21-year-old who is angry about something or confused about something , or is racist , or is deranged , from going into a gun store and suddenly is packing and can do enormous harm .
and that is not something that we have ever fully come to terms with .
it is thought he was referring to dylann roof , the 21-year-old south carolinian accused of killing nine congregants at emanuel ame church in charleston.obama s interview with comedian marc maron for his podcast , wtf , was recorded on friday but was not posted online until this morning.the president lamented how often he had to speak to the country about a devastating loss and added : it s not enough just to feel bad .
there are actions that could be taken to make events like this less likely .
and one of those actions we could take would be to enhance some basic commonsense gun-safety laws that , by the way , the majority of gun owners support .
he reiterated his thursday claim that there s no other advanced nation on earth that tolerates multiple shootings on a regular basis and considers it normal .
and to some degree that s what s happened in this country .
it s become something that we expect .
the president claimed the common framing of shooting sprees was that it s a crazy person you can t help it .and he said gun control legislation had been stymied in congress because the grip of the nra ( national rifle association ) on congress is extremely strong .via : uk daily mail