monrovia ( reuters ) - liberia s ruling party , whose candidate finished runner-up in the first round of this month s presidential election , said on sunday it would back a legal challenge to the result , accusing president ellen johnson sirleaf of interfering in the vote .
the extraordinary charge by unity party against johnson sirleaf , one of its own members , throws into question a second round run-off scheduled for nov. 7 between its candidate vice president joseph boakai and front-runner george weah .
unity party said in a statement that the oct. 10 poll , meant to usher in liberia s first democratic transition of power since 1944 , was characterised by massive systematic irregularities and fraud .
the statement , read to reporters by unity party chairman wilmont paye , said johnson sirleaf had acted inappropriately by meeting privately with elections magistrates before the vote .
greed has resurfaced in its most callous form , sowing seeds of discord yet again with the intent of disrupting the fragile peace of liberia , the party said in its statement .
unity party officials said they were supporting a legal challenge by liberty party of the third-place candidate charles brumskine , which has petitioned the elections commission for a re-run of the first round .
the all liberian party of businessman benoni urey also said on sunday it was backing the complaint .
it doesn t mean we will not take part in the ( run-off ) , augustine ngafuan , unity party s national campaign chairman , told reuters .
we hope the court can rule before the run-off .
if not , we will decide what next to do .
an official from the elections commission said it expected to hear the formal complaint on monday .
the commission s findings can be appealed in the supreme court .
at johnson sirleaf s residence , where she was celebrating her 79th birthday , her spokesman jerolinmek piah told reporters that he would comment on the accusations later as he did not want to overshadow the festivities .
international observers from the european union , the carter center and the national democratic institute have said they saw no major problems with the vote .
unity party s statement cements a falling out between johnson sirleaf , a nobel peace prize laureate , and her party s leadership after 12 years in power that saw the country consolidate a post-war peace but it also drew sharp criticism over alleged corruption and underdevelopment .
boakai has served as johnson sirleaf s vice president since the president s inauguration in 2006 .
however , johnson sirleaf declined to endorse him and he distanced himself from the last administration .
weah , a former soccer star in europe , won the first round with 38.4 percent of the vote to boakai s 28.8 percent and has momentum heading into the run-off .
on thursday he picked up the endorsement of former warlord prince johnson , who won 8 percent of the vote in the first round .
morluba morlu , a senior official from weah s cdc party , said those challenging the result were opting to stage trouble .
but no matter what they do ... they can not stop the election of ambassador weah , he added .
weah has been a unicef goodwill ambassador .