washington ( reuters ) - billionaires charles and david koch , the republican brothers who are a driving force behind conservative politics and election financing , are launching a new group to target social issues such as poverty and education , usa today reported on friday .
organizers said the goal is to raise $ 15 million this year for the group , which aims to partner with private organizations to tackle problems such as poverty , gang violence and repeat criminal offenders through grants or other investments , the newspaper said .
the five-person group , called stand together , plans to reveal more details about its plans at an annual gathering near palm springs , california , of hundreds of koch donors that is scheduled to open on saturday , usa today said , citing interviews with the group ’ s leaders .
it is not clear how much of their personal funds the brothers will give the social issues group , the newspaper said .
representatives for the kochs could not be immediately reached to comment on the initiative .
evan feinberg , the group ’ s executive director , on friday tweeted that its website stand-together.org had officially launched .
the kochs are among the best-known conservative donors and have spent millions to influence u.s. elections , using their wealth from koch industries inc , a u.s. conglomerate that is the nation ’ s second-largest private company , and running their nonprofit political group americans for prosperity .
while their efforts to create an initiative aimed at social issues has been in the works for months , its formal launch comes amid active campaigning in a crowded field ahead of the nov. 8 presidential election .
while so far issues such as immigration and security have dominated the presidential campaign , other domestic issues could eventually come to the forefront .
the libertarian-leaning brothers have not endorsed a candidate among the 12 republicans seeking the party ’ s nomination .
according to usa today , their latest nonprofit could use its funding in a variety of ways , from offering scholarships to providing support to other nonprofit groups .
( reporting by washington newsroom ; editing by phil berlowitz ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .