san salvador ( reuters ) - gang life in the poor central american country of el salvador is hard , but for a dozen former members of the feared 18th street gang , building a new life outside is no less difficult .
wilfredo gomez , 40 , joined a gang as an adolescent in los angeles , the u.s. city to which his parents emigrated .
he said he was enticed by the guns , the girls and the camaraderie of gang life .
he wound up in jail before being deported back to his native country .
with few links to el salvador , he quickly returned to gang life .
a 10-year jail sentence for stealing an uzi submachine gun gave him time to reckon with his choices .
returning to civil society is arduous in the midst of the government s militarized battle against the maras , which has led to claims of rights abuses and , according to police , an average daily tally of 16 dead .
former gang members often struggle to find lodging and work , and may be rejected by their families .
for gomez and 12 other ex-gangsters , the eben-ezer evangelical church in the gang-ridden neighborhood of dina in san salvador , the capital , has been a lifeline , offering food , accommodations , and a spiritual second chance .
i ve only had losses being part of the gang , gomez said .
i haven t won anything .
i lost my youth , which was spent in jail .
i lost my family due to my bad decisions .
i lost my home , my woman , my son , and i lost the best years of my life due to a pointless ideology .
gomez now runs a bakery that employs 10 other former gang members .
now , my fun , my enjoyment , is to see them smile , to have dreams , gomez said .
they say they re going to open a bigger bakery , and that one day we ll have our own store and compete against pizza hut .
rejected by a society weary of violence , they nonetheless struggle to eradicate the stain of gang life .
in october , police went to the bakery and stripped the employees to expose their gang tattoos .
they were arrested on suspicion of illicit association , a crime that carries a 5-year sentence .
a week later , they were released without charges .
once known as the shadow , raul valladares , 34 , is undergoing a painful process to remove tattoos from his face and arms .
he has received death threats from his former gang associates because removing gang insignia is punishable by death .
it s definitely cost me a lot to leave the gang , he said .
but i m fighting to keep going .
related photo essay at reut.rs/2j5x7oj