paris ( reuters ) - there was a time when angry french workers could down tools and take to the streets en masse to force ministers to back down .
but things have changed , making president emmanuel macron s job of pushing through labor reforms that much easier .
barely 26,000 attended one paris rally on tuesday to protest against the reforms , a fraction of the hundreds of thousands who went on strike in the heyday of french industrial action freezing activity in swathes of the economy .
french strikes are not what they used to be , reflecting a cooling in national attitude to union militancy plus a change in approach by macron who flagged his reforms well in advance to union leaders who have in turn seen their powers decline .
this means the 39-year-old former investment banker has the best opportunity in generations to overhaul france s labor laws in his strategy to invigorate the eu s second-largest economy .
fundamentally it is not a very strike-prone country any more , said bob hancke , a labor relations expert at the london school of economics .
in the mid-1990s , the joke was practically everyone had been a trade union member but no one ever stayed .
in 2015 , companies in france lost 69 days to strikes per 1,000 workers .
that was barely a fifth of what it was in the late 1990s and a far cry from the 1,000 days lost to strikes per 1,000 workers in the late 1980s .
the decline has accelerated since conservative president nicolas sarkozy passed a law in 2007 banning wildcat walkouts and forcing public transport unions to guarantee a minimum service during strikes .
while it is possible that protests will gain momentum when macron unveils more hard-hitting reforms over the next year , including changes to unemployment benefits and pensions , things have so far played in his favor .
unionists and labor experts interviewed for this story said one critical factor is that big , nationwide strikes have achieved little for the average worker in the past two decades .
governments eventually realized they could just force things through , said stephane sirot , a professor at the cergy-pontoise university .
an important point came in 2003 , when a mass public-sector protest against pension reform failed to convince the government to budge , he said .
the last significant nationwide success enjoyed by unions was in 1995 , when weeks of protests , also over pension reform , virtually brought the economy to a halt .
since those strikes , which forced newly elected president jacques chirac to yield , major standoffs with successive governments have had mixed results .
that s the main difficulty for unions , said sirot .
they don t win anymore .
taking part in a march in paris against macron s reforms on tuesday , sarah , an activist for 20 years in the sud nettoyage cleaners union , said it was harder to get colleagues to strike .
many have been demotivated , she said .
with their heart they are with us but it s more difficult to mobilize them , she said , adding that the young were particularly ambivalent about the effectiveness of strikes and street protests .
around 10 percent of french workers are unionized , according to labor ministry data , with the average member more likely to be older and with a permanent job .
at the same protest rally in paris on tuesday , marie-josee da silva , a 49-year old hospital care-worker , said she was marching on principle rather than out of any real hope that the rally would convince the government to change course .
tuesday s strike shut down some french schools and led to about a third of flights being canceled at some airports but overall disruption was minimal .
a lack of unity among unions also dented protests against macron s reforms , with many voters saying they believe the changes are vital to restore the health of the french economy .
the economy ministry said some 14 percent of state civil servants had been on strike and just 9.5 percent in local administration .
macron was careful to consult with unions ahead of the publication of his reform bill but he also offered small concessions .
the most moderate union , the cfdt , which now has the largest membership , bought into macron s proposals .
jean-claude mailly , the leader of france s third-largest union , force ouvriere , told activists last month he had fought with the government behind closed doors for three months .
but his union has also effectively accepted macron s reforms .
only the communist party-rooted cgt spearheaded street demonstrations against the loosening of employment laws .
when consultations with unions on changes to unemployment benefits and job training start on thursday , the government will try the same approach , being firm on basic issues while offering some concessions .
sirot and others said the strategy could work , but they also warned that with macron planning to press ahead over the next year with even more contentious legislation , he may have won an early battle but not yet the war .
there is a degree of resignation , people wonder if ( taking part in rallies ) is worth it , if they will be listened to , said luc berille , the head of unsa , one of the public sector s main unions .
people don t necessarily walk off the job or protest , but there is an accumulation of resentment nonetheless , and that s good for no one .
for the current climate to prevail , the government needs to maintain contacts with unions , said jean grosset , who heads research on industrial relations at the jean jaures think-tank .
the key is the sense of injustice , said grosset , a former union leader , cautioning that if the government failed to tackle this sentiment , bigger protests could be triggered .