the mccain family has requested everyone s prayers sen. john mccain , 80 , has been diagnosed with a primary glioblastoma , a type of brain tumor , mayo clinic doctors directly involved in the senator s care told cnn.the senator underwent surgery to remove a blood clot on friday at mayo clinic hospital in phoenix .
lab results from that surgery confirmed the presence of glioblastoma associated with the blood clot.glioblastoma is a particularly aggressive tumor that forms in the tissue of the brain and spinal cord , according to the american brain tumor association.a pathologist was in the operating room during the procedure , a minimally invasive craniotomy with an eyebrow incision , said his doctor , who added that the surgery lasted about 3 to 4 hours .
post-surgical brain scans show the tissue causing concern has been completely removed.mccain is recovering amazingly well , according to a statement from his office.the senator showed no neurological problems before or after the operation , said his doctors .
though not identified by name , at mccain s request , his doctors were given permission speak with gupta , who is also a practicing neurosurgeon.mccain is now recovering at his arizona home .
he and his family are considering treatment options , which will likely include radiation and chemotherapy , his doctors said.the surgical procedure mccain underwent is a significant operation , said gupta , explaining that a bone underneath the eyebrow had to be removed to do the procedure and then later put back .
it s a very aggressive tumor , said gupta .
he explained that survival for malignant glioblastoma tends to be around 14 months with treatment , which could not begin until the incision heals , which would be in the next three or four weeks.however , a 2009 study reported that almost 10 % of patients with glioblastoma may live five years or longer , according to the american brain tumor association .
this is the same tumor that ted kennedy had , said gupta .
my fox 8senator kennedy was diagnosed with a malignant glioma in may 2008 , after being hospitalized following a seizure .
a month later , he underwent what was described as successful surgery at duke university medical center , durham , north carolina , and then received both chemotherapy and radiation after returning home to massachusetts.six months after the diagnosis , senator kennedy had returned to the capitol and was working part-time while still continuing with treatment.senator kennedy died on august 25 , 2009 .
medscape