mexico city ( reuters ) - i first visited camp no .
3 a few days after the sept. 19 earthquake .
after reporting from collapsed buildings around the city , this was a different type of shock .
row after row of tiny tin shacks crammed into a small lot hidden behind a high fence in the middle class neighborhood of lindavista .
here , hundreds of families who lost their homes in an earthquake 32 years ago are living in deplorable conditions , with children and grandchildren born during the interminable wait for promised government-subsidized homes .
the 1985 earthquake was a defining moment for the mexican capital .
the death toll is still disputed , but at least 5,000 were killed .
some say many more died .
three decades on , hundreds of its victims are still living in hovels in encampments across the sprawling city of 20 million and now the latest quake has made thousands more people homeless .
on first impression the camp is a little menacing , the smell of marijuana hangs in the air and residents warn of thieves and petty crime they blame on new arrivals - people who have moved in to occupy shacks left by families who have received new homes .
a strong sense of community prevails among the 1985 earthquake survivors , necessary perhaps for families who share outdoor toilets and use bared electric cables to heat water to bathe .
and as i have seen among many of latin america s poorest people , there is resourcefulness .
most families had some kind of work , many setting up small businesses like food stands selling tacos , or makeshift photocopy shops on the roadside .
one woman made her living charging for toilet paper and access to a bathroom .
according to the leaders of the lindavista camp , its ramshackle shacks are home to around 750 people , divided into roughly 250 families .
there are almost 200 children who are the grandchildren of those originally resettled here , according to local leaders .
at least six such camps exist in the capital .
mexico city s housing institute said that since 2016 , it has delivered 173 homes to victims of the 1985 quake and expects to hand over 120 more before the end of next year .
click on reut.rs/2go1os4 for related photo essay