the poll below is why people shouldn t trust polls ever !
always look at the sample size and breakdown of the people .
are they mostly democrats ?
this popped up when top news was googled .
this is fake news that even fox news is reporting today ! the lead story this morning from nbc is that trump has hit historic lows for a president in the first 100 days false !
when we looked a little closer , we found this poll is truly bogus ! here s what we know : the sample size was only 900 people ! please note the number of people who are strong republicans 19 % if you add the people who consider themselves to be republicans , it s 38 % .
does this sample size reflect a fair sample size ?
we think not ! here s the take from nbc that s totally skewed : forty-five percent of respondents in the survey believe trump is off to a poor start , with an additional 19 percent who say it s been only a fair start .
that s compared with a combined 35 percent who think the president s first three months in office have been either good or great .
trump s 100th day in office takes place on april 29.by contrast , in the exact same question from april 2009 nbc/wsj poll , 54 percent of americans said that barack obama s first 100 days had gotten off to either a good or great start , while 25 percent said they were fair , and 21 percent called them poor.trump s overall job-approval rating stands at 40 percent down four points from february .
it s the lowest job-approval rating for a new president at this 100-day stage in the history of the nbc/wsj poll.at this same point in time of their presidencies , obama s overall rating stood at 61 percent in the poll , george w. bush s was at 56 percent and bill clinton s was at 52 percent.by party , 82 percent of republicans approve of trump s job , versus just 7 percent of democrats and 30 percent of independents who give the president a thumbs-up.how can this poll not be false when over 54 % of the people they polled are dems ? listen to this ridiculous video saying trump is scrambling total lies !