sao paulo ( reuters ) - brazil s army commander dismissed a general s suggestion that members of the army s high command endorse some sort of military intervention if high courts fail to stem political corruption , the online services of brazil s two biggest newspapers said .
at a gathering of freemasons in bras lia last friday , general antonio hamilton mour o had suggested his fellows at the high command think the current timing is not favorable for military intervention but that it could eventually take place through successive steps , folha de s. paulo said .
either institutions sort out the political problem , through the judiciary branch of power and withdrawing from public life all those elements involved in illicit acts , or then we will have to impose that , mour o was quoted as saying by o estado de s. paulo newspaper on sunday .
army commander eduardo villas b as dismissed mour o s comments by saying there is no possibility of a military intervention in brazil .
b as told estado that since 1985 , when a 21-year military dictatorship came to an end , the military was not responsible for any source of turmoil in the nation s life , and it will continue to be like that .
while mour o , currently the army s head of finance , hinted that there could come a time when the army would have to impose military action , he said it would not be to take power from civilians , folha said .
an action would aim at telling people , beware , let s fix this now so the country can move forward and not continue the way it is , the newspaper quoted him as saying .
the army command did not immediately respond to request for comment .
mour o could not be found by reuters to comment on his remarks .
mour o , in the army since 1972 , was discharged from brazil s south military command and transferred to the federal capital of bras lia in 2015 for administrative work after publicly criticizing former brazilian president dilma rousseff .
rousseff was impeached last year after she was found guilty of doctoring budget accounts .
her fall was accelerated by a three-year corruption scandal known as operation car wash , which has ensnared top members of her workers party and her ruling coalition in bribery and graft acts .