though he is facing down six intelligence agencies investigations into alleged illegal payments trump received from the kremlin to fund the donald s efforts to become president by any means necessary , friday marks the day that he becomes president and if you thought assuming the most powerful office in the world would stop trump from tweeting like an angst-plagued middle schooler , you were sorely mistaken.on thursday , trump hopped on twitter to announce that he s headed to washington d.c. and , of course , to quote right-wing icon franklin graham s idiotic claim that someone who isn t trump ( hint : obama ) being the guy who divided the country rather than the dude who called mexicans rapists , wants to ban muslims from entering the country , and who offered to pay legal fees if his supporters beat up black people at his rallies .
it wasn t donald trump that divided this country , this country has been divided for a long time ! , stated today by reverend franklin graham , trump tweeted as part of his daily ritual .
getting ready to leave for washington , d.c .
the journey begins and i will be working and fighting very hard to make it a great journey for the american people .
i have no doubt that we will , together , make america great again !
`` it was n't donald trump that divided this country , this country has been divided for a long time ! ''
stated today by reverend franklin graham .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 19 , 2017getting ready to leave for washington , d.c .
the journey begins and i will be working and fighting very hard to make it a great journey for .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 19 , 2017the american people .
i have no doubt that we will , together , make america great again !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 19 , 2017naturally , the internet swooped in to remind him how very wrong mr. graham is : @ realdonaldtrump going from barack obama to donald trump is like replacing ramsay s fettuccine bolognese with a dented can of spaghettios .
tommy campbell ( @ mrtommycampbell ) january 19 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump yeah , you did n't divide the country by demanding anyone 's birth certificate years ago ?
roland scahill ( @ rolandscahill ) january 19 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump during your campaign you attacked muslim americans , hispanic americans , female americans , disabled americans mark pygas ( @ markpygas ) january 19 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump i 'm sure you had nothing to do with it , though .
pic.twitter.com/rilwitnpoa mark pygas ( @ markpygas ) january 19 , 2017 @ glogh1 @ realdonaldtrumpno smoke without fire .
there 's a reason these guys gave official support to trump pic.twitter.com/sreb3bgcpd tom taylor ( @ yestomtaylor ) january 19 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump well , if the dingleberry who thinks obama was `` born a muslim '' says so , it must be true !
real news ! ! !
ben hooper ( @ benhooperwrites ) january 19 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump oh go fuck yourself , traitor .
joe harris ( @ joeharris ) january 19 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump are you aware if members of your staff were being monitored by the fbi w/r/t unusual comms .
with russian officials ?
productivty tips ? ?
( @ productivyttips ) january 19 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump have you ever taken responsibility for your shitty actions .. even once ?
michelle ( @ ragemichelle ) january 19 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump oh , geez .
he praised your vlad for `` protecting children from any homosexual agenda . ''
what a nut !
https : //t.co/duptzjixwa bess kalb ( @ bessbell ) january 19 , 2017trump may be taking office , but he is already plagued by who knows how many scandals at this point ?
the most important one surrounds russia not the lady pee bit , but the very serious probability that his team was directly colluding with the enemy to install him in office .
in any case , our country is fucked .
he knows it , you know it , and putin knows it.featured image via getty images ( mario tama ) /screengrab