all of a sudden # blackdeathsmatter could the grammy awards have their own race problem ?
the show is coming under huge pressure to diversify its all-white tribute lineup and honor the late maurice white.during monday s telecast , lady gaga will perform an eight-minute david bowie tribute , jackson browne will honor glenn frey and alice cooper and johnny depp are expected to perform a tribute for lemmy from mot rhead.but industry insiders are griping that white , of the band earth , wind & fire , and natalie cole have been banished to a video tribute package with others who died in the past year .
over the last week or so , since maurice white passed away , there has been back and forth with the producers and the academy about some kind of representation of him during the show .
the tributes they ve confirmed are all white .
as of yesterday , there was no tribute at all for maurice because grammy producers said they didn t have time , one insider told us.meanwhile , another source close to the grammys said they re still trying to figure out how to add more diversity to the lineup .
maurice white and the group he founded had unprecedented impact on pop culture .
after a lot of pressure , producers are trying to figure out how to properly pay tribute to him .
it s still in limbo , said the insider.to make matters worse , run-dmc will receive a lifetime achievement award but it won t be televised .
people are afraid to speak on it because it s the grammys .
but there s a history of them not acknowledging black artists , the first source added.even though rapper kendrick lamar leads the grammy nominations with 11 nods , the show still faces accusations of not doing a good enough job of honoring artists of color .
billboard recently reported in a confessions of a grammy voter piece , the voting bloc is still too white , too old and too male .
.
.
the voters are becoming more diverse in terms of minorities , females and younger ages but there s still a long way to go .
grammy reps didn t get back to us by press time .
via : nyp