charleston , s.c. ( reuters ) - the white former policeman caught on video shooting an unarmed black man in the back after a 2015 traffic stop in south carolina was sentenced on thursday to 20 years in prison , with a federal judge ruling that the killing amounted to murder .
the decision came a year after michael slager s state murder trial for the death of 50-year-old walter scott ended with a deadlocked jury .
slager , 36 , is one of the few police officers in recent years in the united states to receive prison time for an on-duty shooting .
everyone recognizes that this was a tragedy , u.s. district judge david norton told a charleston courtroom packed with members of both men s families .
what s just for the scott family is not necessarily just for the slager family , and what s just for the slager family is not necessarily just for the scott family , he said .
it s a zero-sum game .
slager was a patrolman in north charleston when he pulled over scott , a father of four , for a broken brake light on april 4 , 2015 .
he said he opened fire because he felt threatened after the motorist tried to take his stun gun during a struggle .
yet he pleaded guilty in may to violating scott s civil rights by using excessive force , a charge that carried a possible lifetime prison sentence .
slager shot at scott eight times , hitting him five times .
state prosecutors dropped the murder charge in exchange for the federal plea .
on thursday , slager expressed remorse .
i wish this never would have happened , said slager , jailed since his plea and dressed in an inmate s gray and white jumpsuit .
i wish i could go back and change events , but i can t and i am very sorry for that .
a bystander s cellphone video of the shooting drew national attention to the case , renewing concerns about police treatment of minorities .
the footage was a centerpiece of the four-day sentence hearing , with both prosecutors and defense lawyers arguing it bolstered their cases .
norton sided with the government , finding that slager had committed second-degree murder and obstructed justice by lying to investigators about scott trying to grab his taser .
the judge rejected the defense argument that slager was provoked or acted in the heat of passion .
scott s relatives and their lawyers said the punishment marked a historic moment for justice .
they called on law enforcement to rethink the use of deadly force .
before court ended , several family members told slager they had forgiven him .
but their pain has not diminished .
we will never be the same again , said anthony scott , the motorist s older brother .
how could someone shoot someone in the back like that as they were running away ?