zurich ( reuters ) - donald trump ’ s u.s. election victory , on the heels of britain ’ s vote to exit the european union , was fuelled by voters who feel neglected and shunned by establishment leaders , prominent swiss right-winger christoph blocher said on wednesday .
blocher , a top official in the anti-immigration swiss people ’ s party who engineered its ascent to become the biggest faction in the swiss parliament , said trump ’ s win over democrat hillary clinton was a warning to current world leaders not to go over citizens ’ heads on issues including immigration .
“ people feel powerless against those who rule them , and for them , trump is a release valve , ” blocher said in an interview .
“ the unexpected result ... should give pause to those who are in power around the world. ” next year , the netherlands , france and germany - and possibly italy and britain too - will hold elections in which debate is likely to be driven by populist parties over issues including immigration .
[ nl8n1d83q4 ] that was also a central theme in britain ’ s june 23 “ brexit ” vote to end 43 years of eu membership .
[ nu8n1b401j ] non-eu switzerland is seeking to balance demands by voters in 2014 for immigration quotas for eu workers without torpedoing trade agreements with the bloc .
blocher ’ s party has said alternatives now being considered ignore the will of voters .
[ nu8n1b401j ] [ nl8n1bx4cb ] “ when politicians in berne refuse to take the vote against mass immigration seriously , it will only lead to a shock like it did in america , ” blocher said .
blocher said europe ’ s responses to immigration amid violent islamist attacks in france , belgium and germany have helped populist political parties including france ’ s national front , as well as the alternative for germany , gain traction .
[ nl4n1da4pg ] “ they stand out because they are taking on problems the establishment refuses to tackle .
one big question that you have to speak openly about is the immigration from islamic countries .
you can ’ t just tear down everybody who is critical of this . ”