( reuters ) - a former vietnamese official who germany says was kidnapped in berlin to face charges in hanoi over financial losses at a state construction firm had been cleared of wrongdoing by the previous government , according to documents seen by reuters .
the decision to re-open the case and aggressively pursue prosecution shows the tougher stance taken by the ruling communist party since vietnam s security establishment emerged stronger from a power struggle last year in which ex-prime minister nguyen tan dung lost out .
the party says it wants to tackle corruption but some critics have accused vietnam s rulers of embarking on a witch-hunt following the launch of investigations implicating increasingly senior figures .
the internal crackdown drew global attention last month when germany accused hanoi of kidnapping trinh xuan thanh , a former official with state oil firm petrovietnam .
he was accused of financial mismanagement that caused losses of $ 150 million at petrovietnam construction ( pvc ) during the time he served as chairman from 2009 to 2013 .
but according to a letter dated may 18 , 2015 from then trade minister vu huy hoang to then prime minister dung , the official had stated his responsibility but the government had not found negative signs relating to his actions .
therefore , authorized agencies and units agreed not to take disciplinary action over thanh , it said , noting that he had moved to a role at the trade ministry , where he had worked hard to try to resolve the problems at petrovietnam construction .
corrective work and post-inspection handling of pvc were done effectively and in accordance with the prime minister s requirements , the letter said .
responding to questions about the letter and whether there would be further prosecutions over the case , foreign ministry spokeswoman le thi thu hang said the party and state were resolute in dealing with corruption or lawbreaking by any organization or individual .
based on the results of the investigation , the functional agencies shall strictly handle those who violate the law in accordance with the provisions of vietnamese law , she told reuters .
reuters was unable to contact thanh , former trade minister hoang or former prime minister dung either directly or through government offices .
thanh ran petrovietnam construction , a subsidiary of a sprawling state enterprise that is also involved in everything from oil and gas to power generation , ship building and insurance .
after his return to vietnam , thanh was shown on state television saying that he had decided to surrender himself in order to face justice .
the government has not said how he returned home .
thanh was a relatively junior figure among those who are under investigation in relation to petrovietnam s dealings as well as in the banking sector .
the most senior political casualty so far is dinh la thang , a former petrovietnam chairman who was sacked from his role in the politburo .
a vice-minister who had been responsible for appointing thanh has also been sacked .
hoang has also been symbolically stripped of his title of former trade minister for violating state and party rules .
investigations continue into petrovietnam and the trade ministry which oversaw it as well as into the central bank .
there are widespread expectations that more members of dung s administration will be prosecuted .
dung lost out last year in the battle to secure the post of communist party general secretary , vietnam s most powerful position .
the post remained in the hands of nguyen phu trong , whose modest public profile contrasts with the conspicuous wealth that some members of dung s administration displayed .
fighting and preventing corruption , waste and negativity are no longer handled slowly and case by case .
it has become a movement , trong said in july .
according to a survey by transparency international conducted between july 2015 and january 2017 , vietnam had become the most bribery prone country in asia after india and a majority of vietnamese believed corruption had worsened .