havana ( reuters ) - colombia ’ s leftist farc rebel leader and u.s. president barack obama attended the same baseball game in cuba on tuesday , underscoring a message of regional cooperation that obama took on his historic visit to the communist-led country .
farc negotiator pastor alape confirmed the attendance of a contingent of 40 members and said the game between the tampa bay rays and a cuban team was a “ symbol of peace. ” a reuters reporter also saw the rebels , who are in havana for peace talks with the colombian government .
revolutionary armed forces of colombia leader rodrigo londono looked relaxed wearing a baseball cap , blue cuban team sweat jacket and sunglasses , and appeared to be enjoying the game with his fellow rebels .
the representatives are believed to be nearing an agreement after three years of talks , although the two sides are unlikely to meet a self-imposed march 23 deadline to sign a peace deal .
the u.s. state department has designated farc as a foreign terrorist organization and repeatedly accused it of drug trafficking .
in a speech on tuesday directly addressing the cuban people , obama noted that the united states and cuba had been on the different side of many conflicts in the americas “ but today , americans and cubans are sitting together at the negotiating table and we are helping the colombian people resolve the civil war that has dragged on for decades. ” u.s. secretary of john kerry met on monday with the farc negotiators and colombian government officials at the talks .
after the meeting , the farc issued a statement thanking the united states for “ assisting at difficult moments in finding ways forward toward mutual understanding between the parties. ” the farc said the u.s. role had led to a sector of colombian society beginning “ to perceive the united states as a friend of a political solution ” to the conflict , versus a military one .
the meeting highlighted the obama administration ’ s goal of using a new policy toward cuba to improve its standing in the region and overcome long-running disputes .
the colombian conflict is the last and longest guerrilla conflict in latin america , leaving a trail of over 220,000 dead since it began in the early 1960s .
the united states has been an ally of the colombian government over the years and has played an important role in militarily reducing the farc presence in the country .