geneva ( reuters ) - the u.n. refugee agency on wednesday welcomed a decision by libya to open a transit center for unaccompanied children and other vulnerable refugees from among hundreds of thousands of migrants , and called on eu countries and others to accept them .
reports this month of white libyan slave traders selling black african migrants at markets in libya - a grim echo of the trans-saharan slave trade in centuries past - have drawn worldwide horror and condemnation .
hundreds of thousands of migrants have been crossing the sahara and the mediterranean to reach europe through libya in each of the past several years .
thousands die during crossing the desert and at sea .
many are now being held in camps in libya in conditions rights groups describe as inhumane .
the international organization for migration ( iom ) has flown 13,000 migrants from libya back to their countries of origin this year under a voluntary repatriation program .
but thousands of others who face war or persecution at home can not be sent back safely .
the united nations high commissioner for refugees has been seeking to open a refugee transit center in tripoli to resettle or evacuate as many as 5,000 of the most vulnerable out of libya each year .
unhcr ... welcomes the decision by the libyan authorities to set up a transit and departure facility in tripoli for people in need of international protection , the geneva-based agency said in a statement on wednesday .
with support from the italian government , the initiative will facilitate the transfer of thousands of vulnerable refugees to third countries , it said .
but we now need eu member states and others to step up with offers of resettlement places and other solutions , including family reunification slots , said roberto mignone , unhcr representative to libya .
the goal is to speed up the process of securing places in third countries , particularly for unaccompanied and separated children and women at risk , it said .
william lacy swing , head of the iom , told the u.n. security council on tuesday that it was working with partners to try to empty the detention centers in libya of around 15,000 migrants .
nigeria s president said on wednesday the government had started bringing stranded citizens home from libya after the global outcry over reports that migrants there were being sold into slavery .