ankara/london/washington ( reuters ) - iran has suggested to six world powers that it may be open to talks about its ballistic missile arsenal , seeking to reduce tension over the disputed programme , iranian and western officials familiar with the overtures told reuters .
tehran has repeatedly vowed to continue building up what it calls defensive missile capability in defiance of western criticism , with washington saying the islamic republic s stance violates its 2015 nuclear deal with the powers .
but the sources said that given u.s. president donald trump s threats to ditch the deal reached under his predecessor barack obama , tehran had approached the powers recently about possible talks on some dimensions of its missile programme .
during their meeting on the sidelines of the u.n. general assembly last month , iran told members of the ( world powers ) that it could discuss the missile programme to remove concerns , an iranian source with knowledge of the meeting told reuters on condition of anonymity .
u.s. and western officials did not confirm the matter was discussed at the zarif-tillerson meeting .
but two u.s. officials said iran had recently been keeping it alive by feeding certain media reports and via third parties such as oman .
a former u.s. defense department official said iran s overtures had reached washington in recent weeks .
iran has put feelers out saying it is willing to discuss its ballistic missile programme and is using contacts ... officials who were holdovers from the obama administration , the former official said .
iran s reported approach came after trump called the nuclear accord an embarrassment and the worst deal ever negotiated .
he is expected to announce soon that he will decertify the deal , a senior administration official said on thursday .
such a step could unravel the breakthrough agreement - seen by supporters as crucial to forestalling a middle east arms race and tamping down regional tensions , since it limits iran s ability to enrich uranium in exchange for sanctions relief .
the other five powers are britain , france , germany , russia and china , all of whom have reaffirmed commitment to the deal .
iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif met his counterparts from the six powers , including u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson for the first time , on the fringes of the u.n. gathering on sept. 20 .
the americans expressed their worries about iran s missile capability and zarif said in reply that the programme could be discussed , the iranian source told reuters .
a u.s. official with first-hand knowledge of dealings with the islamic republic said zarif had been recycling offers that have been lying dormant on the table for some time .
zarif knows that if trump goes ahead and decertifies iran , it ( iran ) will be on the high ground , and the u.s. will be isolated among the ( six powers ) , the official said .
iran s foreign ministry spokesman bahram qasemi said on friday tehran s ballistic missile programme was for defence purposes only and non-negotiable .
iran has in all bilateral diplomatic meetings , including the recent visit of ... zarif to new york , emphasised that its defensive missile programme is not negotiable , qasemi was quoted as saying by iranian media .
the u.s. mission at the united nations referred reuters to the u.s. state department for comment .
the state department declined to comment on whether possible talks on missiles were addressed at the meeting or whether iran had recently communicated such interest .
but it said washington remained committed to countering the full range of threats the iranian regime poses to the u.s. , our allies , and regional stability , including its ballistic missile development .
the trump administration has imposed fresh unilateral sanctions on iran , saying its missile tests violate the u.n. resolution that formalised the nuclear deal .
it calls on tehran not to undertake activities related to missiles capable of delivering nuclear bombs .
iran says it has no such plans and denies breaching the resolution .
iran has one of the biggest ballistic missile programmes in the middle east , viewing it as an essential precautionary defence against the united states and other adversaries , primarily gulf arab states and israel .
a senior iranian official , who also asked not to be named , said pragmatist president hassan rouhani , zarif and revolutionary guards commanders have had several meetings with supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei , who has the last say on all iranian policy , to secure his backing for missile talks .
the leader was not optimistic during the meetings because he does not trust americans .
others argued that the heightening tension over the missile programme could be resolved through talks , said the official , involved in backroom negotiations .
any talks would not aim to end or suspend iran s missile programme but to negotiate some dimensions of it , like limiting production of some missiles with specific ranges , he said .
diplomacy worked well in ending the nuclear stand-off ...
the dispute over the missile programme also can be resolved through talks , the official said .
a third iranian official said tehran would be willing to discuss long-range missiles .
he did not elaborate .
a u.s. official with extensive experience negotiating with iran said putting this out there publicly as zarif has done puts pressure on the ( trump ) administration .
a western official said the administration had assessed zarif s approach to be a stalling tactic by tehran .
another western official said iran must present concrete details for missile talks : what will need to be seen are the specifics on load capability , the distance range of missiles and how many kilograms can a missile warhead carry .
when asked if iran appeared willing to negotiate on its missile programme , a french diplomat said : we talk about everything with them , including the ballistic programme .
our objective is that this leads to concrete acts .
on the ballistic issue they repeat that it s all defensive and has nothing to do with nuclear .