washington ( reuters ) - vermont senator bernie sanders has had the “ luxury of being a complete long shot ” so far in the race to be the u.s. democratic presidential candidate , president barack obama said in an interview published by politico on monday .
obama said both sanders and hillary clinton , his former secretary of state , share similar views on core issues like income inequality , but said clinton faces the disadvantage of being well-known “ in a culture in which new is always better. ” “ i think bernie came in with the luxury of being a complete long shot and just letting loose , ” obama told the political news website .
“ i think hillary came in with the both privilege and burden of being perceived as the front-runner. ” obama , who won the democratic nomination over clinton in 2008 , lauded her experience , saying it will help her govern if she wins but described her campaign as “ cautious. ” “ her strengths , which are the fact that she ’ s extraordinarily experienced , and , you know , wicked smart and knows every policy inside and out , sometimes could make her more cautious and her campaign more prose than poetry , ” he said .
the interview was the first time obama discussed in detail the democratic race and comes just ahead of the first contests to pick a nominee for the november election : iowa , on feb. 1 , and new hampshire , on feb. 9 .
he did not explicitly endorse a candidate , and mentioned only once in passing former maryland governor martin o ’ malley , who trails in polls .
sanders has surged in recent polls in iowa and leads clinton in new hampshire .
still , clinton holds the edge nationally , with nearly 56 percent support to sanders ’ 36 percent in the most recent reuters/ipsos polling .
still obama , asked whether sanders reminded him of himself , told politico : “ i don ’ t think that ’ s true. ” sanders ’ campaign manager jeff weaver on monday also rejected the idea that sanders is a repeat of obama , although he pointed to similarities in their campaigns ’ momentum and the large crowds their rallies have attracted .
“ they ’ re obviously very different people , ” weaver told cnn .
obama said if sanders wins iowa or new hampshire , he will face the intense scrutiny the media has long given clinton , subjecting him and his policies “ to a rigor that hasn ’ t happened yet. ” obama also said sanders would need to broaden his message to continue to succeed .
“ i will say that the longer you go in the process , the more you ’ re going to have to pass a series of hurdles that the voters are going to put in front of you , because the one thing everybody understands is that [ with ] this job right here , you don ’ t have the luxury of just focusing on one thing , ” he said .
( reporting by roberta rampton ; additional reporting by susan heavey ; editing by jeffrey benkoe ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .