washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential hopeful marco rubio has no plans to allow a vote on president barack obama ’ s nominee to be ambassador to mexico , a spokesman said on thursday , despite calls from his fellow republicans and democrats in the senate to let her confirmation move ahead .
the long delay in confirming career diplomat roberta jacobson has contributed to concerns about the state of u.s.-mexico relations fueled by aggressive rhetoric against its citizens in the race to be the 2016 republican nominee .
three democratic and one republican u.s. senator held a news conference on thursday calling for her nomination to move ahead .
there has been no u.s. ambassador in mexico city for nine months .
donald trump , the front-runner for the republican nomination , has labeled mexicans drug runners and rapists and called for a massive wall along the border .
rubio and fellow republican senator ted cruz have also proposed building a wall .
obama nominated jacobson in june .
she has faced resistance from rubio and some other lawmakers , however , for reasons including her role in helping negotiate obama ’ s easing of relations with communist-ruled cuba and what they say is the administration ’ s failure to prioritize human rights .
rubio , a cuban-american from florida , has been a leading opponent of the policy , saying havana should improve its rights record before trade and travel restrictions are eased .
the senate foreign relations committee approved jacobson ’ s nomination in november , with republican and democratic support .
but rubio has been blocking her , under a senate rule allowing any member to “ hold ” a nomination indefinitely .
“ senator rubio maintains his strong opposition to this nominee on the basis of her failure to be transparent during the confirmation process , inability to provide straightforward answers , and poor track record on a wide range of issues as the assistant secretary of state for western hemisphere affairs , ” rubio spokesman alex burgos said .
senators from states that border mexico held a news conference with the u.s. hispanic chamber of commerce calling for jacobson ’ s confirmation , citing the importance of the u.s.-mexico relationship .
mexico is the second largest market for u.s. exports and the country ’ s third-largest trading partner .
“ it ’ s extremely important , ” said republican senator jeff flake of arizona .
democrat tom udall of new mexico , who tried to bring up jacobson ’ s nomination in the senate but was blocked by republican mike lee on rubio ’ s behalf , said he was confident jacobson would be confirmed if a vote went ahead .