a fashion editor for vogue ( see video below ) has been brutalized on social media for her commentary about melania trump s choice of shoes for her visit to texas during tropical storm harvey.just a sampling of the twitter feed criticizing this woman : here s a sampling of vogue editor , lynn yaeger s take on herself and only herself .
did we say she talks about herself ?
oy vey ! in case you missed it , the press was aflutter when melania exited the white house wearing stiletto heels .
social media fashion experts and the liberal press went nuts.yaeger s take on the shoes was dripping with snark just as nasty as can be : this morning , mrs. trump boarded air force one wearing a pair of towering pointy-toed snakeskin heels better suited to a shopping afternoon on madison avenue or a girls luncheon at la grenouille .
in case you want to read the rest : vogue it s awfully hateful to the first family.the funny thing is that when melania got to texas she came off the plane in sneakers !
gotcha ! our previous report : president trump and first lady melania traveled down to texas today to assist with and show support for flood victims .
you d think the press would point out that this is a great gesture by the first couple but that s not the case .
the press could only focus on the fact that the first lady wore heels on her departure to texas .
they mocked her saying she wasn t quite ready to help flood victims : melania s shoes are impressive but perhaps not what i would wear to a city submerged in floodwaters , wrote elizabeth bruenig , an assistant editor at the washington post.those stilettos should help her stay above the flood line https : //t.co/dq89fk18n5 ryan teague beckwith ( @ ryanbeckwith ) august 29 , 2017melania is wearing stilettos to a hurricane zone : https : //t.co/29wiwlipab erica orden ( @ eorden ) august 29 , 2017she had on all black with a pair of black stilettos who cares ?
at least she made the trip !
we can t say the same for michelle obama during the louisiana floods ! we checked into what michelle obama wore to visit the louisiana floods oops !
she didn t go !
remember that she was on vacation with barack and the girls but then came home and didn t make the trip with barack.we checked to see if michelle went to new jersey after hurricane sandy oops !
she didn t go to that either ! melania gets the last laugh : guess what melania had on when she arrived in texas ?
tennis shoes !
is she ready enough now ? first lady melania trump wore a baseball hat that said flotus as she exited air force one upon landing in corpus christi , texas , on tuesday.first lady melania and president trump arrive in texas to be briefed on harvey s devastating aftermath pic.twitter.com/dz0ibqbrk3 washington examiner ( @ dcexaminer ) august 29 , 2017the first lady had her hair pulled back in a ponytail under the black hat with white lettering.she also wore white sneakers , black pants , and a white button-up shirt.looking great ! read more : we