libertarian presidential candidate gary johnson was asked by msnbc host mike barnacle , what would you do if you were elected about aleppo ?
to the horror of viewers and hosts on the msnbc panel , gary johnson responded , what is aleppo ?
watch the libertarian presidential candidate 7 % of americans say they plan to vote for in november : gary johnson was interviewed by joe rogan on cspan about his thoughts on the syrian conflict .
watch him fudge his way through a discussion about a country where he doesn t even know the name of the city at the epicenter of that conflict : gary johnson : i think we bear a responsibility for the refugee crisis and we should be taking on our fair share .
what is the mathematics of having disrupted 11 million syrians , half the population ?
when it comes to the u.s. , i think we can deal with this effectively .
should it be carte blanche ?
no , but we can have a system in place to accept refugees right off the bat .
other refugees might be questionable , backgrounds or whatever .
we ve directed enough of our resources on the military side to deal with the refugee side of it humanely and in a way that reflects what america is all about.joe rogan : when i ve talked to military operatives though , they believe a proactive attack , or proactive action , is much more likely to stop isis or any-gary johnson : well and that , that s been our tact to date .
and i m gon na say that , without exception , that every one of those military interventions have had an unintended consequence of at best .
you know , we , we , we go , we re , we always deal with atrocity .
there atrocities going on .
we go in to deal with that atrocity , and at the end of the day , the new dictator , the new despot that we put into place to replace the bad despot , at the end of the day , is just as bad or in many cases worse .
we cut off the head of the hydra , and lo and behold , there are more heads.rogan : so how does one stop that ?
i mean , have you ever tried to come up with some sort of a solution or look at some sort of a long-term plan that would somehow or another calm the world , or at least , allow the united states to make peace ? johnson : one of the reasons that i m seeking to become president of the united states is i think i d do a really good job of presiding over , over all the intelligence that we do have regarding all of this .
i don t want , i don t want to present myself as having the answers , as much as , you know what , give me , give me the intel , let me be part of this discussion , and um , but i m gon na enter in to this discussion , as a real skeptic , um , on what we ve done to this point , and a real skeptic on what appears to be what we re gon na do in the future regarding all this .
isn t there a more effective way of dealing with this ? i wouldn t be seeking this job if um , if i didn t think i could make a difference in it .
and i , i do not want to misstate .
i don t , i don t wan na play cards .
obama draws lines in the sand .
i m not gon na draw lines in the sand .
if you draw any lines in the sand , you d better be prepared to back up what you said with action .
and that s also been an issue with obama.rogan : what was your take when obama went on television , and was talking about how we needed to invade syria ?
and syria was a huge issue , and the american public was up in arms , both the right and the left .
people were like , what are you talking about ?
this is craziness .
and then the administration backed off .
i mean , was it , in my opinion , it was one of the first [ ] it was one of the first examples of the united states , sort of collectively , the will of the people , like being openly expressed , that the idea of erring syria was outrageous .
nobody wanted to do it .
they didn t make any sense to people , this gas attack .
how was this anymore horrible than a lot of shit that s been going on over the world all the time ?
what is , what is it about syria that all of a sudden we have to go invade syria ?
one more intervention in another country , and the administration backed off ? johnson : great example .
people are fed up with this , and in fact , you know , 22 million people in syria , and 11 million of them have been displaced .
don t we , don t we have a share in , share in that consequence ? rogan : what was the motivation ?
what s the motivation for the united states to want to invade there in the first place ? johnson : well , wasn t it the , mccain going over there , beating his chess , and uh , along with lindsey graham , and uh , and let s go over there and support the good guys ?
well , the good guys are the minority , and the good guys , at the end of the day , are um look , this is somehow we re gon na determine the outcomes of , in other countries ?
i am , i mean , that s just , it s preposterous .
that uh , as individuals we can do that.the funny thing about gary johnson is that he pretends to have a strong grasp on foreign policy as it relates to syria in the video below , but when asked how the us became involved in the conflict , the best answer he can give is to blame it on john mccain and lindsey graham ?
how did this guy ever even make it onto the ballot ?
and even more frightening , is how he managed to convince 7 % of americans he s a legitimate candidate watch :