washington ( reuters ) - u.s. republican front-runner donald trump swept to victory in arizona on tuesday but rival ted cruz showed some fight with a win in utah that gave hope to establishment republicans who fear trump would lead the party to ruin in the presidential election .
on the democratic side , favorite hillary clinton routed challenger bernie sanders in arizona to stretch her advantage in the race for her party ’ s presidential nomination .
sanders , however , won contests in utah and idaho to bolster his case that he still has a chance despite clinton ’ s big lead .
the nominating battles in arizona and utah , plus the democratic contest in idaho , were overshadowed by attacks in brussels in which at least 30 people were killed and raised security concerns among u.s. voters .
trump helped himself in arizona with a hardline anti-immigration message and tough talk on islamic militants to easily defeat cruz , a u.s. senator from texas , and ohio governor john kasich .
trump had the backing in arizona of maricopa county sheriff joe arpaio , one of the most prominent supporters of a crackdown on illegal immigrants .
the win furthered trump ’ s argument that he will eventually win the republican presidential nomination and that the party should rally around him .
he won all of arizona ’ s 58 delegates .
“ much bigger win than anticipated in arizona .
thank you , i will never forget ! ” trump said on twitter .
“ hopefully the republican party can come together and have a big win in november , paving the way for many great supreme court justices ! ” cruz , though , won big in utah ’ s caucuses , giving hope to those republicans who fear trump ’ s proposal to deport 11 million illegal immigrants and build a wall on the u.s. border with mexico would guarantee a democratic victory in the nov. 8 election .
cruz appeared to be on track to win all of utah ’ s 40 republican delegates .
since the state ’ s 40 delegates are awarded proportionate to the popular vote , he needed to win at least 50 percent of the vote to take all the delegates .
he appeared to benefit from mormons who dominate the republican vote in utah .
they did not take kindly to a trump attack on native son mitt romney , the 2012 republican nominee who has led the anti-trump opposition .
trump had questioned whether romney , an elder in the mormon church , was really a mormon .
“ trump ’ s poor showing in utah is a reminder that while many love his glib comments , those remarks can also have a downside .
questioning mitt romney ’ s faith is something that was sure to backfire in utah , ” said david yepsen , director of the paul simon public policy institute at southern illinois university .
clinton seized on the brussels attacks to argue that neither trump nor cruz can be trusted to lead the fight against islamic state militants .
trump has called for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states and cruz said he would send police patrols into muslim neighborhoods in the united states .
“ this is a time for america to lead , not cower , ” clinton told supporters in seattle in a victory speech .
sanders said his utah and idaho victories were powered by young people and working-class americans who support his “ political revolution. ” “ these decisive victories in idaho and utah give me confidence that we will continue to win major victories in the coming contests , ” he said .
trump is trying to beat back efforts to deny him the nomination .
his opponents want to stop him from securing the 1,237 delegates needed ahead of the july convention .
trump now has 678 delegates .
“ i think it is going to be very hard for them to do , ” trump said on cnn of any effort to deny him the nomination if he falls short .
“ i have millions of votes more than anybody. ” sanders is looking for wins in many of the six democratic contests this week .
alaska , hawaii and washington will vote on saturday .
clinton will keep adding to her delegate total even if she is not the winner in a given state because democratic delegates are awarded proportionally in all states .
tuesday ’ s republican contests were the first since u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida dropped out a week ago after trump drubbed him in his home state .
kasich is the only other candidate still in the race , splitting the anti-trump vote with cruz .