clark freeport zone , philippines ( reuters ) - u.s. defense secretary jim mattis on wednesday praised filipino soldiers for defeating pro-islamic state militants in a five-month battle in a southern philippine city without allegations of human rights violations .
the philippines on monday announced the end of combat operations in marawi city after troops killed 42 remaining militants , including some foreign fighters .
more than 1,100 people , including 165 troops , died in the conflict .
here s an army that had to go in a fight like that , and they had not one human rights allegation against them with any credibility , mattis told reporters at the end of the two-day asean defense ministers meeting at a former u.s. air force base .
not one , and when you look at how bloody awful that fight was , that s really a statement about the philippine military that set a human rights condition in the midst of that fight the way they did so .
mattis praise for the military was a rare appreciation as the philippines human rights record under president rodrigo duterte has been strongly criticized by western countries , including the united states , canada , european union and australia .
at the u.n. human rights council meeting , these countries called on the philippines to end killings in duterte s fierce drug war .
more than 3,900 people had been killed by the police , which claimed self-defense , in anti-drug operations since july last year .
the united states provided critical tactical intelligence in the marawi combat operation , deploying surveillance planes and drones , thermal imaging and eavesdropping equipment to help filipino troops neutralize hundreds of militants who seized the lakeside town on may 23 .
mattis exchanged views and discussed security threats in the asia and pacific region , like north korea s nuclear weapons and ballistic missile program , maritime security , terrorism and non-traditional military threats .
mattis also reaffirmed washington s ironclad commitment to the alliance with manila during a meeting on tuesday night with duterte , where he emphasized the importance of shared rules-based international order .
it was a very good discussion with the president and we talked about the way ahead and we re on the same team , he told reporters .
duterte , known for his strident anti-american rhetoric , has made no secret of his plans to cultivate ties with america s rivals , russia and china .
those efforts appear to be starting to bear fruit .
duterte on wednesday visited one of five russian warships as moscow donated 5,000 assault rifles , steel helmets , ammunition and 20 army trucks and received china s defense minister later in the day .
china donated heavy equipment for the cleanup of marawi .