oslo ( reuters ) - the anti-nuclear group which won the 2017 nobel peace prize accused the united states , britain and france on wednesday of snubbing its disarmament work by planning to send only second-rank diplomats to the award ceremony next month .
it s some kind of protest against the nobel peace prize , beatrice fihn , director of the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons ( ican ) , told reuters of a plan by the three nations to send only deputy chiefs of mission .
they like their nuclear weapons very much and don t like it when we try to ban them , she said , accusing the three of wrongly opposing ican s work when north korea and the united states are exchanging threats to use nuclear weapons .
the annual december 10 nobel prize ceremony in oslo , attended by king harald and queen sonja , is the highlight of the diplomatic calendar in norway .
the prize comprises a diploma , a gold medal and a cheque for $ 1.1 million .
olav njoelstad , director of the norwegian nobel institute , confirmed the three nations would send only deputies .
he said the awards committee always preferred to see chiefs of mission .
that being said , we are neither surprised nor offended by the fact that sometime foreign governments prefer to stay away from the ceremony in protest or , as in this case , because they prefer to be represented by their deputy chiefs of mission , he told reuters .
the nobel peace prize is , after all , a political prize .
the norwegian nobel committee takes notice of the joint decision of the british , french and u.s. embassies , he said .
the british embassy confirmed it was sending a deputy ambassador and said in a statement the uk is committed to the long-term goal of a world without nuclear weapons .
we share this goal with our partners across the international community including u.s. and france .
the u.s. and french embassies were not immediately available for comment .
last month , u.s. president donald trump nominated kenneth braithwaite to the post of ambassador in oslo , currently held by an acting ambassador .
ican , a coalition of grassroots non-government organizations in more than 100 nations , campaigned successfully for a u.n. treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons , which was adopted by 122 nations in july this year .
but the agreement is not signed by - and would not apply to - any of the states that already have nuclear arms , which include the united states , russia , china , britain and france , as well as india , pakistan and north korea .
israel neither confirms nor denies the widespread assumption that it controls the middle east s only nuclear arsenal .
it was not clear whether other nuclear powers would send oslo ambassadors to the nobel ceremony .
the absence of ambassadors from the united states , britain and france is disappointing but at the same time we are focused on getting a majority of states in the world to join this treaty , fihn said .
she said the three nuclear states were exerting pressure on other nations not to engage in this treaty .