amman/aleppo , syria ( reuters ) - when syria s civil war came to the industrial city of aleppo in 2012 , two textile makers had to choose whether to stay or move their businesses away .
nine months after fighting in aleppo ended , the struggle of the one who stayed in the city to reopen his factory shows why the other will not return yet from the security of neighboring jordan .
restoring the aleppo industries that have for decades underpinned syria s economy is vital if president bashar al-assad is to turn battlefield success into a fuller return of state power .
moustafa kawai , who remained in aleppo , moved his cotton-weaving machines to a temporary site but now has workers clearing his battered factory of debris to reopen it .
our biggest problem is electricity .
there are also very few workers because everyone s in the army .
sanctions affect the work .
customers can t come here .
transferring money is difficult .
it s hard to buy spare parts , he said .
mahmoud akkad , a carpet manufacturer who like many aleppo industrialists left syria during the war , faces no such problems in jordan where he has rebuilt his plant and kept up exports to old customers around the world .
what do i benefit if i want to set up a factory and there is no safety , he said , explaining the benefits of moving to an industrial zone in a country unaffected by middle east turmoil .
the international monetary fund estimated last year that syria s economy had shrunk by 57 percent during the conflict and its manufacturing sector by 77 percent .
the war has since gone better for assad as his army and its allies pushed rebels from aleppo and other enclaves near important cities , and islamic state from energy fields .
growing confidence is evident in a new banknote bearing assad s face for the first time and in damascus holding its once-annual trade fair after a long hiatus .
but the war still dominates syria s economy , even where the fighting has stopped .
most aleppo factories were destroyed , badly damaged or looted .
their workers fled as refugees or became combatants .
despite a new power line to the city , there is little electricity , leaving people reliant on expensive diesel generators .
water must be pumped electrically .
fighting continues outside aleppo .
the army and allied militias who control the city operate checkpoints that some syrians say demand bribes to let goods or workers pass , a charge the military denies .
travel outside the city means using narrow roads to bypass rebel territory and more checkpoints .
western sanctions make foreign trade much harder , hindering the purchase of new equipment and payments for commercial deals .
although the government urges industry to return to areas where it has regained control , some businessmen say it is not doing enough to bring them back .
fares shehabi , the head of aleppo s chamber of industry , said that since the fighting ended , the number of factories and workshops had risen sharply .
before the war there were 65,000 , he said .
when the rebels left in december there were 4,000 .
there are now 6,000 , he said , attributing the rise to returning industrialists who are restarting their businesses .
but shehabi , a supporter of assad who has been sanctioned by the european union for backing the government , is also critical of its reconstruction policy .
there are some incentives but not enough , he said during an interview , citing tax deductions and reduced customs tariffs for industrial imports for all syrian customers as things the government has done .
there were no specific incentives offered for aleppo .
they should treat us like a devastated area ... we don t have the level of administration that is needed to really save this industry , to make it run again , he added .
in jordan , akkad said the syrian government had encouraged him to return and he said he hopes to do so eventually .
it all depends on the circumstances improving , he said .
he has built one factory that produces most of the same range of rugs and carpets he once made in aleppo and is also investing in a new $ 5 million plant to make yarn .
some of his most skilled weavers followed him to jordan and few others remain in aleppo .
only five percent of my workforce have remained ...
most headed to germany , to turkey , he said .
in 2010 , aleppo had about a third of syria s industrial companies and industry workers , central bureau of statistics figures show .
there were about a million people employed in its factories , shehabi said .
during the decade before the war assad s economic reforms helped aleppo s businesses to grow more quickly .
akkad was among the first to leave the small inner city workshops and move his operations into sheikh najjar , north of aleppo , the biggest industrial zone in the city .
his family owned three factories there and was one of the biggest exporters of syrian textiles .
sheikh najjar became a battlefield in 2013 , occupied by successive forces whose warfare caused massive damage and who stripped plants of equipment .
akkad risked losing business relationships built over 50 years .
today you have customers all over the world .
this is very costly to get a new network of customers .
it s more expensive than the plant itself , he said .
he considered starting again in turkey , lebanon , or egypt .
some city industrialists have moved to each of the three countries and others went elsewhere in syria , but akkad chose jordan , untouched by the 2011 arab uprisings .
his business is now located in a well-policed industrial zone there , the machine guns of jordan s anti-terrorist force guarding the entrance .
what brought us here was the security , he said .
when rebels took over moustafa kawai s factory in 2013 , he bought new machines and started producing on a temporary site in a government-held district of aleppo instead of moving away .
that site - which still represents his entire output - is in a ramshackle building near aleppo stadium .
across the corridor is a sweat shop owned by a different business where small children make sports shoes in a fug of glue fumes , showing how far the city s once-advanced industry has regressed .
kawai produces about two tonnes of baled cotton a day now , compared to 18 tonnes a day before the war .
when reuters visited kawai s operations , cotton spinning machines whirred and rattled in a cramped room .
plastic-wrapped bales of white cotton lay to one side .
electricity is provided by a diesel generator and costs 250,000 syrian pounds ( $ 480 ) a week to power five machines .
it often stops working .
by comparison , in his large purpose-built factory before the war , he paid 100,000 pounds a week to power 30 machines in the belleramoun industrial zone in west aleppo .
the pound was worth about 10 times more against the dollar than it is now .
he also had spacious loading bays and other facilities there that he lacks in the temporary site .
like much of sheikh najjar , belleramoun is now a wasteland of shellpocked buildings , mostly empty but for army checkpoints .
still kawai has started work to move back .
outside his factory , six hands were shifting rubble with spades on a street that abruptly ended a hundred yards away with an abandoned canon and an earthen mound .
beyond it lay no-man s land .
fighters graffiti covered factory walls .
salvaged metal flanges were soaking in oil to strip rust , because syria s weak pound makes importing new ones too expensive .
we started working here about six months ago .
we want another year to return completely , said bashar aissa , the supervisor .