a hollywood actor defending the 2nd amendment is a pretty rare occurrence .
kudos to kurt russell for sticking to your guns ( pun intended ) .
the interview can be heard at link below.legendary actor kurt russell said in a recent interview with hollywood reporter jeffery wells that it s absolutely insane to believe that more gun control will curb terrorist attacks.discussing america s gun culture and film producer quentin tarantino , russell said he doesn t understand [ the ] concepts of conversation about the gun culture , after wells asserted that most americans fear that mass violence is becoming a day-to-day occurrence.when wells went on to say that guns are a metaphor that disenfranchised white guys need , russell let loose .
if you think gun control is going to change the terrorists point of view , i think you re , like , out of your mind , he began .
i think anybody [ who says that ] is .
i think it s absolutely insane .
dude , you re about to find out what i m gon na do , and that s gon na worry you a lot more , the actor continued .
and that s what we need .
that will change the concept of gun culture , as you call it , to something [ like ] reality .
which is , if i m a hockey team and i ve got some guy bearing down on me as a goal tender , i m not concerned about what he s gon na do i m gon na make him concerned about what i m gon na do to stop him .
that s when things change .
arguing back , wells invoked the no-fly list , saying that the people on the list are there for a good reason , but that they can allegedly still get [ a ] hold of a gun pretty easily .
they can also make a bomb pretty easily .
so what ?
russell retorted .
they can also get knives and stab you .
[ what are you ] gon na do about that ?
they can also get cars and run you over .
[ what are you ] gon na do about that ?
when wells argued back that the san bernardino terrorists didn t use cars , russell fought back , saying that previous terrorists have used cars to murder people .
but they ve killed others that way , haven t they ?
he said .
yeah , yeah .
whaddaya gon na do ?
outlaw everything ?
that isn t the answer .
the rest of the interview : wells : just put some controls russell : put some controls ?
what , so the people , so the people who want to defend themselves can t ? wells : no , not so you can t , just so the idiots can t get hold of them [ so easily ] , that s all.russell : you really believe they re not going to ?
are you serious about that ?
what good will that ?
oh my god .
you and i just disagree .
via : the blazeclick here to listen to the interview