islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistan has ordered 27 international aid groups to shut down for working in unauthorized areas , spurring human rights campaigners to denounce swelling constraints on free speech and humanitarian work .
the ministry of interior gave the 27 ngos 90 days to conclude operations , according to a list seen by reuters .
among those being expelled are action aid , world vision , plan international , trocaire , pathfinder international , danish refugee council , george soros open society foundations , oxfam novib , and marie stopes .
talal chaudhry , pakistan s minister of state for interior affairs , told reuters the reason for shutting down the ngos was because they were doing work in pakistan which is beyond their mandate and for which they have no legal justification .
he declined to give specific examples , but said the targeted ngos spend all their money on administration , are not doing the work they said they were doing , and are working in areas where they were not authorized .
the pakistan humanitarian forum ( phf ) , which represents 63 international aid groups , said the ministry had issued 11 of its members letters of rejection .
all of them said they will appeal .
no reason for the rejections have been provided , the forum said .
plan international , which has worked in pakistan since 1997 , said it is supporting over 1.6 million children across pakistan .
plan said it was given no reason for the ministry s decision and would appeal it .
the organization is hopeful that the appeals process will make it possible for its work with vulnerable and marginalized children , especially girls , to continue in pakistan , it said in a statement .
all the other ngos on the list who responded to queries from reuters also said they had been given no reason for being forced to shut down .
they must be having reasons for every ( ngo ) and those reasons should have been shared with the organizations , said a representative from one ngo who declined to be identified .
chaudhry said the number of ngos in the country ballooned after the sept. 11 , 2001 attacks in the united states .
many organizations arrived to provide humanitarian assistance after islamabad allied itself with the united states in what was then known as the global war on terror .
but there were also a number of ngos that are used , knowingly or unknowingly for activities that conflict with pakistan s national interests , chaudhry said , adding that registration procedures are commonplace in other countries .
pakistan has hardened its stance towards domestic and international ngos in recent years , requiring them to undertake a painstaking registration process and clear multiple bureaucratic hurdles to continue working in the country .
the save the children aid group fell afoul of the government in 2011 , when it was linked to a pakistani doctor recruited by the cia to help in the hunt that led to the killing of al qaeda militant leader osama bin laden in the town of abbottabad .
in january , the interior ministry ordered a dozen domestic groups working on women s issues and human rights to halt operations , a move later overturned in courts .
pakistan is hardly alone in cracking down on foreign charities .
indian prime minister narendra modi s government has since 2014 tightened surveillance of non-profit groups , saying they were acting against india s national interests .
thousands of foreign-funded charities licenses have been canceled for misreporting donations .
in china , a law that went into effect on jan. 1 this year grants broad powers to police to question ngo workers , monitor their finances , regulate their work and shut down offices .
the clampdown on ngos has come after a number of activists disappeared this year , some of whom have not been heard from .
reuters estimates at least 14 people have been picked up and interrogated from major urban centers including journalists , political workers , and social media activists .
three members of the human rights commission of pakistan ( hrcp ) have also disappeared in the past year , chairperson mehdi hasan told reuters .
human rights campaigners say the crackdown on ngos and disappearances of civil society activists are part of a wider campaign to quell free speech .
they both signify the shrinking space for free expression and activism in pakistan and the diminishing tolerance the pakistan state has , saroop ijaz , a representative for the pakistan chapter of human rights watch , told reuters .
yusuf , who formerly served as hrcp chairperson , said pakistan feels it has impunity in dealing with rights groups and activists .
its the repositioning of pakistan as a security state and perceiving all forms of dissent as a security challenge , yusuf said .
it s creating a lot of fear in society .