cnn s allison camerota started out her interview with democrat rep. sheila jackson lee telling her that it was being pointed out that , a whole bunch of texas lawmakers voted against sending financial aid to the victims of superstorm sandy when they needed it in 2012 and 2013 .
why didn t you vote at that time to help sandy victims ?
camerota asked .
well , at the time , we helped sandy victims .
the democrats wanted more money .
we didn t get all the money we needed .
frankly , um we did vote .
i did vote on the maximum money .
unfortunately , it did not pass .
why didn t you vote for h.r .
152 , that was the appropriations act of 2013 , that all sorts of texas lawmakers voted against and you just did not vote ?
why did you skip that one ?
as i said , i voted on legislation to help the sandy hook victims , jackson lee responded .
camerota corrected her , sandy superstorm , at the conclusion of the interview , allison camerota took the time to clarify that just so that we re clear , we re talking about superstorm sandy , not the sandy hook shooting.immediately following camerota s clairification , jackson lee clarified that yes , she is complete bafoon , as she ended the interview by clarifying that she was indeed talking about the mass murder of small children in new jersey vs. the superstorm : let me be clear , i voted on many votes for sandy hook funding .
another reporter attempted to point out that repbulican senator ted cruz voted aginst a $ 50 billion bill that was supposedly intended to help sandy superstorm victims .
unlike dingbat representative sheila jackson-lee , senator cruz offered a legitimate reason for not supporting the bill that was filled with pork by legislators who weren t acting in the best interest of sandy superstorm victims .
the accurate thing to say is that i and a number of others enthusiastically and emphatically supported hurricane relief for sandy , the senator told the msnbc host .
the problem with that particular bill is it became a $ 50 billion bill that was filled with unrelated pork it s not right for politicians to exploit a disaster when people are hurting to pay for their own political wish list .