united nations ( reuters ) - russia , china , egypt and bolivia boycotted an informal public united nations security council meeting on venezuela on monday organized by the united states , saying the 15-member body should not be involved in the situation .
the issue is about meddling with the internal domestic affairs of venezuela , russian u.n .
ambassador vassily nebenzia told reporters , adding that he hoped the country could settle its issues peacefully without any external interference .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley told the meeting : the fact that the ( venezuelan ) government would go so far as to try and get people not to show up to a meeting is guilt .
and that s unfortunate .
venezuela is suffering from a harsh economic crisis and president nicolas maduro s government has clamped down on the opposition , jailing or otherwise barring from office many dissenting leaders and activists .
dozens of people have died in violence since the opposition began a sustained wave of protests in april .
met by rubber bullets , water cannon and tear gas fired by the national guard , the protesters say the crisis demands an early presidential election that they are sure maduro would lose .
his popularity has been pounded lower by triple-digit inflation and acute food and medicine shortages .
we received pressure from regional partners not to have this meeting , haley said .
this goal is not to degrade anyone .
this is not to humiliate a region .
this is only to lift up the region .
uruguay s deputy u.n .
ambassador luis bermudez attended the u.n. meeting , but said his country did not believe the situation in venezuela was a threat to international peace and security .
venezuela s u.n .
ambassador rafael dario ramirez spoke to reporters as the meeting was being held , flanked by nebenzia , chinese deputy u.n .
ambassador wu haitao and bolivian u.n .
ambassador sacha sergio llorentty soliz .
the meeting is a hostile and clearly interfering act of the united states that undermines the principle of sovereignty of a member state of the u.n. , ramirez said .
we condemn this act of political manipulation .
european union foreign ministers approved economic sanctions , including an arms embargo , on venezuela on monday , saying regional elections last month marred by reported irregularities had deepened the country s crisis .
the united states has also imposed targeted sanctions on top venezuelan officials .
the u.n. security council also met behind closed doors in may , at washington s request , to discuss the crisis in venezuela .