valletta ( reuters ) - prime minister joseph muscat offered on wednesday a major reward to anyone with information about the killing of prominent journalist daphne caruana galizia , saying no expense would be spared in solving the crime .
caruana galizia , who regularly lambasted muscat in her popular blogs , was killed on monday by a bomb , which tore apart her car as she was driving away from her home on this southern mediterranean island .
dutch forensic experts and investigators from the u.s. federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) are helping the local police probe the murder , which shocked malta and drew condemnation from around europe .
we will make sure our investigators have all the resources they need and all the foreign expertise necessary to get to the bottom of this , muscat told reuters in his office , housed in an 18th century baroque palace .
shortly afterwards , muscat told parliament his government would offer a substantial and unprecedented reward for information about the crime and said any informants would be given full legal protection .
he gave no further details .
muscat , who easily won re-election in june after calling a snap vote in response to caruana galizia s charges of corruption , said he would not stand down , but acknowledged that the killing had hurt the country s reputation .
this has done no good for sure .
but , we want to show people that this is not us .
this is not what we stand for .
forensic teams on wednesday combed the crime scene for evidence , with body parts and fragments of the car blown across a wide area by the powerful blast .
police have yet to give any information about their findings to date .
caruana galizia s son matthew denounced muscat in a fierce outburst on tuesday , saying he had allowed a culture of impunity to take root in malta , undermining both the judiciary and the police during his five years in office .
muscat , who earlier this year sued caruana galizia over her allegations of financial wrongdoing within his family , played down the son s criticism .
i think i would have said worse things if i had found my mother butchered in a car explosion , so i would not take exception at what he said , he said .
however , he rejected criticism that he had allowed wealthy foreigners to hold great sway over malta , which has a population of some 400,000 and is the smallest european union nation .
his government has encouraged foreign firms to set up subsidiaries to take advantage of low tax rates , has allowed a rapid proliferation of online gaming firms and instigated a scheme to let wealthy outsiders buy maltese passports .
our economy is heavily diversified , he said .
i think our financial services sector is as transparent , solid and compliant as any other european jurisdiction .
opposition leader adrian delia , himself a recent target of caruana galizia s verbal assaults , has demanded the resignation of muscat , accusing him of destroying the rule of law in malta .