seven delaware state workers were indicted and arrested for the theft of one million dollars from the ebt program .
the way they did it is just blatant !
there are so many reports every week of fraud in the ebt system that it s beyond past time for reform !
this program is out of control ! attorney general matt denn announced today the arrests and indictments of seven former state of delaware employees for theft of federal money .
all seven were employed by the department of health and social services ( dhss ) , and were responsible for issuing electronic benefit transfer ( ebt ) cards , and three previous arrests were also related to the same investigation.two of the defendants were indicted and arrested last week , two others were indicted and remain at large , one was indicted and arrested previously and still faces charges , and two have already been convicted and sentenced.based on internal audits conducted by dhss s audit and recovery management services , investigators learned of fictitious and unauthorized ebt accounts created by division of social services case workers responsible for case creation and maintenance , with each of the fraudulently created cases issued varying amounts of food benefits in the form of ebt cards .
the investigation revealed that the fraudulent ebt cards were delivered to state service centers in new castle and kent county , and intercepted by the suspects working at those locations .
once intercepted , the cards were personally used or sold at a discount.these indictments are the result of a months-long joint effort of prosecutors and investigators from the department of justice s criminal division , fraud division and the office of civil rights and public trust , along with the dhss audit and recovery management services .
the investigation eventually revealed more than $ 959,000 in total fraudulent benefits issued by several state workers .
this case is part of an intensified focus our office is trying to bring to fraud being committed against the state s public benefit programs , attorney general matt denn said .
these arrests come as the result of an in-depth investigation , supported by many agencies .
we appreciate the cooperation from the office of the inspector general and the audit and recovery management services .
from the department of justice , i specifically want to thank deputy attorneys general matt frawley , phillip casale , allison reardon and dennis kelleher , along with special investigators robert irwin , brittney ketler , frank robinson , and john ciritella .
indicted and arrested last week were : detrich simmons-heath , 54 , of chestertown , maryland charged with theft over $ 100,000 , forgery first degree , falsifying business records , and official misconduct .
released on $ 6,000 unsecured bond .
kamilah laws , 39 , of wilmington charged with theft over $ 50,000 , forgery first degree , falsifying business records , and official misconduct .
released on $ 5,000 unsecured bond .
indicted last week and still at large are : jo ellen edwards , 61 , of felton charged with theft over $ 100,000 , forgery first degree , falsifying business records , and official misconduct .
shirlene davis , 29 , of newark charged with theft over $ 100,000 , forgery first degree , falsifying business records , and official misconduct .
previously indicted , charges pending : nicole stevens , 43 , of dover , was arrested in november 2015 on charges of theft over $ 1,500 , official misconduct , forgery first degree , falsifying business records , and four counts of unlawful use of a payment card for stealing $ 8,092 .
previously convicted and sentenced : allison rivera , 49 , of dover , pled guilty to theft over $ 1,500 , unlawful use of a payment card , and falsifying business records , and was sentenced in april 2016 to two years of level ii probation , and ordered to pay restitution in the amount of $ 27,751.58 .
angelette brown , 45 , of camden , pled guilty to theft over $ 1,500 , unlawful use of a payment card , and official misconduct and was sentenced to april 2016 to two years of level ii probation , ordered to do 240 hours of community service , and forced to repay the $ 15,957 she took.read more : fox