these are people who claim to love diversity , and they don t love diversity they just want people to agree with them .
ferguson playwright phelim mcaleerveteran actor philip casnoff hadn t read the full script yet when he arrived for the first rehearsal of ferguson , a play chronicling the shooting of michael brown by a missouri police officer.casnoff thought he knew what the play , set for a four-day staged reading starting sunday at the odyssey theater , would be about : the wilderness of testimony the grand jury navigated while investigating the day officer darren wilson fatally shot the unarmed 18-year-old .
casnoff presumed a variety of viewpoints , the fog of truth.then he read the script , which tells the story that brown didn t have his hands up and that he charged at wilson.now , in a case of art imitating life , the play is experiencing the kind of ill will and mistrust that erupted from the city it attempts to portray .
part of the 13-member cast is in revolt casnoff and four others have quit as the playwright and actors are locked in a fundamental disagreement over how to tell the story of brown s death.though the grand jury declined to indict wilson after some witnesses and physical evidence supported his account of events , the tone of the play shocked some actors .
it felt like the purpose of the piece was to show , of course he was not indicted here s why , ' casnoff said .
he said that after he learned who the play s author was , casnoff , who describes himself as very liberal , left-wing-leaning , thought , whoa , this is not the place for me to be .
through testimony taken from grand jury transcripts , the play ends with a witness telling a prosecutor that wilson was justified in killing brown .
the audience is then supposed to vote on whether wilson should have been indicted.the cast members who quit questioned the motivations of the playwright , phelim mcaleer.mcaleer , a conservative filmmaker and journalist from ireland now living in marina del rey , said he s just interested in the truth .
the truth is the truth .
if it doesn t fit in with their beliefs , they need to change their beliefs , said mcaleer , who declined to say whether wilson should have been indicted but said his research shows the hands-up claim is bogus .
all the people who testified that he had his hands up , it was pretty much demolished in grand jury testimony .
if the rest of the decidedly more liberal cast resigns some actors are leaning that way mcaleer said he ll find a new cast .
he also hopes to put the show on youtube and bring the production to ferguson itself .
there s got to be some actors in l.a. who aren t scared of controversy , he said.during the ferguson rehearsal , the performers balked after realizing the only witness in mcaleer s play who says brown had his hands up is immediately discredited by an fbi agent .
( although some witnesses told investigators that brown had his hands up , a department of justice report said many of those witnesses accounts were recanted , debunked or inconsistent with physical evidence .
) mcaleer s play also ends with a damning exchange between a witness and prosecutor .
do you feel like this could have ended up any other way ?
the prosecutor asks .
yeah , it could have , if michael brown had just stopped running toward wilson , says the witness , who is identified as witness 48 in the grand jury transcripts , but who is given a pseudonym in the play and cast with a young black actress .
it could have ended another way .
the officer had no other choice .
no other choice , in other words , but to shoot brown.after those lines were read by actors deborah puette and sydney a. mason , a kind of awkward quiet fell over the cast members , whose bodies had been bent like question marks as they stared down at their scripts in a rehearsal space near culver city.the cast questioned the balance of the 55-page script , and even debated the justification for the shooting .
why not shoot him in the leg ?
asked one actress , donzaleigh abernathy , cast to play a witness , her voice booming through the small , windowless space .
he didn t have time !
responded a younger actor , also playing a witness.several members requested changes to the script that would include adding another account more sympathetic to brown to balance out the final witness dramatic testimony .
mcaleer has rejected those requests , spurring some of the actors departures .
he claims that he wrote this to try to get to the truth of it , but everybody s truth is totally subjective , said veralyn jones , an african american cast member who resigned .
when you come to the matter of what really happened , nobody really knows for sure , because everybody has a different take on it .
it just didn t feel right to me .
one of the script s most heated critics has been abernathy , who is the daughter of civil rights movement leader ralph david abernathy , who was with the rev .
martin luther king jr. when he died .
abernathy , who is black , has not decided to leave the cast yet at least not before she has the chance to meet mcaleer at a cast meeting scheduled for thursday night .
i want to hear what he has to say face to face .
i actually want to know , on a moral level , how can you do something like this that you know will divide america ?
abernathy asked .
does it make you feel good ?
obviously he has a personal agenda .
what is his personal agenda ?
mcaleer was unapologetic , and waved away criticism .
these are people who claim to love diversity , and they don t love diversity they just want people to agree with them , he said.so with or without his cast , mcaleer said , the show will go on.via : la times