bucharest ( reuters ) - romania has put the finishing touches to a plan to overhaul the judiciary that critics say erodes judicial independence and which will have to be discussed with the european union .
when the scheme was first outlined in august , brussels asked government for more details , expressing concern it may be a step backwards in the country s fight against corruption .
the plan , also questioned by the president , magistrates and diplomats , was announced just six months after the social democrat-led ( psd ) government attempted to weaken a crackdown on graft , triggering romania s largest street protests in decades .
justice minister tudorel toader gave no details of the new contents of the draft , but the original announcement included giving the minister control over the judicial inspection unit , currently managed by an independent magistrates watchdog ( csm ) .
critics say that would mean the minister could put pressure on judges .
more than 3,500 magistrates across the country have signed a petition , asking the minister to withdraw the plan .
the ministry has finalised the bill .
we ve written a request for an opinion from the venice commission ... there will also be a discussion with frans timmermans on oct. 26 , justice minister tudorel toader told reporters on wednesday .
the venice commission is part of the council of europe rights body .
timmermans is the european commission s vice president .
romania is seen as one of the bloc s most corrupt member states and brussels keeps its justice system under special monitoring together with southern neighbor bulgaria .
in fellow former communist country poland , an overhaul of the judiciary , coupled with a government drive to expand its powers in other areas , including control of media , has provoked a crisis in relations with the european union .
other changes outlined in august in romania included the way in which chief prosecutors are appointed , so it would be the justice minister naming them rather than the country s president , who is traditionally above party politics .
however , the psd leader liviu dragnea said on tuesday he would not favor stripping president klaus iohannis from the chain of appointing the top prosecutors , suggesting that might be watered down in the final version .
the bill is expected to go to parliament s legal commission for debate .
last week , the government reshuffled the cabinet after prime minister mihai tudose said corruption allegations that forced two ministers to quit had created problems for his government with brussels .
dragnea was himself convicted in a vote-rigging case in 2016 for which he received a suspended jail sentence .
but controversy surrounding the psd did not stop it from winning the 2016 election with support from voters in the countryside and those nostalgic for the communist-era who are more interested in pensions and wages rather than in a fight against graft .