there must be an equal number of victims as those born naturally into privilege , or all bets are off in the progressive film business .
there s a certain satisfaction one gets in watching the progressive left in the entertainment industry cannibalize each other over a manufactured race issue .
they were the first to support the black lives matter terrorists when it didn t personally affect them or their income .
looks like someone s chickens are coming home to roost three-time oscar-winner meryl streep waded into the debate over the lack of diversity in hollywood during the opening press conference at the berlin film festival , explaining away the festival s all-white jury panel by telling reporters : we re all africans really .
streep , who serves as jury president at this year s berlinale , labeled the festival ahead of the game on the issue of inclusion , according to the associated press .
there should be inclusion , and this jury is evidence that at least women are included and in fact dominate this jury , and that s an unusual situation in bodies of people who make decisions , the actress said.the film festival s jury seven-member jury includes british actor clive owen , film critic nick james , polish director malgorzata szumowska , french photographer brigitte lacombe , german actor lars eldinger , and italian actor alba rohrwacher.the festival s opening press conference was reportedly dominated by issues of diversity and inclusion , topics that have spurred heated debate and controversy in hollywood after the academy of motion picture arts and sciences nominated exclusively white actors and actresses at this year s oscars .
the move led some stars such as will smith and spike lee to boycott this year s ceremony , while the rev .
al sharpton has called for a national tune out in protest.streep was reportedly asked if she understood films from the arab world and from north africa .
the iron lady star said that while she did not understand much about films coming from that region , she has played a lot of different people from a lot of different cultures .
there is a core of humanity that travels right through every culture , and after all we re all from africa originally , streep said .
you know , we re all .
berliners , we re all africans really .
variety reported that streep made the comment in reference to john f. kennedy s famous ich bin ein berliner ( i am a berliner ) quote : we are all africans , and we are all berliners , the outlet quoted streep as saying.many of the films at the 66th annual berlinale will focus on europe s refugee crisis .
according to afp , the festival will showcase roughly a dozen films related to the migrant crisis , with hundreds of screening tickets reportedly being set aside for refugees .
the festival will also host donation drives for refugee charities at its gala events .
via : breitbart news