paris ( reuters ) - president emmanuel macron suffered his first electoral setback on sunday when his republic on the move ( lrem ) party won fewer seats than expected in elections for the french senate .
what was at stake was whether macron s lrem and allies would win enough seats to give him a three-fifths majority vote in both houses of parliament , which he needs for constitutional reforms , including plans to overhaul parliament .
the vote , in which about 171 of the senate s 348 seats were up for grabs , consolidated the senate s existing conservative majority .
but the socialist party , which was crushed in last june s legislative elections , did well in the vote , provisional results provided by the french senate showed .
the results could complicate macron s plans for constitutional reforms and come as his popularity is declining , just four months after his election in may .
his approval ratings have dropped considerably in opinion polls , dragged down by labor reforms and planned budget cuts , including a decrease in housing aid for students .
lrem , which hoped to win 40-50 senators , ended up securing 23 , and will be counting on alliances with lawmakers from other parties to back the government on a case by case basis .
the senate s conservative majority is now composed of some 150 members of the republicans party , confirming the senate as a counterweight to macron , even if the national assembly , where macron has a clear majority , has the final say on legislation .
voters clearly showed they wanted a parliamentary counterweight , which is in my view vital to a balanced democracy , gerard larcher , the president of the french senate said in a public address .
macron s lrem was not expected to win a majority partly because of the electoral system .
in elections for the senate , only mayors and regional councilors and not the general public vote and macron has plans that are unpopular with many local councilors .
a number of local officials are unhappy with his plans to cut subsidies to local authorities .
jean leonetti , a former the republicans minister said on twitter : first setback for emmanuel macron .
it was not immediately clear if macron will be able to secure a three-fifths majority in both houses of parliament as it might require negotiations with other groups , including some members of the republicans party .
macron s party would need 180 seats in the senate to reach the three-fifths majority in both houses of parliament .