danang , vietnam ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump set out a strong message on trade at a meeting of asia-pacific countries in vietnam on friday , saying the united states could no longer tolerate chronic trade abuses and would insist on fair and equal policies .
trump said the united states was ready to make a bilateral deal with any country in the indo-pacific region , but only on the basis of mutual respect and mutual benefit .
when the united states enters into a trading relationship with other countries or other peoples , we will from now on expect that our partners will faithfully follow the rules , he said in the seaside resort of danang .
we expect that markets will be open to an equal degree on both sides and that private investment , not government planners , will direct investment , he said in a speech ahead of a summit of asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) leaders .
trump arrived in vietnam from china on the fourth leg of a 12-day trip to asia .
redressing the balance of trade between asia and the united states is at the center of trump s america first policy he says will protect u.s. workers .
the difference between trump s and china s approaches was made more stark by comments in a later speech from chinese president xi jinping , who said globalization was an irreversible trend and voiced support for multilateral trade deals .
while china has by far the biggest trade surplus with the united states , vietnam is also on the list of those surpluses the trump administration seeks to reduce .
apec , which has long championed free trade , has itself been convulsed by the changes under trump .
since trump abandoned the trans pacific partnership ( tpp ) trade deal early in his presidency , the remaining 11 members have struggled to build momentum to keep it alive .
leaders of tpp countries are due to meet on friday after talks among ministers ended in confusion on thursday with japan s economy minister saying that they agree in principle and his canadian counterpart saying that was not true .
trump broke early with the pivot to asia of the obama administration , worrying some traditional allies that he would allow china to extend its increasing dominance .
danang itself sits on the shore of the south china sea , one of the region s biggest security headaches and where china s neighbors challenge its sweeping claim to most of the waterway as having no basis in law .
trump said the region s future depended on upholding freedom of navigation and overflight , including open shipping lanes .
he also mentioned territorial expansion among evils such as drugs , people smuggling and terrorism .
vietnam has become one of the most vocal critics of china s claims in the south china sea and its construction of artificial islands .
in a sign of possible competition with china s grand belt and road plan , trump said he would push the world bank and asian development bank to fund infrastructure development and would reform u.s. development finance institutions .
trump said that would provide strong alternatives to state directed initiatives that come with many strings attached .
above all , we seek friendship and we don t dream of domination , he said .
although he was addressing a meeting alongside the summit of asia-pacific leaders , trump repeatedly referred to the indo-pacific region and mentioned the importance of india in his speech .
danang has a special place in u.s.-vietnamese history : it was where the first u.s. ground troops disembarked in 1965 in the escalation of a war that would last another decade before the communist victory .
danang was close to some of the heaviest fighting and its air base was the route through which many americans of trump s generation were sent to the war .
trump himself did not serve , receiving five deferments - one for bone spurs in his heel .