it s really a pretty simple scheme .
obama is placing democrat voters ( illegal aliens who are given housing , education , food , health care and ultimately citizenship in exchange for their votes ) in unsuspecting communities across the usa .
our safety and the safety of our nation is really of no consequence to a man and his family who will be surrounded by secret service for the rest of his life .
there seems to be a particular focus on populating red states with illegal aliens and refugees in hopes that can give their party the boost it needs to put those states in play when the elections roll around part of the supposed mission of dhs is to transport individuals apprehended in the country illegally from our soil to their own .
they might stop and spend some time on our soil behind bars , but the general direction of travel and the paperwork is , in theory , towards their home country .
that was before the enemies of america took over our country , hussein obama in the white house and jihadi jeh johnson at the department of homeland security .
now everything is backwards .
there often is no paperwork to track the individuals or direct their travel , just a white van , loaded with illegal aliens pointed north , towards the interior of the united states and a phoenix bus station .
we all remember the uproar over the dhs buses with mirrored windows that were the subject of protests last year .
now dhs is using stealth to bypass the angered american people and it s working.according to a report by judicial watch , homeland security is still secretly transporting illegal aliens into the interior of the united states , those same shadows that they will later disingenuously claim to be wanting desperately to rescue them from .
they ll be the families that can t be broken up and can t be transported together back to where they belong .
they re the immovable squatters who are dictating what will and won t be done to them through the corrupt government that is using them as pawns to advance their agenda.the good people who make up the rank and file members of the cbp and ice aren t happy about what they are being forced to do and the destructive impact it s having on our nation .
judicial watch wrote : the department of homeland security ( dhs ) is quietly transporting illegal immigrants from the mexican border to phoenix and releasing them without proper processing or issuing court appearance documents , border patrol sources tell judicial watch .
the government classifies them as other than mexican ( otm ) and this week around 35 were transferred 116 miles north from tucson to a phoenix bus station where they went their separate way .
judicial watch was present when one of the white vans carrying a group of otms arrived at the phoenix greyhound station on buckeye road.this report , part of an ongoing judicial watch investigation into the security risks along the southern border , features only a snippet of a much broader crisis in which illegal aliens are being released and vanishing into unsuspecting american communities .
the senate subcommittee on immigration and the national interest addressed this issue just a few weeks ago in a hearing called declining deportations and increasing criminal alien releases the lawless immigration policies of the obama administration .
judd , the border patrol union chief , delivered alarming figures at the hearing .
he estimated that about 80 % of apprehended illegal immigrants are released into the united states .
this includes unaccompanied minors who are escorted to their final destination , family units and those who claim to have a credible fear of persecution in their native country .
single males that aren t actually seen crossing into the u.s. by border patrol agents are released if they claim to have been in the country since 2014 , judd added.the otms are from honduras , colombia , el salvador and guatemala and border patrol officials say this week s batch was in custody for a couple of days and ordered to call family members in the u.s. so they could purchase a bus ticket for their upcoming trip from phoenix .
authorities didn t bother checking the identity of the u.s. relatives or if they re in the country legally , according to a border patrol official directly involved in the matter .
american taxpayers pick up the fare for those who claim to have a credible fear , border patrol sources told jw .
none of the otms were issued official court appearance documents , but were told to promise they d show up for a hearing when notified , said federal agents with firsthand knowledge of the operation.a security company contracted by the u.s. government is driving the otms from the border patrol s tucson sector where they were in custody to phoenix , sources said .
the firm is called g4s and claims to be the world s leading security solutions group with operations in more than 100 countries and 610,000 employees .
g4s has more than 50,000 employees in the u.s. and its domestic headquarters is in jupiter , florida.outraged border patrol agents and supervisors on the front lines say illegal immigrants are being released in droves because there s no room to keep them in detention .
they re telling us to put them on a bus and let them go , said one law enforcement official in arizona .
just move those bodies across the country .
officially , dhs denies this is occurring .
of course dhs denies it s happening .
they are violating their oaths , the public trust and the united states constitution ; it s not likely they ll confess .
but there is no doubt it is , and that it is they and not the rank and file members who are lying.the real question that needs to be asked is why it is happening .
why has an agency that is responsible for border enforcement evolved into a mechanism for facilitating border violations or was this its intended function from its subversive beginning ? via : rick wells