lawrence o donnell had a really bad night on august 29 , 2017 .
we draw that conclusion based on the clip below showing behind the scenes footage of a furious o donnell absolutely going bananas in what appear to be breaks in his show.the video , which lasts a full eight minutes , is a collection of clips from one evening given o donnell s consistent outfit and show the msnbc anchor fuming about earpiece malfunctions , blasting off obscenities and screaming at his staff .
we were able to link it back to the august 29 show.after introducing a clip about president donald trump , o donnell pauses , and during what one can presume was the clip going on air , a sudden flush of anger creeps onto his face .
what s going on , why am i losing this , why don t i have sound , he starts , voice rising .
who s asking for a labor day rundown in my ear ?
god dammit , he mutters , shaking his head , before bursting into a brief spasm of fury and slamming his fists on the desk.in the next clip , o donnell finishes up a segment , and declares : there s insanity in the control room tonight .
he then begins to visibly shake with anger , but manages to hold his tongue , and continues reading from the prompter .
you have insanity in my earpiece , o donnell then seethes through tightly drawn lips .
fuckin .
the pattern continues in subsequent clips , with o donnell continuing to complain angrily about someone talking into his earpiece.and then .
stop the hammering !
o donnell cries suddenly , in response to a knocking sound running faintly in the background.he then stands up and launches into a shouted tirade past the camera .
stop the hammering up there .
who s got a hammer ?
where is it ?
where s the hammer ?
go up on the other floor .
somebody go up there and stop the hammering .
stop the hammering .
i ll go down to the goddamned floor myself and stop it , keep the goddamned commercial break going .
call fucking phil griffin , i don t care who the fuck you have to call .
stop the hammering .
empty out the goddamned control room and find out where this is going on .
phil griffin is the president of msnbc .
fucking out of control shit , o donnell adds.in the next and final wild piece , o donnell complains about the editing of a clip , wringing a piece of paper into a tight roll and throwing it to the ground .
jesus christ , he then says as he adds a pen to the things he chooses to slam on his desk .
crazy fucking sound coming in my ear , this fucking stupid hammering .
it just fucking sucks , o donnell laments , staring down at his desk .
it fucking sucks to be out here with this out of control shit .
if the msnbc anchor needs a sympathetic ear , his best bet may be an unlikely friend : former anchor titan bill o reilly , who boasts the most infamous on-camera meltdown in cable news history .