this story would have been front page news across america today had a republican running for senate in california made these potentially career ending remarks .
but then again , there s that whole double standard thing loretta and her sister linda , who made history in 2008 when they became the first sisters in congress , penned a joint memoir dream in color .
in the book , they bemoan their status as women who are apparently seen as sex objects.a u.s. senate candidate from california is under fire after being caught on camera imitating a racial stereotype of native americans.u.s .
rep. loretta sanchez patted her mouth and made a whooping gesture while talking to a room full of people with ties to india indian-americans , not american indians at the california democratic party s convention in anaheim on saturday , reports the sacramento bee .
i am going to his office thinking that i am going to meet with a , sanchez said in the video , describing a meeting with a person whose heritage she d gotten confused .
then she placed her hand over her mouth and made an echo sound .
right ?
because he said indian-american .
and i go in there and it was great .
it was just great because he said , i want to get my community involved .
involved , she continued .
and that was the first time that we saw the indian-american community really come , the democrat from santa ana added before the clip cut out.sanchez s rival in the democratic race to replace u.s. sen. barbara boxer called the incident shocking .
i don t know what to say to that , said attorney general kamala harris , whose mother is from india and father is african-american , reports the sacramento bee .
it is shocking and there is no place for that in our public discourse , she added.sanchez , who d been meeting with delegates to start the shaping of her campaign , defended her actions .
what i said was that i got a call from somebody from over the phone and he said , i want to talk to you about having help from the indian community , and i thought he meant the american indian community , in the sense of the native american indian community , she said.when asked whether it was an appropriate gesture to make to any people , the 55-year-old replied : i think that native americans have an incredibly great history , and a great presence in our country , and many of them are supporting our election .
via : ny daily news