donald trump s hypocrisy was thrown square into his face.for eight years , trump and conservatives repeatedly called president obama weak , not to mention just about every other negative word in the book.but now trump has the gall to call someone a traitor for criticizing president obama exactly the same way trump criticized him all these years.just before president obama left office , he commuted the sentence of chelsea manning , an army whistle-blower who was sentenced to serve 25 years in prison for leaking classified documents.manning has been a critic of obama , but despite that , president obama signed off on the commutation anyway .
he didn t expect thanks or loyalty in return.but trump says it is treason to not kiss a president s ass after the president does something nice for you , which gives us a glimpse of what he will expect when it comes time for him to issue pardons and commutations.ungrateful traitor chelsea manning , who should never have been released from prison , is now calling president obama a weak leader .
terrible !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 26 , 2017and trump just revealed himself as a hypocrite since he has also called obama weak several times in the past , and the internet response was humiliating .
@ realdonaldtrump shut the fuck up talia jane ( @ itsa_talia ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump just like you always have .
the people know obama .
the people love obama .
worry about america and not your ego .
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump fyi pic.twitter.com/b7cjlzvdlo simon cullen ( @ simon_cullen ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump yes , because having her sentence commuted means manning should be 100 % loyal and never criticize obama !
christoph rehage ( @ crehage ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump ur standing up for obama ? , never thought i d see the day after how you and your band of nazi warriors degraded him 8 years diva ( @ sammypolsen12 ) january 26 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump notice obama isn t tweeting about it ?
sometimes you do the right thing without expecting praise .
it s called leadership .
nick jack pappas ( @ pappiness ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump whistleblowers protect us from those who keep harmful secrets .
our next hero will be the one who gives us your tax returns .
nick jack pappas ( @ pappiness ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump # alternativefacts pic.twitter.com/jghefln5lr lil kim ms. g.o.a.t ( @ killerbee805 ) january 26 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump well , you also called president obama weak , does that make you a traitor too ?
al x young ( @ alexyoung ) january 26 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump let s work on getting your emotions under control when someone makes you mad .
you re leader of the free world now , hun !
bess kalb ( @ bessbell ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump haven t you called obama a weak leader repeatedly on numerous occasions ?
aj joshi ( @ aj ) january 26 , 2017by donald trump s own logic , he is also a traitor for repeatedly calling president obama weak .
and the way he is dismantling this country piece by piece , trump should be arrested and charged for treason against america .
the hypocrite would not last a day in prison.featured image via andrew harrer-pool/getty images