why didn t the fbi look at huma s shared computer the first time around ?
whether the fbi demanded clinton s aides turn over personal devices and any they shared with their partners when it launched the investigation in july 2015 is not clear .
detectives are investigating emails on a computer shared by clinton s former chief of staff , huma abedin , and her husband anthony weiner.in a deposition in june , abedin said she conducted the majority of her work at her computer and blackberry .
she said she turned over two laptops , a blackberry and some files she found in her apartment to her attorneys when requested as part of a lawsuit by the conservative watchdog judicial watch.the fbi later said in its 47-page report that abedin and others used their private server email accounts when traveling .
it previously mentioned the use of cell phones , blackberrys and ipads but there is no mention of personal computers or laptops .
some of the devices , including 13 phones , were never turned over because the fbi could not locate them.john podesta , clinton s campaign chairman , said on saturday abedin had the campaign s full support .
huma completely and voluntarily complied with and cooperated with the investigation .
she sat for a hours long interview .
she turned over and went through with her lawyers all of the emails that might possibly be relevant and turned them over to the state department and investigators .
there s absolutely nothing she s done that we think calls into question anything that she s done .
the reopening of the investigation was prompted by detectives probing anthony weiner s explicit exchanges with a 15-year-old girl , the new york times reported .
they seized the laptop for the purposes of their separate investigation .
what will be determined is if classified information obtained by abedin could have been accessed on the computer .
disclosing classified information to anyone who does not have a high enough security clearance to view it is a crime punishable by up to 10 years in jail.john podesta might want to read this : abedin s i did not recall claim was believed by comey and he didn t look furtherskeptical agents showed abedin three separate email exchanges she had with an it staffer regarding the operation of the private clinton server during clinton s tenure at state .
abedin claimed she did not recall the email exchanges.so if you believe abedin , she didn t know the private clintonemail.com server that hosted her huma @ clintonemail.com account even existed until she heard about it in the news .
comey was a believer ; he didn t even bother to call her back for further questioning .
case closed.but abedin s role in this caper begs for fresh scrutiny .
making false statements to a federal agent is a felony .
so is mishandling classified information.by forwarding classified emails to her personal email account and printing them out at home , abedin appears to have violated a classified information nondisclosure agreement she signed at the state department on jan. 30 , 2009 , in which she agreed to keep all classified material under the control of the us government.read more : daily mailread more : : nyp