bekaa , lebanon ( reuters ) - in a tent in lebanon surrounded by snow , syrian refugees ammar and khadija were married by a tribal leader from their homeland in a wedding they would soon come to regret .
what they had hoped would be a milestone on the path back to normal life became the start of a bureaucratic nightmare .
one year on , it shows no sign of ending for them , their newly born son or for many other refugees from syria , whose misery at losing their homes has been compounded by a new fear they may never be able to return .
it is a dilemma with knock-on effects for stability in lebanon , sheltering more than a million syrian refugees , and potentially for other countries in the middle east and europe they may flee to if tension spills over .
after they had agreed their union with the sheikh in the insulated tent that had become home to khadija s family , the newlyweds both spent months digging potatoes in the bekaa valley , one of lebanon s poorest districts , to make ends meet .
only after they had a baby boy , khalaf , did they realize the wedding had been a mistake .
when the couple went to register his birth at the local registry , they were told they could not because they had no official marriage certificate .
without registration , khalaf is not entitled to a syrian passport or other id enabling him to go there .
without proper paperwork , he also risks future detention in lebanon .
asked why they did not get married by an approved religious authority , ammar and khadija looked at each other before answering : we didn t know .
laws and legislation seem very remote from the informal settlements in the northern bekaa valley , where syrian refugee tents sit on the rocky ground amongst rural tobacco fields .
marriages by unregistered sheikhs are common but hard to quantify because authorities often never hear of them .
for whereas in syria , verbal tribal or religious marriages are easy to register , lebanon has complex and costly procedures .
you first need to be married by a sheikh approved by one of the various religious courts that deal with family matters , who gives you a contract .
then you have to get a marriage certificate from a local notary , transfer it to the local civil registry and register it at the foreigners registry .
most syrians do not complete the process , as it requires legal residency in the country , which must be renewed annually and costs $ 200 , although the fee was waived for some refugees this year .
now they have had a child , ammar and khadija also need to go through an expensive court case .
the casual work ammar depends on picking potatoes , onions or cucumbers in five hour shifts starting at 6 am pays 6,000 lbp ( $ 4 ) a day , not enough to live on , let alone put aside .
one bag of diapers costs 10,000 liras , he said .
sally abi khalil , country director in lebanon for uk-based charity oxfam , said 80 percent of syrian refugees do not have valid residency , one of the main reasons why they do not register their marriages , alongside the issue of the sheikhs .
babies born to couples who didn t register their marriage risk becoming stateless , she said .
d-reutersnews-t004/i41a553a0111811e6b2f6d9823502ce72 refugees can only legally make money if they have a work permit , which requires legal residency , a catch 22 situation partially tackled in february when the fee was waived for those registered with the unhcr prior to 2015 and without a previous lebanese sponsor .
lebanon s directorate general of personal status took another step to help the refugees on september 12 , when it issued a memo which waived the parents and child s residency prerequisite for birth registration , it said .
but if you are married by an unauthorized sheikh , which includes all syrian sheikhs , the process is more complicated , made worse by a clock ticking over the fate of your offspring , whose birth has to be registered within a year .
in registering marriages , the biggest problem we faced was the sheikh , said rajeh , a syrian refugee , speaking for his community in a village in southern lebanon .
in syria , the child would be ten years old and you can register him in one day .
if the one-year deadline is missed in lebanon , parents have to open a civil court case estimated to cost more than one hundred dollars and still requiring legal residency , which ammar and khadija , who met in the informal settlement , do not have .
legal residency becomes a requirement in lebanon at the age of 15 .
at that point , many syrians pull their children from school and do not let them stray far from the house or neighborhood for fear they will be stopped and detained .
more than half of those who escaped the syrian conflict that began in 2011 are under 18 years old , and around one in six are babies and toddlers , said tina gewis , a legal specialist from the norwegian refugee council .
politicians pressured by some lebanese saying the country has carried too much of the burden of the refugee crisis are pushing harder for the return of the displaced to syria , raising the stakes since documentation is required for repatriation .
if they have used an unauthorized sheikh , couples are encouraged to redo their marriages , said sheikh wassim yousef al-falah , beirut s sharia ( islamic law ) judge , who said the court s case load had tripled with the influx of syrian refugees .
but that is not an option for ammar and khadija because a pregnancy or the birth of a child rules that option out .
gewis said that in any case new marriages risked complicating future inheritance or other legal issues and costs were prohibitive , with courts charging up to $ 110 to register even straightforward marriages by an approved sheikh .
ziad al sayegh , a senior advisor in lebanon s newly-formed ministry of state for displaced affairs said beirut was keen to help the refugees overcome their difficulties .
we don t want them to be stateless , because if you re stateless you have a legal problem that will affect the child and affect the host country , he said .