we are devout catholics , but my daughter goes to a lutheran college .
she messaged me the other day to tell me a group students were parked outside her school s cafeteria with a display and literature defending planned parenthood .
needless to say , we were both disappointed by the decision of the college to allow this group of activists to promote abortion in a christian based college .
when our christian churches stop defending the sanctity of life , we are truly doomed as a society .
a catholic school in kingston , ontario , hosted an anti-catholic abortion activist earlier this week for a healthy relationships/sexuality retreat , in which she told senior students that it is acceptable for a girl to send a naked photo of herself to a boyfriend as long as there is consent .
the presentation was mandatory for all grade 10 students , and one father says the school gave them no details about the event in advance.activist julie lalonde , 30 , not only sits on the board of canada s leading abortion lobby organization , the abortion rights coalition of canada , but in 2012 she helped found the anti-catholic group the radical handmaids with the goal of combatting a pro-life motion introduced in the house of commons at that time .
during demonstrations , the activists dress in mockery of catholic nuns , wearing the cornette , the trademark butterfly headpiece formerly worn by st. vincent de paul s daughters of charity in montreal.a catholic father , whose daughter attended lalonde s presentation at regiopolis-notre dame catholic high school in kingston on monday , was shocked that what he called a radical anti-catholic feminist would be given a platform at a catholic school .
i feel sick about the whole thing , that this is the message our children are receiving at a catholic high school .
it s a message that says there is no right or wrong , there s no moral standards , colin macdougall told lifesitenews.macdougall said that he would have liked his daughter to hear a message that would have simply discouraged people from sending any kind of explicit message or photos .
how about the message , don t send them in the first place , he said .
you feel just kind of sick that you send your kids to a catholic school expecting that they would get some flavor of the catholic message , at the very least , but instead , it goes the other way , he added.in her presentation , lalonde focuses on the notion of consent , telling students that sending a naked photo is not a problem as long as the sender gives full consent .
we re not talking about whether or not that girl should be taking the picture in the first place .
for us , what s important is not necessarily whether or not i ve consented to having my photo taken , but the idea of why is it funny [ for my boyfriend ] to send it to [ his ] entire hockey team .
lalonde stresses that there is a huge difference between me and my partners sending pictures to each other , and me sending a picture because i m afraid that if i don t , you re not going to date me anymore .
she makes the argument that it s acceptable for a consenting girl to send a naked photo of herself to her boyfriend , but where she draws the line is when that boy then turns around and sends the photo to other people without the girl s consent.a tweet sent out by lalonde : examples of cool consent programming at @ sheridancollege # daretocare pic.twitter.com/j28efozcgq julie s. lalonde ( @ julieslalonde ) october 16 , 2015 what we want to talk about is this idea that photos going viral doesn t happen on its own .
someone has to initiate that process .
someone has to decide if i m going to send this on to someone else , that person sends it onto someone else and that s a problem .
that s the biggest problem , she said.via : lifesite news