paris ( reuters ) - battered and bruised from electoral defeat by emmanuel macron s centrists , france s socialist party is laying off most of its staff and selling its paris base , while the centre-right republicans limp on in search of a leader .
facing falling membership after winning just six percent of the vote in the presidential election , the centre-left party told staff on wednesday it would have to fire most of them , days after its historic headquarters was put up for sale to raise funds .
on the other side of the political divide , the conservative republicans are leaderless and have struggled for months to decide whether to expel party members who have signed up to serve with macron .
the two parties ruled france for decades , but macron s republic on the move has stolen the middle ground from under their feet .
macron benefits from a large political space left vacant by the opposition , said vincent thibault of elabe pollsters .
he has to face very few attacks from the other parties .
fewer lawmakers and local officials mean the socialist party s income has fallen to 8 million euros ( $ 9.42 million ) a year from 28 million previously .
party treasurer jean-francois debat told reuters around 60 of 97 staff would have to go .
while the republicans are the largest opposition group in the lower house of parliament and hold a majority in the senate , they are in barely better shape .
for the past five months they have struggled to stem macron s poaching of their top officials , or to oppose economic policies that mirror their own .
in the latest of several meetings on membership , the party decided in principle on tuesday to expel prime minister edouard philippe and other ministers serving in macron s government .
but having failed to gather enough officials at the meeting , they were forced to postpone the actual decision for a week , drawing scorn from critics .
it s grotesque , sebastien lecornu , a junior minister and one of those facing expulsion , told le parisien daily .
they are punishing us for backing reforms that are useful to the country ... the right is committing suicide .
the far left and far right are also struggling to mount a credible opposition to 39-year-old macron .
the far-right national front , weakened by its own divisions , has become close to inaudible .
its leader marine le pen had the worst ratings on record for france 2 television s top political show last week , with only 1.7 million viewers .
the far-left france insoumise has been more vocal , and polls show it is seen as the strongest opponent .
but it has struggled to get voters out on the streets against macron s reforms and surveys show it is regarded more as a protest movement .