san juan , puerto rico ( reuters ) - saddled with economic problems and its own damage from hurricane irma , puerto rico is taking thousands of refugees from the u.s. virgin islands whose homes were destroyed by the storm , with a cruise ship carrying up to 2,000 more due to set sail for the u.s. territory on wednesday .
visibly shaken residents from st. martin and the virgin islands arrived on tuesday on u.s. military aircraft , bringing tales of terrifying winds and a breakdown of law and order .
the people of puerto rico - what big hearts you guys got because our ( local ) government did nothing - nothing , said william vonfabrice , 61 , from st. john in the u.s. virgin islands .
people coming at us with machetes , offering bullets and saying there is more for you , breaking into houses , hurting people .
royal caribbean s majesty of the seas cruise ship was expected to depart the badly damaged st. thomas , u.s. virgin islands , on wednesday evening bound for san juan , puerto rico , the u.s. virgin islands commissioner of tourism beverly nicholson-doty said .
irma skirted puerto rico last week , knocking out power to 70 percent of the island , damaging buildings and killing at least three people , but the destruction was not nearly as bad as elsewhere in the caribbean .
the storm s 185 mph ( 297 km/h ) winds hammered a string of tiny caribbean islands that are territories of britain , france , the netherlands and the united states .
homes , hotels , hospitals , marinas and airports were badly damaged and the extent of the chaos seemed to catch the wealthy nations off guard .
britain s government said local authorities had imposed a curfew on the british virgin islands , where locals complained of widespread looting and violent crime after irma .
u.k. foreign secretary boris johnson visited the islands on wednesday , calling them a scene of utter devastation on twitter as his government announced 25 billion ( $ 33 billion ) in extra aid for its territories .
the nations all have launched military relief operations but locals and tourists have criticized the response for being too slow and not reaching everybody evenly .
visiting the french caribbean on monday , french president emmanuel macron promised to quickly rebuild st. martin , a french territory shared with the netherlands .
british foreign secretary boris johnson met with security officials in anguilla .
dutch king willem-alexander said the destruction he saw in st. martin was on a scale he had never seen before .
charles morrison , 89 , an evacuee from the dutch part of the island , sint maarten , said one person was killed when the hotel he was staying in was flooded and partially destroyed .
morrison then took shelter in a friend s more secure place .
the fact is , that s the end of sint maarten , he said as he was pushed through san juan s luis munoz marin international airport in a wheelchair .
puerto rico has $ 70 billion in debt , a poverty rate above 46 percent , and near-insolvent pension and health systems , a fact not lost on the arrivals .
god bless puerto rico and the hearts because you guys are struggling .
and from the hardest struggle , that s where the real people come out , vonfabrice said , thanking puerto rico for sending food , water and ships to the virgin islands .
a puerto rico government spokeswoman said the financial situation and expected length of stay of the 2,000 refugees due to arrive in san juan was still unclear , but that expenses would be covered by emergency federal funding .
puerto rico has set up a large convention center to house refugees who can not afford to go to a hotel .
other countries in the region also helped .
st. lucia has agreed to house prisoners from the turks and caicos islands and the british virgin islands , after the storm damaged the prisons in those british territories .
the cayman islands has sent police to help reinforce security in the british virgin islands after more than 100 prisoners escaped when the storm breached the prison .
mexico s foreign minister luis videgaray instructed his diplomats in the caribbean to offer unspecified help to puerto rico and cuba even as it seeks to cope with the fallout from a massive earthquake .
st. thomas resident laci rivers , 33 , was waiting on board the royal caribbean s majesty of the seas , eager to bring her two small children to safety after days of uncertainty .
everyone is stressed and hungry and confused , she said .
rivers said her car was broken into with a hammer , items were stolen from the flattened sushi restaurant where she worked , and she saw fights break out in st. thomas among increasingly desperate people jostling for food and water .
she was under no illusions about what would happen to her home in western st. thomas .
we ve already realized it s going to be looted while we re gone , she said .
( $ 1 = 0.7571 pounds )