paris ( reuters ) - a revolt by 100 members of french president emmanuel macron s governing party has exposed tensions in the fledgling movement as it prepares to elect a leader handpicked by him on saturday .
created about 18 months ago when macron was still relatively unknown , en marche s membership has risen quickly to 360,000 membership is free but retaining members could be harder as his popularity has waned following his rise to power .
the activists who quit this week said the party that helped macron , a centrist , triumph in this year s presidential election and then won a parliamentary majority had become less open and lost its appeal as a movement that would do things differently .
the number of defectors is small , and none is a lawmaker , but their complaints underline the challenges 51-year old government spokesman christophe castaner will face as party chief .
we need to reinvent our political movement , castaner , the only candidate , told party members ahead of saturday s party congress .
that is key to accompany the reforms carried out by the government and parliament .
a socialist for about three decades until he backed macron s election bid , and a former lawmaker from southeastern france , castaner will aim to change what opinion polls show is macron s image of a president of the rich .
he will also set out to transform en marche ( lrem ) into a more established party with the strength and depth required to compete in the next local and national elections .
the next ballot , for the european parliament , is in 2019 and local elections will be in 2020 at the earliest .
although mocked as an empty shell by rivals from long established parties , en marche attracted many newcomers to politics and quickly proved effective in propelling the former economy minister of socialist president francois hollande into the presidency .
supporters set up more than 3,000 local committees across france in the months leading to the presidential election , helping make up for macron s disadvantage of not having an army of elected officials to promote his candidacy .
but some of those who joined en marche with high hopes now say there is a lack of democracy in the party .
castaner s election shows an autocratic way of doing things , said tiphaine beaulieu , one of the members who quit this week and issued a strongly worded statement condemning what en marche has become .
complaining that castaner is the only leadership candidate , she said arrogance and a lack of democracy were now features of how the party worked .
opposition parties have also criticized en marche , and taken macron to task over the fact that castaner may keep his role as junior minister for relations with parliament when he becomes party chief .
so the new world according to macron is choosing ( your party leader ) alone in your elysee office , socialist lawmaker luc carvounas wrote on twitter , referring to the president s official residence , the elysee palace in paris .
forty-eight percent of voters trust macron with pursuing the right policies for france , a harris interactive poll showed last month , a drop from 57 percent in the same survey when he was elected in may .
en marche officials say that over the last six months , en marche has gained about 160,000 new members , so the loss of 100 activists is not a significant number .
once the euphoria of victory has passed , it is quite normal that some may have the blues a bit , said laurent saint-martin , a 32-year old lawmaker who was not involved in politics before he joined lrem .
but activists are still here .
the question is simply how we work together , he said .
the party was built for the presidential and parliamentary election , many have left to become lawmakers or work in government , so it is normal that we should reconstruct it .