if you re not okay with taxpayers paying for exorbitant medical costs , including transgender surgeries for military members , you ll want to remember these names in 2018 a majority in the house voted down a proposal to restrict funding for transgender members of the military , standing by social policy changes enacted by the pentagon under former president barack obama.rep .
vicky hartzler , r-mo. , succeeded in forcing a vote , arguing that obama s transgender decision is costly in dollars and short on common sense .
the attempted rollback failed on a 209-214 vote , however , as 24 republicans joined a unanimous democratic caucus in opposing the proposal .
the obama transgender policy , which was implemented without input from members of congress , is ill-conceived and contrary to our goals of increasing troop readiness and investing defense dollars into addressing budget shortfalls of the past , hartzler said in june .
by recruiting and allowing transgender individuals to serve in our military we are subjecting taxpayers to high medical costs including up to $ 130,000 per transition surgery , lifetime hormone treatments , and additional surgeries to address the high percentage of individuals who experience complications .
her amendment would have barred the defense department from provid [ ing ] medical treatment ( other than mental health treatment ) related to gender transition to members of the military .
proponents of transgender military service argued that her proposal would reduce military readiness by discouraging transgender americans from serving .
it would have a negative impact on morale , a negative impact on retention and move us away from the merit-based system which we now have , where we have one set of rules applied to everybody , rep. jared polis , d-colo. , who co-chairs the lgbt equality caucus , said wednesday.hartzler maintained that her amendment would increase readiness , however .
the deployability of individuals going through the sex transition process is highly problematic , requiring 210 to 238 work days where a soldier is non-deployable after surgery , she said .
this recovery time equates to 1.4 million manpower days where transgender personnel can not deploy and fight our nation s wars , therefore relying on an already stressed force to pick up the burden .
it makes no sense to purposely recruit individuals who can not serve .
washington examinerhere s the list of 24 republicans who voted to keep obama s transgender policy for our military in place that was implemented without input from members of congress : justin amash ( michigan ) jack bergman ( michigan ) mike coffman ( colorado ) barbara comstock ( virginia ) paul cook ( california ) ryan costello ( pennsylvania ) carlos curbelo ( florida ) jeff denham ( california ) charlie dent ( pennsylvania ) john faso ( new york ) brian fitzpatrick ( pennsylvania ) darrell issa ( california ) john katko ( new york ) steve knight ( california ) leonard lance ( new jersey ) frank lobiondo ( new jersey ) tom macarthur ( new jersey ) brian mast ( florida ) tom reed ( new york ) dave reichert ( washington ) ileana ros-lehtinen ( florida ) bill shuster ( pennsylvania ) elise stefanik ( new york ) claudia tenney ( new york ) h/t truth division