moscow ( reuters ) - russia is extremely concerned by u.s. president donald trump s comments questioning the iran nuclear deal and suspects that washington itself may have violated a landmark arms control treaty , foreign minister sergei lavrov said .
lavrov s comments , made to russian reporters at the united nations in new york and published by his ministry on wednesday , illustrate how deeply moscow and washington are at odds over an array of issues and suggest any attempts to improve already battered relations face an uphill struggle .
addressing the united nations general assembly on tuesday , trump said iran s 2015 pact with six world powers to curb its nuclear program in return for loosening economic sanctions was an embarrassment to the united states .
washington could not abide by an agreement if it provides cover for the eventual construction of a nuclear program , trump said .
lavrov , whose country is a signatory to the deal , said russia strongly disagreed with that stance .
it s extremely worrying , he said .
we will defend this document , this consensus , which was met with relief by the entire international community and genuinely strengthened both regional and international security .
trump s threat in the same u.n. appearance to totally destroy north korea if it had to defend itself or it allies also went down badly with russia , which shares a border with north korea and believes negotiations and diplomacy are the only way to resolve a crisis over pyongyang s missile program .
if you simply condemn and threaten , then we re going to antagonize countries over whom we want to exert influence , said lavrov , referring to trump s comments .
he saved some of his harshest criticism however for what he said was a possible violation by the united states of a landmark 1987 arms control treaty which bans russian and american intermediate-range missiles on land .
a senior trump administration official accused russia earlier this year of violating the same pact the intermediate-range nuclear forces ( inf ) treaty something moscow denied .
but lavrov said it looked like it was washington , which is in the midst of a $ 1 trillion , 30-year modernization of its aging ballistic missile submarines , bombers and land-based missiles , that was in breach of the same treaty .
we have suspicions on at least three fronts that the americans are creating weapons systems which violate or could violate the treaty obligations , said lavrov , who said moscow had relayed its concerns to the united states .
lavrov has met u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson twice in new york this week .