orenburg , russia ( reuters ) - when vladimir kabunin signed up as a private military contractor , he saw a chance to make a wage much higher than any he could earn in his provincial russian hometown .
happy to be able to support his wife and son , the ex-police officer left orenburg , nearly 1,500 km ( 940 miles ) southeast of moscow , and joined pro-russian rebels fighting government forces in east ukraine , a family friend and a relative told reuters .
when fighting subsided there , he went to syria to serve as a field medic with troops under russian command , they said .
kabunin was killed in syria this year and his body was sent home , they said .
but the government does not recognize he was in syria , so he was buried without military honors and nothing on his grave shows he was killed in action .
kabunin , who was 38 , was one of hundreds of military contractors secretly recruited by moscow for combat operations in syria since russia s military operation began there in 2015 , according to people familiar with the deployment .
according to a reuters tally based on accounts from people who knew the deceased and local officials , at least 28 private contractors have been killed in syria this year , and russian consular documents seen by reuters suggest the figure may be much higher .
the government denies recruiting and sending private military contractors to fight abroad .
the defense ministry did not respond when asked about kabunin s case and the role of contractors in syria , and has said previous reuters reports on the contractors are an attempt to discredit russia s mission to restore peace to syria .
but over two years , reuters has spoken to dozens of family members , colleagues and friends of military contractors who have been killed in syria .
those familiar with the deployment say the contractors are under government command and have helped turn the tide of war in favor of russia s ally , syrian president bashar al-assad , while hiding the scale of its military involvement and losses .
the fact that kabunin and others like him are willing to sign up for such missions shows the kremlin can draw on a large reserve of fighters who , as long as they are well remunerated , are willing to risk dying in the shadows .
well-trodden path kabunin followed a path taken by many contractors : service in the military or security forces , a return to civilian life , a struggle to make a living , then a chance to make decent money fighting secretly for russia , in ukraine and then syria .
family members of russian contractors say that in syria they were paid up to $ 6,500 per month , which exceeds russia s average monthly wage more than 12 times .
if you quit law enforcement bodies , you have only one way ( choice ) - to become a mercenary , vasily karkan , a classmate of kabunin at school , told reuters .
kabunin was shy as a child until he started kickboxing classes , karkan recalled .
the sport became a life-long hobby .
kabunin obtained a degree in medicine and also studied law , but followed in the family footsteps by joining the police .
in 2010 , he found a new job in a prison , where his wife also worked in a tuberculosis hospital .
kabunin s role was to work with prisoners to obtain information and gather intelligence on planned escape attempts or potential unrest , but he left that job in 2012 .
a spokesman for orenburg prisons service said he had left of his own volition .
a family friend spoke of job cuts and said he looked for a new job for about two years .
there is no place to work , the family friend said .
you can t earn more than 10,000 rubles ( $ 170 ) ( a month ) here .
when fighting broke out in eastern ukraine in 2014 , kabunin saw a job opportunity .
moscow denies deploying active service troops in ukraine or providing direct military help to the separatists .
but kabunin signed up with dmitry utkin , the leader of a group of russian ex-servicemen fighting there who uses the nom de guerre vagner , and , drawing on his medical degree , served as a military medic , his relative said .
when utkin and his comrades deployed to syria in support of russia s regular forces , kabunin went with them , people familiar with the deployment said .
as of april 2016 , he was a field medic in a medical evacuation unit under utkin s command in syria , according to an official in a ukrainian law enforcement agency .
the agency says it has obtained the personnel records of 1,700 russian contractors deployed in syria , most of whom were earlier in ukraine .
kabunin left home for his last trip to syria on jan. 4 and was put in command of a medical company , but was wounded on jan. 31 and died on feb. 7 in homs province , a relative said .
the relative knew this from former police colleagues of kabunin , some of whom also served in syria , and from his death certificate , which was handed to his wife natalya .
it was not clear how she was informed and who gave her the death certificate .
she declined to speak to reuters .
relatives of other killed contractors say the news has come via friends or acquaintances , or by phone from people who say they represent a private company .
kabunin was buried next to other family members graves in orenburg , his portrait displayed on a cross showing a man with a shaved head in civilian clothes .
his wife received a compensation payment , according to the relative , who gave no further details .
according to accounts from relatives of other contractors killed in syria , the employer typically pays out 3 million rubles ( $ 51,227 ) in compensation to the next of kin when a contractor is killed .
relatives of another dead contractor told reuters that , in his case , the money was handed over to his widow in cash in a hotel in the southern russian city of rostov-on-don .
on a visit to syria on dec. 11 , president vladimir putin declared mission accomplished for the syrian operation and paid tribute to russian servicemen who have been killed there .
there was no mention of the contractors losses .
the government is under no obligation to disclose the deaths of non-regular forces fighting under its command and russian military losses in syria are a state secret .
kabunin s death did not dissuade his friend valery dzyuba , also a former police officer and kickboxer from orenburg , from heading to syria to fight as a military contractor .
dzyuba s family received a phone call from an unidentified man saying he had died on aug. 20 but not specifying the circumstances .
dzyuba was killed in syria , according to one of his classmates , kabunin s relative and an official in the village where dzyuba was buried .