hong kong ( reuters ) - a chinese official admonished hong kong on thursday for failing to introduce a national security law , ramping up pressure on the former british colony to enact the contentious article 23 that critics say will further choke its freedoms .
the global financial hub has been ruled under a one country , two systems principle since it returned to china in 1997 , guaranteeing freedoms not enjoyed on the mainland , including an independent judiciary and freedom of expression .
those freedoms are outlined in its mini-constitution , the basic law , a document that also demands the city pass its own laws preventing treason , secession and subversion against communist party rulers in beijing .
hong kong leaders have in the past decade put off passing article 23 , possibly their most sensitive political task , especially as tensions ran high after the months-long pro-democracy demonstrations in 2014 .
but beijing officials have not forgotten , and on thursday li fei , who chairs the basic law committee under the chinese parliament s standing committee , said it was a duty that can not be shirked .
i believe we can all see the harmful effects from this legal vacuum , he said in a speech in hong kong .
i d like to emphasize , ( hong kong should ) safeguard national sovereignty and security through legislation and strict implementation of the law .
an earlier planned national security law for hong kong was shelved in 2003 after an estimated 500,000 people marched against it .
in his hour-long speech , live-streamed in some schools and at times directed at students , li also lashed out at a nascent independence movement , which has gone largely underground after most of its figureheads were charged for what the government called a riot in 2016 .
their behavior is absurd , the nature of it is illegal , and emotionally speaking it s absolutely impermissible , he said .
we must resist and oppose them without any hesitation .
li s remarks came after chinese president xi jinping took what some saw as a harder line on hong kong s future during his visit in july to mark the 20th anniversary of the 1997 handover .
xi warned then that any attempt to endanger chinese sovereignty and security , challenge china s power , or use hong kong to carry out infiltration or sabotage would be acts that cross the red line and were absolutely impermissible .
the city s new leader , carrie lam , bent on mending the damaged trust between beijing and the hong kong public , has repeatedly said the timing is not right to introduce security laws , just three years after the youth-led demonstrations directly challenged beijing s authority .
even without any new local laws , some hong kong lawyers , diplomats and activists believe beijing may make its own attempt to outlaw independence debates through a formal interpretation of the basic law , or extending national laws to cover hong kong .
such moves would have to be followed by hong kong s courts , deepening fears over the strength of hong kong s vaunted rule of law and freedom of speech .
some experts note that beijing has lowered the threshold for such action after its preemptive interpretation of the basic law last year , which effectively disqualified lawmakers who did not take their oaths properly .
it also ruled last month to outlaw mockery of the national anthem and decided the law would be extended to hong kong , which will take effect after it s been put to the city s legislature .