baltimore - the prospect of running for re-election with donald trump at the top of the republican ticket was worrying some party lawmakers as they huddled for an annual retreat , where a few forecast trouble if trump becomes the party ’ s presidential nominee .
“ heaven help us , ” representative peter roskam said when asked about it by a reporter .
but the illinois republican quickly added , “ i ’ m not going to comment on the presidential candidates at this point. ” that reticence was shared by many lawmakers asked about running on trump ’ s coattails during an event in baltimore where senate and house of representatives republicans gathered to talk through their priorities for a coming year whose highlight is the november election .
some were not reluctant to express concerns .
trump would not help republicans if he topped the ticket , despite his appeal to americans fed up with politicians , said representative justin amash , a favorite of the conservative tea party movement who has endorsed kentucky republican senator rand paul for president .
“ he does appeal to the anger , ” amash said of trump , the outspoken real estate mogul who is front-runner to be the party ’ s presidential nominee .
but he said trump ’ s “ policy prescriptions will take us in the wrong direction , and it won ’ t be long before many of those people are angry at him and angry at republicans again. ” the idea of trump capturing the republican nomination seemed highly unlikely just months ago , but it was sinking in as an actual possibility this week across the republican party .
in addition to voting for a new president , americans will elect members of the senate and the house on nov. 8 .
in u.s. politics , a party ’ s presidential nominee has a big impact on the campaigns of candidates for both chambers of congress .
at the party gathering , republican leaders were keen to talk policy , not presidential politics .
“ what happens above us on the presidential ballot , you really don ’ t control , ” senator john thune , a senior party leader from south dakota , told reporters .
house speaker paul ryan , of wisconsin , said : “ we are not sitting here thinking about who the nominee is going to be .
we don ’ t have time to think about that. ” but in the hallways of the retreat , at a hotel on baltimore ’ s restored waterfront , trump was often the hot topic .
he is leading national opinion polls ahead of the feb. 1 iowa caucus , the first step in the nominating process .
representative jason chaffetz said it was important to have a presidential nominee who will not “ embarrass ” the rest of the party ’ s candidates as they defend the republican majorities in both congressional chambers .
chaffetz , who is from utah , has endorsed marco rubio , a republican senator from florida .
polls show rubio in third place behind trump and texas senator ted cruz in iowa .
“ marco rubio is not going to embarrass us ... he ’ s not as sensational in his comments as the others , but there ’ s a good quality to that , and i think that ’ s also something you look for in a president , ” chaffetz said .
among other proposals , trump has called for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states and a wall along the u.s. border with mexico to stop the flow of illegal immigrants .
representative tom cole said republicans ’ fate will be linked closely to the republican nominee , whoever it is .
trump would be a wild card , said cole , of oklahoma .
“ i don ’ t know what he ( trump ) will do .
i can see a situation where he could be a great asset , because i do think he will bring some people out ( to vote ) who have not been brought before. ” representative peter king of new york agreed that trump is “ more of a gamble ” at the top of the ticket .
“ the conventional wisdom is that he would hurt more than he would help , ” said king , who was unable to attend the retreat but spoke by telephone .
“ but on the other hand , he is tapping into something ( among voters ) out there. ” ( editing by kevin drawbaugh , caren bohan and frances kerry ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .