geneva ( reuters ) - a round of syria peace talks that ended on thursday was a big missed opportunity but there may be more talks next month if ideas can be found to encourage president bashar al-assad s government to engage , u.n. mediator staffan de mistura said .
he said neither side had actually sabotaged the latest talks by refusing to attend , but he laid most of the blame for the failure of the round at the feet of the government side .
de mistura voiced milder disappointment with the syrian opposition , after they arrived in geneva ruling out any future role for assad .
but he said that tough public stance had been tempered by a mature position in the closed-door discussions .
the goal we had was to bring about real negotiations , de mistura told a news conference .
let me be frank .
we did not achieve , we did not achieve these negotiations .
in other words , negotiations in reality did not take place .
i would conclude by saying ( it was ) a big missed opportunity .
a golden opportunity at the end of this year when in fact there is a clear indication by many sides that the military operations are coming to a close , he added .
de mistura said he was leaving geneva for consultations in new york with u.n. secretary general antonio guterres , followed by a meeting with the u.n. security council on tuesday .
i will probably need to come up with new ideas , parameters , about how to move the talks forward , particularly on constitution and elections , he said , adding that plans for a new round of geneva talks in january depended on their outcome .
civil war has ravaged syria for more than six years .
chief opposition negotiator nasr hariri said the international community needed to do more to persuade government negotiator bashar al-ja afari to come to the table , warning that the talks were in great danger .
the international community needs to find a new approach , otherwise this stalemate will continue and unfortunately it will be at the expense of syrians , he said .
one european diplomat said the talks had been a charade because of the government s behavior .
although the regime has presented itself here , that is all that it has done .
i would go further : it s not just a kind of disengagement that they ve shown , it s an extraordinary contempt , he said .
i understand that a large amount of their time here was spent negotiating personal admin matters and expenses , rather than the substance of the talks .
as he left the talks , ja afari accused the opposition , backed by western countries and saudi arabia , of sabotaging the round .
ja afari said damascus did not want the talks to fail but the opposition had put down a precondition last month by concluding a conference known as riyadh 2 with a declaration that assad had no role in syria s political transition .
de mistura said the damascus government had wanted him to insist that the opposition withdraw the statement .
that was not possible or a logical approach because to me it sounded like a precondition .
the government engaged me with only on ( discussions about ) terrorism .
the truth is there is not one single subject they accepted except that one .