thanks to obama s open border policy and a recent agreement with costa rica ( where these cubans were waiting ) , we re bringing in thousands of cubans .
once again , our open borders president and our dhs are in cahoots with central america in screwing the american people who ll be footing the bill for this .
what the local article below doesn t tell you is that the cubans are being assisted by the feds which only promotes more and more cubans to come to the u.s. hey , didn t we just normalize relations with cuba so things are supposed to be just peachy there now , right ?
why is the obama administration approving thousands of cubans to be bussed into america ? central american nations have agreed to let stranded cubans be airlifted and then bussed into america .
why not send them home ?
well , it s because of yet another stupid policy to accept cubans who ve made it to dry land from cuba .
do we really need to keep this stupid policy in place ?
we re just making it more appealing for more and more cubans to come to america .
heck , we re even providing transportation for them !
crazy ! this is just more lawlessness from the obama administration thinking nothing of bringing even more people to take care of .
unreal ! central american nations have reached an agreement to allow several thousand cuban migrants stranded in costa rica for over a month to continue their journey towards the united states.the migrants will be airlifted to el salvador and put on buses , which will take them to the us .
american legislation gives cuban migrants preferential treatment .
if they arrive at the us border by land they are allowed to enter the country and apply for residency .
those who are intercepted at sea are sent back , under the special immigration policy known as wet foot , dry foot .read more : ! 00 % fed up ! the activity at the hidalgo international bridge continues .
for 40 years , jose angel rodriguez has made his living driving a cab.he said he s seeing more cubans crossing the port of entry .
they get here every night , in the morning , and at night they get here .
they go to laredo , too , rodriguez said.rodriguez remembered taking a few to a hotel or store .
it gets busier each week that passes by.down the road from the bridge were a handful of 15-passenger vans .
they had florida license plates .
giovanni acosta is one of them .
in cuba , there s nothing .
there s no freedom .
we came from cuba because the pressure that we have there , giovanni acosta said.acosta said he s waiting for his wife to come to the bridge so he can take her back to miami .
she s taking the same track as he once did .
i did the same path , like all the cubans did .
i came from ecuador .
i walked for 27 days on the road , he said.congressman henry cuellar s office said cuban refugees are coming to laredo s point of entry every day and the numbers are increasing .
they re coming from central america through mexico to the border.acosta s van can take more than just his family .
he said he can help the cuban refugees , but his goal is to pick up his family , to bring them safely back home.channel 5 news spoke to u.s. customs and border protection to see if they were prepared for the influx .
they released a statement that said in part , u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) is prepared to process the expected increase in cubans applying for admission at south texas ports of entry .
cbp officers will process cuban nationals in accordance with established procedures as expeditiously as possible while maintaining requirements and standards for individuals in our care .
via : krgv