here is a bit of the transcript of their discussion via cbs : john dickerson : did president obama give you any advice that was helpful ?
that you think , wow , he really was donald trump : well , he was very nice to me .
but after that , we ve had some difficulties .
so it doesn t matter .
you know , words are less important to me than deeds .
and you you saw what happened with surveillance .
and everybody saw what happened with surveillance john dickerson : difficulties how ? president donald trump : and i thought that well , you saw what happened with surveillance .
and i think that was inappropriate , but that s the way john dickerson : what does that mean , sir ? president donald trump : you can figure that out yourself.john dickerson : well , i the reason i ask is you said he was you called him sick and bad .president donald trump : look , you can figure it out yourself .
he was very nice to me with words , but and when i was with him but after that , there has been no relationship .
`` words are less important to me than deeds . ''
president trump on why he now has `` no relationship '' w former president obama .
# whthismorning pic.twitter.com/16uimvudb3 cbs this morning ( @ cbsthismorning ) may 1 , 2017john dickerson : every president makes the oval office theirs .
what have you done to make this yours ? president donald trump : well , a lot of things .
we had these incredible flags including the american flags .
and they were in different rooms .
and they were always being pushed around because they didn t have enough room .
and i said , how beautiful , the base , the flags , army , navy , marine corps .
i mean , just so beautiful .
just so beautiful .
the coast guard flag over here.and i said , well , let s see how they look in the oval office .
so the flags were up .
the picture of thomas jefferson i put up .
the picture of andrew jackson i put up because they said his campaign and my campaign tended to mirror each other .
so we did a lot of actually we did a lot of work .
it s it s a much it s a much different look than it was previously .