berlin ( reuters ) - germany s free democrats ( fdp ) would want the finance ministry in exchange for joining chancellor angela merkel in the country s next coalition government , a member of the party s executive said .
setting out conditions days before federal elections that merkel is almost certain to win , albeit short of an absolute majority , the fdp also ruled out partnering her conservatives if she supported french plans to deepen fiscal integration in the euro zone .
often viewed as merkel s natural allies , the socially liberal fdp were part of her second government from 2009 to 2013 .
they crashed out of parliament that year but are hoping to re-enter the legislature on sunday as the third-largest party .
current finance minister wolfgang schaeuble , of merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) , has held the post since 2009 and is the most high-profile member of her cabinet .
but alexander hahn , a member of the fdp s national executive , said the ministry should go to someone from his party .
the fdp should enter no government in which it can not name a finance minister , hahn told mass-market daily bild in remarks published on monday .
on sunday , fdp leader christian lindner said setting the agenda for europe was the most important issue for his party in any coalition talks with the conservatives after the sept. 24 vote .
i fear that ms merkel has already agreed to new funding mechanisms ( for the eu ) with ( french president emmanuel ) macron , he told the welt am sonntag newspaper .
everything that goes in the direction of financial transfer on the european level , be it a euro zone budget or a banking union , is a red line for us .
macron , who is to present his views on the future of the euro zone on sept. 26 , has called for a finance minister and a standalone budget for the bloc , while european commission chief jean-claude juncker on wednesday urged eu governments to use economic recovery as a springboard toward closer union .
merkel has said she would work with macron on strengthening the euro zone .
but germany remains insistent that member states should take primary responsibility for their own economic problems , a principle whose prime exponent has been schaeuble .
he is revered by a significant part of the conservative voter base who see him as a guardian of their austerity-oriented interests in the euro zone .
the fdp , who held the foreign minister in their last union with the conservatives , have reinvented themselves under lindner , who preaches a hard line on europe .
they are polling 8 to 10 percent in surveys , while merkel s conservatives are on around 37 percent , leaving their combined forces just short of a majority .
analysts say completing a banking union and creating a euro zone budget would provide more stability for the currency bloc , and that a conservative/fdp coalition might threaten such plans .
i fear there could be a strong reaction on bond markets should the fdp push for a literal enforcement of fiscal rules or for an expulsion of greece as part of a future ruling coalition , said martin lueck of asset manager blackrock .
a grand coalition with the centre-left social democrats ( spd ) , merkel s current partners and polling around 23 percent , would make it much easier for the chancellor to work with macron on overhauling the euro zone .
the centre-left spd have often criticized schaeuble s tough stance on greece and have even backed the idea of common euro zone debt .
the fdp are fighting for third spot against the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) , which is forecast to enter parliament for the first time .