student government leaders at loyola university maryland faced a barrage of pressure from the university administration to change the theme of a senior class party described as very alienating , divisive and harmful and against the university s core values , according to emails provided to the daily caller .
the theme ?
america.the theme for loyola s annual senior 200s party one of four celebrations exclusive to seniors held throughout the year was based upon a survey of loyola seniors taken last summer .
the party was held on nov. 18 and went off without a hitch , according to students who attended , despite warnings that the administration might have to get involved if students were offended.emails sent to student government representatives were provided to thedc on condition of anonymity .
multiple student government representatives confirmed the emails authenticity on condition of anonymity for fear of retaliation from the administration.right before the presidential election , some student government members wondered if they should nix the america theme if donald trump won , according to internal sga group chats shared with thedc on condition of anonymity for the same reason.one representative claimed that if trump wins it will be bad , while another argued it would be wrong to change the party theme simply because of disagreement with the president-elect s policies .
the party was still on.the day after trump s victory , a handful of students messaged sga representatives to argue that because of trump s victory an america-themed party was now inappropriate .
one female student claimed she was a victim of horrible hate words and worried that similar mean things might be said at the party if the theme wasn t changed.when the possibility of unpleasant feelings wasn t enough to cancel a class-wide event , the administration got involved.the university s executive vice president , susan donovan sent an email to two sga members claiming she talked with a number of students and heard from faculty members about the party .
none of it is positive and it sounds very alienating , divisive and harmful .
sheilah horton , the university s dean of students also tried to pressure students to change the party theme , in a lengthy email that portrayed the students as insensitive for not canceling the america theme.horton worried that the theme provides an opportunity for students to dress or behave in a way that offends or oppresses others .
horton also said the administration would have to deal with any fallout from the party , which she worried would make students feel unsafe .
she also worried that the america-themed party might keep potential students from attending loyola and implied the event could be the defining incident of the senior class .
even one negative event , especially with social media can cause the campus community to feel unsafe ; it can be shared with potential students which can have an effect on admissions and indeed can be the defining incident for the class of 2017 , she said .
so , you have made a decision that in effect , has the potential to cause negative consequences for the university and even to the students whose behavior crosses the line , she continued .
horton did not respond to thedc s request for comment by press time .
i was amazed and shocked at not only the reaction and lack of confidence of the administration in our class and sga itself , but how they handled everything including some of the rude things said about our organization .
it is quite disgusting how people feel and see the word america as something that is discriminatory , said one student government representative , who wished to remain anonymous out of fear of retaliation from the administration .
we should see the theme america as a way to forget political divide and come together as a country and class and celebrate all that we have accomplished .
that is what ended up happening , yet we didn t have the support of people in our class and the administration itself .
daily caller