aden ( reuters ) - a saudi-led coalition launched air strikes on yemen s capital , sanaa , local media said , lending support to former yemeni president ali abdullah saleh after he signaled he was abandoning his support of the iran-aligned houthis - a shift that could pave the way to end three years of war .
in a speech on saturday , saleh appeared to indicate the end of his loyalists alliance with houthi fighters .
he said he was ready to turn a new page in ties with the saudi-led coalition fighting the houthis , if it stopped attacks on yemeni citizens and lifted a siege .
residents on sunday , however , said a coalition air strike overnight killed 12 yemeni civilians in one family in the northern province of saada , the home territory of the houthis .
the attack could not be verified .
saudi-owned al-arabiya television said on sunday coalition aircraft pounded houthi outposts in southern sanaa overnight , but gave no details on casualties .
separately , the houthis , who together with saleh s loyalists , control most of northern yemen , said they had fired a cruise missile toward a nuclear power plant under construction in the united arab emirates ( uae ) , a report quickly denied by the uae .
saleh s announcement on saturday was welcomed by the saudi-led coalition , which has been backed by the united states and other western powers .
the coalition , which includes the united arab emirates , is trying to help yemen s internationally recognized president abd-rabbu mansour hadi back to power , but it has struggled to advance against houthi-saleh forces .
a split between saleh s armed allies and the houthis could tip the balance of power .
army units loyal to saleh have been clashing with houthi fighters in the past five days , adding a new layer to an already complex situation in yemen .
minister of state for foreign affairs anwar gargash appeared to back saleh s side in remarks on his official twitter page .
the events in sanaa are murky , but its national uprising needs support ... to protect the arabian peninsula from iranian expansion , he said .
residents in sanaa reported on sunday that the houthis appeared to be clawing back some territory lost to saleh over the previous four days , and houthi tanks were deployed amid heavy gun battles in the city s central political district .
the area is a stronghold of saleh s loyalists under the command of his nephew tareq , an influential army general .
the fighting has cut off the airport road , prompting the united nations to try to evacuate at least 140 aid workers from sanaa , according to u.n. and other aid officials .
the u.n. was awaiting approval from the saudi-led coalition , they said .
residents earlier said houthi fighters seized the television studios of yemen today , a news channel owned by saleh , after clashes that damaged the building .
residents said 20 employees were trapped inside .
the red cross said dozens of people have been killed in clashes over the past five days and called for civilian lives to be spared .
in tehran , iranian foreign ministry spokesman bahram qassemi called for calm and restraint .
all internal disputes should be resolved through dialogue to block the grounds for any abuse by the enemies of the yemeni nation , he said , according to a statement on the ministry s website .
yemen is one of the poorest countries in the middle east , and the proxy war between the iran-aligned houthis and the saudi-backed hadi has created widespread hunger and disease , in one of the worst humanitarian crises of recent times .
more than 10,000 people have died since 2015 , more than two million have been displaced and nearly a million have been infected by a cholera outbreak .
famine threatens much of the country .
yemen descended into violence in late 2014 when the houthis , a group that follows the zaidi branch of shi ite islam , marched on sanaa and seized control of the government .
backed by government troops loyal to saleh , the houthis fanned out across the country , forcing hadi to flee to riyadh .
his ouster led the alliance headed by the saudis to join the fighting .
the houthis said the missile fired on sunday was directed toward the al-barakah nuclear power plant in abu dhabi , but provided no evidence of any attack .
there were no reports of any missiles reaching abu dhabi .
the country s crisis management authority said the al-barakah was well protected and urged the public not to listen to rumors .
the national emergency crisis and disasters management authority denies claims by the coup trumpets in yemen that they fired a missile toward the airspace of the united arab emirates , the department said in a statement carried by state news agency wam .
it said the nuclear power project was fortified and sturdy against all possibilities .
and enjoys all measures of nuclear safety and security that such grand projects require .
the houthis had said abu dhabi , a member of the saudi-led coalition fighting against them since 2015 , was a target for their missiles .
the barakah project , which is being built by korea electric power corporation ( kepco ) ( 015760.ks ) , is expected to be completed and become operational in 2018 , the uae energy minister has said .
it is the second time this year the houthis have said they have fired missiles toward the uae .
a few months ago , they said they had successfully test-fired a missile toward abu dhabi , but there were no reports of any rockets being intercepted by or falling in the uae .