beirut/erbil ( reuters ) - islamic state s self-proclaimed caliphate was on the verge of final defeat on friday , with syrian government forces capturing its last major city on one side of the border and iraqi forces taking its last substantial town on the other .
the losses on either side of the frontier appear to reduce the caliphate that once ruled over millions of people to a single syrian border town , a village on a bank of the euphrates in iraq and some patches of nearby desert .
officials on both sides of the border said its final defeat could come swiftly , although they still fear it will reconstitute as a guerrilla force , capable of waging attacks without territory to defend .
iraq s prime minister haidar abadi announced that government forces had captured al-qaim , the border town where the euphrates spills from syria into iraq .
that leaves just the village of rawa further down river on the opposite bank still in the hands of the ultra-hardline militants , who swept through a third of iraq in 2014 .
on the syrian side , government forces declared victory in deir al-zor , the last major city in the country s eastern desert where the militants still had a presence .
government forces are now about 40 km away from albu kamal , the syrian town across the border from al-qaim , and preparing for a final confrontation .
a u.s.-led international coalition which has been bombing islamic state and supporting ground allies on both sides of the frontier said before the fall of al-qaim that the militant group had just a few thousand fighters left , holed up in the two towns on either side of the border .
we do expect them now to try to flee , but we are cognisant of that and will do all we can to annihilate is leaders , spokesman u.s .
colonel ryan dillon said .
as is continues to be hunted into these smallest areas ... we see them fleeing into the desert and hiding there in an attempt to devolve back into an insurgent terrorist group , said dillon .
the idea of is and the virtual caliphate , that will not be defeated in the near term .
there is still going to be an is threat .
the group s leader , abu bakr al-baghdadi , is believed to be hiding in the desert near the frontier .
driven this year from its two de facto capitals iraq s mosul and syria s raqqa islamic state has been squeezed into an ever-shrinking pocket of desert straddling the frontier by enemies that include most regional states and global powers .
in iraq , it faces the army and shi ite armed groups , backed both by the u.s.-led international coalition and by iran .
in syria , the u.s.-led coalition supports an alliance of kurdish and arab militias north and east of the euphrates , while iran and russia support the government of president bashar al-assad .
on the syrian side , friday s government victory at deir al-zor , on the west bank of the euphrates , ended a two month battle for control over the city , the center of syria s oil production .
islamic state had for years besieged a government enclave there until an army advance relieved it in early september , starting a battle for jihadist-held parts of the city .
the armed forces , in cooperation with allied forces , liberated the city of deir al-zor completely from the clutches of the daesh terrorist organization , state media reported , using an arabic acronym for islamic state .
engineering units were searching streets and buildings in deir al-zor for mines and booby traps left behind by islamic state fighters , a syrian military source told reuters .
the source added that he did not believe the final battle at the albu kamal border town would involve fierce resistance , as many fighters had been surrendering elsewhere .
some of them will fight until death , but they will not be able to do anything , he said .
it is besieged from all directions , there are no supplies , a collapse in morale , and therefore all the organization s elements of strength are finished .
once albu kamal falls , daesh will be an organization that will cease to exist as a leadership structure , the military source said .
it will be tantamount to a group of scattered individuals , it will no longer be an organization with headquarters , with leadership places , with areas it controls .
in iraq , abadi congratulated his forces for capturing al-qaim in record time only hours after commanders announced they had entered it .
earlier in the day , they seized the border checkpoint on the road to albu kamal in syria .
iraq s joint operations command said the only territory left to capture is rawa , a small village on the opposite bank of the euphrates .
iraq has been carrying out its final campaign to crush the islamic state caliphate while also mounting a military offensive in the north against kurds who held an independence referendum in september .