chicago ( reuters ) - lawyers for former u.s. house speaker dennis hastert , convicted last year of a financial crime in a hush-money case , urged a federal judge on wednesday to spare him prison time for health reasons and because he is “ deeply sorry. ” hastert , 74 , faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison when sentenced later this month for his guilty plea in october to a federal charge of “ structuring ” - evading bank reporting rules by withdrawing large amounts of cash in small increments .
the former republican speaker of the house of representatives has admitted to paying $ 1.7 million in cash to someone he had known for decades to buy that person ’ s silence and compensate for past misconduct toward that individual .
neither hastert ’ s lawyers nor prosecutors have revealed the misconduct at issue .
but unnamed law enforcement officials have told media it was sexual in nature and involved someone hastert knew when he was a high school teacher and coach in his hometown of yorkville , illinois , in the 1960s and 1970s .
“ first and foremost , mr. hastert is deeply sorry and apologizes for his misconduct that occurred decades ago and the resulting harm he caused to others , ” his lawyers said in a memorandum seeking leniency .
“ he regrets that he resorted to structuring the withdrawal of his money from banks in an effort to prevent the disclosure of that misconduct. ” prosecutors have recommended a prison term of no more than six months in exchange for hastert ’ s guilty plea .
the defense asked that he be sentenced to probation only , citing his deteriorating medical condition .
according to wednesday ’ s filing , hastert suffers from diabetes , which led to foot ulceration , and medical staff discovered an infection after he was hospitalized following a fall .
hastert has also had surgery for a spinal infection , was treated for a severe blood infection and suffered a stroke , nearly dying , his lawyers have said .
he has been confined to a wheelchair , can walk only a short distance with help , and needs around-the-clock care , court documents said .
hastert is scheduled to be sentenced on april 27 , according to the chicago tribune .