ankara ( reuters ) - allegations of wrongdoing by turkey s political and financial leaders have transfixed the country this week , but with some newspapers focusing instead on courtroom conspiracies and clothes , many turks have been left hungry for news .
casual chic on the 2nd day , read haberturk newspaper s front page story after main witness reza zarrab told a new york court that president recep tayyip erdogan authorized a transaction in a scheme to help iran evade u.s. sanctions .
on the second day of the trial , reza zarrab was not wearing a prison uniform and was casual chic in his white shirt and dark blazer , haberturk said .
like other publications , haberturk stepped nimbly around the substantive issues .
erdogan has presided over a crackdown in areas from judiciary to media since a failed coup last year with a number of journalists jailed .
he has also frequently taken court action against those he deems have insulted him .
zarrab is cooperating with u.s. prosecutors in the criminal trial of a turkish bank executive accused of helping to launder money for iran .
the executive has pleaded not guilty .
erdogan , who has governed turkey for almost 15 years , has not yet responded to courtroom claims ; but had already dismissed the case as a politically inspired attempt to bring down the turkish government .
he says the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , blamed by ankara for the failed military coup and known by turkish authorities as feto , was also behind the court case .
the pro-government daily star branded the case american theater on its front page .
zarrab plot trial is a political show staged by feto together with judges , prosecutors and experts who are all neo-cons and enemies of turkey .
the limited or skeptical coverage of the case has encouraged curious turks to take to twitter , where hashtags such as # zarrabcase and # zarrabkonusuyor ( zarrab is speaking ) became top trending topics late on wednesday and thursday .
since the trial started this week there have been hundreds of thousands of tweets , retweets and replies with zarrab-related hashtags on twitter .
you can t see it on televisions or newspapers here .
they either cut feeds or don t mention it , said oguzcan gundogmus , a 24-year-old phd student , as he sipped tea in central ankara .
the court case has reverberated on the streets .
spill the beans , my son !
one elderly protester urged zarrab at a women s demonstration in istanbul last weekend .
but most of the focus has been online .
followers of journalists tweeting from inside the courtroom surged over the past two days , more than 20-fold in some cases .
one court reporter s tweets are being simultaneously translated into turkish and followed by 10,000 people so far .
zarrab said in court he bribed several officials in turkey as part of his scheme .
i am surprised the government hasn t still banned twitter .
me and my friends stay up at nights and follow the case there , we even make popcorn like it s a movie night , and we call the case lord of the bribes , said mehmet baglar , a 34-year-old engineer .