abuja ( reuters ) - nigeria s financial crimes agency on wednesday brushed off allegations by the wife of the country s former president that it had conducted a witch-hunt against her .
patience jonathan , whose husband goodluck jonathan was the president of africa s most populous country from 2010 to 2015 , accused the head of the economic and financial crimes commission ( efcc ) of an orchestrated plan to tarnish her reputation and that of her husband .
president muhammadu buhari took office in 2015 after defeating goodluck jonathan in elections during which he vowed to crack down on corruption .
buhari said state coffers were virtually empty when he assumed the presidency .
last year , the efcc froze four u.s. dollar bank accounts that the ex-president s wife said she owned .
her spokesman said in september 2016 that the accounts in total contained around $ 10 million - a third of the sum reported in the nigerian press .
a legal case is continuing in the commercial capital lagos over the funds but she does not face criminal charges .
the case is before the court where she ( patience jonathan ) has the liberty to state any claim , an efcc spokesman said .
in a statement signed by her media aide and dated oct. 2 , jonathan s wife accused the efcc s acting chairman of an unjustified witch-hunt and media propaganda against her and her family .
it is either the efcc is now led by people who can not conduct proper investigations , or they are deliberately feeding the public with false information , said the statement .
we believe that she is being systematically persecuted and punished because of her unflinching support for her husband during the 2015 elections .
a number of former government officials have faced criminal charges , which they have denied , since buhari came to power .
however , there have been no convictions .
the opposition people s democratic party ( pdp ) , which was in power for 16 years prior to buhari taking office , has accused the president of focusing on its members .