as a side note , the illegal aliens who are being dropped off across america in vans are otm s or other than mexicans .
can the mainstream media please start doing their job and exposing this corrupt administration ?
in a surprising discovery , the palm beach post first reported that according to state records , orlando shooter omar mateen who as we reported earlier was licensed as a security guard and also holds a firearms license was employed by the us subsidiary of g4s plc , a british multinational security services company , whose us-headquarters are located in jupiter , fla , and which also happens to be the world s largest security company by revenue.shortly thereafter , g4s confirmed that omar mateen has worked for the company since 2007 .
this is the statement released from g4s : we are shocked and saddened by the tragic event that occurred at the orlando nightclub .
we can confirm that omar mateen had been employed with g4s since september 10 , 2007 .
we are cooperating fully with all law enforcement authorities , including the fbi , as they conduct their investigation .
our thoughts and prayers are with all of the friends , families and people affected by this unspeakable tragedy .
in other words , mateen who according to preliminary reports , had been on a terrorist watchlist , and who still managed to obtain weapons thanks to his various licenses and permits just last week , was employed by one of the world s largest security companies , where he may have had extensive clearances well above his pay grade , not to mention access to sophisticated military weapons and equipment.but where it gets more disturbing is that as judicial watch reported several days ago , in a post titled , dhs quietly moving , releasing vanloads of illegal aliens away from border , border patrol sources said that the department of homeland security ( dhs ) was quietly transporting illegal immigrants from the mexican border to phoenix and releasing them without proper processing or issuing court appearance documents .
as a reminder , the government classifies them as other than mexican ( otm ) and this week around 35 were transferred 116 miles north from tucson to a phoenix bus station where they went their separate way .
judicial watch was present when one of the white vans carrying a group of otms arrived at the phoenix greyhound station on buckeye road.and this is where the mateen-g4s link emerges : as jw reported previously , a security company contracted by the u.s. government is driving the otms from the border patrol s tucson sector where they were in custody to phoenix , sources said .
the firm is the abovementioned g4s , the world s leading security solutions group with operations in more than 100 countries and 610,000 employees .
g4s has more than 50,000 employees in the u.s. and its domestic headquarters is in jupiter , florida.judicial watch noted that it had filed a number of public records requests to get more information involving the arrangement between g4s and the government , specifically the transport of illegal immigrants from the mexican border to other parts of the country .
the photo below shows the uniformed g4s guard that transported the otms this week from tucson to phoenix.outraged border patrol agents and supervisors on the front lines say illegal immigrants are being released in droves because there s no room to keep them in detention .
they re telling us to put them on a bus and let them go , said one law enforcement official in arizona .
just move those bodies across the country .
officially , dhs denies this is occurring and in fact earlier this year u.s. customs and border protection commissioner r. gil kerlikowske blasted border patrol union officials for denouncing this dangerous catch-and-release policy .
kerlikowske s scolding came in response to the congressional testimony of bandon judd , chief of the national border patrol council , the labor union that represents line agents .
judd told lawmakers on the house judiciary committee that illegal immigrants without serious criminal convictions can be released immediately and disappear into the shadows .
kerlikowske shot back , telling a separate congressional committee : i would not stand by if the border patrol was releasing people without going through all of the formalities.meanwhile , the hill reported that mateen s employment , and gun licenses , were untouched even though the fbi confirmed it had interviewed the 29-year-old three times before the shooting took place early sunday morning .
an official said that the fbi first became aware of the suspect , omar mateen , 29 , in 2013 when he made inflammatory comments to coworkers alleging possible terrorist ties .
in the course of that investigation , mateen was interviewed twice , but the fbi was unable to verify the substance of his comments .
via : zero hedgeshares in g4s have fallen heavily after the uk security services company said omar mateen , who killed 49 people at a gay nightclub in orlando , florida , was an employee.g4s said mateen was an armed security officer and that it was trying to establish whether weapons used in the attack on the pulse gay nightclub were related to his work .
the company supplies its armed employees with guns in the us and does not allow them to use their own.g4s shares dropped by as much as 7.5 % and were the biggest fallers among leading uk shares .
the company employs 620,000 people in more than 110 countries and the us is one of its biggest markets.jasper lawler , an analyst at cmc markets , a city spread betting firm , said it did not look good for g4s to have employed mateen while he was being investigated by the fbi .
g4s has more than 50,000 employees in the us , a large proportion of which are involved in government contracts .
if the name of g4s starts getting dragged through the mud , us contracts may become harder to come by .
via : guardian