kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - traces of a deadly nerve agent that killed the estranged half-brother of north korean leader kim jong un were found on the clothes worn by the two women accused of the sensational murder , a malaysian court was told on thursday .
indonesian siti aisyah , 25 , and doan thi huong , 28 , a vietnamese , are charged with murdering kim jong nam by smearing his face with vx , a chemical poison banned by the united nations , at kuala lumpur airport on feb. 13 .
a chemical weapons expert with the malaysian government said his analysis showed traces of vx , its precursors and degradation products on the sleeves of a t-shirt worn by huong , as well as vx degradation products on siti aisyah s sleeveless shirt .
the presence of precursors and vx confirms the presence of vx itself , the expert , raja subramaniam , told the court outside the malaysian capital .
i also found degradation products of vx , which confirms the presence of vx .
the testimony was used to back the prosecution s position that vx was used in the murder and was the sole cause of death , a scenario defense lawyers disputed this week .
[ nl4n1me159 ] in response to a prosecution question , raja agreed that vx could be applied on a bare palm and potentially have no effect on a person if washed off quickly enough .
the lethality of vx depended on the dosage and where on the body it was applied , he added .
the concentration required varies by a factor of 26 , from the cheek , which is sensitive , to the palm , which is least sensitive , to have the same effect , raja said .
raja said penetration of vx into the body is highest in areas with higher concentrations of blood , such as the head , neck , eyes and ears .
on the least sensitive areas , such as the palm , where larger amounts of tissue and fat deposits block absorption , raja said an individual would have up to 15 minutes to wash off the nerve poison with running water .
if you decontaminate within 15 minutes , most likely no effect or delayed effect ( from vx ) , raja said , citing studies on human test subjects .
the women have pleaded not guilty , saying they thought they were involved in some sort of prank for a reality tv show .
they face the death penalty if convicted .
[ nl4n1md1mk ] the trial will resume on monday .