ankara ( reuters ) - iranians quickly closed ranks against a hawkish new u.s. approach to tehran , but iran s powerful hardliners are set to exploit the latest dispute with washington to weaken domestic rivals who are open to the west , analysts and insiders say .
president donald trump s warning on friday that he might ultimately terminate a landmark 2015 nuclear deal sets the stage for an eventual resurgence of political infighting within iran s complex power structures , officials said .
if the accord signed by iran and six major powers does start to fall apart , anyone who strongly promoted it , such as pragmatist president hassan rouhani , could face a career-damaging backlash .
that could leave iran s security hardliners unchallenged at home , enabling greater iranian assertiveness abroad that could worsen tensions in the middle east , analysts say .
for the moment , solidarity within the islamic republic s faction-ridden political elite is the priority .
what matters now is unity against the foreign enemy , a senior official told reuters on condition of anonymity , like other figures contacted within iran because of the sensitivity of the matter .
our national interest is a priority for all iranian officials .
but rouhani and pragmatists and reformist allies who promoted the deal , which lifted sanctions in return for tehran rolling back technologies with nuclear bomb-making potential , may become increasingly politically vulnerable at home .
golden opportunity for rouhani s critics trump on friday defied both u.s. allies and adversaries by refusing to formally certify that tehran is complying with the accord even though international inspectors say it is .
the growing tension with america is a golden opportunity for hardliners to clip rouhani s wings , said a rouhani ally , who was involved in the 18-month nuclear talks .
iran s top authority , hardline supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei , guardedly backed rouhani when he opened the door to nuclear diplomacy with world powers , but has repeatedly expressed pessimism about washington remaining committed to it .
for rouhani the stakes are high : his rapprochement with the world won him enhanced popularity at home and prestige abroad , dealing a setback to khamenei s hardline allies , who oppose both detente with the west and domestic liberalization .
now the tables may be turning .
hardliners will use trump s threat as a sword of damocles over rouhani s head ...
while enjoying the economic benefits of the deal , said tehran-based political analyst saeed leylaz , referring to the lifting of tough oil and banking sanctions .
rouhani and his detente policy with the world will be weakened if the deal does not survive , another senior iranian official said .
and of course an aggressive regional policy is inevitable .
under iran s unique dual system of clerical and republican rule , the elected president is subordinate to the unelected khamenei , who has in the past reasserted control when infighting threatened the existence of the islamic republic .
trump s policy will play into the hands of hardliners eventually , said an ally of khamenei .
what matters is the islamic republic and its interests .
tit-for-tat steps in reaction to trump , rouhani signaled iran would withdraw from the agreement if it failed to preserve tehran s interests .
the survival of the deal now is up to the u.s. congress , which might try to modify it or reimpose u.s. sanctions on iran .
but even if the congress refuses to consider sanctions , the deal could still be in jeopardy if washington and tehran resort to tit-for-tat retaliatory steps .
as long as both sides only exchange words , business will continue as usual , said leylaz .
since the lifting of sanctions , rouhani has started to repair an economy ravaged by a decade of restrictions on its vital oil industry and issued warm welcomes to global investors .
but major european investors could think twice about involvement in iran if tension mounts with the united states and uncertainty grows over survival of the accord .
if european companies don t have the comfort of a political agreement endorsed by the americans they will say stop , said a senior french diplomat .
among european firms that have announced big deals in iran since the deal took effect are planemaker airbus air.pa , french energy group total totf.pa and germany s siemens siegn.de .
trump enraged tehran by saying that the revolutionary guards , which have fought iran s regional proxy wars for decades , was khamenei s corrupt personal terror force and militia .
rouhani said iranians would always stand by the guards .
several officials agreed that trump s hostility would not change iran s regional behavior , determined by khamenei .
but if trump somehow made good on his threats , then iran will adopt a harsher and aggressive regional policy , said one of the officials familiar with iran s decision-making policy .
iran and its rival saudi arabia accuse each other of fuelling regional tensions .
the sunni muslim kingdom is at odds with tehran s revolutionary shi ite leaders in struggles across the arab world , including syria , yemen , iraq , bahrain and lebanon .
on social policy , rouhani s scope to loosen restrictions on individual freedoms and rights would be crushed by hardliners if he loses political prestige .
hardliners control the judiciary , security forces and state media .
whenever pressured abroad , the regime increases pressure at home to silence any opposition , said a former moderate official .