beirut ( reuters ) - the syrian observatory for human rights said an islamic state attack on thursday cut off the main road between deir al-zor city and palmyra , but a syrian military source denied this .
the observatory , a britain-based war monitor , said islamic state seized the town of al-shoula on the road , as syrian troops and their allies battled around it with heavy air cover .
but the syrian military source said the army thwarted the attack and denied that islamic state fighters had taken the town and cut off the route .
the militants tried to mount an attack from territory they control southeast of deir al-zor city , near the border with iraq , the source added .
they received a blow and did not succeed , the source said .
the road , which the army and its allies seized in recent weeks , serves as a major supply route from government territory into the eastern city .
with russian air power and iran-backed militias , the syrian army reached deir al-zor city last month , breaking an islamic state siege of an enclave there that had lasted three years .
the towns along the euphrates river , downstream of the city , have fast become the last major is footholds in syria and a focus of the multi-sided war .
islamic state militants have been on the back foot in both iraq and syria , where they have lost vast territory to different enemies this year .
with u.s.-led jets and special forces , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias is also battling islamic state on the river s eastern bank .
the separate offensives have both advanced as they race to capture swathes of deir al-zor province .
is media unit amaq said on thursday that the militants took al-shoula and a nearby village as they waged an attack that included suicide bombers , capturing two russian forces .
the russian defense ministry denied any military personnel were taken hostage , ria news agency said citing a russian military official at the hmeimim air base in syria .
there were no incidents with capturing or losing russian servicemen in deir al-zor province and other syrian provinces , the official said .
islamic state leader abu bakr al-baghdadi exhorted his followers on thursday to stand fast and keep fighting , in his first purported audio communication in almost a year .