sittwe , myanmar ( reuters ) - buddhist protesters in myanmar threw petrol bombs to try to block an aid shipment to muslims in rakhine state , where the united nations has accused the country s military of ethnic cleansing the incident late on wednesday , ended when police fired in the air to disperse the protesters , reflected rising communal animosity and came during an official visit by u.s. deputy assistant secretary of state patrick murphy .
murphy said later , after talks with government leaders , that washington was alarmed by reports of rights abuses and called on authorities to stop the violence , which raised concern about myanmar s transition from military rule to democracy .
myanmar s army chief on thursday called for internally displaced non-muslims to go home .
in a speech on his plans for rakhine state while on his first visit there since strife erupted , he made no mention of the estimated 422,000 rohingya muslims who have crossed the border into bangladesh .
they have fled myanmar to escape a sweeping counter-insurgency operation by his army in response to attacks by rohingya insurgents on aug. 25 .
hundreds of protesters were involved in the attempt to stop red cross workers loading a boat with relief supplies bound for the north of rakhine state , where the insurgent attacks last month triggered the military backlash .
the boat being was loaded with aid at a dock in the state capital of sittwe , a government information office said .
people thought the aid was only for the bengalis , the secretary of the state government , tin maung swe , told reuters , using a term that rohingya find offensive .
protesters threw petrol bombs and about 200 police eventually dispersed them by shooting into the air , a witness and the government information office said .
the witness said he saw some injured people .
eight people were detained , the office said .
no aid workers were hurt , a spokeswoman for the international committee of the red cross said .
tension between majority buddhists and rohingya , most of whom are denied citizenship , has simmered for decades in rakhine , but it has exploded at times over the past few years , as old enmities surfaced with the end of decades of harsh military rule .
the latest bout of bloodshed began with august s insurgent attacks on about 30 police posts and an army camp , in which about a dozen people were killed .
the government says more than 400 people , most of them insurgents , have been killed since then .
rights monitors and fleeing rohingya say the army and buddhist vigilantes have mounted a campaign to drive out the muslim population and torch their villages .
myanmar rejects that , saying its forces are tackling insurgents of the arakan rohingya salvation army who it has accused of setting the fires and attacking civilians .
the crisis has drawn international condemnation and u.s. president donald trump called on wednesday for a quick end to the violence .
the plight of the rohingya has raised questions about the commitment of government leader aung san suu kyi to human rights .
nobel peace prize laureate suu kyi addressed the nation on tuesday and condemned abuses and said all violators would be punished .
however , she did not address the u.n. accusations of ethnic cleansing by the military , which is in charge of security .
murphy , the most senior foreign official to visit myanmar since the violence erupted , met government officials and representatives of different communities in sittwe .
it s become quite clear to many that the burmese security forces have had a response that is disproportionate and failed to protect all local populations , he later told reporters .
the situation could have an impact on myanmar s transition and risked creating a more significant terrorism problem .
we continue to call on the burmese authorities to respect the rule of law , stop the violence - including that perpetuated by local vigilantes , he said , adding that he had raised concern about two remote muslim villages cut off by hostile buddhists that reuters reported about this week .
military chief senior general min aung hlaing said his forces had handled the situation as best they could and he urged the internally displaced , most of them buddhist , to go home .
for the national races who fled their homes , first of all they must go back ... that is their rightful place , he said in a speech in sittwe .
national races refers to officially recognized indigenous ethnic groups .
the rohingya are not recognized as a national race and min aung hlaing did not refer to their return .
the bangladesh government and aid groups are struggling with shortages of food , water , shelter and medical supplies for the refugees , who keep coming , though at a slower pace than over the past couple of weeks , officials say .
the group medecins sans frontieres said a massive scale-up of humanitarian aid in bangladesh is needed to avoid a massive public health disaster .