warsaw ( reuters ) - european council president donald tusk said on sunday he was alarmed by the similarity of policies pursued by poland s right-wing government to what he described as kremlin s plan .
poland s ruling law and justice ( pis ) party has been increasingly at loggerheads with the eu and tusk since coming to office in late 2015 , although the acrimony between tusk and pis dates back many years .
the pis is locked in disputes with the bloc over immigration , logging of an ancient forest and putting courts and media under more government control .
tusk , poland s former prime minister and the arch-rival of pis leader jaroslaw kaczynski , won a second term in march as chairman of eu summit meetings - with poland the only country to vote against his extension .
alarm !
a vehement dispute with ukraine , isolation in the european union , departure from the rule of law and independent courts , attack on non-governmental sector and free media - pis strategy or kremlin s plan ?
tusk tweeted .
too similar to rest easy .
tusk was referring to , among other things , the fact that ukraine summoned the polish ambassador in kiev on saturday after poland denied entry to a ukrainian official in an escalation of a diplomatic spat over the two neighbors troubled past .
tusk did not provide details of what he described as the kremlin s plan .
in may , tusk urged group of seven leaders on to stick to their sanctions policy on russia over the ukraine crisis .
tusk also sided with member nations such as poland and the baltic states in their efforts to oppose a new pipeline connecting russia and germany .
the polish government denies all charges from brussels that it is undermining the rule of law or isolating poland in europe , saying it needs to overhaul poland s ineffective legal system and stand up for poland s interests in the eu .
a majority of eu lawmakers on wednesday demanded punishment for the eurosceptic government in poland , saying it was undermining the rule of law and promoting intolerance .
in a response to tusk s comment , prime minister beata szydlo tweeted : @ donaldtusk as @ eucopresident has done nothing for poland .
today , using his position to attack the polish government , he is attacking poland .
in march , poland s defense minister accused tusk of working with russian president vladimir putin to harm polish interests following the 2010 plane crash that killed president lech kaczynski - jaroslaw s twin brother - and 95 others .
in april , tusk testified for eight hours in a separate intelligence probe by warsaw s right-wing government that he described as a smear campaign to discredit him .