berlin ( reuters ) - the leader of germany s social democrats ( spd ) said on friday he ruled out no option for forming a new government but stressed that a re-run of the outgoing grand coalition with chancellor angela merkel s conservatives was not a done deal .
germany , europe s political and economic powerhouse , has been struggling to build a new government since a sept. 24 national election .
merkel s conservative bloc and the spd lost support in that vote , while an anti-immigrant party surged into parliament , seriously complicating the coalition arithmetic .
merkel , her own political future on the line after 12 years at the helm , is making overtures to the center-left spd - her partner in government over the past four years - after her bid to form a three-way coalition with two smaller parties failed .
the spd , which had wanted to go into opposition to rebuild after suffering its worst post-world war two election result , fears its distinctive identity and policy ideas will again be smothered in any tie-up with merkel s bigger center-right bloc .
regarding the formation of a new government , there was broad support for not ruling any option out , spd leader martin schulz said after party board discussions in berlin .
schulz , who held talks late on thursday with president frank-walter steinmeier , merkel and her bavarian ally horst seehofer , denied he had agreed to another grand coalition .
i can clearly deny the media report about me having given the green light for grand coalition negotiations .
this is simply wrong , schulz said , adding that the report appeared to be based on sources within merkel s conservative cdu/csu bloc .
he added that whoever circulated such reports was damaging trust .
ties between the spd and conservatives - still sharing power in a caretaker capacity - have already been strained this week after a conservative minister backed extending the use of a weedkiller at the european union level against the spd s wishes and without its prior knowledge .
we have a lot of options for building a government .
we should talk about each of these options .
that s exactly what i will propose to the party leadership on monday , schulz said .
the spd will hold a party congress in berlin on dec. 7-9 , where it is expected to debate its options .
other options apart from a grand coalition include a minority conservative government - which the spd could support on a case-by-case basis , or fresh elections .
merkel has said in the past she does not want to lead a minority government .
merkel s camp said the ball was in the spd s court .
it s now up to the spd to provide clarity , said cdu manager klaus schueler .
the fact that we underlined today that we are prepared to enter such talks with the spd shows that we re aiming to bring these talks to a successful conclusion .
another senior member of merkel s christian democrat union ( cdu ) , mike mohring , said he was hopeful for an eventual grand coalition and expected a new government to be formed by march .
the way for a grand coalition has been paved , mohring told reuters after taking part in a teleconference where merkel had briefed the federal board of her christian democratic union ( cdu ) on thursday night s talks with schulz and the president .
schulz , a former president of the european parliament , has said he wants changes in germany s approach to the european union and in economic and social policy .
in an interview with der spiegel magazine , schulz said the spd backed french president emmanuel macron s call for closer eurozone integration , including a new finance minister for the currency bloc - ideas that face resistance from conservatives .
giving emmanuel macron a positive answer will be a key element in every negotiation with the spd , schulz was quoted as saying in the interview made available on friday , adding that he also backed a joint eu tax policy .