vienna ( reuters ) - with conservative leader sebastian kurz winning austria s parliamentary elections on sunday with around 32 percent of votes , many of his supporters see little reason to shy away from forming a government with the far right freedom party ( fpo ) .
amid servings of sausages , beer and white wine spritzer , kurz s acolytes at the people s party ( ovp ) election celebrations sounded enthusiastic about working with the anti-immigration freedom party , which got around 26 percent , within a whisker of the social democrats .
ovp-fpo is better than anything else , even if it s not perfect , said kurz fan florian zierler , a 21-year-old software developer .
kurz said he would talk to everyone .
freedom party chief heinz-christian strache is now as close as he has ever been to joining the national government .
he has accused kurz of stealing his policies ranging from tough anti-immigration policies to tax cuts for companies and reduced social services for refugees .
the economic program of the fpo is similar to that of the ovp but they ( fpo ) are still hammering foreigners hard in their statements and that s not in order , zierler said .
meanwhile at freedom party celebrations , its general secretary and strategist herbert kickl , 48 , said the ball was now in the court of the conservatives and social democrats , sounding a confident note after one of the best election results for his party in its 60-year history .
for us it s not crucial whether we ll go into opposition or into government .
the main factor for us is the position from which we can achieve the change that s needed .
freedom party supporter andreas weiss , enjoying a smoke-filled party looking out over vienna with the parliament building in the foreground , echoed kickl .
it actually doesn t matter who will be our coalition partner .
our demands must be realized , he said .
five women in their 40s , dancing and singing at the fpo party , said they had no doubt their party would enter government with the ovp .
according to pollster sora the biggest chunk of ovp voters , 40 percent , also want the fpo in government .
among fpo supporters , 60 percent want the ovp as a partner .
centrist coalitions between the social democrats and the conservatives have dominated austrian politics since world war two , but many are deeply frustrated with the lack of progress in tax , pension , education and administrative reform .
the reds ( the social democrats ) are so fossilized and encrusted , said 79-year-old heinrich kohlmann , attending kurz s party clad in traditional austrian costume and clutching two glasses of beer .
for him , the freedom party is the better partner for the changes he wants .
i hope that we can reduce the strength and power of brussels , kohlmann said .
both kurz and strache have called for a slimmed-down european union and a return of many powers to national governments .
for the freedom party , forming a coalition with the conservatives would be a milestone in europe where its sister parties , germany s afd and france s national front , can only dream of joining the cabinet .
when the freedom party last entered government in 2000 , also with the conservatives , the eu imposed sanctions on austria .
i hope that many ( in the european parliament ) will understand that the topics we are running with have strong support among the population , said harald vilimsky , the fpo s most prominent eu parliamentarian .
but even for kurz supporters like florian kahl who are concerned by the freedom party s euroscepticism - which it has toned down since making it into the runoff of last year s presidential vote - the far right is still the best partner .
i think ( an ovp-fpo ) government would mean the most positive change for austria , said the 36-year-old civil servant .
amid a crowd dominated by men in suits and slicked back hair and women wearing designer handbags and jewelry in turquoise - the color kurz chose for his campaign - pavlina hristova , a 55-year old launderette worker with broken german seemed ill at ease .
but she shared the same views as other kurz supporters .
it s scarcely possible now ( to work with the social democrats ) .
it would probably work with the fpo .