dennis lloyd mothersbaugh , 37 , has a long and violent criminal record and was charged at least twice before with threatening african-american men before he was arrested in late september and now , he s being extradited to charlottesville after internet sleuths found out his identity when he was seen on video brutally punching a woman in the face during a protest .
writer and activist shaun king sounded the alarm , then the internet went to work to id the vicious racist .
lifelong white supremacist/neo-nazi , dennis mothersbaugh , being extradited to charlottesville , king tweeted .
wearing his god , guns , & trump shirt .
lifelong white supremacist/neo-nazi , dennis mothersbaugh , being extradited to charlottesville.wearing his god , guns , & trump shirt .
pic.twitter.com/eqlj4cg2xf shaun king ( @ shaunking ) october 6 , 2017mothersbaugh has a lengthy record.he 's a gem .
pic.twitter.com/6rqfrzgxqo wes criswell ( @ criswellwj ) october 7 , 2017but wait there 's more pic.twitter.com/2bpujqxtm1 wes criswell ( @ criswellwj ) october 7 , 2017here s a video clip of the nazi punching a man in the face , then brutally assaulting a woman.all hands on deck ! who is this man ?
slayer t-shirt .
white supremacist.brutally assaulted 2 non-violent protestors in charlottesville .
pic.twitter.com/sz29epo0x0 shaun king ( @ shaunking ) september 12 , 2017mothersbaugh was arrested in jennings county , indiana , and charged with assault and battery after he participated in the aug. 12 unite the right hate rally .
a lot of nazis were identified following the violent protest in which heather heyer was murdered and left 19 others injured after another one of trump s very fine people used his car as a weapon to mow down anti-racist protesters.trump has repeatedly blamed both sides for the attack .
democrats and republicans both condemned trump s remarks.last night , there was another torch rally in charlottesville featuring human punching bag richard spencer .
videos and pictures are being circulated on social media .
although only about 30 nazis showed up to intimidate the city again , they might suffer consequences for their actions , if identified .
it s 2017 , and we re witnessing nazis storming down our streets and obviously , these trump supporters aren t nice-time nazis who use hello kitty computers.like , for example , james alex fields , the 20-year-old ohio man who was arrested on the day of the rally and charged with second-degree murder , among other counts , after driving a car into the crowd of anti-racists , killing ms. heyer .
but trump won t call it terrorism because they are his very fine people .
mothersbaugh needs a new t-shirt which reads , god , guns , trump , prison .
image via twitter .