democrats looking for attention and along with every celebrity who has been able to find their way to the burned out city of flint , mi have all jumped on the it s all michigan s republican governor snyder s fault bandwagon .
in reality , there has been plenty of blame to go around .
obama s epa director , gina mccarthy has plenty of culpability when it comes to the involvement of her epa officials and the cover up of the flint water crisis .
in the end however , it s never about the people of flint , it s about saving the hides of the inept political officials who allowed this crisis to happen .
flint lives really don t matter to greedy politicians like hillary clinton , who have used the horrible misfortune of flint residents to gain trust and votes in the black community.will anyone remember hillary s support for black democrat mayor karen weaver , who is now being accused of stealing money from charitable donations ( that should have been used to support the people who are suffering in the community where she was elected ) and putting it into her own campaign fund ? the flint water crisis has triggered yet another lawsuit , this one filed by the city s former administrator , who claims she was wrongfully fired for blowing the whistle on the mayor of flint for allegedly trying to steer money from a charity for local families into a campaign fund.former city administrator natasha henderson , 39 , who now lives in muskegon , claims in a lawsuit filed today in u.s. district court that she was terminated on feb. 12 for seeking an investigation into allegations of misconduct by flint mayor karen weaver.specifically , the suit alleges that weaver directed a city employee and volunteer to steer donors away from a charity called safe water/safe homes , and instead give money to the so-called karenabout flint fund , which was a political action committee or campaign fund created at weaver s direction.according to the lawsuit , a city employee told henderson in confidence that she and a volunteer had previously been directing donors to the city of flint s website , where they could give money to the safe water/safe homes charity , which helped families affected by the water crisis .
but weaver directed them to steer donors to the karenabout flint website , which the city council had not approved , the suit claims .
a red flag went off when it was an unrecognizable fund , henderson s lawyer , katherine smith kennedy , told the free press .
she did the right thing .
she reported the matter to the city attorney .
and for doing the right thing , she was punished .
she was fired .
the lawsuit names the city of flint and weaver as defendants.for entire story : detroit free press