beirut ( reuters ) - president michel aoun held talks on monday with other lebanese political leaders over the future of prime minister saad al-hariri s government , but gave no sign whether they discussed hariri s demand the country steer clear of regional turmoil .
aoun s office said the talks were positive and constructive but did not detail steps to address the demands hariri made after postponing his shock resignation , notably that lebanese stick by the state policy of staying out of regional conflicts - a reference to iran-backed shi ite group hezbollah .
the consultations would continue once aoun returns on friday from an official visit to italy , the statement said .
a senior lebanese official said the consultations at the presidential palace in baabda aimed to help hariri s government get back on its feet , after weeks of political instability triggered by hariri s nov. 4 resignation , announced in riyadh .
lebanese officials say saudi arabia forced hariri to resign and held him against his will , triggering an intervention by france which led to his return to beirut last week .
riyadh says hariri , lebanon s top sunni muslim politician and a long-time saudi ally , resigned freely and denies holding him .
in his resignation speech , hariri strongly criticized iran and its heavily armed lebanese shi ite muslim ally hezbollah for meddling in the arab world .
since returning to beirut , hariri has said all lebanese must stick by the state policy of disassociation , or keeping out of regional conflicts - a reference to hezbollah .
leading druze politician walid jumblatt , an influential figure in lebanon , said after meeting aoun that it was important to talk about disassociation , and how to achieve it .
he said it would be wise not to bring up the question of hezbollah s weapons in discussions , referring to previous rounds of futile talks on this point .
the senior lebanese official said the consultations might end with lebanon reaffirming the ministerial statement that implicitly includes disassociation .
the official spoke on condition of anonymity as aoun s consultations were not over .
hariri said on saturday he would not accept hezbollah stances that affect our arab brothers or target the security and stability of their countries .