washington ( reuters ) - the sudden and shocking death of supreme court justice antonin scalia opened a new and incendiary front in the already red-hot 2016 presidential race , one that promises to divide democrats and republicans and , perhaps , republicans from themselves .
the vacancy on the court , which is now evenly split 4-4 between its conservative and liberal wings , had republicans calling on president barack obama to refrain from choosing a successor to the right-leaning scalia while democrats urged obama to do as the u.s. constitution requires and put forward a candidate to face confirmation in an albeit hostile senate .
the prospect of such a battle drew swift and furious comment from candidates vying to be elected president in november .
facing off in a debate only hours after the 79-year-old scalia ’ s death was announced , some republican presidential candidates seized the moment to caution voters that their party ’ s front-runner , billionaire businessman donald trump , could not be trusted to nominate a stalwart conservative .
“ if donald trump is president , he will appoint liberals , ” charged u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas during the debate in south carolina , which holds a republican nominating contest next saturday .
“ two branches of government hang in the balance , not just the presidency , but the supreme court , ” cruz said .
“ if we get this wrong , if we nominate the wrong candidate , the second amendment , life , marriage , religious liberty , every one of those hangs in the balance. ” senator lindsey graham of south carolina also took a shot at trump .
“ donald trump is not a conservative , so i don ’ t trust him to pick a judge , ” graham said before the debate .
a real estate mogul , trump has supported democratic politicians in the past .
trump , who also has taken several positions at odds with republican orthodoxy , joined other candidates at the debate in insisting that senator mitch mcconnell , republican majority leader in the senate , stand by his promise to block any obama high court choice .
“ it ’ s up to mitch mcconnell and everyone else to stop it , ” trump , a former reality tv show host , said .
“ it ’ s called delay , delay , delay. ” under the u.s. system , the president nominates justices for the nine-member court and the senate confirms them .
the last justice to be approved by the senate of the opposite party during an election year was justice anthony kennedy in 1988 .
obama has already indicated that he intends to send a choice to the senate in coming weeks , meaning that the nominee will be heavily scrutinized by presidential candidates in both parties - and more than likely be opposed by the majority of republicans .
“ the court may genuinely be a major issue this year , ” said david axelrod , a former top political adviser to obama .
“ it will be a hell of a fight. ” criticism of the court , which in recent years has upheld obama ’ s sweeping healthcare plan and legalized same-sex marriage , has already been a thread running through several republican candidates ’ campaigns .
the conservative majority on the court had appeared poised to invalidate obama ’ s immigration and climate-change policies .
the loss of scalia , considered to be a lodestar of conservative legal thought , and the potential swing of the court to the left , ensures that whatever drama plays out in the senate this year will be mirrored on the campaign trail .
“ there is no more clarifying debate in politics these days than when it comes to supreme court nominees , ” said jim manley , a democratic strategist and former aide to senator harry reid of nevada .
“ this now is for all the marbles. ” reid was majority leader of the senate when it confirmed previous obama court nominees sonia sotomayor and elena kagan .
manley called mcconnell ’ s threat not to allow a vote on a potential scalia replacement “ completely beyond the pale. ” democratic candidate hillary clinton seemed inclined to make mcconnell ’ s threat a campaign issue .
“ the republicans in the senate and on the campaign trail who are calling for justice scalia ’ s seat to remain vacant dishonor our constitution , ” clinton said in a statement .
axelrod said that the issue could help clinton , locked in a tight race with u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont .
“ i think it will make electability and experience in this realm more important , ” he said .
rick hasen , a law professor at the university of california , irvine , and a longtime observer of the supreme court nomination process , said obama likely has two options .
“ he could nominate a more liberal candidate who would have no real chance of getting through a republican senate - in which case this would become a salient political issue in 2016 , ” hasen said .
or he could nominate a more moderate candidate who might gain enough republican support to gain approval , he said .
there are risks to both approaches : a republican obstruction of a liberal nominee would animate the democratic party ’ s progressive base in an election year but would leave the court without a potentially tie-breaking vote for perhaps a year .
that same democratic base might view a moderate nominee as a betrayal , while conservative republican voters likely would frown on any senator who voted to approve an obama choice .
manley said that mcconnell has already shown that he is unwilling to support any choice made by obama and that the white house must act aggressively .
“ the president should go forward and nominate the most liberal candidate possible , ” he said .
given the need to fire up its most passionate voters , that might just be exactly what republican candidates want as well .
( this version of the story was refiled to fix the mistyped word “ then ” to “ than ” in paragraph 16 . )
( writing by james oliphant ; reporting by ginger gibson and james oliphant ; additional reporting by steve holland and jeff mason ; editing by howard goller ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .