protesters affiliated with the group no justice , no pride blocked this year s capital pride parade on three separate occasions , delaying the parade and forcing participants to use an alternative route , in protest of the participation of police officers and certain corporate sponsors. # nojusticenopride in prisons pipelines or deportations # blackqueertranslivesmatter pic.twitter.com/vzf00wjkie janesee ( @ streetsignslife ) june 10 , 2017the no justice , no pride group first conducted its own march down the planned parade route with signs like rainbows don t cover death merchants and no pride in police violence .
they then blocked the route at 15th and p streets nw .
police formed a barricade around the demonstrators , allowing them to continue the protest , while re-routing the official parade down 16th street .
no arrests have been reported .
the dcistso today # blacklivesmatter stopped the d.c .
pride parade .
pic.twitter.com/tflhflpcio fras ( @ dangercw ) june 10 , 2017pride parade fans were furious over the hijacking of their parade by leftist activist groups like black lives matter and lashed out at the thugs who forced them to re-route the parade : overheard at # dcpride , @ capitalpridedc board member : we don t negotiate with terrorists describing # nojusticenopride b. loewe ( @ bstandsforb ) june 11 , 2017the video below shows an interesting exchange that took place during the parade .
a female leftist activist attempts to explain to a male gay parade participant that his definition of pride no longer exists , and that in fact , the radical groups who are hijacking their planned parade have redefined what pride will now mean : # nojusticenopride blockades have been divisive .
parade-goer : `` this is n't the time and place . ''
pic.twitter.com/w1ebsdmstn alejandro alvarez ( @ aletweetsnews ) june 11 , 2017this gay democrat suggested that the protesters should commit mass suicide : this pride participant was clearly not happy with the leftist agitators : this is the response of pride goers to a protest over police violence and private prisons .
@ getequal @ fif_dc # nojusticenopride pic.twitter.com/th4yc6cdlt drew ambrogi ( @ drewambrogi ) june 10 , 2017