caracas ( reuters ) - even by the volatile and violent standards of recent times in venezuela , 2017 was an exceptional year , a perfect storm of political and economic crisis .
going into a fourth year of crippling recession , venezuela s 30 million people found themselves skipping meals , suffering shortages of basic foods and medicines , jostling in lines for ever-scarcer subsidized goods , unable to keep up with dizzying inflation rates , and emigrating in ever larger numbers .
in unprecedented scenes for the once-prosperous opec nation , some citizens survived only by scavenging through garbage .
not surprisingly in that context , president nicolas maduro s ruling socialists the inheritors of hugo chavez s 21st century revolution - - lost popularity on the street , and the opposition coalition sensed a chance to unseat them .
the tipping point came in march when the pro-maduro supreme court essentially took over functions of the opposition-led national assembly .
though the controversial ruling was later modified , it was a trigger and rallying cry for the opposition , which began a campaign of street protests that ran from april to july .
hundreds of thousands took to the streets across venezuela , decrying economic hardship , demanding a presidential election , urging a foreign humanitarian aid corridor , and seeking freedom for scores of jailed activists .
slogans that read maduro , murderer !
and maduro , dictator !
began appearing on roads and walls around the country .
though the majority of protesters were peaceful , youths wearing masks and brandishing homemade viking-style shields started turning up at the front of rallies to taunt security forces .
when police and national guard soldiers blocked marches , youths threw molotov cocktails and stones .
the security forces quickly escalated tactics , routinely turning water-cannons on the protesters and firing teargas into crowds .
guns appeared on the streets , and on several occasions security officials were caught on camera firing directly at demonstrators .
police were targeted with homemade explosives .
opposition supporters burned one man alive .
the deaths , injuries and arrests mounted .
over the chaotic months , at least 125 people died , thousands were injured and thousands were jailed .
global opinion hardened against maduro .
amid the extraordinary daily events , gangs burst into the national assembly and beat up opposition lawmakers .
the nation s best-known jailed opposition leader , leopoldo lopez , was released from prison and placed on home arrest to the joy of his supporters , then taken back to jail , then allowed home again , all in a matter of days .
venezuelans grew accustomed to navigating around barricades and burning streets as they tried to get to school and work .
some days , the country virtually shut down .
by the end of july , many opposition supporters feared for their lives and protest numbers dwindled .
maduro said he was defeating a u.s.-backed coup attempt and authorities held an election , which the opposition boycotted , for an all-powerful constituent assembly charged with imposing order on the country .
having failed to block the constituent assembly , the protests fizzled out , leaving opposition supporters nursing their wounds and planning their next moves .
they decided to tackle maduro at the ballot-box in regional elections in october , but that backfired badly when they lost most of the governorships despite polls showing they would win .
the opposition alleged fraud , but their complaints did not get traction and maduro cemented his authority .
in november , venezuela said it planned to renegotiate its entire foreign debt , adding another dimension to the deepening national crisis .
( see reut.rs/2adrq0q for related photo essay )