sydney ( reuters ) - a prominent australian opposition senator , sam dastyari , said on tuesday he would resign from parliament after a series of allegations emerged about his links with chinese-aligned interests in australia .
relations between australia and china have become strained since australia announced last week it would ban foreign political donations as part of a crackdown aimed at preventing external influence in domestic politics .
in announcing the ban , prime minister malcolm turnbull specifically singled out china , citing disturbing reports about chinese influence .
china hit back , with the ruling communist party s official people s daily describing media reports about its interference as racist and paranoid .
dastyari , widely viewed as a rising star of the center-left labor opposition party , has been under fire since domestic media reported he had sought to encourage the party s deputy leader not to meet a chinese pro-democracy activist opposed to beijing s rule in hong kong in 2015 .
today , after much reflection , i ve decided that the best service i can render to the federal parliamentary labor party is to not return to the senate in 2018 , dastyari told reporters in sydney .
asked about dastyari s resignation , chinese foreign ministry spokesman lu kang said it was an internal affair for australia and china did not comment on other countries affairs .
the latest allegations came just days after turnbull on monday told the australian broadcasting corporation dastyari had warned chinese political donor huang xiangmo that his telephone might be tapped .
dastyari had already quit some senior labor positions after a tape surfaced of him appearing to endorse china s contentious expansion in disputed areas of the south china sea , against his party s platform .
the tape showed him standing next to huang .
turnbull accused the labor party of failing to put australia first , rhetoric that analysts said could widen divisions between canberra and beijing .
the row has erupted and it has claimed a political scalp , said euan graham , director , international security program at the lowy institute , an australian think-tank .
china could retaliate through non-official sanctions such as reduced tourist numbers or through buying of goods elsewhere .
china , which is easily australia s biggest trading partner , bought a $ 93 billion ( $ 70 billion ) worth of australian goods and services last year .
but growing trade ties are only one side of a delicate balancing act for australia , whose unshakeable security relationship with the united states has limited how cosy it gets with china .
the recent political focus on dastyari s china links has been a welcome distraction for turnbull , who is suffering a slump in popularity in a country where three prime ministers have been ousted by their own parties since 2010 .
the fragility of his center-right government will be tested on saturday when a by-election in the blue-ribbon conservative constituency of bennelong in sydney could see turnbull again lose his majority in parliament , should labour win .