beijing ( reuters ) - when they met at u.s. president donald trump s mar-a-lago estate in april , china s president xi jinping found a way to charm the mercurial former real estate mogul .
trump hailed the good chemistry of the sunny summit in florida and predicted lots of very potentially bad problems will be going away .
the bromance is set to continue when xi returns the favor by laying on a lavish welcome for trump s visit starting on wednesday .
xi has grown more powerful since their last meeting , while trump is under a political cloud after his former campaign manager was indicted in an intensifying investigation into russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election .
chinese experts say beijing has learned to manage trump , a real-estate mogul who had never held elective office before becoming president , and whose administration in its first 10 months has been turbulent .
china has an objective view of him .
we re going to make him feel comfortable , said wang yiwei , a professor of international relations at renmin university .
he may end up being re-elected .
we need to look at this from a long-term perspective , and not view him as an other or a joke .
trump clearly respects xi .
in a congratulatory phone call , trump hailed the extraordinary elevation of xi , whose political thoughts were enshrined in the communist party s constitution last month during a congress marking the start of his second term .
aboard air force one on his way to asia , trump cited record stock market levels , low unemployment and islamic state virtually defeated in the middle east as evidence of his own success .
( xi ) knows that and he respects that , trump said , adding trade is still an irritant in ties .
i think he s viewing us as very , very strong and also very friendly .
look we have to do better with trade with china because it s a one way street right now .
it has been for many years .
and we will .
state-plus china s ambassador to the united states , cui tiankai , said trump will receive a state visit-plus experience in beijing .
it s unclear what the plus means .
trump is expected to go to the forbidden city and participate in an inspection of chinese troops , though china has released few other details .
the protocol will let trump rejoice in grandiosity , important to keeping relations stable , said teng jianqun , head of american studies at foreign ministry think-tank china institute for international studies .
we must seize upon his special characteristics , such as liking instant gratification , and set up some things that bring immediate results , he said .
on the commercial front , that means a slew of deals - and worries among some in the u.s. business community that the transactional trump will be placated by a handful of contract wins instead of resolving long-standing complaints over discriminatory chinese policies and market access restrictions .
[ l4n1n304g ] chinese vice foreign minister zheng zeguang told reporters on friday that china would create a good atmosphere with informal activities for the two presidents , so they have ample time to talk about important issues .
zheng said that at the april summit , trump and his wife melania had extended an extremely warm , friendly and thoughtful reception to xi and his wife peng liyuan .
the chinese people demand that courtesy be repaid in kind , he said .
trump is a popular figure for many in china , who admire his business acumen ; he is not the divisive figure he is in the united states and its allies in europe and elsewhere .
the wechat account of the ruling communist party s official people s daily marked china s announcement of his visit with a picture of a beaming trump and the headline trump s coming !
a contrast between the two presidents was set at the start of the year .
days ahead of trump taking office , xi was the keynote speaker at the world economic forum in davos , offering a vigorous defense of globalization .
trump formally withdrew the united states from the trans-pacific partnership his first week in office , distancing america from its asian allies .
one beijing-based western diplomat said xi s strong and confident vision for china contrasts with perceptions that trump often seems to pick arguments .
but not with china .
trump in office put aside his grievances about china s trade and currency practices , aired vociferously during the campaign , to get china behind his strategy of punishing sanctions on north korea for its escalating missile and nuclear tests .
and beijing accommodated him when he grew frustrated .
days after trump s sept. 4 tweet that the united states was considering stopping all trade with any country doing business with north korea , beijing ordered north korean companies operating within its borders to shut down , banned its exports of textiles and reduced china s oil exports to the north .
but with north korea occupying most of the trump administration s attention in asia , china s construction of military facilities on artificial islands in disputed waters of the south china sea has seemingly fallen off the radar .
beijing does still get irritated about u.s. navy freedom of navigation patrols there , which have continued under trump .
trump is very popular with the ( chinese ) military , said a chinese official with ties to the military , speaking on condition of anonymity .
it s great for china that the united states is in chaos .
it means we don t have to worry about them challenging us .
trump s 12-day trip to asia the longest by a u.s. president in a quarter-century - will give him a chance to reassure friends and allies in the region , who have expressed uncertainty about his america first policies .
tillerson has already signaled the limits of washington s patience with china .
ahead of a trip to india last month , tillerson said that china , while rising alongside india , has done so less responsibly , at times undermining the international , rules-based order , and he criticized china for its predatory economics and its provocative actions in the south china sea .
at last month s party congress , xi laid out a vision for a prosperous and assertive china taking a bigger place on the global stage .
the congress left china with greater confidence and lung power , more unhurried in its dealings with the united states , wang wen , president of renmin university s chongyang institute for financial studies , wrote in a front page commentary on friday in the overseas edition of the people s daily .