hong kong ( reuters ) - thirteen hong kong universities and academic institutions accused the chinese-ruled city s leader of undermining freedom of expression amid a row over pro-independence banners appearing on campuses .
hong kong , a former british colony that returned to china in 1997 , is guaranteed freedoms and a high degree of autonomy under a one country , two systems arrangement , including freedom of expression .
at the start of the academic year , banners advocating independence from china appeared on noticeboards in at least seven universities .
some large black banners were hung across buildings .
hong kong leader carrie lam criticized the posters as a violation of china s sovereignty , while urging university administrators to take appropriate action .
some colleges , including the prestigious chinese university , described the posters as unconstitutional , but allowed some to remain .
but late on sunday , the 13 institutions issued a statement titled arming ourselves in our darkest hour , criticizing lam and university authorities for an explicit effort to limit our freedom of expression .
student unions stress that everyone enjoys the freedom of speech , and this is the line that we shall never compromise ... we are ready to defend our rights and liberty , it read .
some observers said the controversy could be used to justify another squeeze on the city s freedoms , soon after several young pro-democracy leaders were jailed for helping lead the city s massive occupy pro-democracy civil disobedience movement in late 2014 .
the row has also stoked tension between local and mainland students , who now comprise a sizeable part of university admissions , especially in post-graduate studies .
calls for independence , once rare in the financial hub , began to gain traction after the 2014 protests and as disillusionment grew toward china s perceived tightening grip .
late last year , two pro-independence lawmakers were disqualified from office after beijing s parliament ruled their oath-taking carried digs at china .
beijing resolutely opposes talk of hong kong splitting from china , with the mini-constitution stating the city is an inalienable part of the country .
the so-called basic law also enshrines freedom of expression .
groups of students from both sides have faced off on several occasions , with mainland students putting up anti-independence posters , condemning calls for independence .
one female student from china was filmed and challenged for tearing down some of the pro-independence banners .
if you re talking about democracy , you can put them up ( the banners ) and i can pull ( them ) down , she said in the video .
an official blog run by china s state mouthpiece , the people s daily , on sunday published a long editorial saying there were limits to freedom of expression and that hong kong laws on public order could be used to jail trouble makers .
it is quite apparent that beijing and the hong kong government would like to use this excuse to impose a political crackdown , said political commentator joseph cheng .
certainly the pro-beijing establishment has been asking for rapid legislation of the controversial article 23 legislation , cheng added , referring to proposed national security laws that would criminalize perceived acts of sedition .