kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - three men wanted for the killing of kim jong nam were driven to the murder site in a car bought by a north korean embassy official , a malaysian court was told on wednesday , bringing into focus the embassy s role in the sensational murder .
two women , indonesian siti aisyah and doan thi huong , a vietnamese , are charged with conspiring with four north korean fugitives to kill the north korean leader s half-brother using banned chemical weapon vx , at the kuala lumpur international airport on feb. 13 .
defense lawyers say the women were duped into thinking they were playing a prank for a reality tv show .
closed circuit television recordings played in court on wednesday showed three of the fugitives at the airport in a car registered to a north korean suspect named ri jong chol .
jong chol , who was arrested and deported shortly after the murder , told investigators the car had been bought in his name by a north korean embassy official named chal su in october 2016 , lead investigator wan azirul nizam che wan aziz said .
we made a request to the north korean embassy to identify and question chal su , but did not receive any cooperation , wan azirul told the court .
airport video recordings screened in court earlier showed the embassy s second secretary and a manager for north korean airline air koryo helping the four fugitives flee immediately after the murder .
wan azirul on wednesday named the two individuals as north korean embassy second secretary hyon kwang song and air koryo manager kim uk il .
both men had gone into hiding at the embassy in kuala lumpur , along with ri ji u , a 30-year-old north korean also known as james , after warrants were issued for their arrest , wan azirul said .
police took statements from the embassy s second secretary and the air koryo official before releasing them , but did not pursue ji u or chal su in the absence of instructions to do so , wan azirul said .
during this probe , which involves international issues , i faced many constraints in investigating and needed to refer to my superior officers before taking any action , he added .
north korea has vehemently denied accusations by south korean and u.s. officials that kim jong un s regime was behind the killing .
kim jong nam , who was living in exile in macau , had criticized his family s dynastic rule of north korea and his brother had issued a standing order for his execution , some south korean lawmakers have said .
the murder unraveled once-close ties between malaysia and north korea .
malaysia was forced to return kim jong nam s body and allow the suspects hiding in the embassy to return home , in exchange for the release of nine malaysians barred from leaving pyongyang .