washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama imposed sweeping new sanctions on north korea on wednesday intended to further isolate the country ’ s leadership after recent actions by pyongyang that have been seen by washington and its allies as provocative .
the executive order freezes any property of the north korean government in the united states and prohibits exportation of goods from the united states to north korea .
it also allows the u.s. government to blacklist any individuals , whether or not they are u.s. citizens , who deal with major sectors of north korea ’ s economy .
experts said the measures vastly expanded the u.s. blockade against pyongyang .
north korea conducted a nuclear test on jan. 6 , and a feb. 7 rocket launch that the united states and its allies said employed banned ballistic missile technology .
pyongyang said it was a peaceful satellite launch .
“ the u.s. and the global community will not tolerate north korea ’ s illicit nuclear and ballistic missile activities , and we will continue to impose costs on north korea until it comes into compliance with its international obligations , ” white house spokesman josh earnest said .
despite decades of tensions , the united states has not had a comprehensive trade ban against north korea of the kind enacted against myanmar and iran .
americans were allowed to make limited sales to north korea , although in practice such trade was tiny .
u.s. officials had believed a blanket trade ban would be ineffective without a stronger commitment from china , north korea ’ s largest trading partner .
but with china signing on to new u.n. sanctions earlier this month , that obstacle has been removed , experts said .
“ north korean sanctions are finally getting serious , ” said peter harrell , a former senior state department official who worked on sanctions .
the new sanctions threaten to ban from the global financial system anyone , even europeans and asians , who does business with broad swaths of pyongyang ’ s economy , including its financial , mining and transportation sectors .
the so-called secondary sanctions will compel banks to freeze the assets of anyone who breaks the blockade , potentially squeezing out north korea ’ s business ties in china and myanmar .
“ it ’ s going to be very hard for north korea to move money anywhere in the world , ” said harrell , now with the center for a new american security .