seoul ( reuters ) - the billionaire head of south korea s samsung group , jay y. lee , was sentenced to five years in jail for bribery on friday in a watershed for the country s decades-long economic order dominated by powerful , family-run conglomerates .
after a six-month trial over a scandal that brought down the then president , park geun-hye , a court ruled that lee had paid bribes in anticipation of favours from park .
the court also found lee guilty of hiding assets abroad , embezzlement and perjury .
lee , the 49-year-old heir to one of the world s biggest corporate empires , has been held since february on charges that he bribed park to help secure control of a conglomerate that owns samsung electronics , the world s leading smartphone and chip maker , and has interests ranging from drugs and home appliances to insurance and hotels .
lee , who emerged stony-faced from the seoul courtroom in a dark suit , but without a tie , and holding a document envelope , was escorted by justice ministry officials back to his detention centre .
this case is a matter of lee jae-yong and samsung group executives , who had been steadily preparing for lee s succession ... bribing the president , seoul central district court judge kim jin-dong said , using lee s korean name .
kim said that as the group s heir apparent , lee stood to benefit the most from any political favours for samsung .
lee denied wrongdoing , and one of his lawyers , song wu-cheol , said he would appeal .
the entire guilty verdict is unacceptable , song said , adding he was confident his client s innocence would be affirmed by a higher court .
the case is expected to be appealed all the way up to the supreme court , likely next year .
the five year-sentence - one of the longest given to a south korean business leader - is a landmark for south korea , where the family-run conglomerates - or chaebols - have long been revered for helping transform the once war-ravaged country into a global economic powerhouse .
but they have more recently been criticized for holding back the economy and stifling small businesses and start-ups .
samsung , a symbol of the country s rise from poverty following the 1950-53 korean war , has come to epitomize the cosy and sometimes corrupt ties between politicians and the chaebols .
the ruling is a turning point for chaebols , said chang sea-jin , a business professor at korea advanced institute of science and technology .
in the past , chaebols weren t afraid of laws because they were lenient .
now , lee s ruling sets a precedent for strict enforcement of laws , and chaebols should be wary .
under south korean law , sentences of more than three years can not be suspended .
the third-generation de facto head of the powerful samsung group , lee has effectively directed operations since his father , lee kun-hee , was incapacitated by a heart attack in 2014 .
some investors worry a prolonged leadership vacuum could slow decision-making at the group , which has more than five dozen affiliate companies and assets of 363.2 trillion won ( $ 322.13 billion ) .
its listed companies make up about 30 percent of the market value of south korea s kospi stock index .
many tycoons , including lee s father , were convicted of crimes in the past , ranging from bribery , embezzlement and tax evasion , only to get presidential pardons , as both the government and the public feared going too hard on them would hurt the economy .
but south korea s new liberal president , moon jae-in , who won a may election , has pledged to rein in the chaebols , empower minority shareholders and end the practice of pardoning tycoons convicted of white-collar crime .
the presidential blue house said in a statement that it hopes the ruling will serve as an opportunity to end the nexus of business and politics that has held back the country .
in a june interview with reuters , moon said he did not believe samsung s operations depended just on lee .
when lee was taken into custody , the share prices of samsung went up , moon said .
if we were to succeed in reforming the running of the chaebols and also increasing transparency , i believe this will not only help the economic power of korea but also help to make the chaebols themselves more competitive .
investors say shares in chaebol companies trade at lower prices than they would otherwise because of their opaque corporate governance - the so-called korea discount .
shares of samsung electronics dropped more than 1 percent , and other group companies , including samsung c & t and samsung sds , also turned lower after the verdict .
the court said samsung s financial support of entities backed by a friend of park s , choi soon-sil , constituted bribery , including 7.2 billion won ( $ 6.4 million ) in sponsoring the equestrian career of choi s daughter .
in return , prosecutors say , samsung sought government support for the 2015 merger of two of its affiliates , which helped lee tighten control of the conglomerate .
his lawyers had argued that the merger was done for business reasons .
some criminal lawyers had expected lee to be found innocent of the major charges , as much of the evidence at the trial has been circumstantial .
the appeals court and the supreme court might put a greater emphasis on prosecutors to provide direct proof of quid pro quo , the lawyers said .
park , who was forced from office in march , faces her own corruption trial , with a ruling expected later this year .
prosecutors have argued that park and lee took part in the same act of bribery - so lee s conviction would appear ominous for the former president .
hundreds of park s diehard supporters who rallied outside the court on friday reacted with outrage to the ruling .
our ultimate goal is park s acquittal and release , kim won-joon , a 62-year-old former construction worker said .
we worry how today s guilty verdict for lee would affect park s ruling .
such supporters are a minority compared with the huge crowds that turned out in seoul every week to call for park s ouster after the bribery scandal surfaced late last year .
public approval of lee s prosecution may underscore growing frustration in asia s fourth-largest economy that the wealth amassed by conglomerates has not trickled down .
i think it was difficult for a court to ignore public opinion , given that the scandal rocked the country , said chung sun-sup , chief executive of research firm chaebul.com .
the five-year sentence was low given that he was found guilty of all the charges .
i think the court gave him a lighter sentence , taking into account samsung s importance to the economy .