santiago ( reuters ) - the frontrunner for chile s presidency , billionaire businessman sebastian pinera , faces an array of left-wing parties in this year s elections but he can expect help from one quarter - low turnout .
recent opinion polls give pinera , a conservative former president , a commanding lead over his seven mostly left-of-center rivals for the nov. 19 first round but predict he is unlikely to take the more than 50 percent needed to avoid a run-off .
while a unified left might muster the votes to defeat pinera in the second round , weak turnout fed by disenchantment with politics and interparty bickering would pave the way for a pinera win .
it s likely that many left-wing voters are not going to vote in the second round because their candidate will have been eliminated , and with this drop , pinera s vote share catapults , said analyst kenneth bunker , of tresquintos .
pinera is going to win if fewer people vote .
investors strongly favor pinera and bet he would better manage labor and education reforms implemented by current center-left president michelle bachelet , in power since 2014 .
chile , south america s most developed economy , is one of the few countries in the region that does not have mandatory voting .
turnout in the elections following chile s transition from compulsory to voluntary voting in 2012 has dipped as low as 42 percent , near the bottom of developed countries , according to statistics from the international institute for democracy and electoral assistance .
many chileans are disenchanted with politics following campaign finance scandals that have tainted parties of both the right and left .
unlike citizens of brazil , peru and argentina , they have the right to abstain without repercussions .
a recent cep poll , conducted in september and october , found that only 43 percent of chileans are likely to vote in the coming election .
the poll showed pinera would beat his two closest contenders , the center-left alejandro guillier and leftist beatriz sanchez , in a dec. 17 runoff .
coalitions of chile s center-left parties for decades dominated politics but have fractured in the face of disagreements over bachelet s economic and social reforms .
the cep poll found that only 11 percent of voters sympathize with bachelet s nueva mayoria coalition and nearly 60 percent of chileans did not identify with any of the major political parties .
pinera s campaign has sought to capitalize on growing discontent and division among the left by appealing to centrist christian democratic voters , historically the largest bloc within bachelet s coalition .
pinera recently called former president patricio aylwin , a christian democrat credited with smoothing chile s transition to democracy in the 1990s , an example to follow .
candidates on the left have sought to counteract pinera s advances by attempting to rally new voters .
we need a program that makes sense for everyone .
if voter participation increases , we win , said center-left frontrunner guillier , a former journalist and legislator .
in late october , bachelet s administration launched a get-out-the-vote campaign of television and radio advertisements , calling the election an important moment for our democracy .
pinera has criticized the campaign as a political maneuver , but maria luisa puig , of the eurasia group , said that motivating a large remaining block of undecided , or uninspired , voters in the center of the political spectrum could prove critical to both sides .
voter turnout will be the key to this election , she said .