washington ( reuters ) - senior u.s. and german officials agreed this week to deepen their collaboration on a range of cyber issues , including working to promote norms for responsible state behavior in cyberspace and expanding training in developing countries .
the two governments underscored their shared strategic goals in a joint statement issued thursday after a two-day annual bilateral meeting on cyber issues .
christopher painter , cyber coordinator for the u.s. state department , said the two countries already worked together closely in many areas , including law enforcement , human rights and other areas , but the fourth annual talks were focused on a broader , “ whole-of-government ” approach .
“ having this annual discussion ... brings all the agencies together and it ’ s a good way to take stock and make sure we ’ re going in the right direction and thinking about how we can collaborate even further , ” he told reuters in an interview .
ties between germany and the united states remain strong despite tensions that flared after documents released by whistleblower edward snowden in 2013 , which showed the national security agency had spied on german chancellor angela merkel .
painter said he had spoken in germany many times since that incident and washington had not shied away from engaging germany on the issue of surveillance and privacy .
but he said it was not hampering cooperation and collaboration in other cyber areas .
“ this is something that we continue to address and we take seriously , ” he said .
“ at the same time ... we can ’ t let that discussion , as important as it is , divide us and detract us from talking about all the other issues we have in common and the long-term goals we have. ” painter said the two sides welcomed a consensus 2015 un group of governmental experts report which affirmed that international law applied in cyberspace , and adoption of additional confidence-building measures .
germany planned to continue working for wider adoption of cyber norms in its role as the new chairman of the 57-nation organization for security and cooperation ( osce ) , he said .
given limited personnel and resources , the two countries also planned to share information on their training work in africa , latin america and other parts of the developing world .
“ we all have limited resources , so it ’ s very helpful for us to share what we ’ re doing so we ’ re not all training the same three guys in a country. ” the next bilateral cyber dialogue will occur in berlin in 2017 .