new york ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump trailed democratic rival hillary clinton by 12 percentage points in a reuters/ipsos poll released on friday , making him the clear underdog ahead of next week ’ s republican national convention .
forty-five percent of likely voters supported former secretary of state clinton , 33 percent supported trump , the wealthy businessman , and the remainder supported neither , according to the july 11-15 online poll .
the survey showed little change from tuesday , when clinton had led trump by 13 percentage points .
clinton has been ahead in the poll since early january .
trump only approached her level of support in may , after his last two remaining rivals quit the race and he became the presumptive republican nominee .
trump ’ s favorability has dropped since then , as his campaign began to focus on the nov. 8 general election .
trump has faced criticism in recent weeks over his now-defunct trump university venture , which is accused of making false promises , and over his anti-immigrant and anti-muslim rhetoric .
the poll results were mostly gathered before thursday night ’ s deadly truck attack in nice , france , and before trump ’ s announcement on friday that indiana governor mike pence would be his vice presidential running mate .
the poll results suggest that clinton ’ s use of personal email for government business while secretary of state and her handling of classified information have not damaged her support among likely voters .
but other polls show a closer race .
the cbs news/ny times telephone poll has the candidates tied at 40 percent each , while a mcclatchy/marist telephone poll has clinton leading by just 3 percentage points , 42 percent to trump ’ s 39 percent .
trump may get a bump in the polls following next week ’ s convention in cleveland , where the party is expected to rally behind him as the nominee .
in 2012 , support for republican nominee mitt romney rose about 5 percentage points following the convention that year .
the democratic convention is set for the following week , opening july 25 in philadelphia .
the reuters/ipsos poll surveyed 1,186 likely voters across the continental united states , alaska and hawaii .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .