wegscheid , germany ( reuters ) - two years ago , wegscheid was on the front lines of europe s refugee crisis .
when germany voted last week , the village , like many along the austrian border , swung hard to the far right , straining chancellor angela merkel s conservative alliance .
after bruising election losses , merkel is trying to patch together a tricky three-way coalition of her conservatives and their bavarian allies , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) , and the environmentalist greens .
her task is complicated by the bavarian conservatives , who worry about losing their regional dominance in a state election next year .
to win support , they are demanding a controversial cap on the number of migrants entering germany .
merkel dismisses the cap as unconstitutional .
the greens reject it too .
on sunday , the chancellor s christian democrats ( cdu ) and the bavarian christian social union ( csu ) - sister parties - will meet to try to resolve their differences .
both suffered heavy losses in the sept. 24 federal election to the anti-immigration alternative for germany ( afd ) party , which won seats in the national parliament for the first time .
all along germany s southern border , where in 2015 thousands of refugees fleeing war in the middle east poured into germany , voters deserted the csu for the afd .
in passau , the electoral district where wegscheid lies , the csu s vote fell 13.4 points from four years ago to 40.5 percent - a low figure in bavaria , often jokingly called a one-party state .
the afd s share shot up 12.1 points .
the politicians are to blame for the afd being elected , said pensioner reinhold turtschan in the baroque market square of nearby deggendorf , where the afd s vote soared by 15.2 points , mirroring the csu s 15.6 point fall .
the asylum seekers , i don t want to criticize them , but they get so much money while we pensioners have to be so careful with our finances just to get through the month , he said .
the setback in a wealthy , conservative state where the csu has reigned without a break since the late 1950s has prompted recriminations within the party , with some blaming merkel s 2015 decision to open the borders to a million migrants .
for decades , the csu has been a national player thanks to its unassailable strength in bavaria , allowing it to contribute up to a fifth of the joint conservative bloc s lawmakers .
the mountainous south-eastern state with its distinctive dialect , lederhosen leather shorts and traditional dirndl dresses rose from germany s poorest , most agricultural state after world war two to one of its richest regions today .
now the csu is in a bind over how best to recover .
those who blame the refugee crisis for the afd s success demand an immigration ceiling of 200,000 refugees a year .
the cdu rejects the idea .
highlighting their tensions , the sueddeutsche zeitung newspaper this week reported csu leader horst seehofer as saying his party and merkel s cdu faced their biggest challenge since 1976 - when his predecessor franz-josef strauss threatened to break up their alliance .
on sunday , two sister parties will sit down to agree a common program ahead of coalition talks with the other two parties .
alexander dobrindt , the csu s chief in the national parliament , described the cap as non-negotiable .
but by holding firm to avoid being outflanked by the afd , the csu risks alienating the greens , who reject an upper limit .
in wegscheid , where in the summer of 2015 residents grew used to being awakened by migrants rapping on windows asking for directions in the dead of night , the mayor , lothar venus , doubts the answer is so simple .
the afd only has one theme , refugees .
but germany s issues go far further , he said , standing by the border crossing where people smugglers would drop refugees off , leaving them to walk across the bridge into germany .
he blamed seehofer , who faces calls for his own resignation , for pushing for a cap he can not deliver rather than focusing on infrastructure failings , such as poor mobile coverage and slow internet , that residents complain about .
michael mayer , a historian at the academy for political education near munich , said moving right was risky for the csu .
it s the mistake people have always made in europe : running after the far right first strengthens them and then you lose votes yourself , he said .