there is definitely such a thing as protesting too much , and donald trump is making it very clear that congress should investigate his ties to russia.in yet another hissy fit on twitter , trump whined about his russia scandal continuing to be a major news story and claimed that the media keeps bringing it up to hide his big election victory.russia talk is fake news put out by the dems , and played up by the media , in order to mask the big election defeat and the illegal leaks !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 26 , 2017first of all , trump s big election victory was one of the smallest on record .
he only received 306 electoral votes , which is lower the both of president obama s totals in 2008 and 2012 .
furthermore , trump lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes.second , the media continues to report on russia because it is a major scandal that trump has been trying to shake for months now .
his chief-of-staff reince priebus even desperately asked the fbi to shut down the reports on it in order to muzzle the story.third , leaks are important sources for the press , especially since trump lies constantly every time he speaks .
also , trump is only calling the news fake because he doesn t like it.but trump s obsession with calling his russia scandal fake news should be reason enough for congress to open an investigation .
trump has been protesting this story and trying to make it go away for way too long .
if there is truly nothing to the story then trump would just ignore it .
but he isn t because he has something to hide.as usual , twitter users were not impressed by trump s tweet either .
@ realdonaldtrump and can you explain how russia is fake news ?
you ve said this 1000 times yet have never countered a single point !
william legate ( @ williamlegate ) february 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump the only illegal leaks now are coming from within * your * administration , and we all know leaks can not be fake william legate ( @ williamlegate ) february 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump in a recent press conference you were corrected that you did not have the biggest electoral college win .
al letson ( @ al_letson ) february 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump additionally , you lost the popular vote by 2.8 million voters .
how is this a big election defeat ?
al letson ( @ al_letson ) february 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump was birtherism a fake story ?
you wanted obama to prove your accusation wrong .
should you not do the same ?
al letson ( @ al_letson ) february 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump are you sure it isn t that your talk about inauguration numbers is just a cover for your ties to russia ?
jules suzdaltsev ( @ jules_su ) february 26 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump how is it fake news and illegal leaks ?
if it s fake news , you wouldn t be after leakers .
jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) february 26 , 2017the bottom line is that trump needs to be investigated by congress , but republicans are too busy making excuses so that they don t have to do it .
because if they did their duty , they would discover trump s treachery and would be forced to impeach him .
and they don t want to do that because they would lose their rubber stamp and piss off their voter base.featured image via win mcnamee/getty images