sacramento , calif. ( reuters ) - a plan to raise california ’ s minimum wage to $ 15 an hour by 2022 cleared its first legislative hurdle on wednesday , putting the state on track to become the first in the nation to commit to such a large pay hike for the working poor .
the measure , incorporating a deal governor jerry brown reached with labor leaders and fellow democrats in the legislature , was approved on a party-line vote of 12-7 by the assembly appropriations committee , where a previous version of the bill had stalled last summer .
one democrat , tom daly , joined six republicans in opposing the measure , which now advances to the full assembly for action as early as this week .
it would then return to the senate for a final vote .
if enacted , the bill would put california , home to one of the world ’ s biggest economies , in the vanguard of a growing number of u.s. states and cities that have moved in recent years to surpass the federal minimum wage , which has remained at $ 7.25 an hour since 2009 .
supporters say such measures are necessary to help low-paid workers who have been slipping into poverty due to stagnant earnings and rising living expenses .
opponents say raising the mandatory wage floor puts undue strain on businesses still struggling to rebound from a prolonged u.s. economic slump .
the measure would gradually raise california ’ s hourly minimum wage from the current level of $ 10 to $ 15 by 2022 for large businesses and by 2023 for smaller firms .
it also would head off a pair of competing ballot initiatives lacking a provision to allow the governor to suspend the increases in hard economic times , a deal breaker for brown .
raising the minimum wage has cropped up on many democratic candidates ’ agendas ahead of the november elections , and the issue could help galvanize supporters at the polls .
but passage is not assured without backing from more moderate democrats , including business-friendly assembly members in swing districts who have recently held up bills that were priorities for the party ’ s progressive wing , including a plan to cut the state ’ s greenhouse gas emissions .
according to the governor ’ s office , 2.2 million californians earn the state minimum wage of $ 10 an hour .
the bill would ultimately benefit 5.6 million workers , raising their wages by an average of 24 percent , according to an analysis from the university of california , berkeley .
retail employees account for 16 percent of affected workers , and restaurant employees 15 percent .