london ( reuters ) - britain s prince william and his wife kate are expecting their third child , their office said on monday after the duchess was forced to cancel an engagement due to severe morning sickness .
britain s monarchy has ridden a wave of public support in recent years due to the popularity of william , kate , and william s brother harry , and the news was soon making headlines around the world .
queen elizabeth , who is 91 , said she was delighted .
the baby will be fifth in line to the british throne , after grandfather prince charles , father william and elder siblings george , 4 , and charlotte , 2 .
the popular harry becomes sixth in line to the throne .
their royal highnesses the duke and duchess of cambridge are very pleased to announce that the duchess of cambridge is expecting their third child , kensington palace said .
the queen and members of both families are delighted with the news .
the couple did not say when the baby was due .
kate and william married in a lavish ceremony in 2011 watched by about two billion people around the world .
two years later the international camera crews and photographers camped outside a london hospital to record the birth of george , and returned two years later for his sister charlotte .
george and charlotte have since appeared on the front covers of magazines around the world and traveled on official royal tours of poland and germany with their parents .
george will attend his first day of primary school later this week .
this is fantastic news , british prime minister theresa may said .
many congratulations to the duke and duchess of cambridge .
william and harry have been in the headlines in recent weeks as they led the efforts to remember their mother princess diana who died in a car crash in paris 20 years ago last thursday .
in a sign of how the young royals have helped to modernize the house of windsor , the princes have spoken about the trauma of her death and its lasting emotional impact .
harry was in manchester visiting a center supporting people affected by a bombing at an ariana grande concert in may when he gave his reaction .
fantastic , great , very very happy for them , he said .
kate last appeared with the princes on wednesday when they visited a public garden at kensington palace dedicated to diana but the palace said she would not attend an engagement at a children s center on monday due to ill health .
as with her previous two pregnancies , the duchess is suffering from hyperemesis gravidarum .... , the palace said .
the duchess is being cared for at kensington palace .
hyperemesis gravidarum can cause severe nausea and vomiting and requires supplementary hydration and nutrients .
the condition forced kate to be admitted to hospital in the early months of her first pregnancy with george .
the couple have returned to live in kensington palace after an earlier spell in norfolk , eastern england , enabling them to dedicate more time to their royal duties on behalf of william s grandmother , the queen .
william has also given up his job as an air ambulance helicopter pilot .
one of three herself , kate had prompted speculation earlier this year that she wanted a third child when she was presented with a cuddly toy designed for newborns during a trip , telling william : we will just have to have more babies .