beirut ( reuters ) - nothing so encapsulated the political shackles in which saad al-hariri has operated as lebanon s prime minister as the way he resigned in a televised statement made from saudi arabia .
every major decision by the unlikely politician was determined by factors beyond his control .
he entered politics after the 2005 assassination of his father and his resignation served the agenda of riyadh .
the dependence of their leaders on powerful external patrons is nothing new in lebanon , where regional powers from saudi arabia to iran have long tussled for geopolitical advantage .
but the case of hariri , who many lebanese think was summoned to the saudi capital , coerced into resigning and put under house arrest - which he has denied - underscores an instance of external pressure extreme even by lebanon s high standards .
in an interview on sunday , he said he will return to lebanon in the coming days and might reconsider his resignation .
even if he does , the events of the past 10 days show how decisions taken beyond lebanon 's borders would still define his role .
his shock resignation statement on nov. 4 , which has thrust lebanon into a new political crisis , included a laundry list of saudi complaints about the behavior of iran and its lebanese ally hezbollah , riyadh s main political adversaries .
iran and hezbollah , hariri said , are sowing strife in the arab world .
as riyadh s ally at a time of its enemies ascendancy , hariri was already playing lebanon s intricate political game from a position of weakness .
a year ago , after spending years abroad , he agreed to join a national unity government with president michel aoun , a former rival and hezbollah ally , that included hezbollah itself .
it was a compromise he said was necessary to end lebanon s sectarian-tinged political paralysis and one that was personally difficult , as hariri accuses hezbollah of the assassination of his father , rafik al-hariri .
he seemed committed to that compromise until the moment he flew to riyadh on nov. 3 , telling officials of discussions planned for his return the following monday .
saudi arabia had previously accepted hariri s political bargain in lebanon .
but iran s trumpeting of its successes along with hezbollah in the wars in syria and yemen at the expense of saudi allies may have altered riyadh s calculation .
a day after traveling to riyadh , hariri appeared on television reading a statement of resignation .
hariri s career was built on the backing of gulf states , the deployment of his family fortune - spending large amounts of it in lebanon to finance a media network and charitable gifts to secure widespread support - and feelings of respect among many lebanese for his late father .
in his resignation address , saad said : we are living in a climate similar to the atmosphere that prevailed before the assassination of rafik al-hariri .
in lebanon s sectarian system , the prime minister must always be a sunni muslim and rafik made his family pre-eminent among lebanese sunnis .
rafik carved out a business empire in saudi arabia with the backing of its ruling family and returned to lebanon to rebuild when the civil war there ended in 1990 , serving twice as prime minister .
the car bomb that killed rafik gave saad little choice but to adopt a previously unsought role as political leader .
before being plunged into lebanon s volatile politics , saad had led a playboy lifestyle running his father s business .
he was raised in saudi arabia and has saudi nationality .
outrage at rafik s killing helped hariri s movement to electoral victory five months later and he installed a political ally as prime minister , not taking the post himself until 2009 .
it was the first government headed by factions opposed to the influence of syria - and by extension damascus allies iran and hezbollah - since the 1975-90 lebanese civil war .
that opposition came to a head in 2008 when the government tried to seize hezbollah s telecommunications network , triggering street battles in beirut that the heavily armed shi ite muslim movement won .
qatar brokered a compromise , with hariri becoming head of a coalition government that included hezbollah .
but hezbollah pulled out in 2011 , bringing down the administration .
as tensions rose over the war in neighboring syria , hariri left lebanon , spending most of the ensuing years abroad until he returned months before joining a new government last year .
but his sway - and that of his family s regional patron saudi arabia - had diminished .
the formation of last year s government was widely seen in lebanon as an acknowledgement of the political dominance of iran and hezbollah .
saudi arabia s own apparent impatience with hariri became evident in the fortunes of the family company - saudi oger - whose billions had underpinned their political role in lebanon .
with a new dispensation in riyadh under king salman and his ambitious son prince mohammed , and a fall in oil prices damaging its finances , the saudi government seemed less willing to roll out big state projects to enrich some allies .
when hariri s first stint as premier ended in 2011 , he said in a newspaper interview : in lebanon it s never over for anyone .
a source in his camp said a compromise to bring him back to beirut as prime minister was still possible if aoun distanced himself from hezbollah s regional role .
such a statement by aoun might give some satisfaction to saudi arabia , but it would seem to leave hariri no stronger than before .
after so public a departure , especially one delivered from abroad , his dependence on riyadh has been made especially visible .
his enemies in lebanon even mocked his arabic during his resignation speech as being more saudi than lebanese .
and the posters of him that have appeared across beirut with the slogan we are with you looked less like statements of mass support than solidarity with a political hostage .