singapore ( reuters ) - southeast asian countries must step up their fight against religious militancy taking root in their region , including in myanmar s troubled rakhine state , singapore s foreign minister said on tuesday .
the minister , vivian balakrishnan , said the weakening of islamic state ( is ) in the middle east and the recent occupation of the philippine town of marawi by is-supporting gunmen had renewed concern that the region could become a magnet for militants .
we saw some returning fighters to marawi in the southern philippines and there are other potential hotbeds for terrorists in our region , balakrishnan said in a lecture on singapore s priorities as it prepares to take over as chair of the association of south east asian nations ( asean ) .
even our concern about the rakhine state is also related to our anxiety that this becomes another sanctuary , another hotbed for extremism , he said .
it is not just a middle east phenomenon .
asean includes indonesia , which has the world s biggest muslim population , mostly muslim malaysia and buddhist-majority myanmar , where a campaign of violence against members of the rohingya muslim minority in rakhine state has brought u.n. accusations of ethnic cleansing .
myanmar rejects the accusations .
nevertheless , both indonesia and malaysia have pressed it over the plight of the rohingya , more than 600,000 of whom have fled to bangladesh since late august .
singapore has offered humanitarian help for those displaced by the violence .
asean members have pledged greater cooperation and intelligence sharing to combat the threat of islamic militancy .
the mostly christian philippines has over the past year faced the region s most serious militant violence , which began when hundreds of gunmen , including some from elsewhere in the region , occupied marawi , sparking the country s most serious fighting since world war two .
indonesia and malaysia say thousands of their citizens sympathize with is and hundreds are believed to have traveled to syria to join the group .
indonesian authorities last year disrupted a plot by militants to launch an attack in multi-ethnic singapore .
singapore will be chair of the 10-member asean in 2018 .