beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon s hezbollah group joined calls on thursday for a new palestinian uprising in response to the u.s. recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital .
u.s. president donald trump s decision amounted to an act of blatant aggression against the arab and muslim world , the leader of the shi ite muslim political and military movement , sayyed hassan nasrallah , said in a televised speech .
governments across the region and beyond warned that trump s reversal of decades of american policy on jerusalem would imperil middle east peace efforts .
palestinian factions called for a day of rage on friday , and islamist group hamas urged palestinians to abandon negotiations and launch a new uprising against israel .
we support the call for a new palestinian intifada ( uprising ) and escalating the resistance , nasrallah said .
it is the biggest , most important and gravest response to the american decision .
nasrallah , who described trump s move as a major historical injustice , did not outline any direct actions that hezbollah would take .
he called for a mass protest in beirut s southern suburbs on monday .
the people of palestine stand today at the first line of defense for jerusalem and its shrines , he added .
iran-backed hezbollah , which israel views as the biggest threat on its borders , has sent arms to the palestinian territories before , nasrallah said last month .
hezbollah and israel fought a war in 2006 that killed around 1,200 people in lebanon , mostly civilians , and 160 israelis , most of them troops .
the two have avoided major confrontation since that month-long battle , though tensions had risen again earlier this year .
nasrallah asked listeners around the region to confront the u.s. move and stand in solidarity with palestinians .
he appealed to arab states to cut off any kind of diplomatic ties to israel , and to summon their u.s. ambassadors in formal protest .
such steps will certainly make trump regret ( it ) , he said .
the status of jerusalem - home to sites holy to the muslim , jewish and christian religions - represents one of the biggest obstacles to a peace deal between israelis and palestinians .
the international community does not recognize israeli sovereignty over the entire city .
under the u.s.-brokered oslo accords of 1993 , negotiations should decide the city s status .
no other country has its embassy in jerusalem .
hezbollah s parliamentary bloc said earlier that trump s decision would have catastrophic repercussions that threaten regional and international security and stability .