seoul/tokyo ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump s speech to the united nations , where he warned he would totally destroy north korea if threatened , reinforced the need for pyongyang to realize it must give up its nuclear weapons , south korea said on wednesday .
in a hard-edged speech to the united nations general assembly on tuesday , trump mocked north korean leader kim jong un as a rocket man for his repeated ballistic missile tests .
we view the speech as portraying a firm and specific stance on the key issues regarding keeping peace and safety that the international community and the united nations are faced with , the office of south korean president moon jae-in said in a statement on wednesday .
it clearly showed how seriously the united states government views north korea s nuclear program as the president spent an unusual amount of time discussing the issue , the presidential blue house s statement said .
trump s speech reaffirmed that north korea should be made to realize denuclearization is the only way to the future through utmost sanctions and pressure , it said .
moon came to power in may on a platform of more engagement with north korea .
since pyongyang s sixth and largest nuclear test earlier on sept. 3 , however , moon has said the time is not right for dialogue .
he and trump plan to meet in new york early on wednesday u.s. time , moon s office said .
trump s most direct military threat to attack north korea was his latest expression of concern about pyongyang s repeated weapons tests .
the united states has great strength and patience , but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies , we will have no choice but to totally destroy north korea , trump told the 193-member world body .
rocket man is on a suicide mission for himself and his regime .
u.s. ally japan , which pyongyang often threatens to destroy , has taken a consistently hard line on north korea , pushing for increased sanctions and pressure .
we greatly appreciate president trump s approach to changing north korea s policy stance , denuclearizing the country and calling on the international community , including china and russia , for their cooperation toward strengthening pressure on north korea , chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga told reporters .
suga also welcomed trump s reference to a japanese girl who was kidnapped by north korean agents in 1977 .
the plight of abductees is a key issue for japanese prime minister shinzo abe , who has pledged to rescue them while in office , and an emotive one for the japanese public .
north korea admitted in 2002 it had kidnapped 13 japanese in the 1970s and 1980s to train spies .
five of them returned to japan but tokyo suspects that hundreds more may have been taken .
north korea , which has conducted more than 80 missile tests under third-generation leader kim , says it needs its weapons to protect itself from u.s. aggression .
south korea and the united states are technically still at war with north korea after the 1950-53 korean conflict ended with a truce , not a peace treaty .
u.s. defence secretary jim mattis told an air force event on wednesday that the effort to deal with pyongyang was still diplomatically-led even as he acknowledged the somber reality that the pentagon needed to have military options at the ready .
u.s .
ambassador to the u.n. nikki haley , speaking to cbs news , said on wednesday the united states had lots of military options on north korea that stop short of totally destroying the country , adding : there are steps that lead up to that .
no one wants war , the president doesn t want war .
we have tried to do this through dialogue , we have tried to do this through sanctions , we have tried every diplomatic measure that we possibly can .
we re not giving up on diplomatic efforts , she said .
the u.n. security council has unanimously imposed nine rounds of sanctions on north korea since 2006 , the latest earlier this month aimed at restricting fuel supplies and cutting off textile exports , a key foreign exchange earner .
the united states has urged china , north korea s main ally and trading partner , and russia to do more to rein in kim , something trump appeared to allude to in his speech .
it is an outrage that some nations would not only trade with such a regime but would arm , supply and financially support a country that imperils the world with nuclear conflict , trump told the general assembly .
china s foreign ministry , asked to respond to trump s comments about destroying north korea if it had to , said u.n. resolutions were clear the korean peninsula issue should be resolved peacefully through political and diplomatic means .
the resolutions passed by the u.n. security council on north korea reflected the common will and consensus of the international community to denuclearization of the korean peninsula , ministry spokesman lu kang told a regular briefing .