lisbon/madrid ( reuters ) - at least 36 people died in wildfires raging through parched farmlands and forests in portugal and another three in neighboring northwestern spain on sunday and monday .
firefighters were battling 50 blazes in portugal and a similar number in spain .
portugal s government asked for international help and declared a state of emergency in territory north of the tagus river - about half of its landmass .
flames ripped across iberian countryside left tinder-dry by an unusually hot summer and early autumn , fanned by strong winds as remnants of ex-hurricane ophelia brushed coastal areas .
television footage showed abandoned villages with many houses in embers and charred vehicles left on the roads .
portuguese opposition parties and the media harshly criticized the government for failing to prevent a new wave of deadly fires after the country s worst ever forest fire in june that killed 64 people .
prime minister antonio costa , however , refused to sack his interior minister and defended his government s attempts to reform the troubled forestry management system .
it s a structural problem that we are facing ...
this is not a time for resignations , but for solutions .
everything has to be transformed into reforms , to provide responses that the country needs so that nothing stays the way it was after this year , he told reporters after a television address to the nation .
we are aware that the country wants results from us and we re running against time after decades of negligence , costa told reporters after his address .
at the heart of the problem is poor land management in portugal , where traditional small plots have become fire hazards after being abandoned by successive generations of landholders who moved to the cities .
interior minister constanca urbano de sousa said climate change was also to blame .
we are facing new ( weather ) conditions ...
in an era of climate change , such disasters are becoming reality all over the world , she said , citing the wildfires burning in california .
the weekend fires also injured 63 people in portugal , civil protection service spokeswoman patricia gaspar said .
the toll could still increase as seven people were unaccounted for .
water-spraying planes could not be deployed against most fires due to gigantic plumes of smoke that reduced visibility .
but gaspar said rains expected late on monday and on tuesday in the north of portugal were likely to bring some relief .
the lisbon government has been criticized for a slow , inefficient response and a lack of fire-prevention policies , leaving portugal with europe s largest expanse of woodland burned by wildfires .
portugal s fires have burned over 40 percent of the total in all of the european union this year .
with just 2.1 percent of the eu s landmass , portugal suffered the biggest fires during 2008-16 as well , with an average of 36 percent of the total .
three people died in spain s northwestern galicia region - two of them women found inside a burnt-out car , the third a man in his 70s killed as he tried to save his farm animals , according to local media .
most of the fires in galicia were started deliberately , said alberto nunez feijoo , head of the regional government .
spanish interior minister juan ignacio zoido said some of those responsible had already been identified .
they could face up to 20 years in jail if convicted .
at least two persons were arrested in portugal for allegedly starting fires .