varadero , cuba ( reuters ) - from cuba to antigua , caribbean islanders began counting the cost of hurricane irma on sunday after the brutal storm left a trail of death , destruction and chaos from which the tourist-dependent region could take years to recover .
the category 5 storm , which killed at least 28 people across the region , devastated housing , power supplies and communications , leaving some small islands almost cut off from the world .
european nations sent military reinforcements to keep order amid looting , while the damage was expected to total billions of dollars .
ex-pat billionaires and poor islanders alike were forced to take cover as irma tore roofs off buildings , flipped cars and killed livestock , raging from the leeward islands across puerto rico and hispaniola then into cuba before turning on florida .
waves of up to 36 feet ( 11 meters ) smashed businesses along the cuban capital havana s sea-side drive on sunday morning .
further east , high winds whipped varadero , the island s most important tourist resort .
it s a complete disaster and it will take a great deal of work to get varadero back on its feet , said osmel de armas , 53 , an aquatic photographer who works on the beach at the battered resort .
sea-front hotels were evacuated in havana and relief workers spent the night rescuing people from homes in the city center as the sea penetrated to historic depths in the flood-prone area .
u.s president donald trump issued a disaster declaration on sunday for puerto rico , where irma killed at least 3 people and left hundreds of thousands without electricity .
trump also expanded federal funds available to the u.s. virgin islands , which suffered extensive damage to homes and infrastructure .
further east in the caribbean , battered islands such as st. martin and barbuda were taking stock of the damage as people began emerging from shelters to scenes of devastation .
dutch prime minister mark rutte said the death toll on the dutch part of st. martin had doubled to four , and that 70 percent of homes had been damaged or destroyed .
following reports of looting , the netherlands said it would increase its military presence on the island to 550 soldiers by monday .
rutte said that to ensure order , security forces were authorized to act with a firm hand .
alex martinez , 31 , a native of florida who was vacationing on the dutch side of st. martin when irma hit the island in the early hours of wednesday , vividly described how his hotel was gutted by the storm , turning it into a debris-strewn tip .
doors were torn from hinges , windows shattered , cars lifted off the ground and furniture blown through the rooms after irma hit the building with a burst of pressure that was like you were getting sucked out of an aeroplane , he said .
martinez , his wife and two others barricaded themselves in their bathroom , pushing with all their might to secure the door as irma battered it with winds of up to 185 mph ( 300 km/h ) .
that s when we thought , that was it , he said .
i honestly , swear to god , thought we were going to die at that point in time .
everything continued for maybe 20 , 30 minutes ; my wife s there , she s praying , praying , praying , praying , and things just kinda calmed down .
i guess that s when the eye ( of the storm came ) .
staff deserted the hotel to look after their families and martinez and a few others had to scavenge for food and water for three days until they were airlifted out on saturday , he said .
dutch authorities are evacuating other tourists and injured people to curacao , where dutch king willem-alexander and interior minister ronald plasterk were expected to arrive today .
france , which oversees neighboring saint barthelemy and the other half of st martin , said the police presence on the two islands had been boosted to close to 500 .
the french interior ministry said 11 people suspected of malicious actions had been arrested since friday as television footage showed scenes of chaos on the islands , with streets under water , boats and cars tossed into piles and torn rooftops .
irma killed at least 10 people on the two islands , the french government said .
france s caisse centrale de reassurance , a state-owned reinsurance group , estimated the cost of irma at some 1.2 billion euros ( $ 1.44 billion ) .
french president emmanuel macron was due to visit st. martin on tuesday .
barbuda , home to some 1,800 inhabitants , faces a reconstruction bill that could total hundreds of millions of dollars , state officials say , after irma steamrolled the island .
the prime minister of antigua and barbuda , gaston browne , said irma had wreaked absolute devastation on barbuda , which he described as barely habitable after 90 percent of cars and buildings had been damaged .
the government ordered a total evacuation when a second hurricane , jose , emerged , but a handful of people refused to leave their homes , including a gentleman ( who ) said he was living in a cave , said garfield burford , director of news at government-owned broadcaster abs tv and radio in antigua and barbuda .
irma also plunged the british virgin islands , an offshore business and legal center , into turmoil .
yachts were piled on top of each other in the harbor and many houses in the hillside capital of road town on the main island of tortola were badly damaged .
both there and in anguilla to the east , residents complained help from the british government was too slow in coming , prompting a defensive response from london .
we weren t late , defence secretary michael fallon told bbc television on sunday , saying britain had pre-positioned an aid ship for the caribbean hurricane season and that his government s response has been as good as anybody else s. british billionaire entrepreneur richard branson , who sought refuge in the wine cellar of his home on necker island , called irma the storm of the century on twitter and urged people to make donations to help rebuild the region .