bangkok ( reuters ) - a woman s 750-km ( 470-mile ) trek to see the late thai king s cremation ceremony was only one example of the level of religious devotion on display in thailand on thursday .
thailand s semi-divine father was idolized like no other modern monarch .
a year of mourning has done nothing to diminish that veneration as thailand marks a final end to his era with his cremation , uncertain of what is to follow .
i have walked a long way until all my toe-nails have fallen off , said 61-year-old montha suchit , who set off in mid-september from nakhon si thammarat in southern thailand .
this is the least we can do to repay him , she told reuters as she waited , clad in black like most of thailand , for king bhumibol adulyadej s funeral procession to pass by .
thousands spent days camped on torn cardboard boxes to secure a spot near the procession with only plastic sheets for protection from intermittent monsoon rain and tropical sun .
he was the lifeblood of the nation , said sorana theppanao , 60 , who counted himself lucky to have got a place near the procession by sleeping out for three days .
king bhumibol developed a very personal following with hikes to remote villages and an emphasis on helping the poor despite the royal family s immense wealth .
he cultivated an image of being above coups and protests while intervening in times of crisis .
the royal image was enhanced by a well-funded public relations apparatus .
it was also protected by laws that meant anyone insulting it could get a long jail sentence .
the circumstances and propaganda were crucial , but the individual made it all work the way it did , and hence the thais deeply emotional final farewell , said thitinan pongsudhirak of chulalongkorn university .
some mourners questioned whether the king would have wanted such an ostentatious sendoff , for which $ 90 million was budgeted .
upstream of bangkok , some districts were left flooded after heavy rains so waters could not disrupt the spectacle .
we all came out to thank the king personally , so in that sense the extravagance was not needed and does not reflect the late king s attitude , said 70 year-old tip boonmak .
as the procession passed , mourners dropped to their knees , many still holding up mobile phones to record the scene .
this is the last day we meet him before he goes to heaven , said kannika kamsikeaw , 39 .
for foreign visitors , the emotion was hard to comprehend .
it s incredible to see this humungous outpouring of devotion , said 34-year-old australian celine massa .
i don t feel that emotion for any public figure .
more than 95 percent of thais were born during king bhumibol s reign , marked by economic transformation and political turbulence through which he was a stabilising figure .
king maha vajiralongkorn , who has succeeded his father , does not have the same following .
recently , he has spent much of his time in germany , where his son is at school .
asserting his new power , he has required changes to the constitution and taken personal control of the palace s financial holdings .
besides drawing a line under king bhumibol s era , the cremation is a step towards the military government s promised revival of politics and an election next year .
for more than a decade , politics in thailand was torn between yellow shirts - royalists dressed in the king s color - and red shirts , who backed a populist movement whose governments were twice overthrown by the army .
but any animosities were hidden on thursday on the streets of bangkok .
today there is no color , said napthanicha chantarasena , 33 , among those who had camped out for days .
there is only my king .