hillary clinton tells about funding the terrorists who would help defeat the russians most of this is true but in typical hillary fashion she changes the story and doesn t mention reagan s strategic defense initiative .
the sdi aka star wars was a big part in the defeat as well .
you can guarantee you ll never see this video clip on the main stream media !
during the 1970 s the cia used the muslim brotherhood in egypt as a barrier , both to thwart soviet expansion and prevent the spread of marxist ideology among the arab masses .
the united states also openly supported sarekat islam against sukarno in indonesia , and supported the jamaat-e-islami terror group against zulfiqar ali bhutto in pakistan .
last but certainly not least , there is al qaeda.lest we forget , the cia gave birth to osama bin laden and breastfed his organization during the 1980 s. former british foreign secretary , robin cook , told the house of commons that al qaeda was unquestionably a product of western intelligence agencies .
mr. cook explained that al qaeda , which literally means an abbreviation of the database in arabic , was originally the computer database of the thousands of islamist extremists , who were trained by the cia and funded by the saudis , in order to defeat the russians in afghanistan.america s relationship with al qaeda has always been a love-hate affair .
depending on whether a particular al qaeda terrorist group in a given region furthers american interests or not , the u.s. state department either funds or aggressively targets that terrorist group .
even as american foreign policy makers claim to oppose muslim extremism , they knowingly foment it as a weapon of foreign policy.the islamic state is its latest weapon that , much like al qaeda , is certainly backfiring .
isis recently rose to international prominence after its thugs began beheading american journalists .
now the terrorist group controls an area the size of the united kingdom.in order to understand why the islamic state has grown and flourished so quickly , one has to take a look at the organization s american-backed roots .
the 2003 american invasion and occupation of iraq created the pre-conditions for radical sunni groups , like isis , to take root .
america , rather unwisely , destroyed saddam hussein s secular state machinery and replaced it with a predominantly shiite administration .
the u.s. occupation caused vast unemployment in sunni areas , by rejecting socialism and closing down factories in the naive hope that the magical hand of the free market would create jobs.flashback : hillary clinton received secret memo stating obama admin support for isisunder the new u.s.-backed shiite regime , working class sunni s lost hundreds of thousands of jobs .
unlike the white afrikaners in south africa , who were allowed to keep their wealth after regime change , upper class sunni s were systematically dispossessed of their assets and lost their political influence .
rather than promoting religious integration and unity , american policy in iraq exacerbated sectarian divisions and created a fertile breading ground for sunni discontent , from which al qaeda in iraq took root.the islamic state of iraq and syria ( isis ) used to have a different name : al qaeda in iraq .
after 2010 the group rebranded and refocused its efforts on syria.via : gr