charleston , s.c. ( reuters ) - south carolina is suing the u.s. government to recover $ 100 million in fines it says the department of energy owes the state for failing to remove one metric ton of plutonium stored there , state attorney general alan wilson said on tuesday .
the lawsuit , filed on monday , is the state ’ s largest case ever against the u.s. government , wilson said in a news release .
congress approved fines of $ 1 million per day for the first 100 days of each year through 2021 , beginning last year , if the weapons-grade plutonium was not removed from the savannah river site at the state ’ s border with georgia , the attorney general ’ s office said .
the lawsuit seeks money owed this year .
the state is still working on a claim for 2016 fines as well , wilson said .
the federal government can not break its obligations and “ leave south carolina as the permanent dumping ground for weapons-grade plutonium , ” wilson , a republican , said in the complaint .
a department of energy spokeswoman said the agency does not comment on pending litigation .
built in the 1950s , the u.s.-owned savannah river site processes and stores nuclear materials in support of national defense and u.s. nuclear nonproliferation efforts .
a u.s. treaty with russia in 2000 required each country to dispose of 34 metric tons of weapons-grade plutonium , left over from the cold war .
the united states began building a mixed oxide fuel fabrication facility , known as the mox project , at the savannah river site to dispose of weapons-grade plutonium by mixing it with uranium to form safer fuel pellets for use in commercial nuclear reactors .
but the project is years overdue and billions over budget , and the technology for the new fuel fabrication is not fully developed .
russian president vladimir putin last october pulled out of the plutonium pact amid rising tensions over ukraine and syria .
the trump administration proposed in the fiscal year 2018 budget to scrap the project and pursue diluting the plutonium and disposing it underground , an alternative called for by the obama administration .