sarajevo ( reuters ) - naser oric , the bosnian muslim commander who led the defense of srebrenica during the 1992-95 war , was cleared of war crimes against serbs on monday , a ruling greeted by both celebration and condemnation in the divided state .
bosnian muslims , who largely see oric as a hero , broke into applause as he and a fellow soldier left the courtroom free men .
cheering crowds massed around them outside .
families of bosnian serbs killed in the war , who see oric and his troops as criminals , walked out of the hearing in the bosnian capital sarajevo in protest .
this is horrific , this is a scandal .
everybody expected that he will be punished .
is this a justice ?
i am speechless , said radojka filipovic from bratunac , near srebrenica .
she said oric s forces killed at least six of her relatives .
milorad dodik , the president of bosnia s autonomous serb republic , called on serb lawyers to withdraw from the shared national legal system .
the justice minister of neighboring serbia , nela kuburovic , called the ruling shameful .
the case went to the heart of fractured bosnia , haunted by ethnic divides and long-running grievances that have blocked its progress to joining the european union and nato .
bosnia was hit by a devastating war in the 1990s after the bosnian serbs , helped by serbia , tried to carve out a separate statelet following the break up of yugoslavia .
bosnian serbs have accused oric and his men of killing about 3,000 of their people in the srebrenica area during the conflict .
bosnian muslims , or bosniaks , hailed his role in defending srebrenica , where bosnian serb forces later killed more than 8,000 muslim men and boys - widely seen as europe s worst atrocity since world war two .
after the war , the country was divided into two autonomous regions , the serb republic and the bosniak-croat federation , linked via a weak central government .
serbs can not accept this and this proves this country and its judiciary should not exist , serb republic president dodik said in the town of banja luka after the verdict .
i call on all serbs in the court and prosecution to pull out from these institutions .
dodik has long disputed the authority of the national legal system , which he says was established on the order of bosnia s western peace envoys , and has repeatedly threatened to secede if his region s autonomy is undermined .
dodik said the verdict would likely revive the idea of holding a referendum on the state court - the last attempt to hold a referendum on the status of the state court , in 2015 , was halted amid western warnings .
bosnia s three-man presidency chairman dragan covic , a bosnian croat , said negative rhetoric over the case could be a setback for bosnia s progress .
oric was acquitted of war crimes against serbs by the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia ( icty ) in 2008 , but was arrested again in june 2015 in switzerland on a warrant from serbia accusing him of killing three bosnian serb prisoners of war early in the conflict .
it was only just to acquit oric of war crimes charges , hatidza mehmedovic , a bosnian muslim who lost her husband and two sons in the srebrenica massacre , told the fena news agency .
it was a great injustice to drag him in courts from the hague to here .
oric did not speak to reporters outside the court .
dozens of bosnian serbs , including senior political and military leaders , have been sentenced by the icty and a bosnian war crimes court over the srebrenica massacre , which was declared genocide by two international courts .
millions of people were displaced and more than 100,000 died in the war .