washington ( reuters ) - donald trump and the republican national committee raised nearly $ 51 million for his presidential campaign in june , after he launched his first aggressive effort at raising cash , trump ’ s organization reported on wednesday .
the most recent haul dwarfed the $ 3.1 million the trump campaign raised in may .
that low number prompted widespread concern among republicans that the new york businessman , a newcomer to politics who largely bankrolled his primary campaign , would be unable to compete with democrat hillary clinton ’ s massive fundraising operation .
for june , fundraising emails circulated by the trump campaign attracted $ 26 million , in addition to more than $ 25 million raised in conjunction with the rnc through joint fundraising events in june and the last week of may .
the joint funds are intended to help both trump and candidates in other races , such as people running for congress , in the nov. 8 election .
trump , the presumptive republican nominee , personally contributed $ 3.8 million in june , the campaign said , bringing the total contributions for the month to about $ 55 million .
“ we just started our fundraising efforts in the last week of may and we are extremely pleased with the broad-based support in the last five weeks for the trump campaign and trump victory , ” the campaign said in a statement .
in june , clinton , the presumptive democratic nominee , raised $ 68.5 million , including $ 40 million for her campaign and $ 28 million for the dnc and state victory funds .
she began july with $ 44 million in cash on hand .
while trump ’ s june total far eclipsed the candidate ’ s past hauls , lisa spies , a republican fundraiser who worked for mitt romney in 2012 and raised money for jeb bush in the 2016 primary , said the dollar count was much lower than the $ 106 million that romney , the party ’ s standard-bearer in 2012 , brought in during the same month four years ago .
“ this is his low-hanging fruit , and it ’ s good , i ’ m not putting it down .
but it needs to get much better than this quickly .
he ’ s playing a game of catch-up right now , ” spies said .
clinton ’ s fundraising advantage has allowed her to build a vastly larger campaign infrastructure .
clinton already has extensive staff operations in the most important battleground states and has begun to run paid advertising .
trump has only a handful of staffers and has made no large television ad purchases .
trump beat 16 rivals in the republican presidential race , but his free-wheeling style and some of his campaign pledges , such as his plan to build a wall on the u.s.-mexico border , have long worried some in the party establishment and he has struggled to unify republicans behind him .
the super pacs supporting trump , which are permitted to raise and spend unlimited sums but are not allowed to coordinate directly with the campaign , have also struggled to get organized .
while there was once a constellation of more than a dozen super pacs backing him , most of his support has consolidated around great america pac , which is being run by veteran political operative ed rollins .
the pac is on target to raise $ 10 million before the july 18 start of the republican national convention , said eric beach , a top pac official .
they have already seen an uptick in fundraising , bringing in $ 5 million in june , doubling the may haul of $ 2.5 million .
great america pac is using that money to run television ads , and plans to attack clinton over her use of personal email servers during her time as secretary of state .
the super pac supporting clinton , priorities usa , had raised $ 88 million by the end of may and had $ 51 million to spend .
the group is already running ads attacking trump .
trump got off to a slow start in fundraising , funding much of his primary campaign with his personal wealth in loans that totaled about $ 50 million .
he announced last month he would forgive the loans to his campaign , intending to signal to potential donors that he would not use their funds to repay himself .
he held his first fundraiser in late may and had several in june , including a high-dollar event in new york city and several fundraisers in texas .
trump continues to promise to make contributions to his own campaign .
in june , he launched an online fundraising effort by promising to match donations up to $ 2 million .
trump and clinton both use joint fundraising agreements with their respective parties .
the agreements allow the candidates to accept checks larger than the $ 5,400 limit that an individual can give to a campaign .
instead , the larger donations are divided up among the campaign , the national party and various state victory funds .
all the money is then used to help elect the presidential candidate as well as other candidates .
the campaigns and the political parties are permitted to coordinate how they spend that money .