singapore ( reuters ) - the singapore government s laws limiting critical speech and peaceful assembly are overly broad and make the country a repressive place severely restricting what can be said and published , human rights watch said on wednesday .
in its first wide-ranging report on singapore in 12 years , the group called on the government to amend or repeal laws and rules that restrict speech and assembly and drop charges against individuals for peaceful speech and assembly .
singapore s ministry of communications and information did not immediately have a comment on the report .
the government has held the position that singapore s laws and regulations were needed to maintain social order and harmony .
the singapore s attorney-general s office has started contempt of court proceedings against the prime minister s nephew and authorities are prosecuting a prominent human rights activist for organizing assemblies without permit .
beneath the slick surface of gleaming high-rises , however , it is a repressive place , where the government severely restricts what can be said , published , performed , read , or watched , the 133-page report said .
singapore promotes itself as a modern nation and a good place to do business , but people in a country that calls itself a democracy shouldn t be afraid to criticize their government or speak out about political issues , the group s deputy asia director phil robertson said .
human rights watch called on the singapore government to amend or repeal in entirety laws that it said were too broadly worded and used to arrest , harass , and prosecute critical voices , including the sedition act and the public order act .
the report is partly based on interviews with civil society activists , journalists , lawyers , academics and opposition politicians , many of whom declined to be identified due to fear of possible repercussions , the group said .
late in november , singapore authorities charged human rights activist jolovan wham for organizing public assemblies without a police permit .
in august , the singapore attorney-general s office began court proceedings against li shengwu , the grandson of the country s founder , over a facebook post in which he said the government is very litigious and has a pliant court system .