kinshasa ( reuters ) - democratic republic of congo must hold a long-delayed election to replace president joseph kabila by the end of next year or the vote will lose international support , the u.s. ambassador to the united nations said on friday .
repeated delays to the poll , originally scheduled for late 2016 , have led to unrest and raised fears the central african nation could slip back into the kind of conflicts that killed millions around the turn of the century .
u.s. envoy nikki haley met with kabila for 90 minutes on friday .
she is the most senior member of president donald trump s administration to visit the country .
it was a firm , candid conversation , haley told a small group of reporters , adding she had made very clear that the united states wanted to see elections in the democratic republic of congo in 2018 and we wouldn t accept elections any later .
a relationship with the united states is dependent on how he acts going forward , she said .
he has the ability to either support that or not support that , but we have the ability to make our decisions based on that .
haley , who earlier on friday met with the congolese electoral commission ( ceni ) , political opposition and catholic bishops , did not elaborate on what action the united states could take .
after meeting with ceni , she told reporters she had passed on a message that these elections must take place in 2018 or there will be no support for the electoral process .
every day we don t have elections in this country someone dies , she said .
the electoral commission had said earlier this month that the vote to replace kabila could not take place until april 2019 at the earliest , leading the opposition to warn that the population would take matters into its own hands .
dozens died in protests against kabila s refusal to step down at the end of his constitutional mandate last december .
the resulting political crisis has also contributed to rising militia violence in congo s east and center .
kabila , who has ruled congo since his father s assassination in 2001 , says the election delays are due to challenges registering millions of voters .
however , his opponents accuse him of using the delay to maneuver to remove term limits that prevent him from standing for re-election , as presidents in neighboring rwanda and congo republic have done .
he denies those charges .
congo government spokesman lambert mende said the government hoped to see the election as soon as possible but that it was up to the electoral commission to set the date .
it s not up to the government , nor to ms haley to organize the elections , mende said .
i don t think that we can be subjected to these kinds of diktats .
international donors have said they are prepared to provide significant funding to elections but are waiting for a realistic calendar from ceni .
so far , they have contributed only 6 percent of the $ 123 million that the united nations is expecting , the head of the u.n. peacekeeping mission in congo said earlier this month .