you just can t make this stuff up we have a national security adviser who believes our national security is compromised because there are too many white people in government .
unreal !
this is coming from a woman who went on 5 sunday morning talk shows and lied to the american people about what happened in benghazi.she s one to talk about putting our security at risk her track record isn t so great : susan rice had a string of failures in africa before benghazi : from 1995 to 1997 , rice served as special assistant to president bill clinton and senior director for african affairs at the nsc at the white house.the daily caller : u.n .
ambassador susan rice , reportedly the leading contender to be president barack obama s next national security adviser , failed during the 1990s to prevent unnecessary deaths in rwanda , provide adequate security prior to the bombings of the embassies in kenya and tanzania , or deal effectively with robert mugabe s dictatorship in zimbabwe.a former state department military adviser to africa thought rice s inexperience caused president bill clinton s feckless response to the rwandan genocide when she served as national security council director for international organizations and peacekeeping .
and documents sent to the daily caller from the national legal and policy center show rice failed to take seriously repeated islamist threats against the u.s. embassies in the prelude to deadly bomb attacks .
this woman has zero credibility and is a true racist who would be tossed out of her job if she were white and said government was too black .
furthermore , she s giving a commencement speech and she s politicizing it ! susan rice felt students should be required to take black history : in a 1986 book by u.s .
ambassador to the united nations susan rice , the future diplomat argued for the aggressive inclusion of a black history curriculum in american schools , claiming that its omission had crippling effects by providing a child with no more than a white interpretation of reality .
she s yet another one of obama s minions with a radical racist past who s pushing the obama agenda of a fundamental transformation .
rice attended stanford university and was a black radical back in the day is anyone surprised by this ?
probably not in a white house often accused of being stacked with loyalists , president obama s national security adviser said wednesday there are too many white people in key government posts , endangering national security because they think alike.speaking at florida international university s commencement , susan e. rice , who is black , said a diversified government workforce is more likely to yield better outcomes than a predominantly white one.referring to criticism that the u.s. national security workforce is white , male and yale , ms. rice told the graduates , in the halls of power , in the faces of our national security leaders , america is still not fully reflected .
by now , we should all know the dangers of groupthink , where folks who are alike often think alike , she said .
by contrast , groups comprised of different people tend to question one another s assumptions , draw on divergent perspectives and experiences , and yield better outcomes .
her comments were reminiscent of supreme court justice sonia sotomayor , who said in a speech in 2001 , before mr. obama appointed her to the high court , i would hope that a wise latina woman with the richness of her experiences would more often than not reach a better conclusion than a white male who hasn t lived that life .
ms. rice elaborated in her speech on how having more minorities in the national security field would better protect the homeland.read more : wt