( in this june 9 story , corrects name of company in paragraph 6 to california resources corporation ; adds “ million ” in final paragraph ) washington ( reuters ) - u.s .
interior secretary ryan zinke will make a recommendation to the white house on saturday on whether to rescind or resize the bears ears monument in utah , setting the tone for the trump administration ’ s broader study of which lands protected by past presidents should be reopened to development .
it is unclear when the decision will be made public .
while the land encompassed by the 1.35 million-acre bears ears monument is not believed to contain massive amounts of coal , oil or gas , several other monuments on zinke ’ s review list may , making the bears ears decision important to industry groups .
here is a list : barack obama designated this 704,000 acres of southeastern nevada a national monument in 2015 .
the area sits in the chainman shale play , which is believed by some in the drilling industry to be a promising reserve .
barack obama designated this 1.35 million acres in southeastern utah a national monument in late 2016 , shortly before leaving office .
the area , which surrounds a pair of iconic buttes , has moderate oil and gas potential , and one oil company , eog resources , was granted drilling leases within its boundaries shortly before the designation .
bill clinton designated this 178,000-acre area in southwestern colorado a national monument in 2000 , but because it was already an active zone for the oil and gas industry , he granted drillers an allowance to continue to operate there , with limitations .
bill clinton designated this 204,000-acre area in california a national monument in 2001 .
it is located in an area that has seen oil exploration in the past and has some moderate potential for commercial reservoirs .
california resources corporation has pre-existing drilling rights on part of the monument , but has not yet made a big find .
grand staircase-escalante : bill clinton designated this 1.9 million acre swath of southern utah a national monument in 1996 .
it holds roughly 62 billion tons of coal , along with coal bed gas , and potentially commercial quantities of oil , according to the utah geological survey .
( here ) bill clinton designated this 495,000 acre area of central montana a national monument in 2001 .
in 1995 , the u.s. geological survey estimated the area held somewhere between 58.2 and 719.9 billion cubic feet of natural gas , along with between 14 million and 180 million barrels oil .
( here )