why is there so much secrecy when it comes to the mainstream media and the alleged lesbian relationship between hillary and her aide of 20 years , huma abedin ?
abc news admits that the allegations against ted cruz have not been confirmed by them .
but what the hell , why not do a story on it anyhow and see if they can make the sleazy image of a cheating ted cruz stick abc news at a news conference while campaigning in wisconsin today , ted cruz denied a recently released national enquirer report that claims political operatives are looking into rumors that cruz had multiple marital infidelities.cruz blamed the report on donald trump and his henchmen and gave trump a new nickname of sleazy donald .
let me be clear this national enquirer story is garbage , cruz said today .
it is complete and utter lies .
it is a tabloid smear and it is a smear that has come from donald trump and his henchmen .
cruz has been in a war of words with trump over tweets trump had been sending .
trump tweeted tuesday he would spill the beans about cruz s wife without providing further information and retweeted wednesday a split photo of heidi and his wife melania trump , with the text : no need to spill the beans .
the images are worth a thousand words .
the national enquirer allegations have not been confirmed by abc news.meanwhile , we can t find any reports from the same outlets who eagerly reported on ted cruz s alleged affairs that also picked up the national enquirer story about the lesbian affair between hillary clinton and her aide of 20 years , huma abedin : hillary clinton isn t just caught in a political scandal over her missing emails from her stint as secretary of state she s also terrified of personal revelations about a secret lesbian lifestyle ! now a world-exclusive investigation by the national enquirer reveals that some of the presidential candidate s famously deleted emails are packed full of lesbian references and her lovers names .
i don t think she s so concerned about emails referring to her as secretly gay , said a clinton insider .
that s been out for years her real fear is that the names of some of her lovers would be made public !
the enquirer learned the list of hillary s lesbian lovers includes a beauty in her early 30s who has often traveled with hillary ; a popular tv and movie star ; the daughter of a top government official ; and a stunning model who got a career boost after allegedly sleeping with hillary .
hillary made the huge mistake of mixing public and private messages while using her personalized email server before risking a massive scandal by refusing to make the documents public .
that s clearly why she went to the extraordinary step of deleting everything , the high-ranking source told the enquirer .
[ quote_box_center ] ronald kessler , who wrote the first family detail : secret service agents reveal the hidden lives of the presidents , writes in the daily mail that abedin was at times dismissive of reasonable orders from agents and at other times treated them like her personal servants.while agents are not supposed to carry luggage , they will do so as a courtesy if they like a female protectee , such as lynne cheney or rosalynn carter.but with abedin , the agents were just like , hey , you re going to be like that ?
well , you get your own luggage to the car .
oh , and by the way , you can carry the first lady s luggage to the car , too .
she d have four bags , and we d stand there and watch her and say , oh , can we hold the door open for you ?
.
.
.. .
.
there s not an agent in the service who wants to be in hillary s detail , a current agent says .
if agents get the nod to go to her detail , that s considered a form of punishment among the agents .
she s hard to work around , she s known to snap at agents and yell at agents and dress them down to their faces , and they just have to be humble and say , yes ma am , and walk away .
[ /quote_box_center ] hillary is particularly concerned about intimate emails to longtime aide huma abedin who married u.s. representative anthony weiner in a ceremony that many ridiculed as a political arrangement .
anthony later resigned over extramarital sexting scandals , after porn star sydney leathers said that she believed he was in an open marriage .
i think a lot of the time when we were speaking , huma was probably with hillary , she charged , at the time.one exchange between the women had hillary mistakenly responding to political correspondence with an email that seemed to be about decorating.added the insider : that makes you wonder if any sensitive information was sent to her romantic partners !
the scandal unraveled in march , when hillary revealed she deleted over 30,000 emails , insisting the messages were just things you typically find in inboxes .
via : national enquirer