kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysia has identified all 23 people who died in a horrific fire at an islamic boarding school , an official said on friday , as calls mounted for tougher regulation after the worst such tragedy in two decades .
the fire killed 21 teenage boys and two teachers after it broke out early on thursday at a tahfiz school , where students learned to memorize the koran .
we hope and pray this will be the last such incident and preventive actions must be in place and be the order of the day , said noor hisham abdullah , malaysia s director general of health , adding that dna tests were used to identify the bodies .
there have been 31 similar fire incidents in the past , malaysian officials said , but media put the figure higher .
among 1,034 fires in religious schools during the two years to august 2017 , 211 schools burned to the ground , the star daily said , quoting fire department figures .
family members of mohamad haikal abdullah , a 12-year-old who died in the blaze , were furious over reports that the only door to the school s dormitory had caught fire while metal bars on the windows trapped the boys , leaving them unable to escape .
from what we understand , there was only one way out , but they couldn t get through because it was on fire , said his brother , faizal abdullah , as he waited outside a hospital morgue for his sibling s remains to be identified .
how could they have escaped ?
how could something like this have happened ?
we want to know .
fire officials said they found no damage to the electrical wiring of the dormitory , ruling out their earlier suggestion that a short circuit probably caused the blaze .
the incident is being investigated as negligence , the fire chief , wan mohd nor ibrahim , told state news agency bernama .
the school denied a statement by authorities that it had made structural changes without approval from fire officials .
muslim-majority malaysia offers a secular education system , but growing conservatism has led to a boom in the number of islamic religious schools , most privately-run and not overseen by education authorities .
some offer a curriculum similar to secular schools , but with a greater emphasis on islamic knowledge , while others provide more specialized education .
inadequate regulation and training has led to a slew of safety issues at such schools , including reports of fires , abuse , and student deaths , religious leader mohamad asri zainul abidin said on social media site facebook .
some owners had set up schools simply as money-making enterprises or to satisfy their own interests , said mohamad asri , the mufti of the northern state of perlis .
some low quality schools , in order to save costs , also take in anyone ready to teach , even when they have nothing to do with the subjects they re teaching , he added .
some religious schools were reluctant to follow government regulations for fear of interference in their administration , said deputy prime minister ahmad zahid hamidi .
former prime minister mahathir mohamad , whose tenure lasted 22 years , said no lessons had been learned in nearly three decades , citing a 1989 tragedy that killed 27 girls at a religious school .
i m sad that this kind of incident happened again , news portal the malaysian insight quoted him as saying after visiting victims families .
safety measures are very important .
i hope after this , all schools will review ( safety measures ) .