aden ( reuters ) - at least six people were killed on tuesday when a suicide car bomb ripped through a base used by a local security force in yemen s southern port city of aden , residents said , in an attack claimed by islamic state .
dozens of other people , including civilians , were wounded in the attack , which occurred outside a camp used by a local security force organized by the saudi-led coalition fighting yemen s houthi rebels .
islamist militants have exploited a civil war that began in 92015 to try to expand their influence and gain a foothold in the impoverished country located in the southern arabian peninsula , near the world s top oil exporter , saudi arabia .
witnesses described a huge explosion that shook the al-mansoura district in northern aden , destroying at least one building and shattering windows in others .
a plume of smoke rose over the area .
ambulances raced to the scene to evacuate the wounded .
pictures circulating on social media showed several young men in military uniform being carried away .
residents said two suicide bombers carried out the attack .
but islamic state , which claimed responsibility for the attack , said only one bomber was involved and identified him as abu hajar al-adani .
the group said adani targeted the operations room of the apostate security belt , destroying it and killing and wounding all those inside it .
pictures posted on social media showed young men in military uniforms being carried away in bandages .
the security belt was set up by the united arab emirates , a key member of the saudi-led coalition that has been fighting the iran-aligned houthis since they advanced on aden in 2015 , forcing president abd-rabbu mansour hadi to flee to saudi arabia .
the civil war between the iran-aligned houthis and the internationally recognized hadi government has killed more than 10,000 people and displaced more than two million .
the war drags on with no sign that it will end soon .
tuesday s attack was the second of its kind in aden this month .
on nov. 5 , a car bomber blew himself up at a security checkpoint , killing 15 people and wounding at least 20 .
islamic state also claimed responsibility for that assault but provided no evidence it was involved [ nl5n1nb0ef ] .