zagreb ( reuters ) - croatia and slovenia failed to reach a compromise solution for their border dispute in talks on tuesday , with slovenia gearing up to implement an international court ruling which croatia dismisses as invalid .
the permanent court of arbitration in june ruled that most of the piran bay area shared between the two neighbors was slovenia s territorial waters , and that slovenia should have a sea corridor through croatian waters to international waters .
the hague-based court s six-month deadline for the states to implement the ruling expires on dec. 29 .
croatia rejects the ruling , saying it withdrew from the process in 2015 because of slovenia s violation of the arbitration procedure .
we intend to implement the ruling and expect croatia to do the same , slovenian prime minister miro cerar said at a news conference following talks in zagreb on tuesday with his croatian counterpart andrej plenkovic .
slovenia will start the implementation where it can do it alone , and it will seek dialogue and cooperation from croatia where it can not act alone .
plenkovic said the ruling was not obligatory for croatia , which had withdrawn from the arbitration process after a leaked tape showed that a slovenian judge on the arbitration panel had improperly exchanged confidential information with the ljubljana government .
the court acknowledged the arbitration violation but concluded that it was not serious enough to halt the case .
the issue of borders is an open issue for croatia , plenkovic said , adding that croatia had proposed to slovenia a legal framework for new talks on the borders .
cerar dismissed the idea , saying the arbitration ruling was final for slovenia .
plenkovic warned against unilateral acts that could cause incidents on the borders .
the two countries have been arguing over their sea and land borders since both declared independence from former yugoslavia in 1991 as it disintegrated and slid into war .
the dispute held up croatian accession to the eu for many years .
only after both parties agreed to arbitration was zagreb granted entry to the bloc in 2013 .
the court ruled that slovenia should have most of the piran bay area recognized as its territorial waters .
in addition , the tribunal established a 2.5 nautical mile-wide and some 10 nautical mile-long corridor through croatian waters to give slovenia much-coveted direct access to international waters .