countdown until obama is out of office : 347 days 8 hours 29 minutes 30 secondspresident vladimir putin said on thursday that russia had given prior information to the united states of the flight path of the plane downed by turkey on the syrian border .
the american side , which leads the coalition that turkey belongs to , knew about the location and time of our planes flights , and we were hit exactly there and at that time , putin said at a joint press conference with french counterpart francois hollande in the kremlin .
putin said the russians had given prior information to the u.s. of the flight path of the plane but the u.s. had leaked the information to turkey.ahead of the hollande talks , putin and turkish president recep tayyip erdogan traded barbs , with the russian leader saying he was waiting for an apology and erdogan ruling out any such move.president recep tayyip erdogan says turkey s right to protect its borders must be respected , after the military shot down a russian plane on the syrian border for allegedly violating its airspace.putin on thursday dismissed as rubbish turkey s claim that it would not have shot down the jet if it had known it was russian .
they [ our planes ] have identification signs and these are well visible , putin said .
instead of [ ] ensuring this never happens again , we are hearing unintelligible explanations and statements that there is nothing to apologise about .
putin has also accused turkey of buying oil from the islamic state jihadist group , whose financing heavily relies on the sale of energy resources.putin said there was no doubt that oil from terrorist-controlled territory in syria was making its way across the border into turkey .
we see from the sky where these vehicles [ carrying oil ] are going , putin said .
they are going to turkey day and night .
these barrels are not only carrying oil but also the blood of our citizens because with this money terrorists buy weapons and ammunition and then organise bloody attacks , he added.via : yahoo