beijing ( reuters ) - u.s. short-term rental service airbnb inc has removed listings in beijing as the capital prepares to host a five-yearly party congress later this month , the most important event on china s political calendar during which security is at its highest .
a reuters search on wednesday of airbnb listings in the city s center yielded zero results for all of october .
listings were present as recently as tuesday evening for periods including the congress dates of oct. 18 to 31 .
due to external circumstances , homes in certain areas in beijing are unavailable through october 31 , airbnb said in an email to hosts reviewed by reuters .
the move , mirrored by local rental firms , comes a week before the congress where president xi jinping is widely expected to consolidate power in a leadership reshuffle .
such high-profile events are often accompanied by increased surveillance and online censorship .
during the last congress , in 2012 , access to alphabet inc s google search engine was cut off .
google services have since been blocked in china .
for this year s event , authorities have stepped up id checks at metro stations and elsewhere in an effort to detain unregistered workers and others illegally residing in beijing .
four airbnb hosts in the capital told reuters they had received notices from the u.s. firm late on tuesday , which said properties in certain areas of the city would be removed from its website until the end of the month due to external circumstances .
similar to action taken by other hospitality companies , airbnb listings in certain areas in beijing will be temporarily unavailable throughout october , the company said in a statement to reuters .
short-term rentals were also unavailable during the same period via local services xiaozhu.com and tujia.com .
neither firm responded to requests for comment .
airbnb and other home-stay sites occupy a legal grey area in china , where tourists are required to register accommodation with local police using a passport or identification card .
the requirement is harder to enforce with short-term rentals .
the ministry of public security and beijing s city police did not respond to faxed requests for comment .
( the congress blackout ) is a pain , but it s not for such a long time , said a 28-year-old press relations worker surnamed liu , who rents out two flats on both xiaozhu and airbnb .
as long as ( bookings ) open again eventually , i don t mind .