goma , democratic republic of congo ( reuters ) - clashes between congolese troops and supporters of a renegade colonel in congo s eastern city of bukavu killed seven people on sunday before he surrendered and turned himself in to u.n. peacekeepers , the army said .
democratic republic of congo army spokesman for south kivu province , dieudonne kasereka , said clashes had started after police came to disarm colonel abbas kayonga , who was sacked on thursday from his post overseeing anti-fraud efforts in local mines .
kayonga , a former rebel from a group that had been disarmed and integrated into the congolese military , gave himself up at the local base for the u.n. mission to congo .
he has just surrendered with 17 people at the base of the mission , kasereka said by telephone .
two army soldiers and three of kanyonga s bodyguards were killed in the fighting and two civilians were killed by stray bullets , he said .
seventeen members of kanyonga s force surrendered to u.n. troops and nine others were captured by the army , kasereka said , adding that soldiers found about a dozen heavy weapons at kanyonga s house .
security has been deteriorating across congo since the end of last year , when president joseph kabila refused to step down despite his mandate expiring .
surging militia violence in the east , which has for decades been a tinderbox of ethnic rivalries fueled by the region s mineral wealth , and in the formerly peaceful central kasai region , have raised fears the country could slip back to the multi-faceted civil wars of the turn of the century .
those wars killed hundreds of thousands directly in violence while millions of others are thought to have died from of hunger and disease .
south kivu has rich deposits of gold , tin and coltan , used in mobile phones , which have long helped finance rebel groups and army officers .
the national electoral commission was expected to announce a date for the election to replace kabila later on sunday .
last month , it said the election can not take place until april 2019 , raising fears of an escalation in militia violence and civil disturbances .
u.s. envoy nikki haley said during a visit to meet with kabila last month that the vote must happen in 2018 or it will lose international support .