bloemfontein , south africa ( reuters ) - south africa s state prosecutors told the supreme court of appeal ( sca ) on friday the six-year sentence for murder handed to paralympic gold medalist oscar pistorius was shockingly lenient and asked for the right to launch an appeal .
pistorius was imprisoned in july last year after being found guilty on appeal of murdering his girlfriend reeva steenkamp on valentine s day 2013 .
the case has attracted worldwide interest .
he was not in court for friday s hearing .
women s rights groups in a country beset by high levels of violent crime against women say pistorius has received preferential treatment compared to non-whites and those without his wealth or international celebrity status .
the athlete was originally convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to five years in jail .
that conviction was increased to murder by the sca in december 2015 and his sentence increased to six years by trial judge thokozile masipa .
state prosecutors , led by advocate andrea johnson , said the sentence by masipa was too lenient as the jail term was less than half the minimum 15-year sentence prescribed for murder in south africa .
johnson said the high court did not list the substantial and compelling factors for deviating from the 15-year sentence and that pistorius had not shown remorse for the murder .
there is no true , gut-wrenching remorse , johnson said .
it is shockingly lenient and has accordingly resulted in an injustice , she said , referring to the sentence .
lawyers for the gold medalist , known as the blade runner for his carbon-fiber prosthetics , say he did not deliberately kill model and law graduate steenkamp .
barry roux , lead defense lawyer for pistorius , said the athlete was suffering from severe and worsening post-traumatic stress disorder over the case .
roux said masipa had addressed the misperception that pistorius deliberately killed steenkamp .
leave to appeal should really not be granted , he said .
the court did not set a date for when it would rule on whether the appeal can be heard or not .