the heartwarming story below will reassure you that we can all come together to help each other no matter what.abc news reports : like many floridians racing to buy food and supplies before the arrival of hurricane irma , pam brekke found herself miles from home today , desperately hoping to score a generator.according to abc affiliate wftv-tv , brekke , a sanford , florida , resident , had spent days waiting for empty shelves to be restocked and searching for a generator.she said today that she d traveled more than 30 miles to orlando to a lowe s home improvement store that had received a surprise shipment of a little more than 200 generators.within two hours , however , the generators were sold out and brekke , who had been next in line , was empty-handed .. .
.
.
a heartbroken brekke then began to cry .
ramon santiago , who had gotten one of the generators but had not purchased it yet , noticed and insisted that she take his .
she needs the generator , santiago told wftv-tv .
it s ok. brekke shared with santiago that it was her ailing father who needed the generator to power his oxygen supply .
the story doesn t stop there .
when lowe s got more generators , the first person they called was santiago .
he received a free generator in response to his generous , selfless act.wbal reports : enter ramon santiago of orlando.he also saw brekke crying and insisted that she take the generator he d carted but had not yet bought .
brekke shared that she d wanted the generator not for herself but actually for her ailing father who needed it to power his oxygen supply .
i m worried about this storm , she told wftv.the two embraced and went their separate ways but their story a random act of kindness in the middle of chaos and stress before a deadly storm made the rounds not only on social media , but also at lowe s.when a new generator became available later that day , the store manager told wftv that she immediately thought of santiago .
on friday , santiago returned to lowe s with wftv to get his own generator for free from the store .
i wanted to make sure he received it because he definitely deserved it , manager melissa rodriguez told wftv .
he s the hero of the day .
americans rise above the division the press portrays incredibly heartwarming !