moscow ( reuters ) - russia s communications regulator on friday accused u.s. tv channel cnn international of violating russian media law and said it had summoned the broadcaster s representatives in connection with the matter .
the russian foreign ministry accused washington on thursday of putting unwarranted pressure on the u.s operations of kremlin-backed media outlet rt , and warned that moscow could take tit-for-tat measures .
president vladimir putin told a meeting of russia s security council on friday that russian media outlets working abroad were facing growing and unacceptable pressure , his spokesman dmitry peskov said .
the communications regulator , roskomnadzor , said in a statement on its website that it would look at warning cnn about the alleged violations , which it said also breached the terms of its broadcast license .
it did not say what breaches of russian laws the u.s. broadcaster had made , adding it would continue its systematic monitoring of foreign mass media outlets registered in russia .
asked if the regulator s move was politically motivated , roskomnadzor head alexander zharov , was quoted by interfax news agency as saying : i don t work in a political agency .
i work in a regulatory service .
russian foreign ministry spokeswoman maria zakharova said on thursday the u.s. authorities were demanding that russian state-controlled broadcaster russia today ( rt ) be registered as a foreign agent in the united states .
she said that move endangered the safety of the channel s staff , because it included an obligation to disclose their personal data .
in the atmosphere of a witch hunt unfolding in the united states , this may present a real threat , she said .
putin , meeting permanent members of his security council , touched upon the issue of ongoing and at times growing pressure on russian mass media outlets in some foreign countries , peskov told a conference call with reporters .
it was stressed that such pressure on russian media is unacceptable , he added .
he did not name the countries where the kremlin was concerned russian media were coming under pressure .
the foreign ministry s zakharova said any move made against russian media working in the united states will get a tit-for-tat response .
and who it falls on , this should be easy for washington to work out .
the clock is ticking , she said at a weekly briefing on thursday .