mar del plata , argentina ( reuters ) - the search for a missing argentine submarine and its 44-member crew was helped by calmer seas on tuesday , but there were no new clues about its location and worries multiplied because the vessel may be running low on oxygen , a navy spokesman said .
the ara san juan was en route from ushuaia , the world s southernmost city , to its base in mar del plata and was about 300 miles ( 480 km ) off the coast when it gave its last location on wednesday , soon after reporting an electrical malfunction .
if the german-built submarine had sunk or was otherwise unable to rise to the surface since it sent its last signal , it would be winding down its seven-day oxygen supply .
oxygen is a permanent worry .
every day that passes is more critical , naval commander gabriel galeazzi said at an evening news conference in mar del plata .
more than a dozen boats and planes from argentina , the united states , britain , chile and brazil have joined the search .
authorities had been mainly scanning from the sky as storms halted the maritime hunt last weekend .
the weather improved on tuesday , helping search efforts by sea .
wind speed slowed and waves that rose as high as 8 meters ( 26 feet ) at the weekend diminished .
the search by patrol ships has become more effective thanks more than anything to less pounding by the waves , which have fallen to three or four meters , navy spokesman enrique balbi told reporters in buenos aires .
we have to make the most of today and tomorrow because on thursday the weather is expected to get more complicated , he said .
also on tuesday , authorities investigated white flares spotted in the south atlantic overnight .
searchers found an empty floating raft , and noticed the flares from a distance .
but the raft s brand suggested it did not belong to the ara san juan , which was equipped with only red flares for emergencies and green flares for other situations , the navy said .
searchers have suffered other disappointments .
analysis of satellite signals and sounds detected by underwater probes , initially thought to be messages from the crew , has found they did not come from the vessel .
the sounds could be biological .
we have discarded the possibility that it was a clanging of morse code against the hull of the submarine , balbi said .
relatives of crew members have been gathered at a naval base in mar del plata , where the search is being coordinated .
the ara san juan was launched in 1983 , the newest of three submarines in the navy s fleet , and underwent maintenance in 2008 in argentina .
its four diesel engines and its electric propeller engines were replaced , according to specialist publication jane s sentinel .