monrovia ( reuters ) - crammed into tumble-down shacks on a sandspit that the atlantic ocean is steadily devouring , the residents of liberia s most notorious slum have one common desire : an end to their daily struggle with dire poverty .
next month , when the 75,000 inhabitants of the capital monrovia s west point neighborhood decide who should be the next leader of africa s oldest republic , an ex-soccer star or the current vice president , they will not be nostalgic .
the last president didn t give any help to the common people - no improvement , no development , said ishmael campbell , a 26-year-old fisherman born and raised in the shantytown .
we need a president who will be there for us .
while the world has feted president ellen johnson sirleaf , a nobel peace prize winner , for keeping the peace after a prolonged civil war , those living in west point take a dimmer view of her 12-year tenure .
like most in west point , campbell lives in a shack along one of the labyrinthine back alleys where houses are packed so close that residents must squeeze through shoulder-wide paths choked by rotting fish and sewage .
on johnson sirleaf s watch , an ebola epidemic saw them placed under quarantine , hemmed in by barbed wire and soldiers who opened fire on protesters challenging the order .
then a global commodities crash dashed the country s hopes of mining riches .
the economy quadrupled in size , thanks in large part to the fact that peace prevailed , but johnson sirleaf was criticized for failing to curb corruption .
the two candidates through to the nov. 7 runoff election , george weah , a former fifa world player of the year , and vice president joseph boakai , must persuade struggling voters across the west african nation that they can make a difference .
though representing the ruling party , boakai has presented himself as the candidate for change , playing up his humble beginnings in a bid to distance himself from the tinted-windows government elite despised by the poor .
neither he nor johnson sirleaf are seen as corrupt , but boakai has been nicknamed sleepy joe for falling asleep at public functions and few are buying his message in west point .
he doesn t care about us , he just cares about himself , campbell said .
west point , where jobs are few and many residents spend the hot afternoons playing checkers or fixing fishing lines in the shade , is a weah stronghold .
the youth are on the streets , but they want to work , said eugene nyuti , 35 .
george weah is going to empower the youth .
weah is a senator and has been goodwill ambassador for unicef ; many liberians call him the ambassador .
his policies are vague , although he says he wants to improve the country s roads , and critics say he lacks political experience , but he won a clear lead in the first round of the election , with 38 percent of the vote to boakai s 28 percent .
west point s problems are echoed to varying degrees across liberia , which has relied heavily on international donor support since the end of the war in 2003 .
the state-run liberia electricity corporation struggles to generate enough revenue to erect more power lines .
thousands across monrovia illegally connect to the grid with crude wires .
still , west point stands out .
asked about their most desperate need , residents point to the rubbish-strewn ocean that laps at their homes .
old sand bags and tires have not stopped the problem .
houses regularly slide into the sea .
towards evening as joseph myame , 25 , watched fishermen roll their wooden canoes onto the beach , he too is praying for a weah victory .
maybe he can make a bit of a difference .
but whoever wins , the problems are too big .