while visiting the uss gerald r. ford today docked at newport news in virginia where he gave a wonderful speech , president trump was given an awesome new hat and bomber jacket .
we think he looks pretty spectacular , and would go as far as to say that he looks like a pretty badass commander in chief .
president trump started his speech by saying : they just gave me this beautiful jacket .
they said here mr president , please take this home .
i said let me wear it .
here are a few photos from our commander in chief s visit aboard the uss gerald r. ford : we re pretty sure that most americans are grateful that after 8 long years of the me first commander in chief , we re ready for someone who truly respects and honors the men and women who wear the uniform : and in other news , trump s new badass interior department secretary and retired navy seal ryan zinke , caused quite a stir today when he showed up on horseback in dc on his first day on the job.on his first day on the job , the new interior department secretary , ryan zinke , proved he knows how to make an entrance : arriving high in the saddle on tonto , an irish sport horse .
mounted police escorted him a few blocks through washington.mr .
zinke , a fifth-generation montanan who now oversees the country s 500 million acres of public land , including 59 national parks , showed up to work to a grand reception.officers from various agencies under the interior department lined the steps to the administration building .
a drummer from his home state s northern cheyenne tribe performed .
the department is the liaison with federally recognized american indian and alaska native nations.mr .
zinke , 55 , served nearly two dozen years with the navy seals before entering politics in 2008 as a republican .
after two terms in the montana legislature , he was elected in 2014 as the state s at-large representative in the house , before his nomination to the cabinet by president trump .
he was confirmed on wednesday by the senate with a vote of 68-31 .
nyt s