paris ( reuters ) - in tight-knit groups with their backpacks hanging in front where they can keep an eye on them , chinese tourists walked around paris on their guard on monday , alarmed by a recent mugging and other attacks targeting asian visitors .
we like paris but we are a bit scared , chinese tour guide jenny xu said as she lead a group around the department store district hours after china s foreign ministry said france needed to step up security after a high-profile robbery .
chinese tourists , they are afraid for their safety in paris , said xu , speaking in english as she recounted some of her own clients experiences of being mugged in shops or museums .
we tell them again and again to have their bags in front of them .
and i tell them not to take so much cash .
france has in the past promised to do more to protect the safety of chinese tourists , who come to paris in ever larger numbers and have become more of a target for the cash they often carry and the luxury goods they buy .
last week , a group of 40 chinese tourists was tear-gassed and robbed by four men in the parking lot of their hotel near orly airport , south of paris .
while the muggings are not good for the city s reputation , and tourism was hit hard by the islamist attacks of 2015 , paris still attracted 16 million visitors in the first half of 2017 , making it one of the most popular cities in the world .
chang hui ying , a tour operator from taiwan who leads chinese and taiwanese groups across europe , said paris was the city where she was most worried about client safety .
one hour ago , when i was leaving the louvre museum , two girls opened my bag and i was almost robbed , she said , adding that once a whole week s worth of wages was stolen from her bag in the french capital .
there really are a lot of thieves , she said .
but they still want to come .
we like to shop here , she said as she led a group to a store especially dedicated to chinese visitors which the galeries lafayette chain opened earlier this year .
tourists said they were taking extra precautions .
we put a small wallet somewhere and more money deeper inside ( our bag ) , and the bag always in front , said chang hui-neng , speaking english with the help of her guide .
a group of hoteliers deplored last week s mugging and called for more protection .
more needs to be done to avoid such tragic events that have a lot of impact on paris image and that of france as a tourism destination , umih said in a statement .
with no backpack or shopping bags that would mark her as a tourist , 23-year-old chinese student wang xi qing , who has been living in france for 18 months , said she knew here way around and felt comfortable .
but she said she tells friends who visit to be careful , especially since one of them got mugged in notre dame cathedral .
it s important to be aware , she said .