perhaps celebrity cruises didn t get the memo donald j. trump won the election .
trump won the election in large part because people are sick and tired of the unchecked invasion of illegal aliens and refugees from countries who hate us into our country .
here is the transcript from this insane anti-trump ad .
far from the talk of building walls , far from the threats of keeping people out , far from the rhetoric of fear is a world of differences .
differences that expand and enrich us .
because after all , our lives aren t made better when we close ourselves off to the world , they re made better when we open ourselves up to it celebrity cruises .
if that language sounds targeted to one specific candidate , that s no mistake but it s also not the whole point .
it s in response to the rhetoric around the world , lisa lutoff-perlo , president and ceo of celebrity cruises , told skift .
she named the brexit vote , the rise of hate crimes in the uk , and the plight of refugees in france as examples.closest to home for the miami-based cruise line which gets the majority of its passengers from the united states are the positions that trump has taken , such as calling for the building of a wall between the u.s. and mexico and for ideological tests to be given to visitors .
if people want to choose [ to view ] this statement as a political statement , i can t control that , lutoff-perlo said .
she said she has thought about whether some potential passengers might be turned off by the spot , but she hasn t worried about the possibility .
i believe anybody that truly looks at this and says , we re not going to sail on celebrity again , they re probably not sailing on celebrity , she said .
i hope i get more people than i lose .
lutoff-perlo continued : is there a risk ?
sure .
at some point in time you have to take a stand .
skiftconservative twitter user @ mightybusterbro created this video to expose the real message behind celebrity cruise lines anti-trump ad : https : //youtu.be/ciovjcyp-li