oslo ( reuters ) - norway s next prime minister could be a man born into wealth and privilege who became the unlikely leader of the labour party , the political home of the working class .
jonas gahr stoere , 57 , hopes to replace conservative prime minister erna solberg , 56 , after a sept. 11 parliamentary election .
with the left and right neck-and-neck in the polls and many voters undecided , the race is too close to call .
if he wins , it would be a victory for a millionaire , whose background was once deemed an obstacle to his ambition to lead a party rooted in the struggle for workers rights .
stoere got massive attention in the media in 2013 when he failed , apparently by accident , to raise the national flag outside his house on international workers day on may 1 - an important tradition in the labor movement .
i have not grown up in the traditional working class and i can not explain my background away .
like everyone else i m the sum of my experiences , he told the tabloid vg at the time .
with a net worth of 64.5 million norwegian crowns ( $ 8.3 million ) , media interest in stoere s investments has at times threatened to overshadow his campaign , leading him last week to divest stakes in a mutual fund that did not comply with the same ethical standards as the sovereign wealth fund .
he served as foreign minister and health minister in the two cabinets of his friend , prime minister jens stoltenberg , in 2005-2013 , and became labour party leader when stoltenberg was named nato secretary general .
in 2010 , while foreign minister , stoere helped broker a deal to delineate an arctic offshore border between norway and russia that had been in dispute for four decades .
stoere was a very popular foreign minister , but has experienced problems as party leader , toril aalberg , a professor of political science at the norwegian university of science and technology in trondheim told reuters .
while there is a greater degree of consensus in norwegian foreign policy , there is a greater degree of disagreement in domestic policy matters .
the son of a shipbroker , stoere credits his conversion to social democracy to his move to study in france where he was confronted with starker class differences .
i learnt what kind of society i wanted to live in .
in france , differences between people are large , larger than in norway between rich and poor , between those with education and those without , between city and countryside , he wrote in a column for norway s abc news website in june .
in norway , we have shaped a society where there are fewer differences .
but we are not immune to this and this is not a given .
he attended paris prestigious sciences po university , became engaged in the movement to support soviet dissidents , and traveled to the soviet union to provide supplies and support .
he organized a protest in support of andrei sakharov , then held in internal exile , persuading french star yves montand , a long-time communist sympathizer , to deliver a letter to the soviet embassy in paris calling for the nobel laureate s freedom .
when he returned to norway , stoere worked closely with norway s first female prime minister , gro harlem brundtland , known as the mother of the nation in norway , first as an adviser and later a senior civil servant under several governments between 1989 and 1997 .
from 1998 to 2000 he followed brundtland to the world health organisation to serve as chief of staff to the new executive director .
he was also secretary general of the norwegian red cross from 2003 to 2005 .
if labour wins the sept. 11 vote , it would spend less money from norway s near-trillion dollar sovereign wealth fund and instead raise taxes , arguing that the growth in oil revenue spending must slow .
sound public finances are critical for welfare and critical for productivity , stoere told reuters in an interview in june .
stoere also said he would be careful about allowing the sovereign wealth fund into new asset classes .
political risk is clearly one issue .
spreading the focus of the fund too much is another one , he said .
to govern , labour will need the support of the centre party , whose main support is in rural areas , with whom it shared power between 2005 and 2013 .
but depending on the outcome of the vote , stoere may be in need of the support of the far-left red party and would face demands from the small-but-growing green party about limiting the reach of norway s oil industry .
stoere says he is adamant he would not accept the green party s ultimatum of shutting down the industry but his position may be more difficult to defend if he needs their support .
forming a government is going to be difficult , said johannes bergh , a political scientist at the institute of social research in oslo .