edinburgh ( reuters ) - a mother who has been fighting for four decades to find out what happened to her dead baby boy has discovered that his coffin has no human remains in it .
lydia reid s son gary was seven days old when he died at edinburgh s hospital for sick children in 1975 , she told the bbc .
reid was a leading campaigner to expose how scottish hospitals unlawfully retained dead children s body parts for research following a public enquiry into practices at alder hey hospital in liverpool , england in the 1990s , the bbc said .
lydia reid wants answers from people ... somebody coming forward to explain to her what has happened to her son s body , david short , a lawyer acting on her behalf , told the bbc on monday .
reid has suspected for years that her son s organs were taken without permission , and thought the coffin was empty on the day of the funeral because it weighed so little .
but she has had no proof of what happened to his remains until now , following a court order for an exhumation at saughton cemetery in edinburgh .
i wanted to be wrong .
i wanted to be called a stupid old woman but the minute ( the forensic scientist ) lifted the shawl out of the ground i knew there was nothing in it .
nothing , she said .
my heart hit my feet and i didn t know what to say .
reid has appealed to the scottish health authorities and the funeral company to help her find out what happened .
they know what happened to my son , they know fine and well that they have that knowledge and they can give me peace .
even if he s been incinerated i want to know .
even if he s lying in a jar in a hospital somewhere i want to know .
if it s possible to get my son back , i want my son back .
and if it s not , then at least tell me , and let me have peace .
reid , now 68 , said that after her son died and she asked to see him again she was shown a child that was not hers .
this baby was blond and big , my baby was tiny and dark-haired .
this was not my son , she said .
i objected but they said i was suffering from post-natal depression .
jim crombie , deputy chief executive at nhs lothian , said : our condolences are with the family of gary paton .
this matter is now being looked into by the police and we are unable to comment further .