athens ( reuters ) - a mental health emergency is unfolding in migrant camps on greece s islands , fueled by poor living conditions , neglect and violence , charity doctors without borders ( msf ) said on tuesday .
medical staff have seen a sharp increase in people trying to get help after attempting suicide , harming themselves or suffering psychotic episodes , it said in a report .
more than 13,000 migrants and refugees , mostly syrians and iraqis fleeing years of war , are living in five camps on greek islands close to turkey , government figures show .
four of those camps are holding two to three times as many people as they were designed for .
every day our teams treat patients who tell us that they would prefer to have died in their country than be trapped here , said jayne grimes , manager of msf s mental health activities on the island of samos .
the charity said six or seven new patients had visited its clinic on the nearby island of lesbos each week over the summer following suicide attempts , self-harm or psychotic episodes , 50 percent more than the previous three months .
violence which many experienced on the journey or in greece was one factor aggravating mental distress , msf said .
i know i need to find hope , but when the night falls and i see where i am , i feel like i m going crazy , it quoted a syrian man as saying .
the 25-year-old said he was haunted by the images of people dying of hunger in front of him in the long-besieged town of madaya .
i still remember the taste of the leaves and the smell of death , he said .
on samos , more than 3,000 people are crammed into facilities designed to hold 700 , and about 400 live in the woods .
in one lesbos camp , about 1,500 people are in makeshift shelters or tents without flooring or heating , the u.n. refugee agency says .
in august , msf found nearly three-quarters of new mental health patients on lesbos needed to be referred to a psychiatrist , up from just over a third in the nine months from october 2016 to june 2017 .
the report quoted a 41-year-old man , who said he had been tortured in a syrian prison .
when he visited a lesbos hospital , he said he was told he would have to wait eight months to see a psychiatrist .
when i heard that , i felt like dying , he said .
a 29-year-old syrian woman , on lesbos with her family , told the msf researchers the uncertainty over the future was crushing us .
it is killing us inside .
while the number of arrivals to greece has slowed significantly since a european union deal with turkey to block the route in march last year , a recent sharp rise in arrivals has put pressure on government-run facilities .