if you don t have the proper glasses to watch the historic solar eclipse today , you can still watch it here live as it happens.from nasa : solar eclipse 2017 on august 21 , 2017 , all of north america will be treated to an eclipse of the sun .
viewers around the world will be provided a wealth of images captured before , during , and after the eclipse by 11 spacecraft , at least three nasa aircraft , more than 50 high-altitude balloons , and the astronauts aboard the international space station each offering a unique vantage point for the celestial event.watch here : https : //t.co/oyed98vqyl twitter news ( @ twitternews ) august 16 , 2017where can you see it ?
you can see a partial eclipse , where the moon covers only a part of the sun , anywhere in north america ( see who can see it ?
) .
to see a total eclipse , where the moon fully covers the sun for a short few minutes , you must be in the path of totality .
the path of totality is a relatively thin ribbon , around 70 miles wide , that will cross the u.s. from west to east .
the first point of contact will be at lincoln beach , oregon at 9:05 a.m. pdt .
totality begins there at 10:16 a.m. pdt .
over the next hour and a half , it will cross through oregon , idaho , wyoming , montana , nebraska , iowa , kansas , missouri , illinois , kentucky , tennessee , georgia , and north and south carolina .
the total eclipse will end near charleston , south carolina at 2:48 p.m. edt .
from there the lunar shadow leaves the united states at 4:09 edt .
its longest duration will be near carbondale , illinois , where the sun will be completely covered for two minutes and 40 seconds.if you missed the eclipse as it happened , here are a couple of incredible videos that were taken of the eclipse : more of the moon crossing in front of sun in philly : https : //t.co/fkhecfsnkf # solareclipse2017 pic.twitter.com/fjxfuuxoy6 nbc10 philadelphia ( @ nbcphiladelphia ) august 21 , 2017 # solareclipse2017 breathtaking !
pic.twitter.com/fvpwgwgn99 smail h. polat ( @ ismailhpolat ) august 21 , 2017