geneva ( reuters ) - the united states wants to exhaust every diplomatic option on north korea s nuclear and missile programs , and to see loopholes in the north korean sanctions regime closed , u.s. disarmament ambassador robert wood said on friday .
sanctions have not had a real opportunity to bite as hard as we would like them to bite , and that comes from the fact that they have not been fully implemented , wood told a news conference in geneva .
north korea fired a second missile over japan far out into the pacific ocean on friday , south korean and japanese officials said , deepening tension after pyongyang s recent test of its sixth and most powerful nuclear bomb .
washington has in the past accused china , north korea s main trading partner , of failing to apply enough economic pressure to its neighbor .
u.s. treasury secretary steven mnuchin said on tuesday that if china failed to implement the latest u.n. sanctions on north korea , he would seek new financial sanctions against beijing .
wood , formally u.s. ambassador to the geneva-based conference on disarmament , said north korea had exploited gaping holes in the sanctions regime to secretly acquire equipment for its ballistic missile and nuclear weapon programs : we want to close those loopholes .
asked if war or a u.s. military strike was possible , wood said : we are not taking any options off the table but ... we are pursuing the diplomatic track right now .
that s where we are .
we want to exhaust all diplomatic options .
the united states wanted to see north korea further isolated , with more countries breaking off or downgrading relations and cutting off trade .
he said china had the same interest as the united states in seeking the denuclearization of the korean peninsula , and had helped to apply pressure on north korea by supporting two u.n. security council resolutions .
but he said there was much more that china could do , and suggested that beijing s unique leverage was only just coming into play .
we re at a real inflection point with regard to china , wood said .
in a wide-ranging briefing on u.s. disarmament interests , wood also reiterated president donald trump s view that iran was not fulfilling the spirit of the joint comprehensive plan of action , the 2015 deal that allowed iran sanctions relief in return for curbing its nuclear program .
if you look at what iran is doing with regard to ballistic missile activity ... when you look at the support it is giving to the assad regime in syria , to hezbollah , to hamas , their funding and support for the houthi rebels in yemen ... iran is not in any way , we think , fulfilling the aspirations of the jcpoa .
he cited the preface of the jcpoa , which says the signatories anticipate that the agreement will positively contribute to regional and international peace and security .
trump must decide next month whether iran is complying with the deal .