washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. house of representatives overwhelmingly passed legislation on friday broadening sanctions to punish north korea for its nuclear program , human rights record and cyber crimes , and sent the measure to president barack obama to sign into law .
lawmakers said they wanted to make washington ’ s resolve clear to pyongyang , but also to the united nations and other governments , especially china , north korea ’ s lone major ally and main business partner .
the package includes sanctions targeting north korea and “ secondary sanctions ” against those who do business with it .
the vote was 408-2 , following a 96-0 vote in the senate on wednesday .
impatient with what they see as obama ’ s failure to respond to north korean provocations , many of his fellow democrats as well as the republicans who control congress have been clamoring for a clampdown since pyongyang tested a nuclear device in january .
pressure for congressional action further intensified after last weekend ’ s satellite launch by north korea .
obama is not expected to veto the bill , given its huge support in congress .
white house spokesman eric schultz told reporters on board air force one that the administration was “ deeply concerned ” about north korea ’ s recent actions and would not oppose the legislation .
“ we ’ re philosophically and intellectually in the same place as the congress on this , ” schultz said .
the legislation would sanction anyone who engages in , facilitates or contributes to north korea ’ s proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , arms-related materials , luxury goods , human rights abuses , activities undermining cyber security and the provision of materials for such activities .
penalties include seizure of assets , visa bans and denial of government contracts .
unusually , the measure makes most of the sanctions mandatory instead of giving the president the option to impose them .
he can temporarily waive them by making the case that doing so would threaten national security .
the house had backed the sanctions measure 418-2 in january , but the senate included some new provisions , including cyber security measures , in its version , sending it back to the house .