( reuters ) - new jersey governor chris christie on tuesday vetoed a bill to raise the state ’ s minimum wage to $ 15 per hour over the next five years .
the legislation would have made new jersey the third state to adopt a $ 15 per hour minimum wage , christie said in a statement .
state voters agreed to a previous wage hike in 2013 , to $ 8.25 from $ 7.25 .
new jersey ’ s rate is tied to the consumer price index and is now at $ 8.38 , according to a database from the national conference of state legislatures ( ncsl ) .
“ despite having a constitutional mandate in place , the legislature now wants to increase the minimum wage by almost 80 percent just three years later , ” christie said in a statement about his veto .
christie , a close ally of republican presidential nominee donald trump , said the wage bill passed by democrats , who control both houses of state legislature , failed to consider the ability of businesses to absorb the increased labor costs .
neighboring new york state , as well as california , became the first states to lift the minimum wage toward $ 15 earlier this year .
while california ’ s higher rate will be in effect statewide by 2022 , new york created a two-speed system , with different timetables for new york city and nearby counties , versus the “ upstate ” regions where incomes are lower and labor markets less robust .
some cities are also stepping up to higher wage levels .
washington , d.c. ’ s minimum wage will reach $ 15 per hour by july 1 , 2020 , after it enacted a law this year .
the city ’ s current level is $ 10.50 .
washington and 29 states have set minimum wages above the federal rate of $ 7.25 an hour , according to the ncsl .
michele siekerka , president of the new jersey business & industry association , praised christie ’ s veto , saying the increase was “ too much too fast. ” “ had this bill been signed , it would not only have hurt the new jersey economy , but it would have hurt the exact workers the proponents of this policy are trying to help , ” she said in a statement .
assembly speaker vincent prieto , lead sponsor of the bill , said in a statement the wage increase is a key component to democrats ’ strategy to combat poverty .
“ a substantial minimum wage increase will help lift countless families out of poverty , decrease government dependency and boost commerce by pumping more dollars back into the economy , ” he said .