beijing ( reuters ) - he may be a divisive figure back home , but u.s. president donald trump will be landing in friendly territory when he arrives in beijing on wednesday , judging by chinese social media .
on platforms such as the twitter-like sina weibo , trump s chinese supporters , who admire his business success and a free-wheeling style unconstrained by political correctness , are far more prominent than detractors .
while no comprehensive survey has been done to assess the size and intensity of trump s popularity in china , several pundits suggest he has broad and vocal support .
chinese people are impressed that he is extremely rich , he loves things splendid and magnificent , and he loves to show off .
not every billionaire is like that , said yin hao , who translates american news and comedy clips for his nearly one million followers on weibo .
yin said his translated trump-related video clips sometimes attract thousands of comments , where some supporters engage in name-calling and invective in defending the president .
they will keep posting comments to defend trump , mock his opponents under all news clips that involve trump , and rebuke any comments that are not in favor of trump , yin said .
chen jibing , a shanghai-based political commentator , said trump s chinese fan base is different than that for previous foreign leaders such as his predecessor , barack obama , and for british prime minister margaret thatcher , who enjoyed widespread but tepid support .
chinese trump fans are seriously and truly invested , and you had better not make light of offending them , chen wrote in a social media post to his millions of followers .
while trump encountered protests during his visits to japan and south korea on the first two legs of his 12-day asian tour , such scenes are unlikely in china , which tightly controls public gatherings , with media and the internet subject to censorship .
china s ambassador to the united states , cui tiankai , said trump will receive a state visit-plus experience in beijing .
he is expected to go to the forbidden city and participate in an inspection of chinese troops , though china has released few other details .
trump s popularity in china largely comes from his disdain for political correctness and defiance of traditional liberal western views , which many chinese consider elitist and unrealistic , chen said .
his criticism of the u.s. trade deficit with china , for example , is seen by many in the country as standard u.s. political talk , some pundits say .
in china , realists hold a deep-rooted belief that the rule of the jungle means the strong prey on the weak , chen said .
for them , the world is not split into right and wrong , good or evil , it is only success or failure , the powerful and the weak .
factual errors or gaffes by trump tend to be ignored by his chinese fans or explained away as harmless mistakes made by a leader who writes his own rules .
in japan on monday , trump told japanese prime minister shinzo abe that the japanese economy was not performing as well as the united states and appeared to mistakenly say that japan s economy was the world s second-largest .
it is actually third , after china s. an editor at a major state publication told reuters was inclined to be forgiving about trump s remark to abe : he s a free spirit .
no one can tell him what to do .
many on chinese social media see trump as a figure of fun .
rather than being a president , trump is more like a comedian !
one weibo user wrote .
in a country where parents are traditionally judged by the success of their children , trump scores extra points for his daughter ivanka , a businesswoman and currently advisor to president trump , and her mandarin-speaking children .
one chinese state publication said that all five of trump s children are a testament to his character .
you can tell what parents are like through their childrens success .
trump s five children are all excellent , it means he is a very successful father , the china education daily said on its social media account .
ivanka trump is sometimes referred to as goddess on chinese social media , where some were upset that the first daughter would not be accompanying her father to beijing .
sad !
ivanka is not coming to china , said jiang xiaofeng , a journalist with phoenix tv on sina weibo , appropriating one of donald trump s favorite twitter exclamations .