london/belfast ( reuters ) - the chances of northern ireland s political parties restoring a power-sharing agreement are not positive and britain will have to impose a budget early next month if talks can not be salvaged , the minister for the region said on wednesday .
northern ireland has been without a regional administration since its collapse in january , raising the prospect of direct rule being reimposed from london , potentially destabilizing a delicate political balance in the british province .
britain will need to draw up a budget - a move one of the region s smaller parties said would effectively constitute direct rule - if an executive is not formed by the week starting nov. 6 , james brokenshire said .
if i had given evidence to this committee last week i might have indicated some momentum , more progress .
that progress stalled at the end of last week , brokenshire told a parliamentary committee , adding london would also have to pass legislation by oct. 30 to enable an executive to be formed .
unless there is a renewed spirit of compromise then the outlook for imminent resolution is not positive .
former u.s. president bill clinton , who played a central role in brokering the 1998 peace deal that ended three decades of sectarian bloodshed in northern ireland , used a brief trip to dublin this week to travel to belfast and meet the main parties .
but the main impediment in the talks between the pro-british democratic unionist party ( dup ) and irish nationalists sinn fein remains disagreement over improved rights for irish language speakers , an issue that has dogged negotiations for months .
sinn fein s leader in northern ireland , michelle o neill , described brokenshire s budget comments as not helpful in the sense that it clearly signifies that would be the end of this phase of negotiations .
considerable challenges remain , she said .
the irish government , which is co-facilitating the talks , has said northern ireland needs a devolved government to give it a greater say in britain s negotiations to leave the european union , set to have a bigger impact on the province than on any other part of the united kingdom .
ireland s foreign minister last week said reverting to direct rule from london for the first time in a decade would be a devastating blow for reconciliation in the province .
brokenshire said while he has no desire to do so , all options - including direct rule - must be considered if no agreement can be reached .
we are on a glide path to greater and greater uk government intervention , brokenshire said .
we can t go on much longer .