london ( reuters ) - british business leaders reacted warily to prime minister theresa may s plan for more government intervention in power and housing markets , and said big unanswered questions about brexit would drag on the economy .
in an attempt to counter britain s left-wing labour party , may s speech to her conservative party on wednesday balanced emphasizing the importance of free markets with a pledge to cap what she called rip-off energy prices .
the revival of the cap - which may appeared to have dropped after losing her parliamentary majority in a june election - was an unwelcome surprise for representatives of british employers , who are already disappointed by the government s lack of progress in brexit talks .
today s announcement is an example of state intervention that misses the mark , carolyn fairbairn , cbi director-general , said .
market-wide price caps are not the best answer .
shares in power providers such as centrica and sse fell sharply as may spoke .
the institute of directors , another employer group , said businesses were worried by the signs of more state involvement in the economy from the conservatives , a week after resurgent labour proposed bringing billions of pounds worth of private contracts under state control and higher taxes for companies .
in her speech on wednesday , may said her government would spend an extra 2 billion pounds ( $ 2.65 billion ) to build cheaper houses for social housing .
i think it s fair to say that this year s party conference season has been one big let-down for businesses across the uk , stephen martin , the iod s director general , said .
on the one hand you have a labour party which has decided that business is the bad guy , on the other you have a conservative party which talks about the importance of markets , but then tinkers around with help-to-buy ( a housing program ) and energy price caps .
what are business leaders meant to make of it all ?
beyond the proposals for specific sectors , employers said they remained concerned that may was not moving fast enough to clear up the uncertainty about britain s relationship with its main trading partners in the european union after brexit .
it is vital for business that a comprehensive transition agreement is agreed before the end of the year , terry scuoler , the head of engineering industry body eef , said .
she must redouble her energies ... if she is to avoid significant boardroom decisions going against uk plc , he said .