maybe it s the commonality they share with trump , considering the media and never trumpers have painted him as an outcast or an outsider .
whatever their reasons are , indications are that conservative amish americans are getting behind donald trump .
and in some swing states where every vote will count , this is one group crooked hillary won t likely be able to win over the amish may not watch tv and rarely vote but could they be persuaded to vote republican in this year s us elections ?
ben walters is the amish pact fund raising officer , and thinks that donald trump s conservative values could appeal to this community.the amish community came out in big numbers to attend trump s rally yesterday in pa : amish come out for trump in pa. god bless trump ! ! !
pic.twitter.com/haaypal6pv trump my president ( @ angelst35124353 ) october 2 , 2016 trump rally in pennsylvania 's amish country : # amishfortrump # makeamericagreatagain pic.twitter.com/yfrfcke5uu trump 4 america ( @ america_trump ) october 2 , 2016though they travel at the pace of a horse and buggy , the amish are spreading out across the nation more rapidly than most other religious communities.a new amish settlement is founded in the united states nearly once a month , according to a new census , which also found that more than 60 percent of all existing amish communities sprang up after 1990 .
the amish are one of the fastest-growing religious groups in north america , ohio state researcher joseph donnermeyer , who led the census project , said in a statement .
they re doubling their population about every 21 to 22 years , primarily because they produce large families and the vast majority of daughters and sons remain in the community as adults baptized into the faith , starting their own families and sustaining their religious beliefs and practices .
swing states like ohio , which has the largest amish population at 60,233 , and , pennsylvania a close second , with 59,078 amish residents could make all the difference in a close race in those states .
indiana has 44,831 amish citizens , according to ohio state .
new york where 15 new settlements have been established since 2010 has seen the greatest recent growth in amish population of any state .
via : live sciencehere s why they re getting behind donald trump : via : bbc