is this not the craziest thing ever ?
no wonder california is broke !
this sounds so much like agenda 21 everyone s on the dole ! palo alto is seeking housing solutions for residents who are not among the silicon valley region s super-rich , but who also earn more than the threshhold to qualify for affordable housing programs.the city council has voted to study a housing proposal that would essentially subsidize new housing for what qualifies as middle-class nowadays , families making from $ 150,000 to $ 250,000 a year.the plan would focus on building smaller , downtown units for people who live near transit and don t own cars , along with mixed-use retail and residential developments.sky-rocketing housing prices in palo alto have left some in limbo ; with teachers , firefighters and other government workers not earning enough to afford cost of living.randy bean says while she still loves her palo alto neighborhood , she can t help but notice the changes that are making it unrecognizable .
i just find it kind of sad that we are reducing ourselves to this small profile of young , rich , mostly white , mostly tech .
it s not the community that i moved into 33 years ago , bean said.and now , as a documentary film producer , she says she can t afford to stay here.some of the small two-bedroom , one-bath homes on her block are worth between $ 1.5 and $ 2 million as teardowns .
that s just what the dirt is worth .
prices have just gone through the roof , making it unaffordable for middle-class people , your firefighters , your teachers , and , frankly , some of your doctors , palo alto vice mayor greg scharff said.scharff worries that losing middle-class workers will hurt the city .
what the council is proposing is that we work together to fund and subsidize , what is basically middle-class housing ; which , traditionally , has not been subsidized , scharff said.bean can hardly believe it .
we have people struggling to make it at a quarter-million dollars a year , bean said .
that s a terrible thing .
read more : kcbs