havana ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama challenged cuba ’ s communist government with an impassioned call for democracy and economic reforms on tuesday , addressing the cuban people directly in a historic speech broadcast throughout the island .
taking the stage at havana ’ s grand theater with president raul castro in attendance , obama said he was in cuba to extend a hand of friendship and “ bury the last remnant ” of the cold war in the americas .
but he also pressed hard for economic and political reforms and greater openness in a one-party state where the government stifles dissent , internet access is low and the media is in state hands .
his speech was the high point of a 48-hour trip made possible by his agreement with castro in december 2014 to cast aside decades of hostility that began soon after cuba ’ s 1959 revolution , and work to normalize relations .
nonetheless , obama threw down a very public gauntlet to castro , saying cubans can not realize their full potential if his government does not allow change and relax its grip on cuban politics and society .
“ i believe citizens should be free to speak their minds without fear , ” obama told the audience on the final day of his visit .
“ voters should be able to choose their governments in free and democratic elections. ” “ not everybody agrees with me on this , not everybody agrees with the american people on this but i believe those human rights are universal .
i believe they ’ re the rights of the american people , the cuban people and people around the world , ” obama said .
the hand-picked audience cheered him repeatedly , especially when he criticized the longstanding u.s. economic embargo against cuba , spoke glowingly of cubans ’ talents and praised the country ’ s achievements in healthcare and education .
the spectacle of the leader of the united states , the superpower to the north for long reviled by cuba ’ s government , standing in havana and urging such changes in a speech broadcast into homes across the island would have been unthinkable before the two countries began their rapprochement 15 months ago .
since then , obama has repeatedly used his executive powers to relax trade and travel restrictions , while also pushing cuba to accelerate cautious market-style reforms introduced by castro and allow greater political and economic freedom .
castro has welcomed obama ’ s moves while insisting that a new relationship with the old enemy does not mean cuba plans to change its political system .
the audience of more than 1,000 people at obama ’ s speech on tuesday included officials and business people from both countries , u.s. lawmakers and members of cuba ’ s cultural elite .
obama drew sustained applause when he reiterated his call for the u.s. congress to lift the embargo , which he called “ an outdated burden on the cuban people. ” but the response was more muted when he challenged castro to allow greater political liberties .
obama went straight from the speech to a private meeting with prominent dissidents on the island , a few of whom object to his engagement policy .
“ as far as i am concerned nothing has changed , the repression continues , ” said berta soler from the ladies in white group , who met obama at the embassy .
cuba ’ s government dismisses the dissidents as mercenaries without public support but obama applauded their work and “ extraordinary courage. ” obama sees his dramatic shift away from a decades-old policy of trying to isolate and weaken cuba as a success story and wants to make it an irreversible part of his legacy by the time he leaves office in january .
still , major obstacles remain to full normalization of ties , notably the differences over human rights , the republican-controlled u.s. congress ’ refusal to lift the embargo and washington ’ s resistance to discussing the return of the u.s. naval base at guantanamo bay , cuba .
obama ’ s critics at home have criticized his visit to cuba as a premature reward to the communist government .
u.s. house of representatives speaker paul ryan , a republican , said on tuesday the trip legitimizes what he called castro ’ s “ tyrannical dictatorship. ” with his words carried live by cuba ’ s state-run media , obama sought to persuade ordinary cubans that his new policy was focused primarily on helping them to improve their lives .
standing at a lectern flanked by u.s. and cuban flags , he laid out a hopeful vision of future relations and told cubans “ it ’ s up to you ” to take steps to change the country .
obama pointedly stopped short of what some of his critics had demanded – that he echo u.s. president ronald reagan ’ s famous exhortation in a 1987 speech in west berlin for soviet leader mikhail gorbachev to tear down the berlin wall .
but he did encourage cubans to embrace democracy , set up their own businesses and help improve cuban society .
“ many suggested that i come here and ask the people of cuba to tear something down .
but i ’ m appealing to the young people of cuba who will lift something up , build something new , ” he said .
some cubans who saw the speech in their homes or local cafes were also impressed by his frank admission of america ’ s own failings .
“ he has been very honest in his statements , ” said santiago rodriguez , 78 , in his home in central havana .
“ it is not only the blockade ( embargo ) that has overwhelmed us for years .
this was a message full of suggestions and positive criticism for the future of cuba. ” castro , an army general who took over as president from his ailing brother , fidel castro , in 2008 , was at the theater to greet obama on arrival and sat in the audience for the speech .
at the end , he lightly applauded from the balcony , then waved to the crowd .
later , the two leaders entered together to loud applause at havana ’ s latin american stadium and sat side-by-side for a baseball game between cuba ’ s much-loved national team and major league baseball ’ s tampa bay rays .
castro was also on hand at the airport to bid obama farewell , giving him an enthusiastic handshake at the bottom of air force one ’ s stairway and then exchanging waves once the u.s. leader reached the top .
after the two men met on monday , they aired some of the old grievances between their countries at a joint news conference , even as they sought to advance the diplomatic thaw .
obama ’ s administration is seeking to galvanize the cuban people to help him pressure their government for reforms .
but flashes of anger from castro at the news conference illustrated how washington runs the risk of being accused of meddling .
obama ’ s address on tuesday was the first time a sitting u.s. president ’ s speech was broadcast to the cuban people while on cuban soil – although speeches by visiting popes have been carried live by state media .
jimmy carter , traveling to cuba in 2002 as the first former u.s. president to visit since the revolution , also called for political freedoms in a speech broadcast on live television .