when a group of imams tried to bring a form of shariah light to texas , they met an unlikely foe irving mayor beth van duyne.van duyne was thrust into the national media spotlight , and her city was being called ground zero in the battle to prevent islamic law from gaining a foothold , no matter how small , in the u.s. legal system.the media frenzy was touched off by reports that an islamic tribunal was being set up in the dallas , texas , area .
a group of imams from surrounding mosques would sit on what they call a mediation panel , as defacto judges , and mediate disputes between muslims who voluntarily submit to its edicts .
they denied this was a shariah court , saying the panel would mete out nonbinding decisions in business disputes , divorces and other family matters in full accordance with the law .
she worked with state legislators to craft a bill that would declare it illegal for any u.s. court to adopt any foreign legal system for the basis of its rulings .
islam was not mentioned in the bill , nor was any religion.the irving city council voted 5-4 to endorse the bill before a packed room full of mostly angry muslims .
wndwatch : irving mayor van duyne also made news when she took on clock boy and his family.the mayor said the records would help to describe why it progressed as it did .
nobody is going to walk in and say , oh you re a 14-year old child , you re totally cooperating , we have all the answers we need , let s arrest you , van duyne said , adding she had information that mohamed was being passive aggressive and non-responsive when police questioned him.van duyne also noted that the family seemed more interested in seeking press than resolving the issue.irving mayor beth van duyne will be joining the u.s. department of housing and urban development ( hud ) to work under secretary ben carson , a source with direct knowledge of the situation confirmed to the daily caller.van duyne announced at a luncheon thursday that she would be joining the trump administration , but declined to say which department she will be joining , cbs dfw reported .
she is expected to make an official announcement sometime next week after completing the necessary paperwork .
daily caller