sid , serbia ( reuters ) - mudassir , 18 , from pakistan s city of peshawar has tried to enter the european union 30 times but was always caught and sent back to his starting point in serbia .
now , he and dozens of other migrants are braving near-freezing temperatures in shrubs and fields near sid , a northwestern serbian town just outside european union s member croatia , hoping to make another border run .
they spend nights in tents and makeshift shelters in a shrub they call - the jungle .
i have tried 30 times , i am in serbia for 16 months , ...
i am tired of sleeping in the jungle , said mudassir , dressed in a black hooded jacket .
meanwhile , other migrants , all young males , huddled outside an abandoned printing factory in the outskirts of sid , waiting for a meal delivered by an international volunteer group , the no name kitchen .
the so-called balkan route for migrants was shut last year when turkey agreed to stop the flow in return for eu aid and a promise of visa-free travel for its own citizens .
but people mainly from the middle east , africa and asia continued to arrive in serbia , mainly from turkey , via neighboring bulgaria , attempting to enter croatia and the eu .
according to official data there are as many as 4,500 migrants in government-operated camps in serbia .
rights activists say that hundreds are scattered in the capital belgrade and towns along the croatian border .
muhammad , 22 from the moroccan town of oujda , said he has tried to reach the eu 26 times .
three times he made it to slovenia , but was caught and deported back to serbia .
i will try again ... my family is in france and my girlfriend is in italy , muhammad said .
bruno alvares of the no name kitchen said migrants are given two meals a day , water , clothes , footwear and tents .
even if it is cold , it doesn t matter , they will keep on trying because there s ... no evolution in their lives in camps , alvares said .
migrants who can not afford to pay smugglers , often hide in passing trucks and freight trains or ride on the top of them .
recently an afghan girl was killed by a train as she and her family attempted to cross into croatia .