during the annual white house easter egg hunt , president trump and first lady melania trump stood with their son baron on the white house balcony and addressed the crowd .
president trump spoke briefly and then announced that as soon as they were finished with the activities , he and melania , and their son baron would be heading downstairs to sign cards they planned to send to our troops .
it was very touching to see melania go out of her way to thank the military band and all of the staff and volunteers who worked tirelessly to make sure everyone had memorable experience .
melania then delivered a sincere and heartfelt message of gratitude to our troops , i want to thank all of the military with us today , and all of the great military in this nation and service men and service women all around the world who is keeping us safe .
compare melania s speech to this video of michelle and barack s final speech at the easter egg roll in 2016 : today is a little bit bittersweet for us , because this is the obama administration s last easter egg roll ( pauses for reaction from crowd ) yeah .
michelle continued , and if we think about what we ve accomplished over the past 7 years , it s pretty incredible .
because when barack and i first got here , one of the goals that we had was to open up the white house to as many people from as many backgrounds as possible .
to open it up to our kids to our musicians , to explore our culture , to expose families to healthy living and to just to have fun .
because what s more fun than being a kid and going to the white house for an easter egg roll and hearing the first lady drone on about healthy living ?
after several minutes of listening to michelle drone on about all of her and barack s achievements in diversity and bringing their culture to the white house , barack had to interrupt her to remind her to mention the troops .
he can be seen at least 2 times saying , military families behind her before michelle finally responded , and also to our military families i ve got the peanut gallery back here remaining me of stuff .
laughs our theme this year , in our final year is pretty simple , it s let s celebrate .
let s celebrate all the good work that we ve done , all the great messaging that we ve had , all the amazing change that we ve seen in this country .