danang , vietnam ( reuters ) - president donald trump said he believed president vladimir putin when he denied accusations that russia meddled in last year s u.s. election , despite u.s. intelligence agencies conclusion of russian interference .
trump made the comment after he and putin met briefly at a summit in vietnam on saturday and agreed on a joint statement supporting a political solution for syria , now in its seventh year of civil war .
it was the first encounter of the two leaders since july and came during a low in u.s.-russia relations and at a time when trump is haunted by an investigation into accusations that putin influenced the election that brought him to the white house .
putin reiterated the denials of interference , trump said .
every time he sees me he says , i didn t do that , and i really believe that , when he tells me that , he means it , trump told reporters aboard air force one after leaving the asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit in the resort of danang .
i think he is very insulted by it , which is not a good thing for our country , trump said .
trump has called allegations of campaign collusion with moscow a hoax .
a special counsel , robert mueller , is conducting a probe that has led to charges against trump s former campaign manager paul manafort and his associate rick gates .
u.s. intelligence agencies have also concluded russians interfered to tip the election in trump s favor through hacking and releasing emails to embarrass democratic candidate hillary clinton and spreading social media propaganda .
on saturday , james clapper , the former director of national intelligence , said trump has been informed of the conclusions showing russia s meddling .
president trump was presented with clear and indisputable evidence that russia interfered in the election .
clapper told reuters .
clapper was the national intelligence director when his office in january released the conclusion reached by the cia , federal bureau of investigation and national security agency that russia had meddled in the 2016 u.s. presidential election told reuters .
the fact that the president would take putin at his word over that of the intelligence community is quite simply unconscionable , clapper said .
russia has repeatedly denied meddling .
the republican chairman of the senate armed services committee , john mccain , took trump to task over his comments about putin , using the america first phrase that trump invoked at the apec summit in laying out his trade priorities .
there s nothing america first about taking the word of a kgb colonel over that of the american intelligence community , mccain said in a statement .
putin is a former kgb officer and ex-head of russia s fsb security service .
adam schiff , the top democrat on the u.s. house of representatives intelligence committee , which is investigating the issue , accused trump of siding with putin over u.s. intelligence agencies .
the president fools no one .
he understands that the russians intervened through the hacking and dumping of his opponent s emails , the fruits of which he exploited time and again on the campaign trail , schiff said in a statement .
in danang , putin told reporters that an alleged link between manafort and russia was fabricated by trump s opponents .
putin dismissed suggestions russia influenced the elections through political advertising .
tech companies , including facebook , have said some russian-bought political content spread on their platforms around the time .
there is no confirmation of our mass media meddling in election campaigns and there can t be any , putin said .
trump , who had emphasized on the 2016 campaign trail that it would be nice if the united states and russia could work together , made this case again on saturday .
he said it would benefit washington to have good ties with moscow so they could work together on issues including syria s civil war , the conflict in ukraine and the north korean nuclear crisis .
look , i can t stand there and argue with him , i would rather have him get out of syria , trump said .
i would rather ... get to work with him on the ukraine rather than standing and arguing .
in vietnam , trump and putin agreed a joint statement that said there was no military solution to the syrian conflict , pledged to continue de-confliction to ensure the u.s. and russian militaries do not clash there , and pledged new support for the u.n.-backed geneva process , which has failed to find a political solution to end the conflict .
russia has militarily supported syrian president bashar al-assad while the united states has at times backed syrian rebels against him , though the recent u.s. focus has been on defeating the islamic state militant group that had seized parts of syria .
with islamic state having suffered losses in syria , iraq and beyond , greater attention is turning to the broader conflict between assad s forces and rebel factions .
trump hailed the joint statement .
we did it very quickly , he told reporters .
we seem to have a very good feeling for each other , a good relationship considering we don t know each other well .
after their meeting , putin described trump as a well-mannered person and comfortable to deal with .
trump and putin were seen chatting amicably as they walked to the position where the traditional apec summit photo was being taken at a viewpoint looking over the south china sea .