medellin , colombia ( reuters ) - pope francis on saturday visited medellin , epicenter of colombia s narco wars of the 1980s and asked that god convert the hearts of the drug assassins who cut short so many young lives .
on his penultimate day in colombia , francis flew to medellin , the city northwest of the capital that was once notorious as the stomping grounds of drug lord pablo escobar .
in unscripted comments at the last event of the day , he said he could not leave without mentioning the painful memory of so many young lives truncated , discarded , destroyed .
he asked his listeners to ask god for forgiveness for those who destroyed the dreams of so many young people .
ask the lord to convert their hearts , ask for an end to this defeat of young humanity .
the medellin that francis visited is a city transformed since his predecessor pope john paul visited in 1986 .
it was then rife with violence among cartels , paramilitary groups and guerrillas that raged in the poor comuna neighborhoods on its outskirts .
the city is now heralded as a model of urban development .
it has installed cable cars up the steep andean slopes that surround it to save working-class residents a punishing climb , and it has built libraries in sections that were once sites of gun battles .
feared drug trafficker escobar , medellin s most infamous resident , was gunned down in the city in a u.s.-backed operation in 1993 .
he was recently resurrected as a character in the popular netflix series narcos .
at the start of the day , francis said a mass where he urged colombians to help their fellow citizens who hunger for food , dignity and god , pressing his appeal for the south american country to tackle social inequality .
speaking in a homily to hundreds of thousands of people on muddied fields , francis urged colombians to get involved in helping each other and to embrace acts of non-violence , reconciliation and peace .
the leader of the world s 1.2 billion roman catholics has brought a message of national reconciliation as the country tries to heal the wounds left by a 50-year civil war and bitter disagreements over last year s peace deal with leftist guerrillas that some say lets them off too leniently .
on friday in the tropical city of villavicencio , the pontiff asked colombians skeptical of the deal with the farc guerrillas to be open to reconciliation with those who have repented , speaking hours after a top rebel leader asked the pontiff for forgiveness .. francis has also used his trip to the predominantly roman catholic country to denounce the social inequality that still plagues colombia , which has extreme poverty in some rural areas .
he has called for laws to tackle the structural causes of these problems , which he said spur violence .
christians , he told the ecstatic crowd at the mass , are called upon to be brave , to have that evangelical courage which springs from knowing that there are many who are hungry , who hunger for god - how many people hunger for god !
- who hunger for dignity , because they have been deprived .
he visits the city of cartagena on sunday before leaving for rome that night .