dubai ( reuters ) - the health of bahrain s top shi ite muslim cleric has deteriorated , activists said on monday , after months under virtual house arrest following a government decision to revoke his citizenship .
bahraini officials did not respond to a request for a comment on the reports about ayatollah isa qassim s state of health .
news about his condition has stoked tension in bahrain as the sunni muslim-led monarchy pursues a crackdown on dissent by majority shi ites that has included closing down two main political groupings and banning activists from travel or putting them on trial .
activists said qassim , who is believed to be in his 70s , was suffering constant pain and excreting blood .
doctors who visited him on sunday at his home in the village of duraz , outside the capital manama , have diagnosed him to be suffering from a groin hernia requiring emergency operation , according to the london-based bahrain institute for rights and democracy ( bird ) .
such an operation carries a high mortality risk at sheikh isa qassim s age .
he also suffers high blood pressure , diabetes and a form of heart disease , bird added in a statement .
sheikh maytham al-salman , a prominent bahraini interfaith activist , said the manama government was responsible for qassim s health as it controlled access to medical treatment .
the international community must ensure bahrain is pressured to ensure the safety of sheikh isa qassim is protected , he added in comments published by bird .
the interior ministry announced in june 2016 that qassim s citizenship had been revoked , accusing him of trying to divide bahraini society , encourage youths to violate the constitution and promote a sectarian environment in the gulf arab state .
the decision sparked angry protests in bahrain and drew sharp condemnation from regional shi ite power iran and statements of concern from the united states and britain .
in may , five people were killed when security forces raided qassim s homevillage to disperse followers who had camped out outside his house , and arrested 286 people , according to the interior ministry .
bahrain , where the u.s. fifth fleet that helps secure the gulf s oil-shipping lanes is based , crushed arab spring protests in 2011 led by shi ites demanding a bigger share in running the country .
but unrest has lingered on with occasional outbursts that are put down by force by the authorities .