barcelona/madrid ( reuters ) - the madrid government sacked catalonia s president and dismissed its parliament on friday , hours after the region declared itself an independent nation in spain s gravest political crisis since the return of democracy four decades ago .
a new regional election will be held in catalonia on dec. 21 , prime minister mariano rajoy said in a televised address on a day of high drama .
as well as removing carles puigdemont as head of the autonomous region , he also fired its police chief and said central government ministries would take over the catalan administration .
spain is living through a sad day , rajoy said .
we believe it is urgent to listen to catalan citizens , to all of them , so that they can decide their future and nobody can act outside the law on their behalf .
as he spoke , thousands of independence supporters packed the sant jaume square in front of the catalan regional headquarters in barcelona , their earlier joyful mood somewhat dampened by rajoy s actions .
in a stunning show of defiance of madrid , the catalan parliament had voted in the afternoon to make a unilateral declaration of independence .
despite the emotions and celebrations inside and outside the building , it was a futile gesture as shortly afterwards the spanish senate in madrid approved the imposition of direct rule .
several european countries , including france and germany , and the united states also rejected the independence declaration and said they supported rajoy s efforts to preserve spain s unity .
the crisis has now reached a new and possibly dangerous level as independence supporters have called for a campaign of disobedience .
immediately after news of the vote , spanish shares and bonds were sold off , reflecting business concern over the turmoil .
catalonia held an independence referendum on oct. 1 which was declared illegal by madrid and marred by heavy-handed national police tactics to stop it .
although the referendum endorsed independence , it drew only a 43 percent turnout as catalans who oppose independence largely boycotted it .
the independence push has caused deep resentment around spain .
the chaos has also prompted a flight of business from catalonia and alarmed european leaders who fear the crisis could fan separatist sentiment around the continent .
catalonia is one of spain s most prosperous regions and already has a high degree of autonomy .
but it has a litany of historic grievances , exacerbated during the 1939-1975 franco dictatorship , when its culture and politics were suppressed .
in barcelona , jordi mercade , a 32-year-old engineer celebrating with friends , said he had mixed feelings about the day s events .
it s a day for history but many of us here also know we are not independent .
they have the force .
we are proud to having declared independence but we know this is not something definitive .
it is not certain whether the new election can resolve the crisis , as it could increase the numbers of independence supporters in parliament .
also unclear is how rajoy s other measures will work on the ground , because of the reactions of civil servants and the regional police , know as the mossos d esquadra , who are reported to be divided in their loyalties .
the main secessionist group , the catalan national assembly , called on civil servants not to follow orders from the spanish government and urged them to follow peaceful resistance .
tensions are likely to rise significantly over the coming days , antonio barroso of teneo intelligence said in a note .
demonstrators might try to prevent the police from removing catalan ministers from their offices if the central government decides to do so .
this increases the risk of violent clashes with the police .
short-lived liberty a big crowd of independence supporters gathered outside the regional parliament in barcelona , shouting liberty in catalan and singing traditional songs as the independence vote went through .
among them was monica sanz , 44 , a university lecturer who wore a catalan flag around her neck .
we tried all peaceful means .
moderate people have reached this point because it was impossible to make an agreement with spain , she said .
the motion , passed after a passionate debate from advocates and opponents of independence , said catalonia constituted an independent , sovereign and social democratic state .
lawmakers from members of three national parties - the people s party , the socialists and ciudadanos - walked out before the vote .
members of the pro-independence parties and the far-left podemos then voted 70-10 in favour , in a secret ballot aimed at hindering any attempt by madrid to lay criminal charges on them .
the soon-to-be-sacked puigdemont left the chamber to shouts of president !
and mayors who had come from outlying areas brandished their ceremonial batons and sang the catalan anthem els segadors ( the reapers ) .
catalonia is and will be a land of freedom .
in times of difficulty and in times of celebration .
now more than ever , puigdemont said on twitter .
but within an hour , the upper house of spain s parliament in madrid authorized rajoy s government to rule catalonia directly .
spain s constitutional court started a review of the vote for prosecutors to decide if its constituted rebellion .
in brussels , the president of the european council , donald tusk , said the independence vote changed nothing and the eu would only deal with the central government .
spain s ibex fell as much 2.1 percent to a four-day low during the day , 10-year government bond yields hit a day high , and the euro dipped against the dollar on friday after the catalan independence declaration .
the region contributes about a fifth of spain s economy , the fourth-largest in the eurozone .
jp morgan said that due to the uncertainty , it was lowering its forecast for spain s gdp for the last quarter of 2017 and first of 2018 to below the 3.5 per cent seen so far this year .