geneva ( reuters ) - the u.n. aid coordinator called on the saudi-led coalition to open all yemen s seaports urgently on tuesday , saying millions of lives were at risk .
the saudi-led coalition fighting yemen s houthi movement said last week it had closed all air , land and seaports in yemen to stem what it said was the flow of arms to the houthis from iran .
we have some 21 million people needing assistance and seven million of those are in famine-like conditions and rely completely on food aid , u.n. humanitarian coordinator for yemen jamie mcgoldrick said .
the continued closure by the saudi-led coalition of critical seaports and airports is aggravating an already dire humanitarian situation .
i think it poses a critical threat to the lives of millions who are already struggling to survive .
mcgoldrick was speaking to reporters in geneva by phone from amman , because he said flights into sanaa were blocked .
the humanitarian impact of what is happening right now is unimaginable , he said .
the saudi-led coalition has said it will keep hodeidah port closed until a u.n. verification programme is reviewed to ensure no weapons reach the houthis .
iran denies arming the houthis and blames the two-and-a-half-year conflict in yemen on riyadh .
mcgoldrick said the saudi plan to supply yemen through the saudi port of jizan in the north and aden in the south was too complicated , dangerous , slow and expensive , adding an estimated $ 30 per tonne to every shipment .
we would ask that the coalition opens all the seaports as a matter of urgency and allows humanitarian and other supplies to move , as well as the movement of aid workers , he said .
humanitarian agencies had been successful in preventing famine and tackling a cholera outbreak that has sickened more than 900,000 people in six months and killed over 2,200 .
this import blockage will reverse those gains and leave millions of people in a very precarious situation as we move ahead .
the humanitarians are just holding things together , waiting for a peace process which is very much in the distance .
the north of the country , home to 78 percent of the population , had 20 days stocks of diesel , crucial for pumping water and fighting cholera , and 10 days stocks of gasoline , with no prospect of resupply soon , he said .
yemen had commercial wheat stocks for three months for the entire population of 28 million and about 120 days of rice .
the u.n. children s agency unicef had only three weeks of vaccine supplies left in yemen , and both unicef and the world health organization had shipments of essential medicines and vaccines blocked in djibouti , mcgoldrick said .
yemen s national airline said on tuesday a commercial flight had landed at aden international airport after acquiring security permits .