jakarta ( reuters ) - thousands of indonesians , led by islamist groups , held a rally near the myanmar embassy in jakarta on wednesday to protest against the treatment of rohingya muslims and demand the snapping of ties between the two countries .
indonesia has the world s largest population of muslims and there have been several anti-myanmar protests in jakarta and the malaysian capital of kuala lumpur over the treatment of buddhist-majority myanmar s roughly 1.1 million rohingyas .
roads were blocked and barbed wire barriers put up around the embassy , in a leafy district of the capital , which was patrolled by police in riot gear who set up water cannons .
some protesters chanted allahu akbar ( god is greatest ) , while others shouted slogans such as slaughter myanmar and burn the embassy .
buddhists should respect muslims in myanmar in the same way that muslims respected buddhists in indonesia , one speaker told the crowd , using a loud-hailer .
almost 125,000 rohingyas have been forced to flee clashes between rohingya insurgents and the army in myanmar s northwestern state of rakhine .
tens of thousands have crossed the border into neighboring bangladesh .
indonesian foreign minister retno marsudi met myanmar leader aung san suu kyi and top security officials this week to urge a halt to the bloodshed .
marsudi also visited dhaka , capital of bangladesh on tuesday , to offer help in tackling the crisis .
some protesters at the jakarta rally called for the expulsion of the myanmar ambassador over the issue , as well as for diplomatic ties between the two countries to be severed .
myanmar embassy staff would be safe , however , said a foreign ministry spokesman , armanatha nasir .
it is the responsibility of the host countries to ensure the safety of all diplomatic missions and their personnel , the spokesman said .
indonesia takes this responsibility seriously .
at the weekend , a petrol bomb was thrown at the embassy causing a small fire .
indonesian police have also pledged to bar islamist groups from staging a rally on friday at the borobudur buddhist temple in central java to protest against the treatment of myanmar s rohingya muslims .