beijing ( reuters ) - china will bring its paramilitary police force , the people s armed police , under the control of the central military commission which controls the country s armed forces from jan. 1 , state media said on wednesday .
since taking power five years ago , president xi jinping has overseen a sweeping modernization of the people s liberation army , the world s largest military , laying off troops , streamlining its organization and investing in advanced weapons .
in a brief report , the official xinhua news agency said that from midnight on jan. 1 the people s armed police would no longer fall under the purview of the state council , or cabinet , and instead report to the central military commission .
xi heads the central military commission in his role as armed forces chief and commander in chief .
xi has steadily consolidated his power over the military , and has appointed allies to key positions of power in the armed forces .
xinhua did not provide any details on how the new reporting structure would work or why the government had made the decision .
however , the party s official people s daily , in a commentary for publication on thursday but reported by xinhua on wednesday , said the move was needed to ensure security and promote the aim of having a strong military .
the people s armed police will remain separate , carry out its existing functions and not be absorbed into the people s liberation army , the people s daily said .
the paramilitary police force serves as a backup for the military in times of war , and domestically has a role in putting down protests and counter-terrorism as well as border defense and fire-fighting .
xi has radically overhauled the old soviet-era command structure of the military to make the armed forces nimbler and better able to respond to crises at home and abroad .
that has included condensing the command structure and giving greater emphasis on new capabilities including cyberspace , electronic and information warfare .
china s military has not fought a war in decades , but faces what the government calls a complex security environment , such as nuclear-armed north korea and territorial disputes in the south china sea and over self-ruled taiwan , claimed by china as its own .