morning trump , pence and their families are expected to attend services at st. john s episcopal church , just steps from the white house.afterward , president barack obama and first lady michelle obama welcome trump and his wife melania to the white house for morning tea .
the two couples will then travel together to the capitol by motorcade .
9:30 am inauguration ceremony begins on the west front of the capitol with musical performances.attendees will include members of congress , supreme court justices , diplomats and the public .
former presidents jimmy carter , george w. bush and bill clinton will attend , as will trump s election opponent hillary clinton.former president george h.w .
bush is in frail health and will not be present.sixteen-year-old soprano jackie evancho will sing the national anthem .
the rockettes dance troupe will also be performing , at a time yet to be announced .
11:30 am opening remarks .
religious leaders will offer the invocation and readings.pence will be sworn in by supreme court justice clarence thomas .
noon trump will recite the oath of office , administered by us supreme court chief justice john roberts .
he will use president abraham lincoln s inauguration bible , as well as the bible that trump s mother gave to him at his sunday school graduation in 1955 .
afterward , trump will deliver his inaugural address .
12:30 ceremony ends.afterward , in keeping with tradition , trump and pence will attend the congressional lunch in the capitol .
3 pm to 5 pm inaugural parade .
the newly minted president and vice-president make their way 1.5 miles ( 2.4 kilometers ) along pennsylvania avenue from the capitol to the white house , trailed by some 8,000 parade participants .
they will include members of all us military branches , as well as high school and university marching bands , equestrian corps , first responders , veteran groups and even a tractor brigade .
7 pm to 11 pm trump , pence and their wives will make appearances at three official inaugural balls , two of which will be held at the walter e. washington convention center and the other at the national building museum .
a number of semi-official and unofficial balls also will take place throughout the city .
10 am to 11 am trump and pence attend the interfaith national prayer service , held at the washington national cathedral .