monterrey ( reuters ) - a mexican presidential hopeful and governor of a wealthy border state said he would cut taxes to compete with lower rates in the united states if president donald trump s fiscal reform passes congress , hinting at a broader potential response in mexico .
jaime rodriguez , the governor of nuevo leon who is seeking to become the first independent to take the presidency , said he would lower many taxes if successful .
we re going to compete , he told reuters on monday .
if i make it and am able to be president , i would lower taxes , he added , though he declined to give details .
mexico s government has been watching trump s fiscal plans closely , and some senior officials and lawmakers say the country may have to cut taxes if the united states does .
the u.s. senate approved a bill on saturday that could see corporation tax slashed to 20 percent from 35 percent , raising questions over whether this could make investment in mexico , where the corporate tax rate is 30 percent , less attractive .
two years ago , rodriguez pulled off a surprise win with a social media-led campaign and became the first independent governor of a mexican state .
nuevo leon , home to the major industrial hub of monterrey , has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) , which spurred an influx of investment from companies seeking access to u.s. consumers .
that included a $ 1 billion investment from south korea s kia motors under a 2014 deal , although rodriguez and others were critical of the incentives the company received .
we don t want any more car assembly plants , he said .
we won t give incentives like the ones we gave to kia to any other company , it s excessive .
trump has threatened to withdraw from nafta if he can not rework it in favor of the united states .
however , rodriguez , who in may 2016 predicted that trump would win the presidency , was adamant that nafta would survive .
it s not going to collapse , he said .
known in mexico as el bronco due to his blunt style , the 59-year-old rodriguez leads aspiring independents to gather the 866,593 signatures needed by feb. 19 to get on the ballot for the july 1 election , according to statistics from electoral regulator ine .
however , he has reached the threshold of 1 percent of voters in just three states , and the law requires getting that share in 17 states .
polls so far suggest rodriguez is unlikely to mount a serious challenge for the presidency .