la paz ( reuters ) - bolivia s highest court struck down limits on re-election in the country s constitution and election laws on tuesday , paving the way for socialist president evo morales to run for a fourth term in 2019 .
in september , morales movement to socialism ( mas ) party asked the south american country s highest court to rescind legal limits barring elected authorities from seeking re-election indefinitely , arguing that these violate human rights .
all people that were limited by the law and the constitution are hereby able to run for office , because it is up to the bolivian people to decide , macario lahor cortez , head of the plurinational constitutional court , wrote in the ruling .
in the decision , the court cited the american convention on human rights , a multilateral treaty signed by many countries in the americas .
the secretary general of the organization of american states , which is responsible for enforcing the treaty , said the clause cited in the decision does not mean the right to perpetual power .
besides , presidential re-election was rejected by popular will in a referendum in 2016 , luis almagro wrote on twitter late on tuesday .
the ruling is final and can not be appealed .
morales , who took power in 2006 , had previously accepted the results of a 2016 referendum , when 51 percent of bolivian voters rejected his proposal to reform the constitution to end existing term limits .
he later reversed course and said that while he would happily give up office , his supporters were pushing for him to stay .
the landlocked andean country has enjoyed relative prosperity and calm under morales , the country s first indigenous president .
but his efforts to extend term limits have set off protests across the country , with opponents arguing morales was trying to tighten his grip on power in the vein of venezuelan president nicolas maduro , a leftist ally .
opposition leader samuel doria medina said on twitter that the court decision was a blow to the constitution .