beirut ( reuters ) - a country long divided by sectarian conflicts , lebanon has found a rare point of unity since saad al-hariri s shock resignation as prime minister : lebanese of all stripes want him to come back from saudi arabia and to continue his work as premier .
hariri left beirut for riyadh on nov. 3 and resigned the following day in a speech that caught even his closest aides off guard .
he cited fear of assassination and blamed iran and its lebanese ally hezbollah for sowing strife in the arab world .
the lebanese authorities believe saudi arabia forced hariri to resign and is holding him against his will , say top lebanese state officials and politicians close to hariri .
while some in lebanon believe hariri s decision was his own and blame iran and hezbollah for the crisis , many others , including some of his longtime supporters , think he was forced to quit .
billboards and posters demanding his return have gone up across beirut .
we want our pm back , declared a huge billboard near the beirut waterfront .
runners in the annual beirut marathon on sunday echoed the demand .
some wore t-shirts printed with hariri s face and the message : we re all waiting for you .
this year , there are definitely many telling him we are waiting for you , and god willing he will come back safe and sound , may al-khalil , the founder and president of the beirut marathon association , said .
hariri ran in the beirut marathon last year , shortly after he was installed as prime minister of a coalition government that generated hope of stability after years of political tension and paralysis .
thousands of runners turned out , defying security concerns that have grown since hariri resigned and saudi arabia declared both lebanon and hezbollah as hostile parties .
sheikh saad al-hariri represents all lebanese people , said beirut mayor jamal itani , wearing a cap that read running for you .
lebanese wanted hariri to return as prime minister , he said .
saudi arabia has denied reports hariri , a long time ally of riyadh , is being held against his will and coerced into resigning .
it says he is a free man and quit because hezbollah was calling the shots in his government .
ashraf rifi , a hawkish sunni politician who is fiercely critical of hezbollah and iran , has welcomed hariri s resignation , saying it pulled the official cover away from iran s project in lebanon .
tension between hariri and hezbollah has been a defining feature of lebanese politics since the 2005 assassination of his father , rafik al-hariri .
a u.n.-backed tribunal has charged five hezbollah members over the killing .
hezbollah denies any role .
but hariri has twice set aside his differences with hezbollah to lead coalition governments including the group .
we all love him , even those who weren t sympathetic to him are now sympathetic , because as you know he s the prime minister of all of lebanon , not just prime minister for us sunnis , said yousef saad al-deen , 40 .
no one is allowed to decide for us , neither who our president is nor who we will elect , he added , speaking in the staunchly pro-hariri beirut neighborhood of tariq al-jdideh , where newly erected posters pledged loyalty to hariri .
munir khatib , a man in his late 60s , said iran was to blame .
he is not being held , as they are saying , he said .
hezbollah , the strongest group in lebanon thanks to its vast arsenal , has declared saudi arabia s detention of hariri as an insult to all lebanese .
at a rally on friday , hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah said he must return .
the future movement , hariri s political party , also says hariri must come back to lebanon , calling him a national leader whose presence is vital to upholding the lebanese system .
it has also taken aim at criticism of saudi arabia , on saturday rejecting campaigns targeting the kingdom .
lebanon , which fought a civil war from 1975-90 , is governed according to a carefully balanced system that parcels out the state along sectarian lines .
many say now is the time for unity .
the war had taught us that if we don t have our ranks united and on the same ground , the country can not succeed , said arlette dakkash , a resident of beirut .