when you think of roofs and ar-15s , a great marketing campaign might not be the first thing to come to mind , but a roofing company in colorado is offering the guns to anyone who buys a new roof.weatherproof roofing is just a few miles from the scenes of two of the nation s most notorious mass shootings : the aurora shooting at a batman movie and the columbine high school shooting , which seemed to start our epidemic of mass shootings .
ar-15s are a common choice for mass shooters , including the orlando shooter , who killed 49 people , making it the deadliest mass shooting in u.s. history .
so , somehow , james webb , the owner of the roofing company , thought his customers would love to get their hands on a free killing machine .
we are the only roofing company in the country that is offering this we figured we take a stand on what we believe , webb said .
we help people protect the outside , and now we empower people to protect the inside , webb said.source : abc7 chicagohere s the video : yes , the supreme court has ruled that the second amendment means people can own guns , lots of guns if they want , but ar-15s are particularly deadly and basically unnecessary , unless you plan on heading to war.ar-15s were once banned in this country , but after the assault weapons ban expired in 2004 , they became even easier to obtain than handguns .
some states have regulated assault weapons , such as the ar-15 , but colorado , while liberal in some areas , loves their guns and hates their gun laws .
only the city of denver bans assault weapons.image via think progressthe bottom line , though , is that while ar-15s have benefitted from an incredible marketing campaign , including one that tries to redefine masculinity ( apparently for those who are not sure of their masculinity ) , it s a military style weapon and there s almost no practical use .
for hunting , it could blow the prey to bits and for self defense , it could blow a house to bits .
of course , a good way for a roofing company to get repeat business is to give people toys that will blow holes through the new roof .
as for the people who don t want ar-15s , webb invites them to get their roofs elsewhere.featured image via video screen capture .