nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan president uhuru kenyatta said on saturday the country had a problem with its judiciary , which annulled his election win of last month , and we must fix it .
the law society of kenya said in a strongly worded statement that kenyatta , as the head of state who under the constitution is a symbol of national unity , should refrain from derogatory comments about the judiciary .
kenyatta , speaking a day after the supreme court canceled his victory and ordered new polls within 60 days , repeated his message from friday that he would respect its ruling .
but , speaking on live television at the state house in nairobi after meeting elected officials from his jubilee party , he added who even elected you ? ... we have a problem and we must fix it .
he did not elaborate .
the decision to annul the election was unexpected and unprecedented in africa where governments often hold sway over judges .
the president s latest comments mark the second time since friday s ruling that he has criticized the judiciary in public .
on friday , during an impromptu rally in nairobi , he accused the court of ignoring the will of the people and dismissed the chief justice s colleagues as wakora , or crooks .
the lawyers association condemned kenyatta s use of the kiswahili word , saying that the judges serving in the highest court had acted professionally , with honor and dignity .
they ... do not deserve the disrespectful treatment they are being shown , the statement read .
the president s appearances since the ruling suggest he intends to campaign rigorously for the re-run of the aug.8 poll .
he said via twitter on saturday : for now let us meet at the ballot .
attention now turns back to the election board .
the court ruled that it had failed , neglected or refused to conduct the presidential election in a manner consistent with the dictates of the constitution .
raila odinga , the veteran opposition leader whose coalition brought the petition against the election board to the supreme court , said on friday that some officials from the commission should face criminal prosecution .
the chairman of the election board said there would be personnel changes , but it was not clear if that would be enough for the opposition .
sweeping out the whole board would complicate efforts to hold a new poll within two months .
last month s election which included the presidential poll in addition to races at other levels of government was one of the most expensive ever held in africa .
ahead of the vote kenya s treasury said preparation and conduct of polling would cost the equivalent of around $ 480 million .
analysts saw the president s latest comments on the judiciary as a worrisome development .
it s extremely unfortunate that kenyatta seems to be issuing veiled threats at the judiciary , said murithi mutiga , a nairobi-based senior africa analyst at the international crisis group .
this was a tremendous moment for kenyan democracy , where the court upheld the rule of law .
politicians should be careful not to incite the public against the judiciary .
on friday , chief justice david maraga said the supreme court s verdict was backed by four of the six judges and declared kenyatta s victory invalid , null and void .
details of the ruling will be released within 21 days .
prior to last month s election maraga spoke out to emphasize the judiciary s independence .
in a statement he read out on behalf of the judicial service commission less than a week before the election , he listed instances in which politicians from the ruling party and the opposition had tried to intervene in the judiciary s work .
the emerging culture of public lynching of judges and judicial officers by the political class is a vile affront to the rule of law and must be fiercely resisted , the statement read .
we wish to state that ... the judiciary will not cower to these intimidating tactics .
kenya s judiciary went through sweeping changes in a bid to restore confidence in the legal system after the bloodshed following the 2007 election .
experts say the constitution adopted in 2010 enshrines protections for the judiciary against interference by the executive .