guatemala city ( reuters ) - guatemala s top court on tuesday ruled definitively against president jimmy morales internationally criticized push to expel the head of a u.n.-backed anti-corruption unit probing his campaign financing .
the decision by the constitutional court ratifies a provisional ruling that the government could not expel ivan velasquez , a veteran colombian prosecutor who leads guatemala s international commission against impunity , known as cicig .
morales on sunday ordered the expulsion of the prosecutor , who has been a thorn in the president s side by investigating his son and brother , and then seeking to remove his own immunity from investigation over more than $ 800,000 in potentially unexplained campaign funds .
he has denied any wrongdoing .
within the united nations , velasquez has the rank of assistant secretary general .
he is widely respected and the president s moved unleashed a series of resignations from his cabinet and a storm of criticism from western nations .
earlier in the day , morales , 48 , said he would respect the court s decision , stepping back from brinkmanship he displayed at the weekend when he said the court had overstepped its mandate by ruling on the case .
he has sought support from guatemala s mayors , possibly to try to counter the diplomatic pressure and street protests by activists calling him corrupt .
i am not defending corrupt people , i am not against the anti-corruption fight , i am not even against the cicig .
is a machete good or bad ?
it depends on who is wielding it , said the former comedian at a meeting with mayors .
morales won office in 2015 running on a platform of honest governance after his predecessor otto perez molina was forced to resign and imprisoned in a multi-million dollar graft case stemming from a cicig investigation .
the united nations on tuesday said it was disturbed by morales moves against velasquez , while the geneva-based international commission of jurists said failure to comply with the constitutional court ruling could constitute obstruction of justice , a criminal offense .
the president s decision to declare ivan velasquez as non grata and ordering his immediate removal from the country is in clear breach of international law , the icj said in a statement .
hundreds of guatemalans took to the streets on monday in support of velasquez , some shouting take jimmy morales to court !
some groups came out in support of the president and against foreign interference .
the u.s. ambassador to guatemala , todd robinson , told reuters the president s moves could put at risk a u.s. development plan in central america to reduce poverty and crime .
there will probably be consequences from the president s decision , robinson said , while emphasizing that any u.s. measures would have to be carefully thought through so as not to affect the economy or migration to the united states .
many politicians in guatemala consider the foreign-led body , which is unusual among u.n. bodies for its powers to bring cases to prosecutors , to be a violation of national sovereignty .
anti-corruption activists credit it with cleaning up government .