london ( reuters ) - britain s queen elizabeth will add another landmark to her record-breaking reign on monday when she and prince philip celebrate their 70th wedding anniversary .
princess elizabeth , as she was at the time , married dashing naval officer lieutenant philip mountbatten at london s westminster abbey on nov. 20 , 1947 , just two years after the end of world war two , in a lavish ceremony attended by statesmen and royalty from around the world .
seventy years on , elizabeth , 91 , and her 96-year-old husband will mark their platinum anniversary with a small family party at windsor castle , the monarch s home to the west of london .
a spokesman for buckingham palace said there would be no public event to mark the occasion .
greek-born philip , a descendant of elizabeth s great-great-grandmother queen victoria in his own right , has been at his wife s side throughout her 65-year reign , the longest in british history .
he was the person who broke the news to her in 1952 that her father , george vi , had died and that she was now queen .
one of the secrets of this very , very long marriage , and it s an incredibly impressive anniversary , is the fact prince philip has always seen it as his main duty to support the queen , to help her in whatever way he can , royal historian hugo vickers told reuters .
he is the only person who can actually tell the queen absolutely straight what he thinks , and if he thinks some idea is ridiculous he will say so in whatever language he chooses to use .
the couple first met when they attended the wedding of prince philip s cousin , princess marina of greece , to elizabeth s uncle , the duke of kent , in 1934 .
philip then gained the attention of his future wife when the then-13-year-old princess made a visit with her parents to britain s royal naval college at dartmouth in southern england where he was a cadet .
she was truly in love from the very beginning , the queen s cousin margaret rhodes , a life-long friend and one of her bridesmaids who died last year , wrote in her memoir .
their engagement was announced in july 1947 and they married four months later .
with britain still recovering from the war , the wedding offered a rare burst of color and pageantry against an austere background of rationing and shortages .
the 21-year-old princess , who wore an ivory silk norman hartnell gown decorated with 10,000 seed pearls , had to collect coupons for her dress like other post-war brides and the couple spent their honeymoon in southern england and scotland .
while some two billion people were estimated to have watched the couple s grandson prince william marry his wife kate in 2011 , their own wedding was only broadcast live to some 200 million radio listeners , although highlights of the day were captured on grainy black and white film footage .
i can see that you are sublimely happy with philip which is right , but don t forget us is the wish of your ever loving & devoted papa , king george wrote to his daughter after the wedding .
while royal watchers say elizabeth and philip have had their ups and downs like any married couple , they have avoided the travails of three of their four children whose marriages have ended in divorce , most notably heir prince charles s ill-fated union with his late first wife princess diana .
it was at the couple s 50th wedding anniversary in 1997 that the queen paid a rare personal tribute to her husband .
he has , quite simply , been my strength and stay all these years , elizabeth said .
no other british monarch has celebrated such a landmark , and indeed elizabeth was the first to mark a diamond wedding anniversary in 2007 .
philip , who has suffered health issues in recent years and was hospitalized in june , retired from active public life in august .
they both attended a memorial service on remembrance sunday on nov. 12 , although a royal source said the monarch had decided not to lay a wreath so she could watch from a nearby balcony alongside her husband .
without prince philip the queen would have had a very tough and lonely life .
he s been a complete support to her , a rock to her , from the moment she was on the throne , royal biographer claudia joseph told reuters .