the president prides himself on the fact that his administration hasn t had a scandal and he hasn t done something to embarrass himself , jarrett said in an interview broadcast on cnn sunday.the aide , also a close friend of obama and his wife , michelle , credited the first couple with being good people and getting good results .
that s because that s who he is that s who they are and i think that s what really resonates with the american people , jarrett said.critics of the obama administration said jarrett was trying to rewrite history .
nypthe great stimulus heist : obama seems to think nobody will remember he grabbed almost a trillion dollars for stimulus spending , created virtually zero private-sector jobs with it , allowed a great deal of the money to vanish into thin air , and spent the rest of his presidency complaining that he needed hundreds of billions more to repair roads and bridges.vast sums of taxpayer money were wasted on foolish projects that came close to the keynesian economic satire of hiring some people to dig holes , and others to fill them in .
obama added insult to injury by appointing vice president joe biden as the sheriff who would supposedly find all that missing stimulus loot.operation fast and furious : obama partisans seem to think any given example of abuse or ineptitude by their man stopped being a scandal the moment it seemed clear he wouldn t be impeached over it .
operation fast and furious , the obama administration s insane program to use american gun dealers and straw purchasers to arm mexican drug lords , is a scandal with a huge body count , prominently including border patrol agent brian terry and immigration and customs enforcement agent jamie zapata , plus hundreds of mexican citizens .
agent terry s family certainly thinks it qualifies as a scandal.sheriff paul babeu implicates eric holder and the obama justice department as accomplices in the crimes involving weapons used in the fast and furious scandal : it is difficult to imagine any republican administration surviving anything remotely close to fast and furious .
the media would have dogged a republican president without respite , especially when it became clear his attorney general was putting political spin ahead of accountability and the safety of the american people.remember , ag eric holder escaped perjury charges by claiming he didn t know what his own subordinates were doing a pioneering , but sadly not unique , example of an obama official using his or her incompetence as a defense.eric holder held in contempt of congress : this was a result of operation fast and furious , but it merits distinction as a separate scandal in its own right .
holder was the first sitting member of a president s cabinet in the history of the united states to be held in contempt of congress.obamacare : everything about obamacare is a scandal , from the president s incessant lies about keeping your old plan if you liked it , to rep. nancy pelosi s we need to pass it to find out what s in it dereliction of congressional duty.obamacare is a scam , pure and simple sold on false pretenses by people who knew it wasn t going to work the way they promised .
it doesn t feel right to dismiss it as a failed scheme when so much of the failure was intentional .
the bill was so sloppily crafted that democrats were basically signing blank sheets of paper when they rushed it through congress in a foul-smelling cloud of back-room deals .
obamacare s designers precipitated a constitutional crisis by forgetting they left in a provision to cut subsidies for states that didn t set up health-care exchanges a provision that would have killed the entire program stone-dead two years ago , if it had been enforced as written.the supreme court rewrote obamacare on the fly twice to keep it alive , which is a scandal in and of itself .
president obama delayed and rewrote the law so often it was impossible to keep track of the changes , cutting congress out of the loop completely .
( actually , someone did keep careful track of them , and the tally was up to 70 distinct changes by january 2016 .
) that made some of obama s rewritten mandates and deadlines blatantly illegal but then , the affordable care act isn t really a law in the sense american government understood the term .
in practice it became something entirely new , an enabling act that gave the executive unlimited power to do whatever it thought necessary to keep the system running .
if subverting the american system of government isn t a scandal , what is ? spying on journalists : establishment media came about as close to falling out of love with barack obama as ever when his administration was caught spying on journalists.the irs scandal : the selective targeting of conservative groups by a politicized internal revenue service was a scandal grenade democrats and their media pals somehow managed to smother , even though the story began with the irs admitting wrongdoing.founder of non-partisan true the vote group catherine engelbrecht gives gut-wrenching testimony to congress about being being preyed upon by the irs and other government agencies.https : //youtu.be/db21aqu30xwdemocrats suffocated the scandal by acting like circus clowns during congressional hearings , but at no point were the actual facts of the case truly obscured : yes , pro-life and tea party groups were deliberately targeted for extra scrutiny , their tax exemption applications outrageously delayed until after the 2012 election without actually being refused .
if anything remotely comparable had been done to , say , environmentalist and minority activist groups by the irs under a republican administration , the results would have been apocalyptic.the house voted to hold former irs official lois lerner in contempt of congress and to instruct the justice department to probe her for criminal charges.benghazi : this is the clearest example of obama and his supporters thinking all of his pre-2012 scandals ceased to exist the moment he won re-election .
benghazi has been investigated extensively , and argued about passionately , since the night of september 11 , 2012 .
nothing can change the absolute fact that the obama administration s story for the first few weeks after the attack was false , and they knew it was false .
they spun a phony story to buy themselves a little time during a presidential election campaign , and it worked.watch hillary lie and blame the cause of the benghazi attack on our us consulate on an awful youtube video : iran nuclear deal and ransom payment : everything about obama s dealings with iran has been scandalous , beginning with his silence while the green revolution was brutally put down by the mullahs in 2009 .
the iran nuclear deal was pushed with lies and media manipulation .
the infamous pallet of cash that wasn t a ransom has become symbolic of obama s mendacity and penchant for breaking the rules , when he thinks following them is too much trouble.watch obama try to explain his way out of makingbowe bergdahl : bergdahl s ultimate fate rests in the hands of a military court ( unless obama pardons him ) but no verdict can erase the scandalous way this administration conducted the prisoner swap that freed him from the taliban and its allies .
many lies were told , the law was flouted , a deal of questionable wisdom was struck with his captors , and outraged americans demanded recognition for the soldiers who died searching for bergdahl after he abandoned his post.polluting the colorado river : the environmental protection agency managed to turn the colorado river orange under this greenest of green presidents .
of course there was a cover-up .
would you expect anything less from this transparent administration ?