khobar , saudi arabia ( reuters ) - bahrain said an explosion which caused a fire at its main oil pipeline on friday was caused by terrorist sabotage , linking the unprecedented attack to its arch-foe iran , which denies any role in the gulf island kingdom s unrest .
a key western ally and host to the u.s. fifth fleet , sunni muslim-ruled bahrain has for years grappled with protests and sporadic violence coming from its shi ite majority .
the incident was an act of sabotage and a dangerous act of terrorism aimed at harming the higher interests of the nation and the safety of the people , the interior ministry said on its website .
terrorist acts witnessed by the country in the recent period are carried out through direct contacts and instructions from iran , the statement quoted interior minister sheikh rashid bin abdullah al-khalifa as saying .
in tehran , foreign ministry spokesman bahram qassemi rejected the allegations as false talk and childish accusations , the ministry said on its website .
bahraini authorities said they had brought under control the fire at the oil pipeline .
state-run bahrain petroleum company ( bapco ) closed the flow of oil to the stricken pipeline , the civil defence said in a statement earlier on saturday .
residents close to the incident near buri village , some 15 kilometres ( 10 miles ) from the capital manama , were being evacuated to a safe shelter , the statement added .
saudi arabia s energy ministry said pumping to bahrain had been suspended and the kingdom was stepping up security precautions at its own facilities .
the attack on the pipeline ... was followed by the suspension of the pumping of oil to the state of bahrain , the saudi ministry of energy , industry and mineral resources said .
the ministry of energy also confirmed that it has increased its security precautions at all its facilities , and that all these facilities enjoy the highest levels of protection and safety , it added in a statement .
after authorities quashed shi ite-led arab spring protests in 2011 , militants have launched deadly bombing and shooting attacks against security forces that manama blames on tehran .
iran denies any role in bahrain s unrest .
bahrain relies on the abu safa oilfield for the majority of its oil .
it shares the field with saudi arabia .
oil to bahrain is transported via the 55 km a-b pipeline which has a capacity of 230,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) .
a new 350,000-bpd oil pipeline between the two countries will be completed next year and will serve the planned expansion of bahrain s refinery capacity .
arabian light crude oil will flow from saudi aramco s abqaiq plant via the 115-km new pipeline , 73 km of which will run overland and the rest under the gulf .