washington/oslo ( reuters ) - devastation from hurricane irma in the caribbean will sharpen the demands from small island nations that top fossil-fuel consumers help them cope with damage attributable to climate change , according to representatives of some of those countries .
that will put island nations on a collision course with the united states and other rich countries during united nations climate talks in bonn , germany , in november .
the united states , under president donald trump , has expressed doubts about global warming and has vowed to withdraw from a global pact to fight it , while other wealthy nations have long resisted calls to pay for climate-related loss and damage abroad .
if ever there was a case for loss and damage , this is it , ronny jumeau , u.n. ambassador from indian ocean island nation the seychelles , told reuters , referring to irma and other recent storms .
the seychelles is a member of the u.n. negotiating bloc alliance of small island states ( aosis ) .
hurricane irma graphically shows the destructive power of climate change and underscores that loss and damage isn t some abstract concept , but the reality of life today for the people who contributed least to the problem , said thoriq ibrahim , maldives environment minister who chairs aosis .
fiji prime minister frank bainimarama , whose country will host the bonn talks nov. 6-17 , has said the issue of who pays for loss and damage from climate-related disasters will be a key priority at the summit .
irma barreled into florida on sunday , sparking one of the largest evacuations in u.s. history , after leveling caribbean islands st. martin , antigua and barbuda .
gaston browne , prime minister of barbuda and antigua , said barbuda is barely inhabitable .
hurricane harvey slammed into texas on aug. 25 , triggering record flooding that killed around 60 people and caused billions of dollars in damage .
ministers from island nations will point to the back-to-back storms to pressure negotiators at bonn to agree to details of a mechanism for addressing loss and damage from extreme weather as well as slower changes such as sea level rises and desertification .
climate scientists have said warmer air and water resulting from climate change may have contributed to the severity of the storms .
the u.s. environmental protection agency has disputed such claims as an attempt to politicize natural disasters .
loss and damage has been a contentious issue in climate negotiations for years , pitting rich countries against poor .
governments first approved a u.n. loss and damage mechanism in warsaw in 2013 and reaffirmed it in the 2015 paris agreement .
but it is unclear exactly what it would cover , who would pay , and how much it would cost .
under pressure from the rich nations , the preamble of the paris agreement says the loss and damage mechanism does not involve or provide a basis for any liability or compensation .
myles allen , a professor of geosystem science at the university of oxford in england , said developed nations don t want to open the door to legal liability .
but he said there should be debate about whether major corporations , such as producers of coal and oil , or other parties could be held responsible .
researchers at the berlin-based heinrich b ll foundation have said at least $ 300 billion a year by 2030 would be needed to help people who lose their land and culture or are forced to migrate as a result of extreme climate-related problems .
such spending would come on top of $ 100 billion a year in funding by 2020 that richer nations have promised poorer ones under the paris agreement to help them develop cleanly and adapt to climate change .
trump and the u.s. congress have said the united states will no longer contribute to that goal .