( reuters ) - the new york power authority ( nypa ) on friday sent 10 engineers , planners and technical supervisors to puerto rico to help with the assessment and reconstruction of the island s power grid , which was completely shut down by hurricane maria .
the nypa workers were part of a group that traveled to puerto rico with new york governor andrew cuomo on the first flight to depart for puerto rico s capital san juan since the category 4 hurricane hit the island on wednesday , according to a statement from the governor s office .
we have assembled top emergency response experts to support puerto rico and help repair its devastated power structure , and we are providing supplies and any additional assistance we can to support the island as they recover from this unprecedented natural disaster , cuomo said in a statement .
in addition to the 10 nypa specialists and translators , new york also sent drones and two drone pilots from the department of environmental conservation to assist with the reconstruction of puerto rico s power grid .
the puerto rico electric power authority ( prepa ) , which owns and operates the power system serving the commonwealth s 3.4 million residents , filed for bankruptcy in july , after years of underinvestment that yielded a grid it called degraded and unsafe .
puerto rico governor ricardo rossello has said prepa was so severely hit that it could be months before electricity is restored to all customers .
the nypa workers are some of the first utility workers to go to puerto rico from the mainland after maria .
the american public power association ( appa ) , which is helping coordinate the utility response , has said it was also planning to bring in crews from other parts of the u.s. mainland to help with recovery efforts on both puerto rico and the virgin islands .
there were some specialists from the western area power authority , which serves much of the u.s. west from montana to texas and california , already on puerto rico when maria struck the island .
the western area workers had been on their way to the virgin islands to help rebuild and restore power after hurricane irma when they got stuck in puerto rico .
irma grazed puerto rico on sept. 6 , knocking out power to more than 1 million of prepa s 1.5 million customers .
prepa said it restored power to all but about 60,000 homes and businesses by tuesday before maria hit .