jeddah ( reuters ) - arab countries and qatar should enter into direct talks to solve a diplomatic dispute , russia s foreign minister said on a trip to saudi arabia on sunday , urging all parties to restore regional unity .
saudi arabia , bahrain , the united arab emirates and egypt severed ties with qatar on june 5 , accusing it of supporting terrorist groups - a charge it denies .
we have confirmed our position ( that we are ) in favor of settling the disagreements by means of negotiations , by directly expressing concerns and achieving solutions which would take into account the concerns and the interests of all parties , the minister , sergei lavrov , told a news conference in jeddah .
we are interested in all those mediatory efforts that are currently being made producing results and the unity of the gulf cooperation council ( gcc ) being restored , he added .
kuwait and the united states have been mediating to reach a breakthrough in the three-month long crisis that has put the whole region on edge , and prompted turkey to send troops to the wealthy gulf state in a sign of support .
last week , saudi arabia suspended any dialogue with qatar , accusing it of distorting facts , just after a report of a phone call between the leaders of both countries suggested a breakthrough in the gulf dispute .
saudi foreign minister adel al-jubeir told the news conference that qatar needed to show seriousness in finding a solution to the crisis .
we want clarity in the qatari position , we want seriousness in finding a solution to this crisis that leads to the implementation of principles which all countries support : no supporting terrorism , no welcoming unwanted guests , no spreading hate , no intervention in others affairs , jubeir said .
the two ministers also discussed the planned de-escalation zones in syria and unification of the syrian opposition .
the kingdom supports the creation of de-escalation zones and looks forward to starting a political process that will end the syrian crisis , jubeir said .
president bashar al-assad s negotiators have not met directly with the opposition because there is no unified delegation from the high negotiations committee ( hnc ) and two other groups , known as the cairo and moscow platforms , all claim to represent the opposition .