bucharest ( reuters ) - romanian prime minister mihai tudose said on monday that corruption allegations surrounding three ministers had created problems for the country and his social democrat government , adding he was considering a cabinet reshuffle .
transparency international ranks romania among the european union s most corrupt states and brussels is keeping its justice system under special monitoring .
there are three ministers with problems who are indeed causing difficulties in terms of public perception and in some situations with the european commission , tudose told private television station antena3 .
he said he was considering asking the ministers to resign in a mini-reshuffle .
i will make the announcement this week , first to the party , obviously .
i will take responsibility for my proposals and i will ask the ( ruling ) coalition s vote on them .
anti-corruption prosecutors said in september they were investigating deputy prime minister sevil shhaideh for suspected abuse of office in a land transfer case , and have asked parliament to approve an investigation into european funds minister rovana plumb linked to the same case .
shhaideh , also a minister for regional development , is a close ally of social democrat party leader liviu dragnea , who has received a suspended sentence for vote rigging and is on trial in a separate abuse-of-office case .
prosecutors also asked parliament to approve an investigation into viorel ilie , minister in charge of the relationship between the cabinet and lawmakers , in a case involving allegations of rigging a job contest for clerks at his ministry .
parliament rejected the request earlier this month .
under romanian legislation , parliament must approve investigations against sitting lawmakers .
all three ministers have denied wrongdoing .
tudose also said his relationship with dragnea was not in a happy moment .
dragnea holds a tight grip over the party and earlier this year pushed out former prime minister sorin grindeanu in a non-confidence vote .
at the start of the year , government attempts to weaken the crackdown on high-level graft triggered romania s largest street protests in decades .