buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentina sentenced 29 people , some with nicknames like blond angel of death and the tiger , to life sentences on wednesday in a trial involving some 800 cases of kidnapping , torture and murder during the 1976-1983 dictatorship .
many defendants , including former navy captain alfredo astiz and captain jorge acosta , were already serving life sentences for dirty war crimes committed at the esma naval mechanics school that was converted into a clandestine prison and torture center .
for the first time in the so-called esma mega-case , however , wednesday s sentence included convictions for death flights , when people were drugged and their bodies dumped in the river plate .
giving sedatives to our loved ones before or during the flight before throwing them in the river or the sea is unbelievable ; it s dismal , said lita boitano , head of relatives of the disappeared and detained for political reasons .
boitano , who lost two children during the dictatorship , was among the hundreds of people gathered outside the federal courthouse in buenos aires listening to the convictions .
they took more than three hours to read .
in addition to the life sentences , 19 people received jail terms of eight to 25 years .
six were cleared of wrongdoing , including juan alemann , a finance minister during the dictatorship and one of few civilians who had been accused of planning rights abuses .
human rights groups estimate argentina s military government killed up to 30,000 people during the dictatorship .
most of their bodies were never found .
about 5,000 dissidents were held at the esma , and only about 200 people are known to have survived .
some of the initial 68 defendants died during the trial that started in 2012 .
astiz had been convicted in absentia in europe of killing two french nuns held at the esma , which opened to the public as a human rights memorial in 2007 .
argentina has prosecuted many dictatorship-era crimes and last year convicted 15 ex-military officials of conspiring to kidnap and assassinate leftist dissidents as part of the operation condor program .
but a supreme court ruling earlier this year to decrease jail time for those convicted of human rights abuses spurred protests and stoked fears of backsliding .