belgrade ( reuters ) - serbian president aleksandar vucic is considering calling the third snap parliamentary elections since 2014 to further cement his progressive party s ( sns ) grip on power , he said late on monday .
vucic , a ultranationalist firebrand during the yugoslav wars of 1990s who a decade later has become committed to joining the european union , said people in the sns are overwhelmingly for elections .
the party is considering holding the parliamentary vote alongside local elections due to take place in the capital belgrade early next year .
there are serious arguments ( in favor ) , vucic said in a live interview with belgrade-based pink tv .
to avoid splitting elections and to prepare the country for european union entry ... as new elections would offer us an uninterrupted time until 2022 .
he did not say when the vote would take place .
an alliance led by vucic s sns won a comfortable majority of 131 deputies in the 250-seat parliament in 2016 and further consolidated power through a coalition with the socialists that were led by late strongman slobodan milosevic during the balkan wars of the 1990s .
vucic won in a landslide in a presidential election in april , handing his post of prime minister to hand-picked technocrat ana brnabic .
but his rule is facing discontent from public sector employees and pensioners over austerity measures imposed under a three-year 1.2 billion euro ( $ 1.4 billion ) imf loan deal that has stifled spending and growth .
although it enjoys backing in rural serbia , vucic s party is less popular in belgrade which accounts for almost a quarter of total electorate in the 7.2 million-strong serbia .
serbia which wants to join the eu by 2025 , must first seek to reconcile its pro-western integration bid with keeping close ties with russia , its traditional slavic and orthodox christian ally .
it must also normalize ties with kosovo , the predominantly ethnic albanian former southern province , which declared independence from serbia in 2008 .