dhaka ( reuters ) - a senior united nations official said on sunday she would raise the issue of persecution of myanmar s rohingya minority , especially sexual violence and torture , with the international criminal court ( icc ) .
pramila patten , special representative of the secretary- general on sexual violence in conflict , also said around $ 10 million is needed immediately to deliver specialist services for survivors of gender-based violence .
patten was speaking in the bangladeshi capital after a three-day visit to the cox s bazar region , near the border with myanmar .
there she met women and girls who are among hundreds of thousands of rohingya that have sought refuge in bangladesh following a crackdown by myanmar s military on the predominantly muslim minority .
when i return to new york i will brief and raise the issue with the prosecutor and president of the icc whether they ( myanmar s military ) can be held responsible for these atrocities , patten said after visiting several camps .
sexual violence is being commanded , orchestrated and perpetrated by the armed forces of myanmar , otherwise known as the tatmadaw .
rape is an act and a weapon of genocide .
she said she would brief the u.n. secretary-general on the situation in cox s bazar and that her office s annual report , to be presented to the security council in march , would include a dedicated section on myanmar .
patten said brutal acts of sexual violence had occurred in the context of collective persecution that included the killing of adults and children , torture , mutilation and the burning and looting of villages .
the widespread threat and use of sexual violence was a driver and push factor for forced displacement on a massive scale , and a calculated tool of terror aimed at the extermination and removal of the rohingya as a group , she said .
the forms of sexual violence we consistently heard about from survivors include gang-rape by multiple soldiers , forced public nudity and humiliation , and sexual slavery in military captivity .
one survivor was in captivity for 45 days by the myanmar army .
patten said that since the first mass influx of refugees into bangladesh in august , gender-based violence specialists had delivered services to 1,644 survivors of sexual and gender-based violence , although this is only the tip of the iceberg .
we need full funding for this humanitarian crisis from the international donor community .
the burden is too heavy to be borne by the government of bangladesh alone , she added , calling for about $ 10 million of international funding .
patten said she had been denied access to myanmar itself .
myanmar warned on wednesday that a scolding delivered by the u.n. security council could seriously harm its talks with bangladesh over repatriating more than 600,000 rohingya who have fled myanmar s rakhine state since aug. 25 .
the united nations has denounced the violence during the past 10 weeks as a classic example of ethnic cleansing to drive the rohingya muslims out of buddhist majority myanmar , an accusation myanmar rejects .