beijing ( reuters ) - chinese academics are publicly broaching the idea that china and the united states should share plans on how to deal with a potential conflict on the korean peninsula , a sign some say of how north korea s weapons test may be making beijing more open to the once taboo subject .
chinese officials have rebuffed top u.s. military brass for years in their efforts to share contingencies for war or regime collapse in pyongyang , suspicious over washington s intentions and fearful that such engagement could further alienate north korea , their once steadfast wartime ally .
jia qingguo , the dean of the school of international studies at china s elite peking university and a respected advisor to chinese leaders , said in an article this week that with the chances of war increasing daily , it might be time for china to prepare for the worst .
when war becomes a real possibility , china must be prepared .
and , with this in mind , china must be more willing to consider talks with concerned countries on contingency plans , jia wrote in an article first published on the online east asia forum run out of australian national university .
given recent developments , beijing may have no better choice than to start talking with washington and seoul , jia said .
ties between china and north korea have deteriorated sharply in recent years , to the point some diplomats and experts fear beijing may become , like washington , a target of its neighbor s ire .
jia s comments , at the forefront of what is still a sensitive debate in china , were made before north korea on friday fired a missile that flew over japan s northern hokkaido far out into the pacific ocean .
that test came after the u.n. security council s latest round of sanctions on monday banning north korea s textile exports and capping fuel supplies in response to pyongyang s accelerated effort to target the united states with a powerful , nuclear-tipped missile .
xie tao , associate dean at the school of english and international studies at beijing foreign studies university , said chinese academics in years past would typically only express their opinions on whether china should be sharing plans with washington behind closed doors .
now you can get all sorts of people from the left and right and they are allowed to make their views public , xie told reuters .
you could interpret that as a signal that the chinese government is perhaps willing now to consider , if not actually join up to , contingency plans , xie said .
my sense is that there must be some in-depth discussion about what could potentially happen if there is a collapse or internal chaos how beijing and washington should respond to this .
during a trip to china in august , joseph dunford , chairman of the u.s. joint chiefs of staff , attended chinese military drills at china s northern theater command in the city of shenyang , which covers china s border with north korea .
some analysts perceived that as china opening a crack in the door to its own preparations , but neither side are showing their cards to the public .
dunford said in beijing during that visit that despite washington s urgings the conditions aren t set for such a detailed conversation between the two militaries .
u.s. military officials have privately voiced frustration that previous channels established for direct military communications line are essentially unstaffed on the chinese side .
dunford said creating a round-the-clock responsive communications link that could be used in a crisis was a top priority for military ties .
for a graphic on north korea 's missile and nuclear tests , click : here