strasbourg , france ( reuters ) - lawyers for silvio berlusconi argued on wednesday at the european court of human rights against his ban from holding public office , hoping for a green light that will allow him to run for prime minister at italy s election early next year .
in a hearing before the strasbourg court , the four-times prime minister appealed against his banishment from holding public office that followed a 2013 tax fraud conviction .
it is supposed to remain in place until 2019 .
the billionaire media tycoon was widely written off after he quit as prime minister in 2011 amid a sex scandal involving his bunga bunga parties , while italian bond yields surged to unsustainable levels at the height of the euro zone debt crisis .
however , the 81-year-old berlusconi has made a remarkable comeback after open heart surgery last year and his forza italia ( go italy ! )
party is now the lynchpin of a center-right coalition which leads in opinion polls ahead of the election .
the berlusconi versus italy case is being heard by 17 judges who make up the court s grand chamber , which is used for particularly important and complex matters .
berlusconi has hired a top london law firm to represent him .
at the end of the hearing edward fitzgerald , a lawyer for berlusconi , told reporters an injustice had taken place in the italian courts .
basic procedural guarantees were lacking for doing something as massive and draconian as depriving an elected official of his electoral mandate , and the people who elected him of their right to be represented by the person they chose .
the court will not issue a verdict on wednesday , and even if it eventually decides in favor of berlusconi the ruling may not come in time for him to run in the election , which must be held by may next year .
in an interview on wednesday with la repubblica newspaper , berlusconi said he would still be campaigning for his party whether he can stand for office or not .
irrespective of whether i can stand , i ll be a player and i ll bring the center-right to power , he said .
berlusconi was not present at the hearing .
berlusconi argues that because the tax fraud took place many years before the 2013 italian law that bars him from running for office was passed , the legislation is being applied retroactively and is therefore illegitimate .
berlusconi received a four-year prison sentence in august 2013 for organizing a complex scheme to illegally lower the tax bill of his mediaset media company .
three of the four years were immediately waived due to an amnesty to relieve prison overcrowding , and he was allowed to serve the remaining year in community service , helping out in an old people s home .
after the conviction , berlusconi was expelled from rome s senate , or upper house of parliament .
with or without berlusconi , the election is expected to produce a hung parliament .
the anti-establishment 5-star movement leads in opinion polls with around 28 percent of the vote , followed by the ruling center-left democratic party on about 25 percent .
the center-right bloc is made up of forza italia and the anti-immigrant northern league , each on around 14 percent , and the right-wing brothers of italy , with around 5 percent .