geneva ( reuters ) - myanmar s security forces may be guilty of genocide against the rohingya muslim minority and more of them are fleeing despite a deal between myanmar and bangladesh to send them home , the top u.n. human rights official said on tuesday .
the united nations defines genocide as acts meant to destroy a national , ethnic , racial or religious group in whole or in part .
such a designation is rare under international law , but has been used in contexts including bosnia , sudan and an islamic state campaign against the yazidi communities in iraq and syria .
zeid ra ad al-hussein , u.n. high commissioner for human rights , was addressing a special session of the human rights council which later adopted a resolution condemning the very likely commission of crimes against humanity by security forces and others against rohingya .
myanmar s ambassador htin lynn said his government dissociated itself from the text and denounced what he called politicisation and partiality .
zeid , who has described the campaign in the past as a textbook case of ethnic cleansing , said that none of the 626,000 rohingya who have fled violence to bangladesh since august should be repatriated to myanmar unless there was robust monitoring on the ground .
he described reports of acts of appalling barbarity committed against the rohingya , including deliberately burning people to death inside their homes , murders of children and adults ; indiscriminate shooting of fleeing civilians ; widespread rapes of women and girls , and the burning and destruction of houses , schools , markets and mosques .
can anyone - can anyone - rule out that elements of genocide may be present ?
he told the 47-member state forum .
shahriar alam , bangladesh s junior foreign affairs minister , told the session in geneva that his country was hosting nearly one million myanmar nationals following executions and rapes .
these crimes had been perpetrated by myanmar security forces and extremist buddhist vigilantes , alam said , calling for an end to what he called xenophobic rhetoric .. including from higher echelons of the government and the military .
mainly buddhist myanmar denies the muslim rohingya are its citizens and considers them foreigners .
china s foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang on wednesday told a regular news briefing that the resolution would not resolve or alleviate the situation .
it could further complicate the issue and have a negative impact on myanmar and bangladesh implementing the repatriation agreement , he said .
china has supported myanmar in the face of international criticism and has taken an increasingly active role in the issue , with foreign minister wang yi recently proposing a three step resolution during a visit to myanmar .
but nicholas bequelin , east asia director at amnesty international , said in a statement that by voting against the resolution china has proved itself woefully out of step with world opinion and is serving to preserve impunity for horrific crimes .
marzuki darusman , head of an independent international fact-finding mission on myanmar , said by video from malaysia that his team has interviewed rohingya refugees , including children in the bangladeshi port city of cox s bazar , who recounted acts of extreme brutality and displayed signs of severe trauma .
myanmar has not granted the investigators access to rakhine , the northern state from which the rohingya have fled , darusman said .
we maintain hope that it will be granted early in 2018 .
pramila patten , special envoy of the u.n. secretary-general on sexual violence in conflict , who interviewed survivors in bangladesh in november , said she had heard accounts of rape , gang rape by multiple soldiers , forced public nudity and humiliation , and sexual slavery in military captivity .
myanmar denies committing atrocities against the rohingya .
its envoy htin said : people will say what they wanted to believe and sometimes they will say what they were told to say .