chicago ( reuters ) - illinois stripped former u.s. house of representatives speaker dennis hastert of his teacher ’ s pension on wednesday , but his sentencing for a federal financial crime linked to past sex abuse will not cost him a second , more lucrative state pension .
the state teachers ’ retirement system moved swiftly after hastert ’ s sentencing by ending his $ 16,622-a-year annuity from 16 years of teaching in a far western suburb of chicago , where the sexual abuse to which he admitted occurred .
but hastert will not lose his $ 28,025 annual pension from his six years as a member of the illinois house of representatives .
the teachers ’ retirement system , in ending hastert ’ s pension , cited an illinois law that prohibits retired educators from drawing pensions if they are found guilty of a felony arising from their service as teachers .
hastert was sentenced by a federal judge in chicago on wednesday to 15 months in prison , followed by two years of probation and sex-offender treatment for a financial crime related to his sexual abuse of high school wrestlers he coached decades ago .
as a teacher between 1965 and 1981 , hastert ’ s contributions to the teachers ’ retirement system totaled $ 16,327 .
since 1997 , hastert received $ 237,045 in pension payments , the agency disclosed .
but his benefit from his years as a member of the illinois house of representatives will continue because the crime to which hastert admitted happened after 2010 , more than two decades after his departure from the illinois statehouse , said timothy blair , executive secretary for the state general assembly retirement system .
“ the one charge on this that stuck happened well after his time in the general assembly , ” blair said .
“ obviously , it couldn ’ t be related to his role as an elected official here. ” as a legislator , hastert contributed $ 19,805 to his legislative pension and has received $ 420,524 , blair ’ s agency disclosed .
the federal agency that administers congressional pensions did not respond to questions about hastert on wednesday .