cairo ( reuters ) - an egyptian court sentenced a british woman to three years in prison on tuesday for smuggling around 300 painkiller tablets into the country , in a ruling her defence team said she would appeal to have overturned or commuted .
laura plummer , a 33-year-old shop worker from hull , was arrested in october after the tramadol tablets were found in her suitcase .
her family told british newspapers she bought the tablets for her egyptian partner living in the red sea resort of hurghada .
plummer attended a hearing in her case on monday , before tuesday s sentencing .
the court also ruled that she must pay a fine of 100,000 egyptian pounds ( $ 5,600 ) .
tramadol is a legal , prescription medicine in britain , but it is banned in egypt .
plummer was arrested on arrival from britain in october , and her detention was extended twice prior to her court appearance .
plummer s family said on tuesday they were disgusted by the way the trial had been conducted .
from day one , this has been a complete nightmare .
yesterday in the court she wasn t even allowed her own interpreter .
she had to get the court s interpreter who was interpreting the wrong answers , her sister jayne synclair said , speaking on bbc television .
the family said plummer had also been forced to sign arabic-language documents which she did not understand .
she s on the verge of a mental breakdown ...
it s just horrendous , her sister said .
her lawyer said plummer would appeal , seeking to reverse the verdict or get a commuted sentence , which is possible in the two months after sentencing .
he added that she did not know tramadol was banned in egypt .
speaking to the court on behalf of plummer , the lawyer , said she had no criminal intent in bringing in the painkillers .
on monday the lawyer , mohamed othman , told reuters : it is illogical that she was dealing in tramadol .
she had only 320 pills .
even the plane ticket is almost double the price of those pills .
a spokesman from britain s foreign and commonwealth office said : we will continue to provide assistance to laura and her family following the court ruling in egypt , and our embassy is in regular contact with the egyptian authorities .