harrisburg , pa. ( reuters ) - green party candidate jill stein late saturday vowed to bring her fight for a recount of votes cast in pennsylvania in the u.s. presidential election to federal court , after a state judge ordered her campaign to post a $ 1 million bond .
“ the stein campaign will continue to fight for a statewide recount in pennsylvania , ” jonathan abady , lead counsel to stein ’ s recount efforts , said in a statement .
saying it has become clear that “ the state court system is so ill-equipped to address this problem , ” the statement said “ we must seek federal court intervention. ” the stein campaign said it will file for emergency relief in the pennsylvania effort in federal court on monday , “ demanding a statewide recount on constitutional grounds. ” the bond was set by the commonwealth court of pennsylvania a day after representatives of president-elect donald trump requested a $ 10 million bond , according to court papers .
the court gave the petitioners until 5 p.m. local time ( 2200 gmt ) on monday to post the bond , but said it could modify the amount if shown good cause .
instead , stein ’ s campaign withdrew .
“ petitioners are regular citizens of ordinary means .
they can not afford to post the $ 1,000,000 bond required by the court , ” wrote attorney lawrence otter , informing the court of the decision to withdraw .
stein , who garnered about 1 percent of the presidential vote on nov. 8 , has also sought recounts in michigan and wisconsin .
trump won narrow victories over democrat hillary clinton in all three states , part of the industrial heartland of the country until manufacturers started leaving for mexico and other low-wage countries .
trump and his allies have attempted to stop the initiatives in the states , calling the recount effort a “ scam. ” clinton ’ s campaign has said it would take part in the recounts .
“ the judge ’ s outrageous demand that voters pay such an exorbitant figure is a shameful , unacceptable barrier to democratic participation , ” stein said in a statement .
“ no voter in america should be forced to pay thousands of dollars to know if her or his vote was counted. ” stein said she planned to announce “ the next step ” in the recount effort on monday at a previously scheduled news conference at trump tower in new york city .
she said recounts already under way in some pennsylvania counties would continue .
the state ’ s election commission had approved recounts in 75 precincts where voters requested one , but refused to allow a full forensic audit of voting machines .
even if all the recounts were to take place , the overall election outcome would not likely change .
the race is decided by the electoral college , or a tally of wins from the state-by-state contests , rather than by the popular national vote .
trump surpassed the 270 electoral votes needed to win , with 306 .
recounts would have to flip the result to clinton in all three states to change the result .
in the popular vote , clinton had more than 2.5 million votes over trump , the independent cook political report said .