des moines , iowa ( reuters ) - republican donald trump ’ s surprise defeat in iowa at the hands of u.s .
senator ted cruz reflected shortcomings in his get-out-the-vote operations and an over reliance on his celebrity status in a state where voters prefer the personal touch .
the new york billionaire and former tv reality star generated much enthusiasm for his anti-establishment message , but in the end he was out muscled by cruz ’ more traditional ground game and saw some late-deciding voters side with u.s .
senator marco rubio .
all signs had pointed to a trump victory in the first nominating contest in the race for the white house , with the des moines register ’ s influential poll giving trump the lead on the weekend before iowans went to caucus on monday .
the loss , while not by a large margin , raised questions about trump ’ s ability to perform as well in voting contests as he does in polls .
prior to monday , trump had repeatedly boasted that he would easily win iowa , and he has been the front runner in most national polls since last summer .
sensing victory , trump had mocked cruz ’ s ground game in the hours before voters went to their caucus sites .
“ i hear they all have these great ground games , they ’ ve got people pouring in on buses and trucks , ” trump said at a campaign rally .
“ they are spending all the money they have from special interests .
for our country , i want the person who is going to spend the least amount and get the best results. ” trump had relied on what iowa republican party chairman jeff kaufmann told reuters was a “ stealth ” ground effort .
for some though , the specifics of trump ’ s plan for turning out his supporters on monday were questionable .
instead of aggressively trying to convert any and all republicans to his cause as cruz did , trump relied mostly on signing up supporters from among those who attended his rallies .
the challenge trump faced was trying to persuade these people , many of whom had never participated in a caucus before , to show up .
tana goertz , trump ’ s iowa campaign chair , was frequently an introductory speaker at trump events and would encourage attendees to make sure they knew where to go to caucus .
leaflets were passed out reassuring voters that the ballot is secret and , “ most caucuses take less than 1 hour. ” “ it ’ s new to a lot of these people who were supporting him , ” said david mcneer , of newton , iowa , who steered his precinct into overwhelmingly voting for trump .
“ it may be at the end that some of them didn ’ t come out like they thought were going to come out. ” trump ’ s bombastic style and flair for the dramatic may in the end have not helped as much as he would have hoped .
as cruz and rubio went the more traditional route of talking to small groups of people at pizza parlors and hotel conference rooms , trump would make a dramatic entrance in his private jet , emblazoned with his name , and tear into his rivals at rallies attended by thousands .
he made pandering comments like wanting to buy a farm in iowa and hoping his pregnant daughter would deliver her baby in the state .
he did few small events .
gary updegraff , an enthusiastic trump backer and precinct chairman in des moines , said he believed trump would adjust his style .
“ he ’ s a very smart man , he ’ s going to analyze this with his people , he ’ ll talk to his family probably about it .
i think the genuineness of donald trump needs to come out a little bit more , ” updegraff said .
trump took some initial steps in this direction in the final days before the caucus .
he appeared with evangelical leader jerry falwell jr. , who asked trump friendly questions that played up the candidate ’ s contributions to charitable causes and pointed out he served cheeseburgers , not caviar , on his plane .
at least some of his supporters think trump might have performed better if he had participated in a fox news debate last week instead of boycotting in opposition to anchor megyn kelly and a fox news release he felt had a biting tone .
“ i think a lot of things caught up to him here in the last couple of weeks , ” said trump supporter brett ridge of des moines , speaking shortly after trump ’ s concession speech .
“ when it comes down to it , he should have been at the debate last week. ” trump noted in his concession speech that some had argued he would never do well in the state .
“ iowa , we love you , ” trump said in defeat .
“ you are very special .
i think we might come back here and buy a farm. ” ( additional reporting by ginger gibson , editing by paul thomasch and ross colvin ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .