hill larious !
if this was a donald trump pi ata , the media would be all over this story , making sure the entire country knew how unpopular he was in midwestern america .
but since these creative iowan s choose to put hillary in jail , which makes an undeniable statement about her credibility , you will likely only see this story here and a few other news sources who are willing to show you what real americans think about hillary kyle julin .
of manilla , pulls his hillary clinton-masked friend adam corky , of odeboldt , through the parade during the arcadia fire department s 100th anniversary celebration on saturday .
the group received both accolades and criticisms for handing out water ballons to throw at the candidate .
( carrolls paper ) it gets better the men were handing out water balloons to throw at the caged hillary ! it was a typical summer celebration in small-town iowa .
the sun was shining on children carrying bags full of candy as the arcadia fire department was celebrating its 100th anniversary on saturday with a parade , a party in the park and a big water fight that would serve as the grand finale.a young blond boy , no more than 8 years old , ran out into the street near the intersection of west center and south gault streets because one float was handing out water balloons .
the child grabbed his balloon , took aim and did his best nolan ryan impression as he fired the balloon at a man dressed in an orange jumpsuit and hillary clinton mask while standing on a platform inside bars , fencing and barbed wire above a hillary for prison sign tacked onto the side.bull s eye.the prideful smile of a job well done was written all over the boy s face.some in the crowd were laughing and cheering as the float rolled by , but others could be heard moaning and grumbling that it was over the top or a bit too much .
it was my idea , kyle julin of manilla said .
pretty much me and josh ( reetz ) .
it took us about a day-and-a-half to build .
julin said he , reetz and adam corky ( clinton impersonator ) are not affiliated with any official political organization .
julin said he s an independent and as of march 2014 reetz was a registered democrat.julin said the crew had been throwing around the idea of entering the parade for a while.via : gateway pundit