hong kong ( reuters ) - some activists in hong kong say they plan to defy a chinese law against disrespecting the national anthem , by jeering it at international soccer fixtures against bahrain and lebanon in the next few days .
the controversy is another instance of recent tensions in the former british colony between pro-democracy advocates and china s communist party leaders , who have been criticized for tightening their grip on hong kong s affairs .
hong kong returned from british to chinese rule in 1997 under a one country , two systems arrangement that guarantees a high degree of autonomy , including an independent judiciary and the freedom of expression .
in recent years , some hong kong fans have booed the national anthem at soccer matches , with some parallels to protests in the united states where american football players have knelt during the national anthem , a protest denounced by u.s. president donald trump .
china s parliament on saturday passed an amendment to its criminal law that extends punishments for publicly desecrating the national flag and emblem to disrespecting the national anthem .
offenders can be jailed for up to three years , xinhua reported .
hong kong , as part of china , is now obliged to put its own set of laws related to the national anthem to the local legislature , but details including jail terms and the scope of enforcement have yet to be set .
for now , though , some fans say they won t change their behavior when hong kong play bahrain in a friendly match on thursday and lebanon in an asian cup qualifier next tuesday .
it s something we ve always done , said one fan who has attended games for the past few years , including two world cup qualifiers between hong kong and china in 2015 that drew jeers from the crowd .
it s a kind of resentment toward china that comes through ...
there are several hundred of us and it s become a tradition now .
we ll keep doing it .
the hong kong football association ( hkfa ) was warned by the asian football confederation ( afc ) recently over the conduct of fans who booed the chinese anthem , and said a repeat violation may result in more severe punishment .
asked for comment , the afc didn t specifically address a question on whether they d been pressed by china to punish hong kong , but said a review of video evidence found fans guilty of improper conduct under the afc s disciplinary and ethics code .
hong kong s leader , carrie lam , has suggested the law would be enacted in the current legislative year , and not be applied retrospectively - which would mean fans who jeer before it becomes law locally shouldn t face prosecution .
people should not excessively worry about unwittingly committing an offense .
these worries are unnecessary , lam told reporters .
i don t see this as having any connection to ... freedom of expression .
but this has highlighted a recent trend in hong kong that whenever there is anything related to hong kong and chinese affairs ... some people cause panic and unnecessary fear .