washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. house of representatives on thursday passed a $ 1.2 trillion bill to fund most government activities in the fiscal year beginning oct. 1 , knowing the senate will disagree with many controversial elements and force a negotiation that could stretch into december .
the bill , passed by a 211-198 vote largely along party lines in the republican-controlled house , provides $ 658.1 billion for the department of defense and $ 44.3 billion for the department of homeland security , including roughly $ 1.6 billion for construction of physical barriers along the u.s.-mexican border .
the $ 31.4 billion allotted for the department of the interior , the environmental protection agency ( epa ) , the forest service , the indian health service and related agencies cut the epa ’ s funding by $ 534 million when compared to the prior fiscal year .
the funding measure also included a provision that would stop the internal revenue service from implementing a provision of the 2010 affordable care act , commonly known as obamacare , that imposes a tax penalty on individuals who elect to go without health insurance .
representative kevin mccarthy , a member of republican leadership , said the funding measure would make “ major changes to the way washington spends taxpayer dollars. ” “ our funding legislation forces the government to do what it ought to do and to stop doing what it shouldn ’ t do , ” mccarthy said in a statement , praising it for “ strengthening our national defense , veterans ’ programs , and border security , ” and “ cutting abusive washington agencies like the irs and the epa. ” democrats warned that the bill , which bundled together 12 separate funding measures and earned just one democratic vote , would need substantial revision in the senate , where republicans hold 52 of 100 seats but most legislation requires 60 votes for passage .
“ these bills can not be enacted into law because they can not gain democratic votes , ” democratic representative nita lowey said in a statement , calling the house-passed bill “ inadequate and partisan . ”