paris ( reuters ) - a large majority of people in france believe president emmanuel macron s tax policies favor the rich , a poll showed on thursday , days after he angered unions with disparaging remarks about protesters .
eighty-two percent of respondents in the odoxa poll thought macron s tax policies - including a scaling-back of a long-standing wealth tax - catered mainly to the richest .
three in four said the policy helped heads of large businesses and fewer than one in three believed macron s tax stance was favorable for low-income workers and pensioners .
this month , macron made good on a pledge to scale back the wealth tax , long a tool for social justice for left-wingers but blamed by others for driving millionaires abroad .
he is scrapping the tax on all but property holdings , a move that critics said was a get-out for owners of yachts and private jets , while reducing housing subsidies for the poor .
the 39-year-old leader , who argues that the left- and right-wing politics are an anachronism , is struggling to shake off the elitist image of his years as a rothschild banker .
he has argued that the economy , which has suffered from chronic unemployment and sluggish growth for years , needs entrepreneurship , foreign investment and rewards for risk-taking .
but he was criticized after complaining about lazy elements of society and saying that people who clashed with police during a protest at a car parts plant should seek work elsewhere .
macron s approval ratings have tumbled since his election in may , dragged down by labor reforms , budget cuts , and the decrease in housing subsidies .
an ifop poll in late september showed some respite with a dissatisfaction rating of 53 percent down from 57 percent in august .
an august harris interactive poll showed 46 percent trusted macron s political leadership , 13 points off his mid-june high - making him the most unpopular french president in the first 100 days in office in decades .
macron hopes to weather further protests as his government unfurls more reforms aimed at making hiring and firing easier .
some unions say that will undermine labor protections .
on thursday , protesters put on a show of force near a meeting of human resources executives on the western edge of paris .
police arrested 41 people at the protest in which several executives cars were torched .
( this refiled version of the story fixes typo eighty-two in second paragraph ) .