43 days and counting characterizing the military s mission as a fight against violent extremism , obama insisted that soldiers need to rise up against trump if they feel he is pushing policies that are ill considered.obama told the troops , each of us has the universal right to speak your minds and to protest against authority ; to live in a society that s open and free ; that can criticize our president without retribution .
obama went on to insist that a proper u.s. policy against violent extremism is a long term policy .
so rather than offer false promises that we can eliminate terrorism by dropping more bombs or deploying more and more troops or fencing ourselves off from the rest of the world , obama said , we have to take a long view of the terrorist threat .
and we have to pursue a smart strategy that can be sustained .
in the time remaining , let me just suggest what i think should guide this approach .
in addressing the war-torn middle east , obama insisted that global warming forms a large part of that conflict .
a changing climate is increasing competition for food and water , which , he claimed , drives the conflict in syria and other nearby nations.obama also blamed the second amendment to the u.s. constitution for violent extremism in the united states .
somebody who is trying to kill and willing to be killed is dangerous , particularly when we live in a country where it s very easy for that person to buy a very powerful weapon , obama insisted .
the president also defended islam against the charge of extremism : we are fighting terrorists who claim to fight on behalf of islam .
but they do not speak for over a billion muslims around the world , and they do not speak for american muslims including many who wear the uniform of the united states of america s military .
if we stigmatize good patriotic muslims , that just feeds the terrorists narrative .
it fuels the same false grievances they they use to motivate people to kill .
if we act like this is a war between the united states and islam , we re not gon na lose more americans to terrorist attacks , but we ll also lose the sight of the very principles we claim to defend.as to the rise of isis , obama insisted it was not given aide by his actions of pulling out of iraq in 2011 but was instead given succor by the policies of george w. bush .
by 2011 , iraqis wanted our military presence to end , and they were unwilling to sign a new status of forces agreement to protect our troops from prosecution if they were trying to defend themselves in iraq , obama proclaimed .
in addition , maintaining american troops in iraq at the time could not have reversed the forces that contributed to isil s rise .
breitbart