state reps forced to stand awkwardly in backgroundat one point it appears as though someone approaches the two state representatives who appear to be trapped behind the rambling , incoherent train wreck , kentucy house speaker and democrat , greg stumbo and offers them an opportunity to get off the stage .
this wealth accumulation in america has to cease .
kentucky republicans had a very good election day .
matt bevin defeated democrat jack conway to become only the second republican kentucky governor in four decades .
jenean hampton won her quest for lieutenant governor , becoming the commonwealth s first african-american to hold a statewide office .
rising democratic star state auditor , adam edelen , was ousted by republican state rep. mike harmon , despite raising nearly $ 900,000 to harmon s $ 37,000.democrats held on to some seats , but the defeats were crushing in part because conway was ahead in polling up to election day .
with so many democrats ousted from office or unable to win their campaigns , kentucky house speaker greg stumbo is one of the top-ranking democrats still standing.he gave a speech that was striking for its odd content and rambling delivery .
flanked by state reps. martha jane king and jeff greer , stumbo discussed his thoughts on the political affiliation of jesus and his view on what scripture really is and how it influences politics .
and the other thing i know is that if in fact the bible is a book of parables , like i believe it is , think about this : mary did not ride an elephant into bethlehem that night , he said to a restrained crowd .
[ ] for entire story : the federalist h/t : weasel zippershmmmm .i wonder where he got the idea america is beginning to think of the democrats as the godless party ?
maybe conway missed the last dnc convention where the members voted to remove god from the platform : and then of course , there is reverend wright who preached hate and anything but the truth about god s love for all of his people to barack hussein obama ( the ultimate democrat community organizer ) for roughly 20 years :