is it possible that bill s latest move could ve just sealed hillary s fate ?
it actually makes perfect sense .
bill and hillary clinton have spent their entire lives trying to figure out how to game the system .
is it possible that bill has actually one-upped hillary this time , putting the kibosh on her political aspirations , leaving him with millions from her wall street speeches and their home in chappaqua , new york ; minus his cantankerous , scheming , lying , screeching and ( according to former secret service agents ) sometimes violent wife ? back in april , slate s michelle goldberg offered the hillary clinton campaign some sage advice : fire bill clinton .
the clinton campaign declined to take her suggestion , but perhaps they should give it another look.bill clinton is one of the most talented politicians of the past century , but his infallible skills continue to fail him when put in the service of someone other than himself.on monday , clinton was on a tarmac in phoenix when he learned that the attorney general , loretta lynch , would soon be on the same tarmac .
he delayed his flight so he could try to meet with her .
he asked for a meeting , boarded her plane and chatted for about 30 minutes.on friday , msnbc s jonathan capehart asked lynch if there was one important thing she wished former attorney general eric holder had told her .
where the lock on the plane door was , lynch deadpanned .
( meanwhile , republicans are calling for an independent prosecutor , which is rich : there isn t enough time to confirm a supreme court justice , but plenty of time for ken starr to ride into town again .
) on its face , it was wrong to do , and democrats would be savaging republicans if the situation were reversed .
it raises one of two possibilities : either bill clinton is an idiot or he wants his wife to lose .
i wonder if there s a part of bill clinton that doesn t really want hillary clinton to become president , particularly if she has to distance herself from his legacy to do so , wondered goldberg back in april , listing a bill of idiotic particulars .
how else to explain why one of the world s most talented and agile politicians is so consistently flat-footed and destructive when advocating on his wife s behalf ?
the fallout from the meeting was predictable : lynch has said she regrets sitting down with clinton and wouldn t do it again , given a do-over .
and she has said that she will not overrule career prosecutors if they recommend an indictment .
whatever decision the justice department ends up making is now clouded in ( even more ) suspicion.and perhaps the greatest damage was done to lynch .
it must be awfully difficult to turn down a meeting request from a former president , the spouse of the likely future president , especially for somebody who may have future political ambitions .
did lynch have aspirations for the supreme court ?
if so , what clinton just did casts a pall over whatever chance she had.via : huffington post