baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi pro-government paramilitaries launched an offensive against kurdish troops on tuesday near the turkish frontier , pushing towards a strategic border crossing and oil export pipeline hub that baghdad says must come under its control .
the iraqi government has transformed the balance of power in the north of the country since launching a campaign last week to seize back territory from the kurds , who govern an autonomous region of three northern provinces and had also seized a swathe of other territory in northern iraq .
the kurds held a referendum on independence last month that baghdad called illegal .
baghdad responded by seizing back the city of kirkuk , the oil-producing areas around it , and other territory that the kurds had captured from islamic state .
prime minister haidar abadi has ordered his army to recapture all disputed territory , and has also demanded central control of iraq s border crossings with turkey , all of which are inside the kurdish autonomous region itself .
a kurdish official said kurdish security forces known as peshmerga had successfully beaten back an advance by iranian-backed pro-government paramilitaries in the region of rabi a , 40 kilometers ( 25 miles ) south of the fish-khabur border area .
fish-khabur is strategically vital because oil from both kurdish and government-held parts of northern iraq cross at a pipeline there into turkey , the main route out of the area for international export , crucial for any kurdish independence bid .
abadi told a news conference in baghdad he will discuss the issue of the border crossing with his turkish counterpart benali yildirim on wednesday in ankara .
the fighting so far has taken place outside the kurdish autonomous region , but fish-khabur is located within it , so any assault on the border crossing would mark a major escalation , bringing government troops into undisputed kurdish territory .
crude oil flowing through the iraqi kurdistan pipeline to turkey s port of ceyhan were up slightly at 300,000 barrels per day on tuesday , about half the level before the iraqi takeover of kirkuk , a shipping source in london said .
the pumping rate has risen by about 50,000 bpd since monday .
an iraqi military spokesman denied there had been any clashes in the area .
but an iraqi security source in baghdad and a rights activist in northwest iraq said the confrontation had started at dawn and was still going on by midday .
peshmerga repelled the attack and pushed popular mobilisation back in to rabi a , tweeted krg president masoud barzani s media advisor , hemin hawrami .
a military spokesman in baghdad said in response : there are no clashes .
the fighting between the central government and the kurds is particularly tricky for the united states which is close allies of both sides , arming and training both the kurds and the central government s army to fight against islamic state .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson visited baghdad this week , but abadi rebuffed his call for iraq to reject the role of iran-backed shi ite paramilitaries that fight alongside government troops and have taken a hard line on the kurds .
an iraqi government security advisor said on monday baghdad aimed to bring the three-way border crossing with turkey and syria at fish-khabur under its control , but he declined to say if a military move was being prepared .
the iraqi government s advance over the past week has been achieved with comparatively little violence , with kurds mostly withdrawing without a fight .
nevertheless , amnesty international reported that at least 11 civilians were killed and tens of thousands displaced from kurdish areas of tuz khurmato , a town south of kirkuk .
it said images , videos , photos and dozens of testimonies indicated that hundreds of properties had been looted in a rampage targeting kurdish parts of the ethnically mixed town .
elections for the presidency and parliament of iraq s kurdistan region set for nov. 1 have been delayed by eight months , the regional parliament announced on tuesday .
the electoral commission said on monday that parties had failed to present candidates amid turmoil in the region following the sept. 25 independence referendum .