london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may refused to say whether she would vote for brexit if there was another referendum , repeatedly avoiding giving an answer on an issue that will define britain s fate for generations to come .
although may has talked up the promise of brexit since gaining power last year , she had , in the run-up to the june 2016 referendum , quietly backed staying in the european union .
she won the top job after david cameron , who had also campaigned to remain , resigned in the chaos following the shock result of the vote .
she has ruled out holding a second referendum on the final deal of the terms of brexit , despite calls for one from some pro-eu lawmakers .
asked three times in an interview if she had changed her mind since then , she did not answer directly , saying she wouldn t engage with hypothetical questions and said her job was now to deliver what the people had voted for .
i voted remain for good reasons at the time , but circumstances move on and i think the important thing now is that i think we should all be focused on delivering brexit and delivering the best deal , she said on british radio station lbc on tuesday .
the united kingdom remains deeply divided over brexit which most senior politicians view as the most important decision britain has taken since world war two .
in the june 23 , 2016 referendum , 17.4 million voters , or 51.9 percent of votes cast , backed leaving the eu while 16.1 million voters , or 48.1 percent of votes cast , backed staying .
britain has just over one year to negotiate the terms of the divorce and the outlines of the future relationship before it is due to leave in late march 2019 .
both sides need an agreement to keep trade flowing between the world s biggest trading bloc and the fifth largest global economy .
but the other 27 members of the eu combined have about five times the economic might of britain .
they also have a strong incentive to deny the uk a deal so attractive it might encourage others to follow the british example .
may , who said she voted to remain , called a general election earlier this year in a bid to unite the country around her vision for brexit .
however , she lost her parliamentary majority , jeopardizing her premiership .
pressed on whether she would now vote leave , she said she would look at everything and come to a judgment , but stressed that there would not be another referendum .
minister damian green , who is effectively may s deputy , was asked on bbc newsnight the same question .
he said that it would have been better had the public voted to remain , but there would not be another referendum and it was his job as a democrat to work towards making brexit a success .
under the headline theresa maybe , the sun , britain s most read newspaper , said brexiteers were offended by may s response .