( reuters ) - hurricane maria was on course tuesday to slam puerto rico with a direct hit that could devastate the island s underfunded power grid , still recovering from hurricane irma two weeks ago .
the category 5 storm , the top end of the five-step saffir-simpson scale , could strain the resources of the island s power provider , puerto rico electric power authority ( prepa ) .
the utility filed for bankruptcy in july , after years of underinvestment that yielded a system it called degraded and unsafe .
maria is expected to strike the island on wednesday with winds of up to 160 miles per hour ( 257 km per hour ) , the u.s. national hurricane center ( nhc ) said .
irma grazed puerto rico , knocking out power to more than 1 million of prepa s 1.5 million customers , according to the u.s. energy department .
all but about 60,000 have had power restored , and the island s power plants were not severely damaged .
maria , however , could be the first major hurricane - defined as category 3 or higher - to make landfall since georges in 1998 , said todd crawford , chief meteorologist at the weather company , an ibm company .
it could be the first category 5 since san felipe ii in 1928 , which killed more than 300 people on the island .
no generation has seen a hurricane like this since san felipe ii in 1928 .
this is an unprecedented atmospheric system , said puerto rico governor ricardo rossell , in a statement on tuesday .
the island could be faced with outages for weeks , straining the resources of a utility whose power plants have a median age of 44 years , compared with an industry average of 18 years , and more frequent power outages .
prepa said in a draft fiscal plan released in april that years of underinvestment have led to severe degradation of infrastructure .
even if we had an energy system in prime condition , which we all know we don t have , it still would be very difficult , said nydia suarez , who works at cne group , a think tank , and lives on the island .
she plans to stay with her son in guaynabo , which is farther inland than her home in san juan .
the utility had to declare bankruptcy in july due to a $ 9 billion hole deepened by a lengthy recession on the island , inconsistent management and ineffective collections .
the island s power prices are already higher than any u.s. state other than hawaii , according to the u.s. energy department .
they have been reluctant to raise rates to generate additional revenues to increase capital expenditures on the island ... because the population is a bit depressed , said rick donner , vice president and senior credit officer at credit rating agency moody s investors service in new york .
prepa will use the same plan it used for irma , executive director ricardo ramos said in a news release , by first energizing hospitals , water plants and some industries .
the utility said it has refilled all fuel tanks while workers collect debris and trim trees damaged by irma near transmission lines .
the department of energy said it was working with the american public power authority ( appa ) , prepa and the federal emergency management agency ( fema ) to get mutual aid workers to puerto rico and elsewhere .
i was 12 days without electricity after georges .
we think about that and with a power system that is worse than it was then more fragile we re expecting more time without power , cne group s suarez said .