washington ( reuters ) - with u.s. republicans sharply split over a front-runner they can not unite behind , a new group is trying to push the country ’ s top elected republican , paul ryan , into the white house race .
the committee to draft speaker ryan filed papers as a super pac with the federal election commission on thursday , adding to the groups of mainstream republican leaders and donors with a shared goal : stopping trump .
ryan , the house of representatives speaker who spoke out against trump for not quickly rejecting white supremacist support , did not appear ready to take on the role .
“ he is flattered , but not interested , ” ryan spokeswoman ashlee strong said in an email on friday .
politico first reported the formation of the draft-ryan pac .
mitt romney , the republicans ’ losing presidential candidate in 2012 , also said he was not interested .
“ there are no circumstances i can foresee where that would possibly happen , ” romney said on nbc ’ s “ today ” show on friday , a day after he excoriated trump as a fraud ill-equipped for the white house .
the republican party may need more than a hero as it grapples with its deepest divisions in decades .
those splits were on display again on thursday night as trump took on his two closest challengers , u.s .
senators marco rubio and ted cruz of texas , in a debate marked by the yelling , name-calling and vulgarity that has tainted the 2016 republican race .
trump ’ s rivals said they would support the ultimate nominee but it was clear on friday that would be easier said than done .
“ that is the quandary i ’ m trying to avoid the republican party having to face , ” rubio said on cnn on friday .
while the anti-trump movements proliferated , some republicans have urged party leaders to respect the will of the voters .
trump spokesman sam clovis seized on that message on friday , warning on cnn that it was dangerous for republican leaders to “ call american voters stupid ” because they support trump .
“ you have record turnout in every state so far .
record turnout .
that doesn ’ t happen by accident , said clovis , national campaign co-chairman .
trump is “ tapping into what is going on in this country like no one else has in a long , long time .
i haven ’ t seen anything like this since ronald reagan. ” columnist peggy noonan , a former reagan speechwriter , had a different lament in the wall street journal on friday .
“ i think we are seeing a great political party shatter before our eyes , ” she said .
“ but we are witnessing history .
something important is ending .
it is hard to believe what replaces it will be better .
no one knows where this goes .
the top of the party and the bottom have split. ” ( reporting by doina chiacu and megan cassella ; writing by doina chiacu ; editing by bill trott ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .