london ( reuters ) - a suicide attack at a pop concert in manchester that killed 22 people in may might have been prevented if the security services had responded differently to intelligence in the months before the attack , a government report has found .
salman abedi , a 22-year-old briton born to libyan parents , blew himself up at the end of a show by u.s. singer ariana grande in the deadliest militant attack in britain for 12 years .
his victims included seven children .
a government-commissioned report by david anderson , the former independent reviewer of terrorism legislation , found security services were passed two pieces of information on the bomber earlier this year .
the report said security services did not consider the intelligence terror-related at the time , but now says it was highly relevant .
it is conceivable that the manchester attack in particular might have been averted had the cards fallen differently , the report said .
the finding follows a review of the roles of the security services in four attacks in london and manchester between march and june this year that left 36 innocent people dead .
three of the six attackers were known to the security services , but only person was under active investigation , the report said .
overall , it said britain s security services had performed well amid a growing threat from islamist militants .
it is not the purpose of the internal reviews , or of this report , to cast or apportion blame .
but though investigative actions were for the most part sound , many learning points have emerged , the report said .
britain has thwarted nine plots in the last 12 months , prime minister theresa may s spokesman said on tuesday .
interior minister amber rudd told parliament the intelligence services and counter-terrorism police are currently carrying out over 500 live investigations , up a third since the beginning of the year and are investigating over 3,000 people .
the review found that abedi was one of a small group of former suspects of interest whom britain s security services were considering investigating further .
a meeting was due to be held to discuss the potential threat on may 31 - nine days after the attack on the manchester arena .