lima ( reuters ) - president pedro pablo kuczynski s chances of surviving the political crisis gripping peru faded on friday after congress passed a motion to start presidential vacancy procedures with enough votes to unseat him within a week .
the opposition-controlled congress voted 93-17 on friday to seek his removal from office over graft allegations , which he denies .
eighty-seven votes will be needed to oust him in a session scheduled for dec. 21 , when he will be asked to defend himself .
a brazilian construction company at the center of latin america s biggest graft scandal disclosed this week payments totaling $ 4.8 million to companies owned by kuczynski or a close friend , triggering calls for him to resign .
kuczynski had previously denied any links to the brazilian company , odebrecht , and said on thursday there was nothing improper about the payments .
flanked by his cabinet , kuczynski vowed not to resign in a defiant message to the nation .
however , kuczynski was aware his chances of surviving the scandal were slim , said a government source who asked not be identified .
by resisting calls to step down , he hopes to clear his name and defend due process as the odebrecht graft investigation widens , the source said .
this is a national disgrace , said opposition lawmaker lourdes alcorta .
the less harmful option for peru would be his resignation .
he s forcing us to impeach him .
odebrecht has rocked politics in latin america since agreeing a year ago to provide details on bribery schemes across the region - landing elites in jail from colombia to the dominican republic and nearly toppling a president in brazil .
two former presidents in peru , ollanta humala and alejandro toledo , have been ensnared in the odebrecht probe over alleged payments they deny .
humala was jailed pending trial in july and authorities are seeking toledo s extradition from the united states .
opposition leader keiko fujimori , whom kuczynski unexpectedly defeated in last year s presidential election , is also under investigation and denies wrongdoing .
if kuczynski is forced out , he would be replaced by first vice president martin vizcarra , a former governor of a copper-rich mining region and peru s current ambassador to canada .
kuczynski was once lauded by many as a brilliant technocrat who would help uproot widespread corruption in peru .
but his 16 months in office have been marked by clashes with the right-wing opposition party that controls congress .
kuczynski said late on thursday he was the owner , but not the manager , of a company paid by odebrecht while he held senior government posts .
he also acknowledged providing financial services for an odebrecht project as a consultant for a friend s firm when he did not hold public office .
the opposition slammed the explanation as too little , too late .
it s really unfortunate that president kuczynski has put the country in this situation , said congresswoman cecilia chacon .