sartre 21st century wirethe only conclusion any honest american citizen can come to is that the republic is dead .
once again the flags wave and the songs play as the parades march to celebrate another 4th of july.picnic meals are eaten while children frolic in the warn sunshine of summer .
few people reflect on the true meaning that established the solemn commemoration of the nation s birth .
the reality of this post federation of independent state sovereignty is that a centralized federal behemoth has superseded the original intent of thomas jefferson s vision : that government is best which governs least .today the society that exists demands compliance or compels obedience by way of punishment.the empire that emerged after world war ii has established an amerika imperium .
with the consistent dumbing down of the youth , indoctrinated in government schools and the mind control impact from the mass media , the culture has abandoned the timeless principles that our country was founded upon.in the essay , independence day for whom ? , the struggle for freedom and liberty was fought against the british empire .
most citizens acclaim this revolution as the greatest achievement of a besieged population .
ponder just how far the promises from a rebellion of englishmen has deteriorated into a dumping ground for foreigners , who do not believe in the values and responsibilities upon which this struggle was fought.for a more precise view of the meaning of independence day , the true reasons for waging a war to create a beacon of hope in the new world has a history that fewer people understand , much less devote their allegiance to its preservation.just how has a country of freedom loving patriots allowed the systematic destruction of their once beloved nation ?
a primer on some of the reasons for this betrayal can be reviewed in the end of independence day essay .
with the internationalism of foreign policy , the traditional america first viewpoint of the founding fathers was abandoned.the end result is that the death of independence , is now upon us .
over the decades , a replacement aristocracy emerged that transplanted the elected representation of the public will .
the real control behind the legislative office holders and certainly the executive branch under any president , demonstrate that ignoring the canons within the declaration of independence is a prime requirement to wield power in washington dc.frustrated and disenfranchised citizens voted for donald trump based upon his articulation on the issues that genuine patriots would support .
no matter what anyone thinks of the man or believes about the inordinate attacks directed at him and his administration , the indisputable fact is that the establishment wants to see him fail.simply put , the actual rulers of the global supremacy wants the financial dominance of the central banking system to continue and perfect their governance .
amerika is pivotal in maintaining their forced submission .
the basis of the shadow government surreptitiously functions in the darkness of public exposure.routing out any effort or initiative for independent representation is the standard modus operandi .
the populace is generally ignorant of the existence of this empowerment cabal .
people are led to believe that the deep state is simply the technocrats that never leave their positions of administrating agencies .
regretfully , it is not realistic to facilitate a clean sweep of the careerists who routinely sabotage any directive that compromises the interests of the permanent bureaucracies and their masters.trump may prove to be a dragon slayer , but the hatching of genetically rotten eggs continues .
the column , can the swamp really be drained ?
addresses this issue .
the single most persistent element that drives authorities away from the maxims of the american revolution , centers within the attitude that government acts in the interests of the people.such deficiencies in understanding of the vile nature and the actual record of coercive regimes , stands as a major obstacle to the liberation of the mind .
rejecting the legitimacy of the criminal syndicate that purports to be the lawful authority is essential.examine the book review , american amnesia the liberal case for government , which debunks the lunacy that rationalizes the worship of government control over society .
such a demented academic viewpoint logically concludes that the celebration of independence day must be based upon the triumph of the all powerful leviathan government over a decentralized autonomous and local accountable authority.authentic nationalism must rest upon the pillars of individual liberty .
when the 4th of july becomes a cartoon carnival of the deep state , the only beneficiary is the shadow government.president trump is not the cause nor is he the solution to reinstitute an american renaissance revolution .
however , to the degree that he can raise the consciousness within the country , his presence in the oval office becomes a peril to the comrades , who want to destroy our national independence.when the hypocrites from the political class and the treachery from the fake news purveyors is confronted , then and only then , will a real independence celebration become a true national commemoration.the enemy is not just at the gate , they have become the jailers for the deplorable resistance .
the intent is to isolate and eliminate the heartland dissenters because they are the only threat that has the ability to win the infowar of ideas .
since the establishment is hell-bent on waging a civil war against the faithful , the remnant and torch guardians must commit to the purging of the fifth column subversives that occupy the government.as the establishment and mainstream media sharks continue to encircle the trump agenda , their blood thirsty appetite quickens .
their dracula heritage has drained the inherent vital courage from the masses that subsist in a pseudo reality imposed by a hostile new world order.this perceptibility is categorically opposite to the fundamental precepts that were universally accepted when the country was founded .
independence day deserves a proper reverence .
before the nation can earn that privilege , it must mature and own up and admit that the de facto foe of the populist is the very government that so many celebrate .
[ let us not forget , it s meant to be a government by the people , and for the people ] see more of sartre s original work at batr.netdiscuss or comment about this essay on the batr forumread more trump news at : 21st century wire trump filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv