scaramucci promised the heads of white house leakers would roll .
he clearly wasn t kidding suspected leaker michael short has been terminated from the white house communications office , breitbart news can confirm .
short , an ally of white house chief of staff reince priebus and now former press secretary sean spicer who resigned last week was terminated on tuesday by new white house communications director anthony scaramucci.politico s tara palmeri was the first to report the news.short disputes his resignations , says he was assigned to campaign from rnc and merely went back to the rnc to work for campaign from hq https : //t.co/bj4xbtzr6a tara palmeri ( @ tarapalmeri ) july 25 , 2017 newly appointed white house communications director anthony scaramucci said on tuesday that he plans to dismiss assistant press secretary michael short , palmeri wrote on tuesday morning .
it would be scaramucci s first step toward shaking up the communications shop , which has been dominated by former republican national committee staffers loyal to white house chief of staff reince priebus , a former rnc chairman .
short originally worked for the trump campaign placed on it by priebus and quit the campaign , sources tell breitbart news , after the access hollywood tape came out .
politico confirmed this report , noting that short walked out in the middle of the campaign leaving his computer behind only to show back up in january at the behest of the republican national committee ( rnc ) allies in the white house .
he was scorned by many of his colleagues for quitting the trump campaign , only to rejoin as a white house staffer because of priebus , palmeri wrote of short .
in a story often retold by campaign staffers , they arrived at trump tower one morning , months before the election , to see short s computer left open on his otherwise empty desk .
he had quit the campaign that day and never returned .
the next time he was seen by former campaign staffers was in january on their first day in the white house , where some were stunned to learn that they were going to have to work alongside him or for some of the press assistants subordinate to him .
multiple white house sources tell breitbart news that short was a leaker , and worked closely with now former white house deputy chief of staff katie walsh another rnc wing official who was terminated earlier this year for her own suspected leaking .
breitbart newscould reince priebus be next ? heavy could short s and spicer s resignations be a bad omen for the future of priebus , the former rnc chairman turned chief of staff who once ran the republican party in wisconsin ? there certainly seems to be a diminishing in the ranks of his supporters inside the trump bubble ( and he was reported to have opposed the hiring of scaramucci by the new york times and other publications ) .
however , priebus and scaramucci have publicly spoken positively about each other since scaramucci was hired .
trump seems to be relying more than before on a tight circle of family members and political outsiders like scaramucci .
the potential shake-up has exacerbated long-simmering tensions between scaramucci and chief of staff reince priebus , reported the washington post .
scaramucci reports to trump , not priebus .