nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan president uhuru kenyatta snubbed a crisis meeting called by the top election official for thursday , saying he would instead spend the time campaigning for next week s presidential vote re-run .
the first presidential vote in august , which kenyatta won by 1.4 million votes , was annulled by the supreme court over procedural irregularities .
the re-run is set for oct. 26 but opposition leader raila odinga has pulled out , alleging a failure to improve oversight of the election , casting doubt on how the vote will proceed .
election board chairman wafula chebukati , in a stark message to political leaders on wednesday , said he could not guarantee a credible vote under present conditions , and demanded kenyatta and odinga meet him for talks .
the board , known as the iebc , set the meeting for 1130 gmt in nairobi but then said it had been postponed to an unspecified date and time .
chebukati later tweeted that he had met odinga and was looking forward to meeting kenyatta , though it was not clear if the president intended to respond to his call .
opposition demonstrations , which have led to confrontations between police and protesters , and divisive rhetoric by politicians have stoked uncertainty in kenya , east africa s largest economy and a stable western ally in a chaotic region .
speaking at a campaign rally in the western town of saboti late on wednesday , kenyatta said the priority was for kenyans to go to the polls on the set date .
we are not interested in telling the iebc what to do .
we want them to prepare so kenyans can vote on the 26th , he said .
however , odinga , whose call for mass protests on election day has sparked fears that the crisis could turn violent , called for serious talks on the impasse after meeting chebukati .
odinga said his withdrawal should force the commission to start a fresh 90-day electoral cycle , including fresh candidate nominations .
the election board says the vote will go ahead .
chebukati s call for a meeting with the candidates followed the flight of one iebc commissioner to new york .
roselyn akombe said she had fled due to threats and said the planned election would amount to a mockery of democracy .
the ruling jubilee party filed a petition in the supreme court on thursday alleging opposition politicians were in contempt of court for obstructing a re-run by withdrawing from the race and by ordering supporters to continue protests including during trainings of election staff in western kenya .
the current political climate indeed strikingly resembles the period prior to 2007-2008 post-election violence , said francis ole kaparo , chair of the national cohesion and integration commission , a government body in charge of preventing hate speech .
following the disputed 2007 poll , more than 1,200 kenyans were killed .