nairobi ( reuters ) - the president calls the chief justice a cheat .
a lawmaker denounces the head of the opposition as the devil and says he needs a whipping .
the opposition leader accuses the president of making a public speech while drunk .
the gloves are off as kenya s ruling party and the opposition battle for votes ahead of new elections , tentatively scheduled for oct. 17 by the supreme court after it voided last month s presidential results .
last friday s historic decision , the first of its kind in africa , was welcomed by many as a rare sign of independence from kenya s judiciary .
it means voters will again have to choose between president uhuru kenyatta , 55 , and veteran opposition leader raila odinga , 72 .
but others feared that after a relatively peaceful election campaign , it could open the door to political instability , reviving memories of the violence that followed a disputed 2007 election when more than 1,200 people died .
despite being prone to occasional unrest , kenya is viewed by the united states and other allies as an anchor of stability in the region .
east africa s richest country per capita and main trade route between the coast and the interior , it has avoided the civil wars that for decades plagued neighbors such as somalia , south sudan and uganda .
after the verdict by the supreme court ...
i m worried about the upsurge of hate discussion amongst kenyans , said francis ole kaparo , the chair of the national cohesion and integration commission , the government body in charge of preventing hate speech .
as of yesterday morning we were investigating 273 cases of hate-mongering in the social media .
i believe the number has probably doubled as we are sitting here , he told a press conference .
they had less than a third of that number for the whole ten-week campaign period leading up to aug. 8 elections , he said .
lawmakers from both sides are under investigation .
opposition lawmaker paul ongili owino , whose twitter account suspended , is among them .
kaparo did not respond to a message seeking more details .
so is ruling party lawmaker moses kuria , who gave a fiery speech on tuesday denouncing odinga .
kuria is already facing hate speech charges brought by the commission more than a year ago .
raila is a demon .
he needs to be whipped by a man and whipped by a woman .
support us , including all parliamentarians , so we can hold him , kuria told cheering crowd in a speech in the kikuyu language peppered with coarse words in kiambu county on the outskirts of the capital .
we went and gave birth to a baby ( the election ) .
that baby did not die during pregnancy or during delivery .
the baby had started to suckle .
raila then came and stuck his finger in the baby s arse and killed it , he said during the speech , which was filmed and posted on youtube .
later , he posted on his facebook page , manhunt is on tonight for the 200,000 people who did not vote and the 70,000 that voted for that other demon .
the biggest worry in kenya is violence taking on an ethnic dimension , as in 2007 .
president kenyatta is from the largest of kenya s 44 tribes , the kikuyu , while many of odinga s supporters believe his luo ethnic group has been locked out of power .
police denied reports , which were posted online and repeated by opposition politicians , that following kuria s speech buses had been stopped in the area and passengers questioned about their ethnicity .
reuters was unable to verify the accuracy of those reports .
raphael tuju , the secretary-general of the ruling jubilee party , denounced kuria s speech to a local news channel hours after it was reported .
that is completely out of order and i would not accept that kind of language .
i will take it up with him because it is unacceptable , he said .
tuju did not return calls from reuters seeking comment on what disciplinary action kuria might face .
manoah esipisu , a presidential spokesman , said state house does not comment on comments by people like moses kuria .
kuria s speech came days after kenyatta repeatedly criticized the supreme court for nullifying the august election results .
official results showed that kenyatta had won by a comfortable margin of 1.4 million votes , but the court ordered the poll re-run because it said there were irregularities by the election board .
in a speech immediately after the ruling , kenyatta said he disagreed with the ruling but would accept it .
but in a public rally later he referred to the judges as wakora , a kiswahili term for a cheat .
the next day , kenyatta promised to fix the judiciary .
esipisu , the spokesman , said the president used the term wakora to criticize a judgment he views as subverting democracy .
anything that doesn t express the will of the people is wakora , esipisu said .
at another rally , kenyatta told a crowd that odinga was a witchdoctor because he was insisting on being consulted on the date of new elections .
odinga told reuters in an interview that the statements were unpresidential .
when the anger settles , we should have a sober campaign without insults , he said in an interview .
these campaigns will be fought on the basis of serious issues , not who can shout loudest , who can insult more than the other person .
but later he couldn t resist adding a personal dig at kenyatta , saying that the president was probably drunk .
it was irresponsible for the president to address the nation when he appeared to have taken one too many , he said .
i think it is an insult to the nation .
asked about that comment , presidential spokesman esipisu said : we don t comment on rubbish .
( for a graphic on kenya 's presidential election click tmsnrt.rs/2vendrp )