amman ( reuters ) - jordan will not allow israel to reopen its embassy in amman until it has launched legal proceedings against an israeli security guard who shot dead two jordanian citizens in july , a jordanian diplomatic source said on thursday .
israel must also be able to assure its arab neighbor that justice has been served in the case , the senior source said , asking not to be named .
the embassy was closed shortly after israel hastily repatriated the guard under diplomatic immunity to prevent jordanian authorities from interrogating him and taking any legal action against him .
the israeli ambassador and embassy staff were pulled out .
israeli sources said on wednesday they were planning to replace ambassador einat schlein at the amman embassy in an effort to improve ties .
however they did not address the long-standing jordanian demand to take legal action against the security guard .
they can look for a new ambassador but that ambassador will not be welcome in jordan until a due legal process takes its course and justice is served , the diplomatic source said .
our position remains solid in jordan ..
the embassy will not reopen until these conditions are met ... which is the position we took from the very beginning , he added .
jordan maintains that even if the guard had diplomatic immunity that did not mean he could not be punished .
the guard enjoyed immunity and not impunity under vienna conventions , the source said , referring to the vienna convention that specifies privileges given to diplomats .
jordan acted in compliance with its obligation under international law and israel has to do the same , the source said .
jordanian officials have treated the shooting as a criminal case and say the two unarmed jordanians , one a bystander and the other a teenage workman , were killed in cold blood by the armed guard .
israel said the armed guard opened fire after being attacked and lightly wounded by the workman , who was delivering furniture at his home within the embassy compound , and acted in self- defense , in what israeli officials called a terrorist attack .
a televised welcome and hero s embrace by israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu of the guard enraged king abdullah .
in a rare outburst , the monarch accused netanyahu of using the incident as a political show saying it was provocative on all fronts .
the king called on israel to put the guard on trial .
from the very beginning they had addressed this issue in a disgraceful way to politically exploit it , the source said .
the handling of the shooting has tested ties between israel and jordan , one of only two arab states that has a peace treaty with israel .
they have a long history of close security ties .
many jordanians , in a country where the peace treaty is unpopular and pro-palestinian sentiment widespread , were outraged the guard was allowed to leave and staged protests calling on the authorities to scrap the 1994 peace treaty .
israel has said it is highly unlikely it would prosecute the security guard but has hinted at financial compensation to the family of one of the dead jordanians .