washington ( reuters ) - a majority of americans believe it should be up to president barack obama to nominate the next u.s. supreme court justice , a reuters/ipsos poll found on thursday , with opinion divided along ideological party lines .
the death of conservative justice antonin scalia last week sparked an intense debate between republicans and democrats over whether obama , a democrat , should nominate scalia ’ s replacement before he leaves office , or whether the seat should be left open until a new president takes office in january .
concerned that any appointee obama selects would tip the nine-justice court in liberals ’ favor , republicans in the u.s. congress and on the presidential campaign trail have said the replacement should be chosen by the next president .
the white house has said obama intends to do as the u.s. constitution requires and “ move promptly ” to nominate a successor .
the nominee must be confirmed by the u.s. senate .
the poll showed that 54 percent of americans believed obama should make the nomination .
the support overwhelmingly came from democrats , with 81 percent of them saying they supported obama nominating scalia ’ s successor .
among republicans , only 27 percent said they either strongly or somewhat supported obama making the pick .
democrats and republican also had different priorities when it comes to picking a supreme court nominee , according to the poll .
a majority , or 67 percent , of democrats said they wanted someone pragmatic and willing to compromise , with 53 percent of republicans saying they wanted someone ideologically pure .
despite its polarizing effect , the supreme court issue does not appear to be a priority issue for voters surveyed .
more americans think the executive and legislative branches of government wield greater influence than the judiciary , the poll showed , and fewer than 10 percent thought nominating justices to the high court was a presidential duty most relevant to them .
a third of those surveyed said they were not aware of scalia ’ s death , which first made headlines on saturday .
the poll of 1,108 adults , including 460 democrats and 426 republicans , was conducted tuesday to thursday .
it had a credibility interval of about 5 percentage points .