geneva ( reuters ) - the top u.n. human rights official on monday denounced myanmar s brutal security operation against muslim rohingyas in rakhine state , saying it was disproportionate to insurgent attacks carried out last month .
communal tensions appeared to be rising across myanmar on monday after two weeks of violence in rakhine state that have triggered an exodus of about 300,000 rohingya muslims , prompting the government to tighten security at buddhist pagodas .
zeid ra ad al-hussein , addressing the united nations human rights council , said that more than 270,000 people had fled to bangladesh , with more trapped on the border , amid reports of the burning of villages and extrajudicial killings .
we have received multiple reports and satellite imagery of security forces and local militia burning rohingya villages , and consistent accounts of extrajudicial killings , including shooting fleeing civilians , zeid told the geneva forum .
he cited reports that myanmar authorities had begun to lay landmines along the border with bangladesh and would require returnees to provide proof of citizenship .
rohingya have been stripped of civil and political rights including citizenship rights for decades , he added .
i call on the government to end its current cruel military operation , with accountability for all violations that have occurred , and to reverse the pattern of severe and widespread discrimination against the rohingya population , zeid said .
the situation seems a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
last year zeid s office issued a report , based on interviews with rohingya who fled to bangladesh after a previous military assault , which he said on monday had suggested a widespread or systematic attack against the community , possibly amounting to crimes against humanity .
i deplore current measures in india to deport rohingyas at a time of such violence against them in their country , zeid said , noting that some 40,000 rohingyas had settled in india , including 16,000 who have received refugee documentation .
noting india s obligations under international law , he said : india can not carry out collective expulsions , or return people to a place where they risk torture or other serious violations .