guatemala city ( reuters ) - guatemala s congress announced on thursday that it will withdraw controversial reforms that critics had described as a serious setback in the country s fight against political corruption .
on wednesday , guatemala s congress approved a national emergency decree to curb penalties for illegal election financing after president jimmy morales was linked to suspected irregularities during his 2015 election campaign .
morales , whose immunity from prosecution was reinforced by congress earlier this week , had said he would veto the reforms if they were found to be harmful to the nation .
after rowdy demonstrations in the capital on thursday , morales announced he had suspended an independence day parade that was to have taken place on friday .
and as the public outcry mounted , leaders of the principal parties in congress agreed to vote on friday to cancel the measures , independent congressman oliverio garc a said .
there has been an objection from the general citizenship , organizations and institutions with respect to two decrees , and there is an agreement to not send those decrees to the executive ( branch ) and file them away definitively , he told reporters .
the decrees would have been the latest blow to the attorney general s office and the united nations-backed international commission against impunity in guatemala ( cicig ) after congress this week voted to preserve morales immunity from prosecution .
morales also urged guatemalans on thursday to remain calm and peaceful amid a charged atmosphere .
the reforms were widely criticized in guatemala , with opposition from the press and various government institutions and the human rights office .
the u.s. ambassador to guatemala , todd robinson , posted a scathing message on twitter about the reforms , before congress decided to withdraw them .
years of malnutrition , insecurity , crime , corruption .
congress ?
no action .
amazing how fast they act to protect selves from prosecution , he said .
separately , morales presidential spokesman , heinz heimann , said the president would return a mysterious salary bonus that he had been receiving from the army and which raised his salary by more than a third , making him one of latin america s best-paid leaders .
the president returned it out of good faith , heimann said of the payment , which is being probed by guatemala s federal comptroller .
on monday , morales will travel to new york and will head to the united nations for the annual general assembly the following day .