vienna ( reuters ) - austria s center-right people s party ( ovp ) led by sebastian kurz and the anti-immigration freedom party ( fpo ) have agreed to form a coalition government .
the deal marks a major victory for a european far-right party after a flurry of elections this year , in which right-wing parties have made gains but failed to enter coalitions elsewhere in western europe .
here are the main figures in the new government : kurz became a conservative junior minister at 23 , europe s youngest foreign minister at 27 and leader of the people s party at 30 , moving it further to the right of the political spectrum .
he has yet to complete his law degree while he pursues politics .
an early critic of german chancellor angela merkel s open-border policy as europe s migration crisis escalated in 2015 , he infuriated berlin when he spearheaded the closure of the balkan route into europe .
known for his slicked-back hair , he speaks eloquently but often eschews discussing policy details in public .
he won october s parliamentary elections promising to break with austria s decades-old political consensus which shares power among conservatives , social democrats , labor and employer associations .
heinz-christian strache ( fpo ) , vice-chancellor the 48-year-old former dental technician is the longest-serving party chief in austria and enters government for the first time .
during the campaign he accused kurz of stealing the fpo s ideas , but strache toned down his rhetoric during coalition negotiations stressing joint political targets .
strache is keen on ridding his party of its neo-nazi image , portraying it as a mainstream defender of the middle class .
he has called for zero immigration and wants to ban political islam .
the multilingual middle east and international law expert got her new job on an fpo ticket .
she has never been a member of the fpo , which has expressed sympathy for israel s desire to host embassies in jerusalem and has close ties to russian president vladimir putin s party .
kneissl , 52 , has criticized merkel s open-door policy toward refugees and has called the european union s migrant deal with turkey nonsense in newspaper comments .
kneissl , who owns a farm in lower austria province , worked in the foreign ministry under a conservative minister in the 1990s .
the freedom party s general secretary is seen as its mastermind and powerbroker who wields influence in all party matters .
the 49-year-old future police supremo , who started his career as speechwriter for charismatic late fpo chief joerg haider , is known for his sharp tongue .
the political hardliner has been a member of parliament for more than a decade .
the hardliner inherits a legal dispute with europe s largest aerospace company airbus over a 2003 fighter jet purchase and will soon have to decide how to modernize the neutral country s aerial defenses .
kunasek , 41 , called for a night-time curfew for asylum seekers in 2016 and curbing asylum seekers access to health services in 2015 , according to human rights group sos mitmensch .
last year , he published an article in die aula , a magazine linked to austria s right-wing extremist scene , according to the documentation centre of austrian resistance that researches the far right .
loeger has no university degree , but over 30 years of experience in the insurance sector , where he has been the chief executive of uniqa s austrian unit since 2013 .
the 52-year-old manager , a surprise ministerial appointee who has not held public office before , enjoys sports and art .
a close ally of kurz s , whom he knows from their time in the conservatives youth wing , 36-year-old bluemel studied philosophy in austria and france , focusing on christian social teachings .
after various posts in the party he became chief of the conservatives in vienna , a traditional social democratic stronghold , in 2015 .
he is in charge of the party s media portfolio .