london ( reuters ) - british lawmakers ramped up pressure on the government to publish its assessment of the impact brexit will have on the economy , passing a motion in parliament on wednesday which could compel the government to release the papers .
the government said on monday it had carried out 58 economic assessments , covering sectors from aerospace to tourism , but has so far refused requests from lawmakers to publish them , saying they could undermine their negotiating position in brexit talks .
that has irked lawmakers - including some from prime minister theresa may s own party - who say the documents should be subject to parliamentary scrutiny and used to help shape the public debate around what a good eu exit deal would look like .
parliament agreed a motion stating that the documents should be released to a parliamentary committee .
the government did not oppose the motion but it was unclear if its passage would force them to act .
the debate ended in confusion with the speaker of the house indicating that he believed the government was obliged to comply with the motion , but saying he would wait to see what their response was before acting further .
we take all parliamentary votes seriously and recognize that parliament does have rights relating to the publication of documents , a brexit department spokeswoman said .
ministers also have a clear obligation not to disclose information when doing so would not be in the public interest .
we will reflect on the implications of the vote and respond in due course .
labour said the result was clear and called on brexit minister david davis to set a date for the papers publication .
labour has been absolutely clear since the referendum that ministers could not withhold vital information from parliament about the impact of brexit on jobs and the economy , said labour s brexit policy chief keir starmer .
binding or not , a rancorous debate underlined the extent to which may s approach to brexit is generating dissent in parliament and potentially undermining her ability to rely on its support when passing crucial laws to implement the eu exit .
i m not going to stand by and see the future of my children s generation and the grandchildren which i hope will follow being trashed or ruined without any form of debate and disclosure as to the consequences , said anna soubry , one of several conservative lawmakers who said they were ready to rebel .
the central plank of may s brexit strategy , a piece of legislation known as the eu ( withdrawal ) bill , will require all may s lawmakers to back her if the minority conservative government is to avoid making concessions .
a debate on the bill is due to begin on nov 14 .