london ( reuters ) - britain believes it can quickly agree a framework for a transitional agreement on exiting the european union , prime minister theresa may s spokesman said on tuesday , even as other stark differences over the brexit timeline persisted .
britain is seeking a so-called implementation period of around two years following its departure from the eu in march 2019 , during which its access to the eu single market would stay largely unchanged while new arrangements are put in place .
businesses are keen to see the details of such a deal as soon as possible to end uncertainty over the trading rules they will face after britain leaves the bloc .
in terms of the broad outline of an implementation period , we believe that we can agree that quickly , may s spokesman said .
he did not provide further detail on when britain hoped to reach such an agreement .
we re clear that we want to achieve this implementation period , that we believe we can do so , and that our priority is to provide certainty for business , he said .
may left some businesses confused on monday by saying any implementation period would not be agreed until a deal was struck on britain s future trading relationship with the bloc .
that countered expectations that a transitional deal would come well before any deal on trade .
it also highlighted a clear difference between britain and the eu over when a trade deal would be agreed .
britain is seeking an ambitious deal on trade with the eu to replace its existing arrangement at the end of an implementation period .
it believes its current close ties with the bloc mean such a deal will be agreed by october 2018 .
but the eu s chief negotiator , michel barnier , said it would take three years to negotiate a trade deal , meaning that if talks start in december it would be ready in time for the end of a transition period running until december 2020 .
in response , asked if it was britain s position that it could still achieve a trade deal by the end of next year under the two-year exit process , may s spokesman said : yes .
commenting on the timeline set out by britain , an eu official said the bloc wanted to define a framework for our future relationship by this time next year so that a withdrawal treaty could take account of that future under the terms of the article 50 legal exit process .
however , the official said the eu will only negotiate on the details of a free trade deal after britain has actually left in march 2019 because the eu s own laws do not allow it to negotiate trade agreements with its own members .
article 50 says that the withdrawal agreement has to take into account our future relationship , so we will know the terms of our partnership with the eu by our exit , a spokeswoman for may said when asked about the position set out by the eu official .
but as to the details , that s subject to negotiation and i can t pre-empt those .