ami horowitz is a thought provoking filmmaker who took a lot of heat for exposing the truth about the horrific , violent no-go zones in sweden in one of his recent documentary films .
horowitz is also very controversial because he doesn t shy away from asking tough questions of the people he randomly interviews on the streets.in fiscal year 2014 , minnesota took in 2,232 refugees , according to the u.s. office of refugee resettlement .
almost half of those were from somalia.in the video below , ami took to the streets in the cedar riverside neighborhood of minneapolis , mn to talk a variety of somali muslim immigrants .
ami posed several questions to a large variety of random somali muslim immigrants .
he asked young boys , teenagers , middle-aged men and even an older woman their thoughts on how they felt about living in the united states , and if they d rather living back in somalia .
horowitz also asked if they would prefer to live under sharia law or american laws .
their answers may surprise you.the most shocking part of the video however , comes near the end when horowitz begins to discuss freedom of speech in america .
while one of the men being interviewed talks about how great it is to be in america and to be afforded rights like freedom of speech and freedom of religion , every single muslim respondent believed that free speech is great unless it involves criticizing the prophet mohammed .
horowitz took his question a step further and asked if was okay for muslims to use violence against someone who disparaged or insulted mohammed .
every muslim he asked , believed that using violence , including killing a person who criticized or mocked mohammed , would be justified.watch : after a major dip in 2008 , the year ly num bers of new so ma li refu gees in minnesota have re bounded stead i ly .
the num ber of so malis re set tled in the state has more than trip led in four years .
as resettlements nationally have picked up , more so malis are also arriving here after brief stints in other states often trading early support from resettlement agencies for the company of more fellow somalis .
you tend to go some where you can con nect , said mo ha mud noor , the head of the con fed er a tion of so ma li community in minnesota .
be fore peo ple even ar rive from af ri ca , they know they are com ing to minnesota .
but without the twin cities family ties of earlier arrivals , these newcomers often can t lean as heavily on longer-term somali residents .
mary s place , a minneapolis home less shel ter , has be come ground zero for fami lies like ali and mo ha med s. somali participation in the state s public food assistance program doubled in the past five years .
meanwhile , the minneapolis school district , its so ma li stu dent en roll ment up 70 percent since 2011 , launched eight class rooms with in struc tion in both eng lish and so ma li to help new comers catch up .
star tribune