indianapolis ( reuters ) - duane oreskowic was speechless when he learned last week that his job would be one of 1,400 lost when his employer , carrier corp , moved production to mexico .
but he has found his voice again since learning that bernie sanders is interested in his plight .
“ i am a big-time sanders fan and i hope he can help us , ” said the 37-year-old assembly specialist .
“ but even if he can ’ t , maybe we can stop this happening to other american workers. ” the feb. 9 announcement by united technologies corp ’ s carrier unit that it would shift production to mexico from indianapolis has thrust the long-term trend of u.s. manufacturing job decline to the foreground of the nation ’ s election year agenda .
republican presidential front-runner donald trump seized on the announcement to amplify his position that companies such as carrier should be taxed if they send jobs to low wage countries .
democratic candidate sanders called carrier , a maker of air conditioners , an “ example of how nafta and other trade policies have been a disaster for american workers. ” the 2016 u.s. presidential election is in november .
communities around indianapolis have witnessed a steady outflow of factory jobs over the past two decades .
what made this action different was a youtube video of the workers getting the news that by thursday afternoon had more than 3.4 million views , and the political reaction to it .
“ i came here 30 years ago looking for the american dream , ” said hatice lancaster , 51 , originally from turkey .
“ maybe i should have gone to mexico instead. ” chuck jones , president of united steelworkers local 1999 , which represents the carrier workers , said he hopes to use the attention to force carrier to reverse its decision .
jones faces a steep climb .
carrier has told the union it can pay mexican workers $ 3 an hour versus more than $ 20 on average in indianapolis .
a spokeswoman for carrier said the company pays a “ competitive wage ” based on local conditions and could not discuss pay levels .
since 1998 , the chain-smoking , plain-spoken and profane jones has watched the number of factories represented by his local dwindle to 12 from 38 .
he and his staff can rattle off the names of plants that have closed .
“ we didn ’ t ask for this fight , ” jones said .
“ but we have to draw a line in the sand somewhere. ” jones is now giving interviews to anyone who asks - he was interrupted by multiple phone calls seeking comment while talking to reuters - in the hope “ this time america will pay attention and do something about rampant corporate greed. ” jones is grateful that trump has drawn public attention to carrier , but he sees sanders “ as a champion for our cause. ” jones said he has been contacted by the sanders campaign .
a member of the sanders campaign said the vermont senator ’ s team would be in touch with jones .
some carrier workers interviewed outside the plant said they are drawn to trump .
brian easton , 45 , said he and his wife work for carrier , and are now coming to terms with what he said is likely to be a permanent drop in their living standard .
“ this country is run by corporate america and we need someone in office like donald trump who is not beholden to anyone , ” easton said .
“ i don ’ t think he can save our jobs , but if we draw attention to this perhaps other workers won ’ t have to go through this . ”