marawi city , philippines ( reuters ) - war might still be raging in the ruins of the philippine city of marawi , but the cleanup has already began .
under the guard of dozens of police and soldiers , about 100 of the 200,000 residents driven from their homes during 150 days of fighting have returned to start what will be a massive operation to clear the city of the debris of war .
army trucks crawled through the deserted streets to take displaced people to safe areas of marawi , where echoes of gunfire and explosions could still be heard as troops sought to finish off the remaining maute group militants hemmed into a shrinking battle zone .
they swept away trash , rocks and belongings scattered on streets , among them toys of children who fled when the pro-islamic state rebels ran amok on may 23 , setting buildings ablaze and ransacking churches and schools .
spray painted on the shutter of one abandoned building reads maute isis , a term used for the militant alliance .
this is very important for the normalization of marawi because we are responding to the call for them to return back , so we need to prepare , said lieutenant colonel rosendo abad of a joint task force .
defense officials say it could take until january before rebuilding can start , with the heart of the city littered with unexploded bombs and booby traps and buildings on the brink of collapse after months of government air strikes .
military operations have cost 5 billion pesos ( $ 97 million ) and the government estimates it could be 10 times that much to rebuild marawi .
the government on tuesday said 20-year patriotic bonds would be sold to generate 30 billion pesos .
australia , the united states , singapore , russia , the world bank and the asian development bank are among the countries and organizations that have offered to help .
but already close to the front lines of the effort is china , which has donated 47 heavy-duty industrial vehicles , among them excavators , bulldozers , tractors , cement mixers and dump trucks .
those vehicles are on standby at the port in nearby iligan city , waiting for the guns to finally go silent before starting the task of restoring the country s only designated islamic city .
omarshariff yassin , an engineer in charge of equipment at the department of public works and highways , said there was enough skilled manpower , but a lack of machinery .
before the chinese equipment arrived , we have 15 equipment in use .
we have 17 units on standby , he said .
the more , the better .
what s happening is we lack equipment so we borrow from other regions .
but we really need more .