the last time this trade measure fell dramatically , it signaled the incoming global financial crash of 2007/2008 .
now , it s happening again .
only this time , it s dropped to the lowest point in its history.the baltic dry index tracks the cost of shipping dry goods around the world .
historically , it has served as a sort of bellwether for the global economy .
why ?
well , if the prices fall , it means that trade is dropping .
if trade is dropping , the economy is about to take a hit.now , back in late 2013 , the baltic dry index was flying high at 2,330 .
and even last august , it was still at a healthy 1,222.this week , it crashed to just 354.image via business insiderthe reason this should stop us all in our tracks , is that the last time this happened , it heralded the global financial crisis of 2008 from which many economies have yet to recover .
and back then , it was still over 600.as business insider reports : there are several other occasions when the index has pointed to a big correction in the global economy .
the baltic dry index has existed in its current state since 1985 , and it had its first big drop in mid-1986 , just under a year before the black monday crash hit markets in 1987.in 1999 the baltic dry slumped to 12-year lows , very soon before the dot-com bubble burst .
it slumped again to another massive low in 2001 , around the same time the us economy fell into a recession that lasted until 2003.does this mean we are definitely going to have a crash on the scale of 2008 ?
no .
it would be foolish to argue this test is infallible .
but is it , together with other warning signs in the economy , something to which we should be paying serious attention ?
absolutely.william white , former chief economist at switzerland-based bank for international settlements , has warned that an epic debt tsunami is about to wash over the global economy , and that : the situation is worse than it was in 2007 .
our macroeconomic ammunition to fight downturns is essentially all used up , the only question is whether we are able to look reality in the eye and face what is coming in an orderly fashion , or whether it will be disorderly .
white is not alone .
banks like goldman sachs and the royal bank of scotland have issued their own stark warnings about impending financial crisis .
on top of that , jeremy penn , the baltic exchange s ceo , told the telegraph : we are now at the stage where people are struggling to remember an era when it was this difficult , we ve gone through what it was like in the 90s , the 80s , and the 70s , so expressions like living memory start to apply , in short , we ignore these warnings at our peril.featured image via flickr creative commons