everything about this muslim boy s story is a lie .
from the first lie that he made the clock to the lie about him being unfairly targeted by the school .
but in the muslim faith , it s okay to lie ( taqiya ) as long as you re promoting your faith .
in shi a islam , taqiya ( taqiyyah/taq yah ) is a form of religious veil , or a legal dispensation whereby a believing individual can deny his faith or commit otherwise illegal or blasphemous acts , especially while they are in fear or at risk of significant persecution.our president barack obama brazenly supported and promoted the persecution of this poor muslim boy : cool clock , ahmed .
want to bring it to the white house ?
we should inspire more kids like you to like science .
it 's what makes america great .
president obama ( @ potus44 ) september 16 , 2015 cool clock , ahmed .
want to bring it to the white house ?
we should inspire more kids like you to like science .
it s what makes america great .
president barack obama , september 16 , 2015it was a hoax.ahmed mohamed s claims that he assembled a clock at home that he took to school is starting to unravel.two investigators who have studied the image of mohamed s device provided by irving , texas police have concluded that mohamed did not make the clock .
both conclude that mohamed disassembled a manufactured clock and installed it in a large pencil box without its casing .
and both say it is possible it was done to provoke suspicion or to resemble a bomb.update : clock has been identified as being sold in a 1986 radio shack catalogue by an art voice reader .
the headline and text for this article has been changed to reflect the update.14-year-old mohamed , a muslim , was briefly arrested and investigated for bringing a hoax bomb to macarthur high school in irving , texas on monday .
he was subsequently cleared.thousands of dollars have been donated to ahmed mohamed in just the past few days , reported cnn .
on monday , 14-year-old mohamed was arrested for taking a homemade clock to school that his teachers thought was a bomb .
so crowdfunding platform launchgood started a campaign to raise $ 100,000 for the muslim teen .
in just one day , the site had raised over $ 10,000 from more than 200 backers .
it s hoping to raise $ 100,000 by october 13 .
the support for it has been amazing , said chris abdur-rahman blauvelt , ceo of launchgood , which supports projects started by muslims or ones that are tied to the history and study of islam .
blauvelt said his campaign has the approval of mohamed s family .
he said half of the money donated will go toward a scholarship fund for mohamed and the rest to efforts that foster creativity and inventiveness in kids .
in addition to launchgood , crowdfunding platform gofundme has also launched a campaign for mohamed .
it s raised more than $ 4,000 with a goal of $ 60,000 that will go toward mohamed s future college tuition .
thomas talbot posted a video to youtube explaining the various parts in the photo of mohamed s briefcase clock belong to a manufactured alarm clock .
anthony , writing at the blog art voice , detailed how mohamed s device is actually a 1980s digital alarm clock sold by radio shack.via : gateway pundit