philadelphia ( reuters ) - tom westerman voted for donald trump in last year ’ s election but says he might not do so again after the president cut off billions of dollars in obamacare subsidies to health insurance companies .
“ it really upset me , ” said westerman , 63 , a self-described “ middle-class guy ” with an annual household income of about $ 60,000 in the western pennsylvania city of arnold .
westerman ’ s change of heart reflects mounting fears among middle-class democrats and republicans that their health insurance costs will soar as trump weakens former president barack obama ’ s signature healthcare law , which extended insurance to more than 20 million americans .
trump said last week he would stop paying the monthly subsidies , which he has derided as a bailout of insurers .
the money reimburses insurers for discounts on deductibles , copays and other out-of-pocket costs the firms still must provide under obamacare to low-income households .
some insurers , anticipating that trump would end the funding , had already raised 2018 premiums on insurance plans under obama ’ s affordable care act to recoup those funds .
others withdrew from obamacare markets in many states because of the uncertainty .
“ it seems like he is trying to hurt the middle class , ” said westerman , who is retired from a manufacturing company in pennsylvania , a state that trump won by little more than 44,000 votes over democrat hillary clinton .
it was the first time a republican candidate had won pennsylvania since 1988 .
westerman already pays $ 520 a month in healthcare premiums and about $ 700 a month for his 21-year-old daughter ’ s college tuition .
“ he says he ’ s going to make it better for everyone .
how does a ( premium ) increase make it better ? ” a white house spokesman declined to comment and referred inquiries to the u.s. department of health and human services , which did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
trump has called subsidy payments a “ gift ” for insurance companies .
his administration has argued that it can not lawfully make the payments unless congress passes new legislation .
some people said they were encouraged to see trump deliver on a campaign promise to dismantle obamacare , after repeated failures by congressional republicans to repeal the 2010 law .
“ i support the president because i think obamacare is imploding and it not only impacts those on obamacare , but everybody , ” said roger heuring , 58 , who lives in new jersey .
heuring is on an employer plan but said his sister in ohio buys insurance on the obamacare market .
“ forget the president – it ’ s the congress ’ s responsibility .
they ’ re the ones that passed this mess to begin with , ” heuring said .
in addition to cutting subsidies , trump signed an executive order last week that could eventually make it easier for americans to buy cheaper , bare-bones health insurance plans than required by obamacare .
on tuesday , two senators struck a bipartisan deal to stabilize the obamacare market , including reinstating the subsidies for two years .
trump initially said he might back the deal , but reversed course on wednesday , as senior republican lawmakers spoke out against a plan that might allow obamacare to survive .
meanwhile , democratic attorneys-general have asked a california judge to intervene and direct the administration to continue the payments until their legal challenge to trump ’ s cutoff is settled in court .
the moves created new uncertainty over the subsidies , just two weeks before americans begin to enroll in obamacare plans for 2018 .
middle-class squeeze if the subsidies are not restored , some middle-income families and small business owners who buy insurance on the obamacare markets could see their premiums rise the most , said larry levitt , health economist at the kaiser family foundation .
these include cash-strapped self-employed workers who rely on obamacare to buy insurance but make too much money to qualify for government assistance .
the very poor receive other forms of government subsidies to buy coverage that shields them from premium increases .
karyn feit , a self-employed mental health therapist in philadelphia , said a hike in premiums will strain her already-stretched finances and force her to cut back on trips to florida to care for sick parents .
feit , 47 , and her husband together earn $ 100,000 annually , placing her among america ’ s vast tier of middle-income families .
they bought obamacare individual coverage four years ago , when feit left her job at a hospital to start her own business , leaving her without employer coverage .
she has no children .
her current monthly premiums are $ 391 .
she expects this to rise by $ 80 a month after trump ’ s decision .
“ the first thing i would have to cut is travel , and caring for other people , ” said feit , a democrat .
trump voter stephen lewis , 62 , lost his job as a veterinarian in wisconsin and bought a health insurance plan under obamacare .
lewis still supports trump although he said he fears that his premiums , now $ 309 a month , could rise further with the subsidy cut , making it harder for him to meet other expenses , including $ 611 in monthly mortgage payments .
“ it is a concern obviously , ” lewis said .
graphic-the trump effect : repeal and replace