washington ( reuters ) - the white house vowed wednesday that the united states would still meet international commitments to cut carbon emissions , seeking to allay concerns that the supreme court might take away one of its main weapons against climate change .
the court dealt a blow on tuesday to the obama administration ’ s clean power plan , which would steer electricity plants away from burning coal to cleaner fuel sources , delaying its implementation until all legal challenges are decided .
but the white house said it remained confident it would ultimately win the lawsuits brought by industry groups and 29 states opposed to the plan .
and white house spokesman eric schultz said the administration has an array of tools available to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to rising global temperatures .
he cited the long-term extension of tax credits for renewable energy that were enacted in last year ’ s budget deal as an example of other policy measures driving the power sector ’ s shift to cleaner energy .
“ the inclusion of those tax credits is going to have more impact over the short term than the clean power plan , ” schultz said .
still , the court-ordered pause that could push a final legal ruling back a year or more and onto the desk of the next president raised questions about the u.s. ability to deliver on pledges made at december ’ s paris climate talks .
the paris accord requires countries to set and meet their own national targets to reduce carbon emissions , and the united states presented the clean power plan as a major step to shrink power plant emissions to 32 percent below 2005 levels over the next 15 years .
the prospect of a legal delay and possible rejection of the plan rattled some environmental groups and foreign governments that have embraced the paris formula .
outgoing french foreign minister laurent fabius , who was praised for his smooth chairmanship that brought about a deal in paris , was quoted by french government officials saying the supreme court ’ s move was “ not good news. ” but other observers , noting the endemic gyrations of global climate politics over the past two decades , warned against panic over the court ’ s move .
“ no country naively made an agreement with the united states on the basis of one or two of its policies , ” said robert orr , special adviser on climate change to u.n. secretary-general ban ki-moon .
“ the paris agreement wasn ’ t about what commitments were extracted from one country and whether they can be lived up to , ” orr said .
“ it was a recognition by all the major countries that it is in their own best interest to solve this problem. ” michelle patron , formerly a top adviser to obama ’ s national security council on energy and climate issues , said she expected other signatories to the climate deal to take the u.s. news in stride .
“ our partners are well aware of the legal tests and hurdles that our policies now have to go through , and they ’ ve seen it before , ” patron said , describing climate diplomats as having a “ sophisticated ” level of knowledge about the u.s. political system .
market reaction seemed to reflect a similar long view .
coal companies have blamed clean air regulations for the collapse of much of the domestic industry in recent years , even though much of the power sector ’ s shift from coal to natural gas has been driven by low prices for the latter .
coal stocks rose quickly in early trading wednesday after the court ’ s move .
but after jumping nearly 7 percent early in the session , the thomson reuters u.s. coal index was down 3 percent in afternoon trading , reflecting the deeply ingrained skepticism about the long-term prospects for coal .
“ whenever you get a rally in these stocks initially it ’ s from short-covering that helps propel the stock , ” said king lip , chief investment officer at baker avenue asset management in san francisco .
“ but people start realizing it ’ s still very difficult for a lot of these companies because they ’ re so leveraged .
they come back to earth and the selling starts to pick up again .
that ’ s what you saw today with some of these coal stocks . ”