washington ( reuters ) - the trump administration wants to allow states to expand the use of tolling on interstate highways while sharply cutting grants for transit projects and raising airline passenger security fees , according to the white house budget released on tuesday .
the overall budget proposal is $ 76 billion , which the administration said is about the same as for 2016 .
about $ 60 billion of that is annual “ mandatory spending , ” including road repairs paid through gas tax collections .
the transportation department ’ s “ discretionary ” budget is being cut by 12.7 percent , or $ 2.4 billion to $ 16.2 billion .
the administration proposes $ 200 billion in government funding over 10 years as part of a goal of getting $ 1 trillion in public and private infrastructure spending .
transportation secretary elaine chao told reporters local communities know best what projects they need .
senate democratic leader charles schumer said the budget cuts $ 206 billion in infrastructure spending across several cabinet departments , including $ 96 billion in planned highway trust fund spending .
schumer said the administration would cut funds from states and cities “ to pay wealthy hedge funds and wall street to build more toll roads. ” chao said schumer has called for $ 1 trillion in direct government funding , which is “ not very realistic ” and would add to the deficit .
administration officials said they expect that by 2022 there will be a new mechanism to make up for lost revenue .
the budget projects a $ 15 billion reduction in funding in 2023 and does not include any funding to make up for that .
congress has been adding tens of billions of dollars annually to pay for crumbling roads because gas tax revenue is not keeping up with repair needs .
the administration also proposes to allow for private companies to construct and operate highway rest stops .
it also wants to raise the airline passenger security fee by $ 1 to $ 6.60 per one-way trip , which would generate $ 530 million for the transportation safety administration .
the budget would end subsidies for amtrak to operate long-distance train service , cutting $ 630 million of the $ 1.4 billion in annual government support for passenger rail service .
the trump budget would eliminate the obama administration ’ s tiger grant program , saving $ 5 billion over 10 years in the program that has funded transit projects .
it also would cut $ 18 billion out of another government transit grant program called new starts .
the administration also proposes to privatize the nation ’ s air traffic control system , which budget documents suggest would boost the budget deficit by about $ 45 billion over 10 years .