manchester , n.h. ( reuters ) - republican white house contender marco rubio struggled at a debate on saturday at the worst possible time , potentially confounding his bid to emerge as donald trump ’ s chief rival in new hampshire and giving hope to three rivals desperate for a strong showing .
under assault from new jersey governor chris christie over his level of experience as a first-term u.s. senator from florida , rubio retreated time and again to canned statements from his stump speech and looked uncomfortably rattled for the first time after seamless performances at seven prior debates .
“ marco , the thing is this , ” christie said during one heated exchange early in the night , “ when you ’ re president of the united states , when you ’ re a governor of a state , the memorized 30-second speech where you talk about how great america is at the end of it doesn ’ t solve one problem for one person. ” while rubio recovered later in the debate , the timing of his performance was terrible , coming three days before new hampshire republicans register their choices on tuesday in the nation ’ s second nominating contest .
the debate at st. anselm college was the last face-off of the candidates before the vote .
rubio ’ s tough moments may breathe new life into the campaigns of christie , former florida governor jeb bush and ohio governor john kasich , three experienced politicians who , like rubio , represent establishment republicans .
all three have suffered from the dominance of front-runner trump in the republican race .
they are badly in need of a breakout moment to change the trajectory of the battle in new hampshire , where the polls show trump in the lead , rubio in second and texas senator ted cruz in third place .
trump did not have his best debate .
he looked flustered in a fight with bush over the use of eminent domain in advancing the interests of public use projects and private industry .
but he seemed to do well enough to possibly win on tuesday in what would represent his first victory of the 2016 race , erasing the pain from a loss in the iowa caucus last week , where he finished second to cruz and just ahead of the surging rubio .
a victory in new hampshire could put trump on track for more wins in south carolina on feb. 20 and beyond on the way to the nov. 8 election .
for the second debate in a row , bush looked polished and sounded like the candidate many establishment republicans had pinned their hopes on .
his problem is it may be too late .
kasich , likely to end his candidacy if he does not do well on tuesday , delivered a positive message that could appeal to new hampshire republican voters , who famously make up their minds late and never seem in the mood to follow the lead of the iowa caucuses , won by cruz .
the trouble for rubio began soon after the debate started when the abc news moderators asked christie about rubio ’ s experience in the u.s. senate , and christie pressed his case .
rubio critics have made much of the fact that his experience is akin to that of much-derided democratic president barack obama , elected in 2008 when a first-term senator .
rubio ’ s defense was that his and obama ’ s world views are different , not that obama has simply led the country down the path it is on because of inexperience .
“ let ’ s dispel with this fiction that barack obama doesn ’ t know what he ’ s doing .
he knows exactly what he ’ s doing , ” rubio said .
when rubio repeated the same line again , christie sought to reinforce the charge that rubio is so inexperienced that he relies on well-worn talking points and can not think on his feet .
“ there it is .
there it is .
the memorized 25-second speech .
there it is , everybody , ” christie said .
rubio repeated the line enough that someone created a twitter profile called @ rubioglitch that repeated his line about obama .
bush attacked trump for using eminent domain , which allows governments to seize private lands for projects for the public good , to help him build casino complexes in atlantic city .
eminent domain is a frequent target of criticism from conservative and anti-government groups .
“ what donald trump did was use eminent domain to try to take the property of an elderly woman on the strip in atlantic city .
that is not public purpose .
that is downright wrong , ” he said .
trump said eminent domain was “ a good thing ” and was necessary to building roads , bridges , schools and hospitals .
“ certainly , it ’ s a necessity for our country , ” he said .
“ he wants to be a tough guy , and it doesn ’ t work very well , ” trump said of bush , telling the son and brother of former presidents to be quiet .
when the crowd booed , trump said , “ that ’ s all his donors and special interests out there. ” trump , known for his tough stances with calls to ban muslims from visiting the united states and deport immigrants without the proper documents , also called for a more empathetic view of the republican call to repeal obamacare insurance coverage for americans .
“ there will be a certain number of people who will be on the street dying , and as a republican i don ’ t want that to happen , ” he said .
trump captured the biggest share of the conversation on twitter during the debate , winning 33 percent of the conversation followed by rubio at 20 percent and cruz at 15 percent .
( additional reporting by ginger gibson and alana wise in washington ; writing by steve holland and john whitesides ; editing by mary milliken , paul simao and robert birsel ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .