vienna ( reuters ) - coalition talks between austria s far-right freedom party and conservatives led by sebastian kurz are drawing to a close and have laid down guarantees that the next government will be pro-european , kurz said on thursday .
kurz , who is just 31 , led the people s party ( ovp ) to victory in a parliamentary election on oct. 15 , taking a hard line on immigration that often overlapped with that of the anti-islam freedom party ( fpo ) , which came third .
people familiar with their coalition talks , which began on oct. 25 , said a deal might be reached as early as friday evening and is likely to be struck over the weekend .
that would end more than a decade in opposition for the fpo , which was led by the late joerg haider when it last entered government in 2000 .
the fpo has backed away from calling for austria to follow britain by holding an oexit referendum on leaving the european union .
it now says it is pro-european but critical of the bloc and wants to prevent further political integration .
it was important to the president , and to me , that the new government have a pro-european orientation .
from my point of view , that has been secured , kurz told reporters after meeting president alexander van der bellen , adding that he was confident of a deal before christmas .
kurz did not say what those points were , but the talks are well advanced , with the parties having produced joint lists of planned policies , from lowering taxes while staying within eu budget rules to providing refugees with a light version of regular benefit payments for five years .
while those plans have often been expressed vaguely , kurz and his party have obtained some specific concessions that would limit the fpo s options if it were to turn against the eu .
points already agreed include moving some foreign ministry departments in charge of european affairs to the chancellor s office , which kurz will head , a person close to the coalition talks said .
those include the task force in charge of preparing for austria s eu presidency in the second half of next year and the section in charge of coordinating policy for various eu forums , including that of envoys to brussels , the person said .
items still being discussed include making it possible to call referendums by petition .
both sides agree on the principle , but the ovp wants a higher threshold around 10 percent of voters , while the fpo is pushing for 4 percent .
under the draft terms of their coalition deal , however , direct democracy is restricted so that an ` oexit referendum is not possible , one person familiar with the talks said , which a second confirmed .
the deal will also ensure support for eu sanctions against russia , one added , to guard against the fpo s pro-russian stance .
ministerial appointments have yet to be decided but the foreign , defence and interior ministries are set to come under the fpo s control , that source said .