erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - the parliament of iraq s autonomous kurdistan region approved a plan on friday to hold a referendum on independence on sept. 25 , ignoring opposition from baghdad and the wider region as well as western concerns that the vote could spark fresh conflict .
parliament reconvened in erbil , the seat of the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) in northern iraq , where an overwhelming majority of the kurdish lawmakers taking part backed the plan .
hours after the decision , the white house publicly called for the first time on the krg to cancel the referendum , warning that the vote was distracting from efforts to defeat isis ( islamic state ) and stabilize the liberated areas .
the united states does not support the kudistan regional government s intention to hold a referendum later this month , the white house said in a statement .
it urged the krg to enter into serious and sustained dialogue with baghdad , which the united states has repeatedly indicated it is prepared to facilitate .
the regional parliament s decision came despite an intense diplomatic drive by the united states , which has provided critical military aid to the krg s fight against islamic state , to persuade the kurdish leadership to cancel the referendum .
the parliament session was the first held since the legislature was suspended nearly two years ago , though only 68 of 111 lawmakers attended due to a boycott by the main opposition movement gorran .
we ve been waiting more than 100 years for this , omed khoshnaw , a lawmaker from the kurdistan democratic party ( kdr ) of krg president massoud barzani , told reuters .
there is no other way to guarantee that genocide will never be repeated , khoshnaw told the assembly earlier , referring to the persecution of the kurds and their expulsion from areas such as oil-rich kirkuk under late iraqi dictator saddam hussein .
some lawmakers wore kurdish flags and rose to clap and sing the national anthem after the vote .
the baghdad parliament s decision earlier this week to oppose the referendum drew condemnation from deputies in erbil .
we refuse to accept the iraqi parliament s decision , which was unlawful , muna qahwachi , a turkman lawmaker , told reuters .
qahwachi said she had voted in favor of the referendum because she said turkmen were protected in kurdistan , unlike in the rest of iraq .
earlier , barzani shrugged off requests from the united states and other western powers to put off the referendum .
they fear increased tensions between baghdad and erbil will distract from the war on islamic state militants who still occupy parts of iraq and syria .
we still haven t heard a proposal that can be an alternative to the kurdistan referendum , barzani told a rally in the kurdish region , referring to a proposal put forward by the united states and other western envoys this week .
iraq s neighbors iran and turkey also oppose the plebiscite , fearing an independent kurdish state could fuel separatism among their own kurdish populations .
the opposition gorran movement boycotted friday s parliamentary session , the first since a dispute between them and barzani s kdp caused the suspension of the assembly in october 2015 .
those assembled in parliament today think this is a lawful session , but this is unlawful , birzu majeed , the head of gorran s parliamentary block , told a news conference held while parliament was in session .
lawmakers from a third party , the patriotic union of kurdistan ( puk ) , ensured the required quorum .
the puk is a historic rival of the kdp but supports the referendum plan .
meanwhile , iranian-backed iraqi shi ite paramilitary groups have threatened to dislodge the kurdish forces from the kirkuk region , which is due to take part in the referendum .
kirkuk is home to sizeable arab and turkmen populations and lies outside the official boundaries of the kurdistan region .
it is claimed by both the kurds and the central government in baghad .
kurdish peshmerga fighters seized kirkuk and other disputed territories when the iraqi army collapsed in the face of islamic state in 2014 , preventing its oilfields from falling into militant hands .