the democrats and their allies in the media have spent most of this entire week condemning president trump for blaming both sides for the violent confrontations in charlottesville , va .
the problem is , president trump never once condoned the actions of the kkk or the nazi sympathizers .
trump simply said that both sides ( including the violent antifa and black lives matter protesters ) were at fault.where was the condemnation from the media and the democrat party when president barack obama eulogized the former kkk grand dragon robert byrd ?
in the early 1940s , a politically ambitious butcher from west virginia named bob byrd recruited 150 of his friends and associates to form a chapter of the ku klux klan .
after byrd had collected the $ 10 joining fee and $ 3 charge for a robe and hood from every applicant , the grand dragon for the mid-atlantic states came down to tiny crab orchard , w.va. , to officially organize the chapter.as byrd recalls now , the klan official , joel l. baskin of arlington , va. , was so impressed with the young byrd s organizational skills that he urged him to go into politics .
the country needs young men like you in the leadership of the nation , baskin said.the young klan leader went on to become one of the most powerful and enduring figures in modern senate history .
throughout a half-century on capitol hill , sen. robert c. byrd ( d-w.va. ) has twice held the premier leadership post in the senate , helped win ratification of the panama canal treaty , squeezed billions from federal coffers to aid his home state , and won praise from liberals for his opposition to the war in iraq and his defense of minority party rights in the senate .
washington postwhen the kkk grand dragon died in july of 2010 , president barack obama eulogized him , while hillary clinton sang the praises of the west virginia democrat senator robert byrd she called her mentor .
during his eulogy , president barack obama expressed his admiration for the kkk grand dragon and later , the us senator robert byrd : and as i reflect on the full sweep of his 92 years , it seems to me that his life bent towards justice , obama said .
like the constitution he tucked in his pocket , like our nation itself , robert byrd possessed that quintessential american quality , and that is a capacity to change , a capacity to learn , a capacity to listen , a capacity to be made more perfect .