brasilia/sao paulo ( reuters ) - brazil s federal police suspect that president michel temer , alongside a group of close aides from his party , participated in illicit acts that rendered him up to 31.5 million reais ( $ 10 million ) in advantages and other perks .
in a report on monday , police said there were indications that temer , 77 , and the so-called gang of the lower house might have engaged in active and passive corruption acts , fraud and other crimes .
the report was sent to the federal supreme court , the only court with the authority to investigate a sitting president .
while the report did not specify what advantages temer might have obtained , it identified a series of transfers made from companies such as odebrecht sa , and cash stemming from state contracts .
the report gathered data from recent testimonies that incriminated temer in the campaign financing of at least one ally .
according to the police , temer s chief of staff eliseu padilha and wellington moreira franco , temer s privatization tzar , were also named in the investigation , which started in 2015 .
the report could provide additional evidence for a second formal corruption accusation against temer in as many months .
prosecutor-general rodrigo janot , whose term expires at the end of this week , filed the first almost two months ago but lower house lawmakers voted to drop it , alleging lack of sufficient evidence .
temer has been a central figure in the brazilian democratic movement party for decades , helping create a solid bloc in the lower house that has participated in the past four administrations .
he became brazil s vice president in 2011 and replaced his predecessor dilma rousseff when she was impeached last year for doctoring budget accounts .
press representatives of temer , who enjoys immunity from prosecution in lower-tier courts , said in a statement he does not participate nor has ever been part of a criminal gang , noting he has never made use of any state structure to directly or indirectly extract any benefits from public office .
padilha said he would only respond to the accusation when he has access to the document .
moreira franco told reuters he has never participated in any illicit act .
the investigation also includes eduardo cunha , a former lower house speaker who accelerated rousseff s ouster and is jailed for his involvement in a massive bribery scandal .