ismailia , egypt ( reuters ) - the mosque was packed with hundreds of worshippers for friday prayers in egypt s north sinai when gunmen in military-style uniforms and masks appeared in a doorway and at windows .
the ease with which they mounted an attack - killing more than 300 people in the worst bloodshed of its kind in egypt s modern history - highlighted the threat militant groups pose in the most populous arab country .
after four years of battling islamic state in the sinai , where the group has killed hundreds of soldiers and police , authorities still face an enemy with growing ambitions in egypt , despite its defeats in iraq , syria and libya .
carrying the black flag of islamic state , the assailants arrived in off-road vehicles before opening fire on the cream-colored al rawdah mosque in bir al-abed , leaving its carpets stained with blood , officials and witnesses said .
people scrambled to escape as gunmen opened fire at worshippers , including dozens of children .
by the time the shooting stopped , many of the village s men were lifeless .
no group has claimed responsibility .
egyptians were stunned because the attack was directed at a mosque - a rarity in the country s history of islamist insurgencies .
the possibility that ultra-hardline islamists are shifting tactics and picking new targets is worrying for egypt , where governments have struggled to contain groups far less brazen than islamic state .
egyptian leaders have adopted a zero-tolerance policy , with air strikes , raids on militant hideouts and long prison sentences .
president abdel fattah al-sisi has once again threatened to crush the militants .
the armed forces and the police will avenge our martyrs and restore security and stability with the utmost force in the coming period , he said after friday s carnage .
sisi has called for a comprehensive campaign to counter what he describes as the existential threat of radical jihadism , deploying moderate clerics to promote moderate islam , for instance .
he is expected to run for a second term early next year .
even with a convincing win , he will face pressure to deliver on promises of stability , especially if attacks like that on al rawdah persist .
for islamic state , the village was a target because of its ties to sufism , a mystical form of islam that hardline islamist groups consider heretical .
some villagers recalled how these threats were made about a year ago in an islamic state internet publication .
in a december 2016 issue of al-nabaa , one of the group s religious leaders left little doubt that sufis would be targeted .
it mentioned al rawdah directly .
our primary focus lies in the war against polytheism and apostasy , and of those , sufism , sorcery and divination , he said .
more threats were made in early 2017 .
in march , islamic state s branch in the sinai posted a video of its religious police forcing a group of sufis to renounce their beliefs under threat of death .
it showed what it said were militants beheading two elderly sufi men in the desert after they were found guilty of witchcraft and sorcery .
egypt has about 15 million sufis , and their shrines and saints appear in villages across the country .
ultra-conservative salafists abhor sufi practices and some have in the past threatened to smash their symbols with hammers and iron bars .
five police and army sources said there was no recent specific threat against sufis in al rawdah .
friday s attack began in the early afternoon .
the mosque s imam said he had just stepped onto the podium for his sermon when gunfire erupted and worshippers struggled to escape .
i found people piled on top of each other and they kept firing at anyone , imam mohamed abdel fattah told reuters from his hospital bed in sharqiya city .
they fired at anyone who breathed .
ramadan salama , 26 , said all he remembers before ending up in hospital was gunmen entering the mosque during the sermon and spraying worshippers with gunfire .
as egyptian security forces try to reassure an anxious public , they face yet another dangerous enemy .
a new group with military training is already posing a more complex threat .
in october it mounted a sophisticated attack , not far from cairo .
the little-known ansar al-islam claimed responsibility for the attack on police in the western desert , far from northern sinai .
security sources said dozens of police officers and conscripts were killed .
the government said 16 police and conscripts died .
security sources said the heavy weapons and tactics employed indicated ties to islamic state or more likely an al qaeda brigade led by hesham al-ashmawy , a former egyptian special forces officer turned jihadist .
for now , security and intelligence officials will continue to hunt ashmawy , described as the country s most wanted man .
egypt s prosecutor s office , citing its investigation and interviews with wounded survivors , says gunmen carried an islamic state flag as they stormed the al rawdah mosque .
authorities say 305 people , including 27 children , died as gunmen even attacked ambulances arriving on the scene .
another 128 were wounded .
they entered the mosque from outside , almost 10 to 20 people with weapons , and they destroyed everything , said resident magdy rezk from hospital .
it was a huge toll for a tiny village .
tribal leader ibrahim el-menaie , told reuters via social media that it has a population of only 800 .
the whole village is black with mourning , said resident haj ahmed swailam .