seoul ( reuters ) - a u.s. b-1b bomber on wednesday joined large-scale u.s.-south korean military exercises that north korea has denounced as pushing the peninsula to the brink of nuclear war , as tension mounts between the north and the united states .
the bomber flew from the pacific u.s.-administered territory of guam and joined u.s. f-22 and f-35 stealth fighters in the annual exercises , which run until friday .
the drills come a week after north korea said it had tested its most advanced intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching the united states , as part of a weapons program that it has conducted in defiance of international sanctions and condemnation .
asked about the bomber s flight , china s foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang told a regular news briefing in beijing : we hope relevant parties can maintain restraint and not do anything to add tensions on the korean peninsula .
north korea regularly threatens to destroy south korea , the united states and japan .
its official kcna state news agency said at the weekend that u.s. president donald trump s administration was begging for nuclear war by staging the drills .
it also labeled trump , who has threatened to destroy north korea if the united states is threatened , insane .
kcna said on tuesday that the exercises in which the bomber took part are simulating an all-out war , including drills to strike the state leadership and nuclear and ballistic rocket bases , air fields , naval bases and other major objects ... u.s. republican senator lindsey graham on sunday urged the pentagon to start moving u.s. military dependants , such as spouses and children , out of south korea , saying conflict with north korea was getting close .
the u.s.-south korea drills coincide with a rare visit to the isolated north by u.n. political affairs chief jeffrey feltman .
north korean vice foreign minister pak myong guk met feltman on wednesday in the north korean capital , pyongyang , and discussed bilateral cooperation and other issues of mutual interest , kcna said .
feltman , a former senior u.s. state department official , is the highest-level u.n. official to visit north korea since 2012 .
the state department said on tuesday he was not carrying any message from washington .
south korean president moon jae-in will visit china next wednesday for a summit with his counterpart xi jinping , seoul s presidential blue house said .
north korea s increasing nuclear and missile capability would top the agenda , it said .
the military exercises , called vigilant ace , are designed to enhance joint readiness and operational capability of u.s. extended deterrence , south korea s joint chiefs of staff said in a statement .
north korea has vehemently criticized the drills since the weekend , saying the exercise precipitates u.s. and south korean self-destruction .
china and russia had proposed that the united states and south korea stop major military exercises in exchange for north korea halting its weapons programs .
china is north korea s lone major ally and fears widespread instability on its border .
russia also has communication channels open with north korea and is ready to exert its influence , the ria news agency quoted russian deputy foreign minister igor morgulov as saying on tuesday .
north korea has tested dozens of ballistic missiles , two of which flew over japan , and conducted its sixth and largest nuclear bomb test in september .
it says its weapons programs are a necessary defense against u.s. plans to invade .
the united states , which has 28,500 troops stationed in south korea , a legacy of the 1950-53 korean war , denies any such intention .