bogota ( reuters ) - colombian president juan manuel santos , in response to his name appearing in a trove of leaked documents about offshore investments , said he left a company registered in tax haven barbados before taking a ministerial post with a previous government .
the so-called paradise papers published on sunday showed the investments of wealthy people and institutions ranging from united states commerce secretary wilbur ross to britain s queen elizabeth .
reuters has not independently verified the documents .
santos was listed in the leaked documents as a board member of insurance company nova holding in april and may 2000 and also global tuition , an insurance firm focused on education , from april 1999 to may 2001 .
santos said in a statement on sunday that he left global tuition before taking up his duties as finance minister in the government of then-president andres pastrana in august 2000 .
he said he was not a partner , did not invest any money and was not paid for serving on the board .
i imagine they delayed in officially registering the changes , santos said in answers given to el espectador newspaper and released by his office .
i participated until before i became finance minister .
santos said that after 2000 he was a global tuition client for some of their insurance for the education of my three children .
global tuition s office was closed in colombia for a public holiday on monday and could not be reached for comment .
the company s office in the united states said any comment would come from the colombia office .
the president s statement did not mention the other company , nova holding .
nova holding could not immediately be reached for comment .
the documents were obtained by germany s sueddeutsche zeitung newspaper and shared with the international consortium of investigative journalists ( icij ) and some media outlets , including el espectador and connectas website in colombia .
the names of three former colombian defense ministers and two former ambassadors to the united states also appear in the leaked papers .