ankara ( reuters ) - turkey said on wednesday the united states has isolated itself by recognizing jerusalem as israel s capital and accused it of threatening countries that might vote against it on the matter at an emergency u.n. general assembly session .
foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu , whose country has led muslim opposition to washington s stance on jerusalem , was speaking before leaving istanbul with the palestinian foreign minister to attend thursday s gathering in new york .
with his dec. 6 decision , president donald trump reversed decades of u.s. policy , and upset an international consensus enshrined in u.n. resolutions , that treated jerusalem s status as unresolved .
israel captured east jerusalem in a 1967 war and palestinians want it as the capital of a future state they seek .
trump s move stirred outrage among palestinians and in the arab world , and concern among washington s western allies .
on monday , the united states vetoed a u.n. security council draft resolution calling on it to withdraw its declaration .
thel 14 other council members , including close u.s. allies such as japan and four european union countries , backed the draft .
on thursday there ll be a vote criticizing our choice , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said on twitter .
the u.s. will be taking names .
cavusoglu said that was a threat , and called on washington - a nato ally of turkey - to change course .
we expect strong support at the un vote , but we see that the united states , which was left alone , is now resorting to threats .
no honorable , dignified country would bow down to this pressure , cavusoglu told a news conference held together with his palestinian counterpart riyad al-maliki .
we want america to turn back from this wrong and unacceptable decision , cavusoglu said earlier in the azeri capital baku , where he met iranian and azeri ministers .
god willing , we will push through the general assembly a resolution in favor of palestine and jerusalem , he said .
the rare emergency session of the 193-member u.n. general assembly was called at the request of arab and muslim states .
palestinian u.n. envoy riyad mansour has said the general assembly would vote on a draft resolution calling for the u.s. declaration to be withdrawn .
such a vote is non-binding , but carries political weight .
turkish president tayyip erdogan has lambasted trump s move , and hosted a summit of muslim leaders last week which called for east jerusalem to be recognized as the capital of palestine .
israel calls jerusalem its indivisible and eternal capital .
from now on we will be more active in defending the rights of palestinians .
we will work harder for the international recognition of an independent palestinian state , cavusoglu told reporters in baku .