rome ( reuters ) - italy s anti-establishment 5-star movement looks poised to name luigi di maio as its candidate for prime minister in elections early next year and , if opinion polls are to be believed , the earnest 31-year-old has a good chance of winning .
di maio s critics scoff at his modest curriculum vitae , but his youth and acknowledged communication skills are key to his success .
his rapid rise has mirrored that of 5-star .
five years ago he was living in a small town in italy s poor south and struggling to make ends meet as a designer and maintainer of websites , while studying law at naples university .
he had previously worked as a steward at naples football club , a building laborer and a waiter , according to the video he presented to 5-star supporters to ask them to back him as a candidate for parliament in 2013 .
detractors say his inexperience means he can not be taken seriously as a potential prime minister .
yet opinion polls show he is by far 5-star s most popular politician and among the two or three most popular in italy .
5-star is a young , innovative movement , so having someone very young in the front line helps to get that message across , said fellow deputy alfonso bonafede , a close di maio ally .
boyish looking and immaculately turned out in suit and tie , he presents a moderate image in striking contrast to the movement s founder , 69-year-old comedian beppe grillo who is famous for his raucous tirades against italy s ruling elite .
di maio comes across as calm and responsible , which reassures voters who might not be naturally drawn to 5-star , said giovanni orsina , politics professor at rome s luiss university .
politically di maio , who has taken tough stances on law-and-order and immigration , is seen on the right of the maverick party which says traditional left-right labels have no meaning .
its policies include the introduction of universal income support for the poor , phasing out fossil fuels and boosting public investment .
grillo , 5-star s de facto chief since he founded the movement in 2009 , effectively abdicated last week , saying whoever is elected as its candidate for prime minister will also be its leader .
in line with 5-star s credo of internet-based direct democracy , di maio will be picked in an online vote of the party s members this week .
the date of the ballot has not yet been set but the result , to be announced on saturday , is virtually a foregone conclusion .
the only people with any hope of beating him decided not to run .
when 5-star shook up italian politics by winning a quarter of the vote in 2013 , electing 162 young , inexperienced lawmakers to parliament for the first time , di maio was one of the youngest and most inexperienced of all .
however he quickly made an impression on both colleagues and opponents .
at 26 , he was elected as the youngest ever deputy speaker of the chamber of deputies , where he won plaudits for his ability to control the often unruly chamber .
since then he has often had a rocky ride .
in his role as national coordinator of 5-star s growing band of mayors , he has been a lightning rod for crises in numerous city halls , especially the capital rome .
as his prominence increased so did the attacks of his opponents .
he made their job easier with some grammatical and historical blunders on social media , including once referring to the late chilean dictator augusto pinochet as being from venezuela .
some party colleagues also do little to hide their resentment of his success , but 5-star insiders say that , crucially , he has always kept the trust of grillo , who spotted him as a potential leader several years ago .
he has the most energy , he performs best under pressure and he has the broadest appeal to voters , including older ones where we are weakest , said one 5-star strategist who asked not to be named .
luca ricolfi , sociology professor at turin university , said di maio was a good communicator and today that is all that people want from politicians .
but orsina said there was more to di maio than his ability on television .
in these five years he has shown he also has political talent , he said .
he has been at the center of the political battle and has always kept a cool head .