beirut/amman/ankara ( reuters ) - syria s opposition rejected a russian-sponsored initiative to reach a political settlement to the civil war , as turkey protested against moves to involve kurdish groups , in an early setback to moscow s peacemaking bid .
having intervened decisively in the syrian war in 2015 in support of president bashar al-assad , russia now hopes to build on the collapse of islamic state to launch a political process to end the six-year-old conflict .
syria s government has said it is ready to attend the nov. 18 sochi congress which is set to focus on a new constitution , saying the time is right thanks to syrian army gains and the terrorists obliteration .
but officials in the anti-assad opposition rejected the meeting on wednesday and insisted any talks be held under u.n. sponsorship in geneva , the scene of a string of failed peace efforts .
the congress amounted to a meeting between the regime and the regime , said mohammad alloush , a member of the opposition high negotiations committee and a senior official with the jaish al-islam rebel group .
the hnc was surprised it had been mentioned in a list of invited groups and would issue a statement with other parties setting out the general position rejecting this conference , alloush told reuters .
the turkey-based syrian national coalition ( snc ) political opposition group said the congress was an attempt to circumvent the international desire for political transition in syria .
russian air power played a big part in the defeat of rebels in opposition-held eastern aleppo and other areas last year .
what kind of syrian-syrian dialogue will it be under the sponsorship of the ( russian ) criminal ?
said eyad shamsi , another hnc member and the head of a rebel faction .
a russian negotiator said on tuesday that syrian groups who choose to boycott the congress risked being sidelined as the political process moves ahead .
russia has invited 33 syrian groups and political parties to what it calls a syrian congress on national dialogue .
russian president vladimir putin first mentioned the idea of the congress last month , saying he believed moscow and the syrian government would soon finally defeat militants in syria .
helped by russia s air force and an array of iran-backed shi ite militias , assad has defeated many of the syrian rebels who were fighting to topple him , leaving them confined to enclaves in the west .
damascus and its allies have also recovered swathes of central and eastern syria from islamic state in recent months , while a separate campaign by u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) has driven is from other parts of the country .
the separate campaigns are now converging on islamic state s last strongholds in deir al-zor province at the iraqi border .
russia s decision to invite kurdish groups which dominate the sdf to sochi triggered objections from turkey on wednesday .
ankara , which views the dominant syrian kurdish groups as a national security threat , said it was unacceptable that the kurdish ypg militia had been invited .
turkish presidential spokesman ibrahim kalin said turkish and russian officials had discussed the issue and that he had held meetings of his own to solve the problem on the spot .
turkey views the ypg and its political affiliate , the pyd , as an extension of the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) , which has been waging a three-decade insurgency in turkey .
the head of the pyd indicated on wednesday his group favored attending the congress .
shahoz hasan , in written comments to reuters , said the pyd would advocate for its decentralized model for syria .
although he did not firmly commit to attending , he said a majority among the pyd and its allies now favored going : we are discussing it and the majority view is to attend .