jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia s military said on friday it was prepared to take tough measures against rebels who have threatened to destroy the mining operations of freeport-mcmoran inc in the eastern province of papua in their independence struggle .
police say an armed separatist group linked to the free papua movement ( opm ) is preventing about 1,000 people in five villages from leaving an area near the giant grasberg copper mine , operated by a unit of the arizona-based company .
a state of emergency has been declared and at least 300 additional security forces have been deployed to the area after a string of shootings since aug. 17 killed one police officer and wounded six .
the group , the west papua national liberation army ( tpn-opm ) , on friday denied occupying villages near the mine .
hendrik wanmang , a representative of tpn-opm , said none of its more than 2,000 fighters was stationed in the villages .
we can not mingle with the community , wanmang said in a telephone interview .
that would endanger them .
wanmang also denied police allegations his group had carried out rape and torture of civilians , saying villagers were continuing to carry out activities as usual .
but he warned that freeport employees and security personnel remained in the area at their own risk .
we are at war against the national police , indonesian military and freeport , he said .
( tpn-opm ) will continue to fight until the root of this problem - freeport - is removed , wanmang said .
a freeport indonesia spokesman declined to comment .
papua police spokesman suryadi diaz said the situation in the villages near the town of tembagapura was conducive and the community was functioning as usual .
they aren t hostage , but if you want to get to these villages you have to get past this armed criminal group , diaz said , referring to the opm .
police were taking persuasive steps to resolve the conflict through negotiations and dialogue with community , religious and tribal leaders , he said .
authorities made conflicting statements about the situation .
indonesian military chief gatot nurmayanto said the group had taken hostages in the villages and the army would take a hard approach if necessary .
tough measures , including armed conflict , would be a last resort if negotiations with the group failed to resolve the issue , papua military commander george enaldus supit said later , clarifying the statement .
wanmang said his group was not interested in negotiating .
if the government wants to send millions of national police and indonesian military troops to protect the freeport area , go ahead - they are just trying to protect the deception .
the grasberg mine has been dogged by security concerns for decades , as pro-independence rebels have waged a low-level conflict in papua .
between 2009 and 2015 , shootings in the mine project area killed 20 people and wounded 59 .
more recently , freeport , the world s largest publicly listed copper producer , has been grappling with labor problems at grasberg and a mine rights dispute with indonesia .
the freeport dispute is likely to overshadow efforts by president joko widodo s government to resolve conflict in papua , the institute for policy analysis of conflict said .
any violence in the freeport area can involve multiple actors with multiple interests , it said in a recent report .
even if the opm is blamed , papuans will be asking who else was involved .