erbil/kirkuk , iraq ( reuters ) - the united states and western allies pressed iraqi kurdish leaders to ditch a very risky independence vote on thursday , presenting an alternative plan in an attempt to avoid conflict between the oil rich region and central government in baghdad .
the referendum , slated for sept. 25 , has become a potential flashpoint in the region , with western powers concerned it could ignite conflict with baghdad and divert attention from the war against islamic state militants .
heading into a referendum for sept. 25 , there is no prospect for international legitimacy , brett mcgurk , a u.s. special envoy , told reporters after a delegation also including the u.n. and britain met kurdish president massoud barzani .
this is a very risky process .
mcgurk said he was encouraged that kurdish leaders could embrace an alternative plan focusing on dialogue between the kurdistan region and baghdad and a delay in the referendum .
he refused to give details .
the kurdish presidency said the autonomous region s political leaders would study the proposal , without giving details .
but barzani himself was later quoted by local media as telling a pro-independence rally the vote would go ahead on sept. 25 as planned .
the move came after iraq s parliament voted to remove the governor of kirkuk , a staunch supporter of kurdish independence .
kirkuk governor najmaddin kareem said he had no intention of following baghdad s dismissal order , issued at the behest of prime minister haider al-abadi .
i will stay in office , he told reuters .
the referendum will go on as planned ... the prime minister does not have the power to ask parliament to remove me .
iraqi lawmakers authorized abadi this week to take all measures to preserve national unity before the independence referendum .
baghdad and iraq s neighbors are opposed to the vote .
iraqi lawmakers say it will consolidate kurdish control over several disputed areas , including oil-rich kirkuk .
turkey has the region s largest kurdish population and fears a yes vote could fuel separatism in its southeast where kurdish militants have waged an insurgency for three decades in which more than 40,000 people have been killed .
iran and syria also oppose the vote , fearing it could fan separatism among their own kurdish populations .
iraqi lawmakers say the referendum will consolidate kurdish control over several disputed areas , including oil-rich kirkuk .
kirkuk province is claimed by both the central government in baghdad and barzani s semi-autonomous kurdish region in northern iraq .
kareem is a vocal supporter of the referendum and campaigned for the vote also to be held in kirkuk .
kurds have long claimed kirkuk and its huge oil reserves .
they regard the city , just outside their kurdistan region in northern iraq , as their historical capital .
but the ethnically mixed city also has arab and turkmen populations .
kareem has long riled the federal government .
last spring , kirkuk s governorate voted to raise the kurdish flag over state buildings , despite baghdad s insistence that only iraq s national flag should fly in the multi-ethnic city .
he ( kareem ) is an elected governor of the council of kirkuk , said hoshyar zebari , a close adviser to president barzani .
that is the only body that can remove him .
the escalating tactics this week by the iraqis are causing a large public backlash , and will strengthen the kurdish referendum enormously , zebari said .
kurdish mps in iraq s parliament boycotted thursday s vote , which produced a majority for the governor s removal , lawmaker husham al-suhail told reuters .
asked whether parliament had the right to dismiss kareem , suhail referred to an article of iraq s provincial law , which parliament used as the legal basis for the vote and which stipulates the prime minister s authority to remove a regional governor .
suhail gave no details about what kareem was accused of and kareem himself said he had not been informed .
this is unlawful ...
i have the support of the government council , i have the support of the people , we are here and we will continue , he said .