oh , this is so ridiculous and so bogus that the intimidated researchers aren t handing over research documents and communications to the republicans .
if they want to preserve the integrity of the scientific process then they should be open and honest .
being secretive about results of research just shows the global warming scam is junk science they re trying to keep under wraps .
the federal government s chief climate research agency is refusing to give house republicans the detailed information they want on a controversial study on climate change .
citing confidentiality concerns and the integrity of the scientific process , the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ) said it won t give rep. lamar smith ( r-texas ) the research documents he subpoenaed .
at the center of the controversy is a study that concluded there has not been a 15-year pause in global warming .
some noaa scientists contributed to the report .
skeptics of climate change , including smith , have cited the pause to insist that increased greenhouse gas emissions , mostly from burning fossil fuels , are not heating up the globe .
smith , the chairman of the house science committee , vehemently disagreed with the study s findings .
he issued a subpoena for communications among the scientists and some data , leading to charges from democrats that he was trying to intimidate the researchers .
late tuesday , noaa provided smith with some more information about its methods and data but refused to give smith everything he wanted .
noaa spokeswoman ciaran clayton said the internal communications are confidential and not related to what smith is trying to find out .
more recently , a famous physicist came out against the global warming scam : wow !
world s top physicist and democrat : obama backs wrong side in war on climate change , follow the money , carbon does far more good than harm dr.freeman dyson , himself a longstanding democrat voter , is especially disappointed by his chosen party s unscientific stance on the climate change issue .
it s very sad that in this country , political opinion parted [ people s views on climate change ] .
i m 100 per cent democrat myself , and i like obama .
but he took the wrong side on this issue , and the republicans took the right side .
part of the problem , he says , is the democrats conflation of pollution ( a genuine problem ) with climate change ( a natural phenomenon quite beyond mankind s ability to control ) .
via : gateway pundit