come hell or high water , the occupy movement is going to have their voices heard while our community organizer in chief occupies our white house .
pretty much every hate-america and victim group will be taking part in these acts of civil disobedience they re planning .
these groups know how critically important it is to take action while they have an ally in the white house .
they are prepared to do whatever it takes to ensure republicans are unable to unravel the radical , progressive and unconstitutional acts of barack hussein obama.friday night in chicago , at the site of the donald trump rally , we were awakened to what america will be like if we continue to kowtow to the radicalized left and their violent intimidation tactics to shut down constitutionally protected speech .
theirs is not a protest movement .
it is pure anarchy.after eight years under president obama , the totalitarian enemies of freedom know they have our constitutional republic on the ropes now they re going for the throat.go here for videos for a preview of the organized resistance that took place outside of the trump rally in chicago.breitbart with little fanfare and almost no news media attention , some of the same radical groups involved in shutting down donald trump s chicago rally last week are plotting a mass civil disobedience movement to begin next month.they intend to march across the east coast in order to spark a fire that transforms the political climate in america .
the operation , calling itself democracy spring , is threatening drama in washington with the largest civil disobedience action of the century .
the radicals believe this will result in the arrest of thousands of their own activists .
we will demand that congress listen to the people and take immediate action to save our democracy .
and we won t leave until they do or until they send thousands of us to jail , the website for democracy spring declares , channeling rhetoric from the occupy movement.the group is backed by numerous organizations , including the george soros-funded groups moveon.org , the institute for policy studies , and demos.another group endorsing democracy spring is the democratic socialists of america ( dsa ) .
the dsa s chicago branch drove protesters to last weekend s nixed chicago trump event , as this reporter exposed.the afl-cio , the nation s largest labor federation , announced in a press release earlier this month it is all in behind democracy spring , perhaps indicating significant mobilization.next month s democracy spring chaos is set to begin with a meetup on april 2 at the liberty bell in philadelphia.from the trump rally riot organizers website : [ quote_box_center ] stand with all immigrants , muslims and people of color !
shut down white supremacy ! spread the word .
organize everyone you can and get them to this very important protest .
everywhere trump goes he and his racist mob must be shut down by the people ! we must take the trump campaign seriously .
the racist and reactionary presidential campaign of donald trump has brought out many thousands of people to rallies across the country and sparked a very dangerous mass movement with white supremacy at its core.this type of movement must be met with the largest resistance of the people possible anywhere it raises up its putrid head .
what is needed right now is for thousands of people in chicago to descend on the uic pavilion and help spark a united mass movement against racism , islamophobia and attacks on immigrants .
[ /quote_box_center ] these radical anarchist riot-starters have come out from the underground , ready to seize their prize .
the presidential election process is very germane to our republic ; if it is stopped , so too is our liberty , our representative system , our way of life.some on the right and in the conservative media are trying to find ways to appease the riot-starters .
they are walking on eggshells in the hopes of avoiding the truth of our situation .
there is no palatable neutral , no safe space or toning down of rhetoric that can help us negotiate our way out of this conflict.these are rebellions brought on by anarchists who show up with the intent to create chaos .
they live and breathe violence and disorder and will not be placated except for silencing those with whom they disagree .
their presence is a threat to ordered liberty in the united states.this totalitarian movement of riot-starters is made up of a patchwork quilt of cop-haters , criminals , anarchists in general , university students , and organized labor .
along the way to these rallies , they pick up and encourage people to get involved .
this is why you see university students , juveniles , and criminals as useful tools of the professional organizers .
it is stealth by nature ; this rebellion is a wolf in a sheep s clothing , duping people along the way.we need to stop blaming the victim and muster the courage to stand up to this very dangerous movement .
this has nothing to do with an individual candidate s policy positions or rhetoric .
it has everything to do with trump and his supporters right to assemble peaceably.the law-abiding men and women who showed up at the rally and wanted to participate , including the candidate , had their civil rights , as afforded by the constitution , violated .
they didn t start this , but i don t expect them to back down , either.what i expect and frankly , what all americans should expect of each other is that when we exercise our constitutional rights and people try to intimidate us or shut us down , we don t give in .
this event was nothing compared to what will happen at the republican convention in cleveland , and it is designed to intimidate.the president of the united states is the one responsible for creating this division in america , stoking up racial discord , class warfare and gender warfare for the last eight years.if these anarchists truly cared about violence or hate , they would have been on the south side of chicago friday night protesting against the current state of street violence there : in a 24-hour period last week 20 people were shot , 2 people murdered ; in the just the first two months of this year 467 people have been shot leaving nearly 100 dead.suggesting that donald trump tone it down is farcical and misidentifies the goals of the riot-starters .
no one is to blame except in the sense that we cherish the very thing that these anarchists detest : freedom .
the riot-starters will only be placated if they make us so fearful that we give up our first amendment rights.law-abiding americans must not and can not back down to these freedom-squashing goons .
it is time for all of us to understand just what our enemies want to achieve chaos and fear and to rally around the fundamental truths of the constitution.our ordered liberty is at stake .
at some point the founders said , that s enough .
we re going to have go to war over this .
stand up and fight .
neutrality or appeasement amounts to endorsement .
self-flagellation over language or rhetoric cedes to the left s false narrative .
there is no safe space here .
you either fight or you re going to live under a totalitarian regime.an op-ed by democrat sheriff david clarke