nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan police fired teargas on tuesday at supporters of president uhuru kenyatta who were protesting outside the supreme court against the invalidation of his aug. 8 re-election , reuters witnesses said .
the supreme court nullified the presidential election on sept. 1 and ordered the electoral body to hold a repeat vote within 60 days .
the court , which issued a majority judgment , said there were irregularities in tallying results of the poll .
david maraga , the chief justice and president of the supreme court , said threats against judicial staff had risen since the ruling .
since the supreme court delivered judgment ... these threats have become more aggressive , maraga told a news conference at the supreme court , as hundreds of protesters wearing the bright red of kenyatta s jubilee party gathered outside .
he cited the demonstrations outside the court as an example of the rising threats , and threatening messages sent on social media to individual judges and their staff .
senior political leaders have also threatened the judiciary , promising to cut it down to size and teach us a lesson , maraga said , adding that judges would not be intimidated by anyone and were ready to pay the ultimate price to protect the constitution and rule of law .
maraga accused the inspector general of police of repeatedly ignoring calls to act , exposing judicial officers , property and litigants to danger .
george kinoti , the national police spokesman , denied the accusations , saying the police had provided bodyguards to judges and protection for their homes and the courts .
the truth is borne out of facts and they are plain for any citizen to check and confirm , kinoti said in a statement .
the protesters waved placards and shouted slogans against the judiciary and maraga himself .
i have attended this protest to air my grievances after the supreme court annulled my candidate s victory , one of the protesters told reuters .
there was a commotion after the teargas was fired , before the protesters regrouped and continued with their protest outside the court building .
they were eventually dispersed by further rounds of teargas .
the supreme court , which gave a summary of its findings when it invalidated kenyatta s election victory , said it would read its detailed ruling on wednesday at 0700 gmt .
opposition leader raila odinga , who lost by 1.4 million votes to kenyatta in the annulled poll , has said he will not take part in a repeat vote scheduled for oct. 17 , unless some staff at the electoral commission are fired , among other demands .
the heads of western diplomatic missions in kenya , including those of the european union , the united states and britain , urged kenyan leaders to avoid comments that could incite hatred and violence .
now is the time to focus on preparing for the new poll , which , in line with the court s order and the constitution , must be run by the independent electoral and boundaries commission and be held by the end of october , they said in a joint statement .