21st century wire says us democratic party candidate hillary clinton is reported to have fainted during a major 9/11 memorial service in new york city this past sunday .
she was promptly removed from the event by her campaign staff , but video footage later emerged showing clinton being carried into her custom transport van.now the media is buzzing with the question : is hillary clinton fit enough for the oval office ?
more importantly , can she stay on the campaign trail ? as expected , the clinton campaign is vehemently downplaying any health concerns , insisting that the former secretary of state is absolutely fine .
the following is a video mix of this bizarre campaign scene , where mrs. clinton is lifted by multiple staffers and security into her van , and also notice at the 48 second mark where a small item drops from her right pant leg onto the pavement below .
watch : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=gcx0x0rigeq .
what would happen if she bowed out ?
who would replace her ?
is this a real possibility , or is this simply the latest in a long line of sensational rightwing media reports designed to further distract and divert the american public away from important key issues facing america ? here is former huffington post journalist david seaman , who was recently fired and his work censored ( and scrubbed from the internet ) by the huff post for reporting on clinton s health issues .
watch as he reveals wikileaks clinton email archive , which reveal additional information clinton s health problems : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=ren0vhuq-1a .
probing further into the possibility of hillary clinton actually dropping from the us presidential race is award-winning health journalist and media analyst jon rappoport jon rappoport no more fake newsi ve written about her health problems before , including the blood-thinning coumadin she s taking .
and the blood clots .
and the advisory against flying , because new life-threatening blood clots can occur.i wrote and i still say democrat power players would go along with electing her even if she was dragged into the oval office dead on arrival .
they don t care.after hillary s fainting spell at the 9/11 memorial , the washington post , that organ of unquestioned truth , grants that it s now acceptable to ask polite questions about her health .
well done , boys .
you re really going out on a limb .
thanks so much.i think it s time for major media to take an overt stand about hillary : she may be very sick , dangerously so , but it s still a crime to emphasize that because it s sexist , and besides , untoward publicity could allow trump to slip into the white house , and besides , our news organization has donated to the clinton foundation , and besides , she s hillary and we all know and love her and we don t want to think about something bad happening to her because then we would cry .
i would accept that statement .
hillary s public coughing fits .
the physical instability .
the fainting .
the handler , todd madison , walking out on stage , putting his hand on her , telling her to keep talking , as if she s forgotten what s going on .
you have to conclude her doctors have tried everything they can to keep her upright and functioning , and if this is best they can do , she s in bad shape.hillary dropping out of the race for the oval office is no longer a fantasy .
it could happen .
if it does , the media will swing into gear and try to demand a delay in the election.there is no basis for such a demand , because both major parties can pick their candidate on their own terms .
the democrats , for example , as we ve seen , can rig the vote and secretly back hillary from the beginning and cook up propaganda to defeat bernie sanders .
they can choose a slew of so-called super-delegates who owe nothing to the voters and , instead , support whoever they want to ( hillary ) .
so if she drops out , the democrat leaders can simply decide , again , without consulting voters , who the substitute is .
kaine ?
biden ?
sanders ?
elizabeth warren ?
michelle obama ?
rachel maddow ?
karl marx ? no doubt , some progressive pundit will suggest obama should stay in office for a while , because he has the experience , he s presidential , he s done such a magnificent job in his two terms , his mission is unfinished ( he must get the tpp treaty ratified ) , we need him to continue the dialogue on race in the post-racial society , he knows how to bypass congress with a blizzard of executive orders , he can figure out a way to admit millions more illegal immigrants to these shores , he backs black lives matter , and he knows how to talk about fake employment numbers and pretend they re real.the democrats and their supporters will go on a victim binge : woe is us , hillary our leader has fallen , we re crippled ( differently abled ) , we need time to regroup , we can t be expected to make a snap judgment , who cares about constitutional rules governing elections , this is really serious , we have to decide what s best for the people and we have to find a way to pay off bernie sanders so he stays in hiding and keeps his big mouth shut.i , for one , would like to see trump vs. bernie .
socialist vs. capitalist .
they could do three debates on globalism and its horrendous effects on america , at which point the public would realize they both claim to perceive the gargantuan threat , albeit from different angles.hillary was the unabashed queen bee of globalism.at any rate , you can bet that , as we speak , media giants are taking private briefings on how the election season would proceed if she drops out .
they re preparing their talking points and tall stories and outright lies .
all somehow culminating in a democrat party victory this november , come hell or high water .
after congressional leaders begged president obama to stay on for several months , he reluctantly agreed , saying : well , i do have sixty or seventy executive orders drawn up and ready to go , so perhaps i could bring the country a little closer to the future we envision .
we re all in this together .
the author of three explosive collections , the matrix revealed , exit from the matrix , and power outside the matrix , jon was a candidate for a us congressional seat in the 29th district of california .
he maintains a consulting practice for private clients , the purpose of which is the expansion of personal creative power .
nominated for a pulitzer prize , he has worked as an investigative reporter for 30 years , writing articles on politics , medicine , and health for cbs healthwatch , la weekly , spin magazine , stern , and other newspapers and magazines in the us and europe .
jon has delivered lectures and seminars on global politics , health , logic , and creative power to audiences around the world .
you can sign up for his free emails atnomorefakenews.com or outsidetherealitymachine.read more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 files