singapore ( reuters ) - singapore has suspended trade relations with north korea , the latest of pyongyang s major trade partners to cut commercial ties under toughening u.n. sanctions over its weapons program , a customs notice obtained on thursday showed .
the move comes about two months after the united states imposed north korea-related sanctions on a number of firms and individuals , including two entities based in singapore .
singapore will prohibit all commercially traded goods from , or to , the democratic people s republic of korea ( dprk ) , the city-state s customs said in the notice sent to traders and declaring agents last tuesday , referring to the country by its official name .
the suspension would take effect from nov. 8 , fauziah a. sani , head of trade strategy and security for the director-general of customs , said in the notice .
repeated breach of the new prohibitions is punishable by a fine of up to s $ 200,000 ( $ 147,340.50 ) or four times the value of the goods traded , imprisonment of up to three years , or both , it added .
singapore is north korea s seventh largest trading partner .
the philippines , pyongyang s fifth biggest trading partner , suspended trade with north korea in september to comply with a u.n. resolution .
tension on the korean peninsula has escalated as north korea s young leader , kim jong un , has stepped up the development of weapons in defiance of u.n. sanctions .
north korea has tested a series of missiles this year , including one that flew over japan , and conducted its sixth and biggest nuclear test in september .
pyongyang maintains a diplomatic presence in singapore , with an embassy in its financial district .
in september , singapore issued a travel advisory urging citizens to avoid all non-essential travel to north korea , where it does not have diplomatic representation .
in an interview with national public radio in may , singapore s minister of foreign affairs , vivian balakrishnan , had said the country was not ready to cut all diplomatic ties with north korea .
in january last year , singapore-based chinpo shipping company ( private ) ltd was fined s $ 180,000 for facilitating a shipment of arms to north korea in violation of u.n. sanctions .
( reut.rs/2arbm14 )