moscow ( reuters ) - russia on tuesday unveiled a statue of mikhail kalashnikov , inventor of the ak-47 assault rifle that became by some estimates the most lethal weapon ever made and the best known russian brand abroad .
perched atop a pedestal in a tiny square on moscow s busy garden ring thoroughfare , the statue of kalashnikov , who died in 2013 , has him dressed in a bomber jacket and clutching an ak-47 in both hands .
i created a weapon for the defense of my fatherland , runs a kalashnikov quote hewn on the pedestal .
at the unveiling ceremony , a kremlin guard of honor stood to attention as russia s national anthem played .
this weapon is russia s defense .
it s one of russia s symbols .
alas , for life to continue , for lovely children to grow up , for beautiful women in russia , there must be a weapon , the monument s sculptor , salavat shcherbakov , told reporters .
the ak-47 , the small-arms mainstay of russia s armed forces for over 60 years , is also featured on the national emblems of several african nations and on that of east timor .
every fifth firearm in the world is a kalashnikov and more than 70 million of the assault rifles have been produced over the past 60 years , the kalashnikov concern said on its website .
kalashnikovs are in service in 50 foreign armies , it said .
military experts say the ak-47 has killed more people than all other types of modern weapons taken together .
kalashnikov , who died aged 94 , had repeatedly said that pride in his invention was mixed with the pain of seeing it used by criminals and child soldiers .
as well as being embraced by armies , anti-western revolutionary movements and leftist leaders worldwide , the relatively cheap and sturdy rifle has been used by gangsters , drug traffickers , militants and rebels of all stripes .
the offspring of a large peasant family , mikhail kalashnikov started working on a new automatic firearm for the soviet red army after he was wounded during world war two .
he won a state competition to select a new weapon , beating the soviet union s best designers of weapons , and it brought him the stalin prize .
his first assault rifle was produced in 1947 and there have been numerous modifications since then .
the kalashnikov rifle is a true cultural brand of russia , russian culture minister vladimir medinsky said at the ceremony .
the unveiling of the monument was timed to coincide with armsmakers day marked in russia on tuesday .
underscoring the importance of the military-industrial complex for russia s economy , president vladimir putin sent best wishes to the workers of the sector .