however you feel about trump as a candidate for president , he s done more in the past few weeks than most candidates have ever done .
the most important think he s done is call attention to our open border with mexico .
it s about time someone really acted on this .
it s interesting to watch rick perry squirm when talking about the border .
if you haven t seen one of the most revealing political videos to expose all talk and no action then the video below is exhibit 1 : there are a few select moments in broadcast tv when the production content highlights a very distinct reality and simultaneously informs the viewership on the absurd construct of political dynamics .
last night sean hannity did just that.former texas governor rick perry has been blasting 2016 gop candidate donald trump over trump s remarks about illegal alien criminals .
perry s criticism has aided the liberal media s efforts to isolate , ridicule and marginalize trump.however , using rick perry s own texas border reality , and showing the criminal statistics inherent from perry s own team , hannity shows how donald trump is right , and perry is just playing politics .
it was one of the best constructed segments hannity has ever broadcast.the segment begins at 03:35 and runs through 08:12 .
the most substantial moment comes at 05:35 .
watch : donald trump will visit the border between texas and mexico on thursday : the presidential candidate will arrive in laredo to meet with a local border patrol union before traveling to the border to address the media .
he ll then speak at an event for law enforcement , his campaign said.trump s camp said representatives from the border patrol , immigration and customs enforcement , the laredo police department , the drug enforcement agency and the bureau of alcohol , tobacco , firearms and explosives will be invited to the second event .
the business mogul has soared to the top of the polls as he s called for tougher immigration policies .
many of his comments have unnerved national gop figures including remarks from his campaign launch that america is becoming mexico s dumping ground and that many mexicans who cross into america illegally are criminals or rapists .
via : the hill