berlin ( reuters ) - germany s conservative chancellor angela merkel may have won her fourth consecutive national election , but she faces a huge challenge in trying to forge a three-way alliance between parties far apart on the political spectrum .
despite winning most votes , merkel s bloc slumped to its worst result since 1949 and , just as significant in terms of government building , her current social democrat ( spd ) coalition partners said they would go into opposition after slumping to 20.7 percent in projections , a post-war low .
merkel herself indicated that she had only one other option to govern .
jamaica is the name given to a tie-up between her conservative bloc , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmentalist greens , from the fact that island s flag is made up of the black , yellow and green colors of the three parties .
projections put the conservatives , comprising merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) and bavarian christian social union ( csu ) on 33.0 percent , the fdp on 10.6 and the greens on 8.9 - enough for a workable majority .
but such an alliance , untested at a federal level , collapsed in january 2012 in the western state of saarland after little more than two years , although it has been tried again since may in the northern state of schleswig-holstein .
on a national level , it would have to overcome deep differences on eu reform , tax , energy and immigration .
both the greens and fdp , fearing alienating their supporters with the compromises they would have to make , played down the likelihood of such a partnership .
the prospect of sharing power in europe s biggest economy will be a powerful incentive , however .
they may also feel a duty to ensure the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) , whose anti-islam and anti-immigrant rhetoric have for many raised uncomfortable echoes of germany s nazi past , does not become the main opposition party .
fueled by voter anger over merkel s decision in 2015 to admit around a million migrants , mostly fleeing conflict in the middle east , the afd won 13 percent of the vote to become the third-biggest bloc , and the first far-right party in the national parliament for over half a century .
it will be very difficult but we all have a responsibility to our country .
we don t want new elections , said conservative interior minister thomas de maiziere , adding that such a scenario would probably give further momentum to the afd .
an ultimate coalition deal may be more about showing germany s commitment to democratic values than securing broad agreement on policy , where the pro-business fdp and the left-leaning greens , in particular , are poles apart .
greens co-leader cem ozdemir said his party would not participate in anti-european populism in a coalition with the conservatives and fdp .
although the low-tax , red-tape-cutting fdp is traditionally a pro-european party , its young leader , christian lindner , has rejected ideas put by french president emmanuel macron for deeper euro zone integration .
we want to reverse the trend for our country and , if it becomes apparent in talks that these goals can be achieved , then of course we will be available , but if not , it would be our task to go into opposition , said lindner .
he has also said russia s annexation of crimea from ukraine in 2014 might have to be accepted as a permanent provisional arrangement .
it is hard to see how merkel could swallow that .
the greens emphasize climate policy and want a commitment to phase out coal power by 2030 , which would be difficult for the other parties to agree to .
refugee policy will also be challenging , especially with the fdp and merkel s bavarian partners of the csu taking a much harder line than the greens on limiting immigration .
berenberg economist holger schmieding argued that in the carve-up of ministries under a jamaica coalition , wolfgang schaeuble , conservative finance minister since 2009 , may have to yield his post to the fdp .
( that ) would tilt the domestic discussion a bit further toward serious income tax cuts , he said .