one party favors open borders , the other party favors law and order a priest is not only protected by the first amendment , at least for now , he is also bound by the 5th commandment , thou shalt not kill .
if a priest doesn t speak up for the most vulnerable in our society and if the catholic faithful don t actively protect the most vulnerable in our society by refusing to enable their deliberate destruction with their vote , then such catholics , the priest and the laity are condoning their acts with their cowardice .
part of every catholic s share in the hardship of the gospel , including your priests , is that we must repent of our actions that are offensive to god and destructive to our brothers and sisters .
we must oppose the threats to innocent life that are the most real and the most urgent .
make no mistake , there is no single issue that threatens innocent human life more directly , consistently , imminently and urgently than the deliberate killing of baby girls and baby boys in their mother s womb no issue !
we have a serious obligation to protect human life , and especially the lives of the most innocent and vulnerable among us .
whoever fails to do this , whenever otherwise able to do so , commits a serious sin of omission .
they jeopardize their own spiritual well being and are a source of scandal for others .
should they be catholics they should not receive holy communion .
now i hope you realize that it takes a lot of courage for a priest to communicate such challenging words as these , reminding his people that some actions are so greatly sinful , that they render a catholic unworthy of holy communion until there is complete repentance .
a priest who is more concerned about the state of his peoples souls than they are themselves , deserves the esteem of his people for his willingness to speak such difficult truth with genuine love .
to put the welfare of his people s souls ahead of his own reputation , popularity or comfort .
such a priest should receive respect , admiration and support , rather than resistance or criticism .
so please pray for , thank and encourage the spiritual father that god has appointed for you , and who loves you enough to tell you the truth with those challenging words .
because the priest who said those particular words is your bishop and my bishop .