children s author and father of two , ken jennings took to twitter to bully 11-year old barron trump after entertainment site tmz reported that barron saw the photo of the bloodied and decapitated head of his father being held up by comedian kathy gifford while watching tv : tmz reports : barron trump was watching tv & saw @ kathygriffin holding the severed head .
he thought it was his dad .
my heart is broken .
liz wheeler ( @ liz_wheeler ) may 31 , 2017although jennings holds the record for the longest winning streak on the game show jeopardy , it turns out he s really not that smart after all children s author ken jennings obviously found the report about an 11-yr old boy being traumatized by a decapitated image of his dad on tv to be humorous , as he tweeted this disgusting comment in response to this heartbreaking story : barron trump saw a very long necktie on a heap of expired deli meat in a dumpster .
he thought it was his dad & his little heart is breaking ken jennings ( @ kenjennings ) may 31 , 2017twitter users came after jennings .
some of them even sent tweets to simon and schuster asking them to stop working with this vile bully of children .
here are some of their response to jennings tweet : i always try to be polite to people on here but this is a bridge too far .
if this joke reflects who you are , you 're an asshole .
robby starbuck ( @ robbystarbuck ) may 31 , 2017which books so i wo n't purchase ?
wow !
a children 's book author mocking a child bc he thought his dad was dead !
wtf is up w/ these people ? ! ? !
do n't get mad ( @ dontbesad2017 ) may 31 , 2017sorry , @ kenjennings , unfollow .
i do n't need the trashy humor .
get that from all directions all day long .
not signing up for more .
ebookwormy ( @ ebookwormy1 ) may 31 , 2017i ca n't believe anyone as intelligent as you does n't see the problem with mocking a child any child in this way .
juli caldwell ( @ imjulicaldwell ) may 31 , 2017let 's tell third place books , as listed on his twitter bio , what we think about supporting this loser !
@ thirdplacebooks lady liberty ( @ dutyofapatriot ) may 31 , 2017haha would you get a load of this guy he actually thinks hes edgy for insulting an 11 year old child .
aidan ( @ langnasty ) may 31 , 2017even donald trump jr. replied to jennings vile tweet attacking his young brother : it takes a real man to pick on an 11 year old .
yet another low from the left , but they will rationalize this away with their usual excuses .
https : //t.co/jdf3vsvej1 donald trump jr. ( @ donaldjtrumpjr ) may 31 , 2017jennings replied to donald trump jr. that he will kill as many white rhinos as it takes to prove his masculinity to donald trump jr. how very clever i will kill as many white rhinos as it takes to prove my masculinity to donald trump jr. https : //t.co/mm8yzh2npb ken jennings ( @ kenjennings ) may 31 , 2017facebook users also had plenty to say about jennings vile remarks about barron trump on his facebook page .
here are a few of their comments to jennings : takes a big tough guy to mock a child .
a real genius doesn t make fun of a child .
pathetic.for such a smart man you certainly were quick to ruin your writing career .
maybe you and kathy griffin can go on an apology tour.you are truly a pile of human excrement .. your publisher should be ashamed.does it really make you feel like a man to pick on an innocent 11 year old boy ?
you are a total douche ! ! !
! jennings you are a spineless sniveling coward .
why don t you talk smack to someone your own size you sick low life scumbag .