kabul ( reuters ) - one of afghanistan s most powerful regional politicians was ousted as governor of the northern province of balkh on monday , setting up a confrontation that adds to the uncertainty around president ashraf ghani s western-backed government .
atta mohammad noor is one of the leading figures in jamiat-e-islami , a party which mainly represents afghanistan s tajik ethnic group , and has used his position in balkh , on the northern border of the country , as a powerbase to push for a major role on the national stage .
his removal , at a time when tensions between tajiks and pashtuns , afghanistan s two biggest ethnic groups , have been rising , injects extra uncertainty to the already fractured political landscape ahead of presidential elections in 2019 .
my dismissal has no legal or legitimate basis , noor said on afghan national television .
for now we are only resorting to civil action but if this atrocity continues , there are many other options .
atta noor is one of a clutch of powerful regional and ethnic leaders whom ghani has struggled to control since he came to office after the disputed election of 2014 .
ghani , a pashtun , has tried previously to remove him but also discussed a possible role in the government for him .
he submitted his resignation several months ago but the move never took effect until ghani approved it on monday , announcing at the same time that mohammad daoud , also from jamiat , would become the next governor of balkh province .
the afghan president has accepted atta mohammad noor s resignation and announced engineer mohammad daoud as the new governor , shah hussain murtazawi a spokesman for ghani said .
in his remarks on monday , atta noor , who has demanded a number of senior positions in the government for some of his allies , said the resignation had been offered with conditions attached and said these had not been respected .
since they didn t meet their responsibilities , i don t accept it , he said .
ghani s national unity government , formed after the 2014 election forced him into an uneasy power-sharing arrangement with his former rival abdullah abdullah from jamiat , retains the support of the international community and the united states .
but it has faced mounting criticism from a growing array of opposition groups .
parliamentary elections originally due to be held next year are in doubt and former president hamid karzai has called for a loya jirga , or traditional grand council of political leaders and elders to decide the future of the government .
the confrontation with atta noor comes several months after a standoff with vice president rashid dostum over accusations of the sexual abuse of a political opponent .
dostum , an ethnic uzbek leader and veteran of decades of afghan politics , has been in turkey since may , ostensibly for medical treatment .