( reuters ) - vincent “ buddy ” cianci , whose two stints as mayor of providence , rhode island , each ended abruptly due to felony convictions , died on thursday at age 74 after a brief hospitalization .
cianci , the longest serving mayor of rhode island ’ s capital city , ran providence for 22 years in all , from 1975 to 1984 and again from 1991 to 2002 .
he attempted another comeback in 2014 , unsuccessfully running as an independent for mayor seven years after he completed a 4-1/2 prison term for racketeering .
despite his convictions , cianci remained popular with many residents .
supporters credited him with improving an economically depressed , once mob-dominated city during his six terms .
the prospect in 2014 of another cianci administration , however , was so abhorrent to the political establishment that even the republican mayoral candidate donated money to his democratic opponent and ended up voting for him against cianci .
in 1984 , cianci was forced to resign after pleading no contest to assaulting a man he accused of having a relationship with his estranged wife .
in 2001 , federal authorities charged cianci with corruption in an investigation dubbed “ operation plunder dome. ” cianci , who maintained his innocence , was accused of overseeing a city hall in which officials solicited bribes and engaged in extortion .
his political saga made him a national figure .
journalist mike stanton chronicled the story in the book “ the prince of providence. ” cianci eventually wrote an autobiography , “ politics and pasta : how i prosecuted mobsters , rebuilt a dying city , advised a president , dined with sinatra , spent five years in a federally funded gated community , and lived to tell the tale. ” he also started his own line of pasta sauce .
elorza , the mayor of providence who defeated cianci in 2014 , ordered flags to fly at half-mast .
“ mayor cianci ’ s love for the city of providence is undeniable and his mark on the city will not be forgotten , ” he said in a statement .
lieutenant governor dan mckee praised cianci for overseeing providence ’ s renaissance , while rhode island house speaker nicholas mattiello called him a “ giant on the rhode island political landscape. ” cianci hosted a talk show on radio station wpro in rhode island , which reported his death on air on thursday morning .
cianci was taken to a hospital on wednesday night after falling ill while filming his weekly television show , “ on the record with buddy cianci , ” for abc6 in providence , the station said on its website .
cianci had battled cancer prior to the 2014 election .