harare ( reuters ) - president robert mugabe stunned zimbabwe on sunday by making no mention of resignation in a television address , defying his own zanu-pf party , which had sacked him hours earlier , and hundreds of thousands of protesters who had already hailed his downfall .
two sources - one a senior member of the government , the other familiar with talks with leaders of the military - had told reuters mugabe would announce his resignation to the nation after zanu-pf dismissed him as its leader in a move precipitated by an army takeover four days earlier .
but in the speech from his state house office , sitting alongside a row of generals , mugabe acknowledged criticisms from zanu-pf , the military and the public but made no mention of his own position .
instead , he said the events of the week were not a challenge to my authority as head of state and government , and pledged to preside over the congress scheduled for next month .
opposition leader morgan tsvangirai was dumbstruck .
i am baffled .
it s not just me , it s the whole nation .
he s playing a game , he told reuters .
he is trying to manipulate everyone .
he has let the whole nation down .
zanu-pf had given the 93-year-old , who has led his country since independence in 1980 , less than 24 hours to quit as head of state or face impeachment , an attempt to secure a peaceful end to his tenure after a de facto military coup .
chris mutsvangwa , the leader of the liberation war veterans who have been spearheading an 18-month campaign to oust mugabe , said plans to impeach him in parliament , which next sits on tuesday , would now go ahead , and that there would be mass protests on wednesday .
he also implied that mugabe , who spoke with a firm voice but occasionally lost his way in his script during the 20-minute address , was not aware of what had happened just hours earlier .
either somebody within zanu-pf didn t tell him what had happened within his own party , so he went and addressed that meeting oblivious , or ( he was ) blind or deaf to what his party has told him , mutsvangwa said .
zanu-pf s central committee had earlier named emmerson mnangagwa as its new leader .
it was mugabe s sacking of mnangagwa as his vice-president - to pave the way for his wife grace to succeed him - that triggered the army s intervention .
on saturday , hundreds of thousands had taken to the streets of the capital harare to celebrate mugabe s expected downfall and hail a new era for their country .
in jubilant scenes , men , women and children ran alongside armoured cars and the troops who stepped in to target what the army called criminals in mugabe s inner circle .
many heralded a second liberation and spoke of their dreams for political and economic change after two decades of deepening repression and hardship .
they , like the more than 3 million zimbabweans who have emigrated to neighbouring south africa in search of a better life , are likely to be bitterly disappointed by mugabe s defiance .
speaking from a secret location in south africa , his nephew , patrick zhuwao , had told reuters that mugabe and his wife were ready to die for what is correct rather than step down in order to legitimise what he described as a coup .
zhuwao , who was also sanctioned by zanu-pf , did not answer his phone on sunday .
however , mugabe s son chatunga railed against those who had pushed out his father .
you can t fire a revolutionary leader !
he wrote on this facebook page .
zanu-pf is nothing without president mugabe .
the huge crowds in harare have given a quasi-democratic veneer to the army s intervention , backing its assertion that it is merely effecting a constitutional transfer of power , rather than a plain coup , which would risk a diplomatic backlash .
but some of mugabe s opponents are uneasy about the prominent role played by the military , and fear zimbabwe might be swapping one army-backed autocrat for another , rather than allowing the people to choose their next leader .
the real danger of the current situation is that , having got their new preferred candidate into state house , the military will want to keep him or her there , no matter what the electorate wills , former education minister david coltart said .
the united states , a longtime mugabe critic , said it was looking forward to a new era in zimbabwe , while president ian khama of neighbouring botswana said mugabe had no diplomatic support in the region and should resign at once .
besides changing its leadership , zanu-pf said it wanted to change the constitution to reduce the power of the president , a possible sign of a desire to move towards a more pluralistic and inclusive political system .
however , mnangagwa s history as state security chief during the so-called gukurahundi crackdown , when an estimated 20,000 people were killed by the north korean-trained fifth brigade in matabeleland in the early 1980s , suggested that quick , sweeping change was unlikely .
the deep state that engineered this change of leadership will remain , thwarting any real democratic reform , said miles tendi , a zimbabwean academic at oxford university .