gee i sure hope their free housing , free education , free food , free health care and free monthly spending stipend is good enough for them a group of refugees is suing a central pennsylvania school district , saying the academy they were put in after their arduous journey to america is not up to snuff.represented by the pennsylvania branch of the american civil liberties union , the six refugees sued lancaster schools in federal court , saying they were dumped in a disciplinary school and are being denied access to a quality education .
the students range in age from 17 to 21 , and hail from somalia , sudan , democratic republic of congo and burma .
[ the ] plaintiffs are refugees who have fled war , violence , and persecution from their native countries , reads a statement from the lawsuit .
having finally escaped their turbulent environment to resettle in america , these young immigrants yearn to learn english and get an education so they can make a life for themselves .
the refugees hoped to enter mccaskey high school , known for its superior academic program , but instead were sent to phoenix academy , an alternative high school for underachieving students in the district .
phoenix students are subject to pat-downs , banned from bringing personal belongings like watches and jewelry and forced to wear colored shirts that correspond with behavior .
u.s. news and world report s 2016 rankings show phoenix academy has a graduation rate of 54 percent , and its 458 students perform substantially below the state average on standardized tests .
more than 90 percent of the students come from poor families , and there are just 11 full-time teachers at the school , according to the magazine .
our clients have already experienced much trauma and loss before arriving in this country , reggie shuford , executive director of the aclu of pennsylvania , said in a statement .
rather than helping them make the difficult adjustment by providing educational resources required by law , the school district has denied them an education completely or forced them into an alternative school , where they are often bullied and don t learn .
officials for the school district say the six students were sent to phoenix for a special program geared towards their needs .
[ the district ] believes the lawsuit is without merit , superintendent damaris rau said in a statement .
we are confident we are doing an excellent job supporting our refugee students who often come to school with little or no education .
a special acceleration program at phoenix was created for under-credited students , both refugee and non-refugee , which gives them the opportunity to earn credits toward a high school diploma by the age of 21 , rau said.at phoenix , the students receive various services including remedial services , english classes for second language learners , after school programs , job and computer skills as well as mentoring services , rau added.earlier this week , some of the students testified about their educational experience in an eastern district of pennsylvania courtroom.khadidja issa , who arrived in america from chad with her family by way of their home country sudan , said on tuesday school officials told her she was too old for school and should get a job instead .
i responded that i didn t want a job without an education , she said.issa , who lived in a refugee camp from the age of 5 to 17 , also said that she found the search procedure invasive while attending the school .
i have been to school before and i ve never seen a place where they pat you down in order to enter school , and they do it every day , she said .
fox news