if donald trump continues to travel to mar-a-lago in florida at the current pace , he ll spend more taxpayer dollars on vacations than president obama ever did.throughout president obama s eight years in office , conservatives constantly complained every time he went on vacation or played golf .
they whined that it was a waste of money and that obama was lazy.in total , president obama took 28 vacations spanning 217 days , which cost a total of $ 90 million.it should be noted that despite conservative bitching , president obama took less vacation days than his republican predecessor .
george w. bush took 88 vacations spanning over 500 days.and donald trump is going to surpass both of them very quickly.only days after the election , trump indicated that he intends to spend most of his weekends at his mar-a-lago estate in palm beach , florida where he also has a golf course .
he also wants to spend lots of time at trump tower in new york and his golf course in new jersey.trump has already taken three trips to mar-a-lago since taking office four weeks ago and those three trips alone cost taxpayers $ 10 million.assuming that trump keeps up this routine and pace , he will end up taking 39 trips to mar-a-lago in 2017 at a whopping cost of $ 130 million to taxpayers , which means trump will outspend president obama within a single year .
furthermore , trump would easily surpass obama s number of vacation days .
at the current pace , he would end up taking 320 vacations days in four years , and that s not counting other vacations trump may end up taking .
if he starts going to florida every weekend he would surpass 400 days .
and if he plays golf every time he goes to mar-a-lago he will have played more rounds of golf in two years than than president obama did during his first term.if trump does this every year , the cost to taxpayers will be a monstrous $ 520 million after four years .
that s right , over half a billion dollars.trump supporters and conservatives will argue that trump is working during his vacations , but president obama worked during his vacations , too , yet conservatives never stopped whining about his vacations.and just because trump might be working a little during his vacations , it doesn t justify the cost to taxpayers .
and with all the chaos trump is causing across the nation and around the world , he shouldn t be going on vacation at all right now.russia is getting more aggressive .
north korea is firing missiles .
america is on course for a major confrontation with china .
millions of americans are about to lose their healthcare .
immigrants are being rounded up .
and america s creditors are dumping us because trump has made investment here too much of a risk .
chaos and infighting plague the white house .
yet trump is going on lavish vacations to his florida estate on the taxpayer s dime while he makes everyone else suffer.it s outrageous and conservatives are hypocrites if they defend trump.featured image via ian macnicol/getty images