nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya will not face a constitutional or political crisis even if a planned re-run of its presidential election , now set for oct. 26 , is delayed beyond the end of october , the attorney general said on friday .
the supreme court this month annulled president uhuru kenyatta s august 8 election win , citing irregularities , and ordered the election board to organize a new poll by the end of october .
kenyatta is expected to face off again with opposition leader raila odinga .
odinga s lead lawyer in a petition that led to the invalidation of kenyatta s re-election , james orengo , said on wednesday that if the election were not held by the end of october , kenyatta s term in office would cease , thrusting the country into a deep constitutional crisis .
the government now in office legitimately remains in office by full force of the constitution until the fresh election is complete and the new leader sworn in , githu muigai , the attorney general , told a news conference .
( any delay in poll ) does not delegitimize the constitutional order of the day ...
there is absolutely no chance of a crisis around the date because the election did take place and ... we are again inside the election cycle , he added .
odinga s nasa coalition said it believed kenyatta s term would end 60 days after the supreme court ruling on sept. 1 that nullified the august election .
odinga has said he will not take part in the election if certain conditions are not met , including the removal of some election board officials .
moses wetangula , one of nasa s leaders , accused muigai of misreading the constitution .
he s simply being mischievous , wetangula told a news conference also addressed by odinga on friday .
kenya has the region s richest economy and is a key western ally in a region often shaken by violence .
the repeat election is being closely watched for signs of tension that could spark violence as in 2007 when more than 1,000 kenyans were killed .
this week kenyatta accused the supreme court of staging a coup against the will of the people when it annulled his win , in a sign that the political rhetoric is heating up ahead of the new poll .
odinga accused kenyatta of dragging kenya down the path of other african states that have suffered upheaval over elections , including gambia .
he added the opposition had lost hope that kenyatta would sober up , mature and see the need to stop .
on thursday the election board pushed back the date of the election re-run to oct. 26 after a french firm whose technology is being used in the polls said it was nearly impossible to be ready for the originally scheduled date of oct. 17 .