james burgess oil priceprecious metals are an important component of every investor s portfolio , and while gold often gets all the hype , another precious metal will be a much better bet in 2017 : silver.the market for silver continues to tighten as supply has failed to keep up with demand for much of the past decade .
silver is used in all facets of modern life , including electronics , medical devices , engines , batteries , solar panels , led lighting , semiconductors , touch screens , dentistry , and nuclear reactors .
the list goes on.demand for silver is up by more than 35 percent since 2009 , while supply only grew by a little more than 10 percent .
in 2015 alone , global demand for silver exceeded supply by roughly 129 million ounces , or about 11 percent of overall demand .
with silver consumption set to expand indefinitely , the supply deficit will continue to put upward pressure on prices in the years ahead.the set-up here is fantastic because indications are that we are on the edge of another bull run at a time when silver mining stocks are significantly undervalued .
silver prices had a good run for most of 2016 , but have fallen back in recent weeks as the dollar has strengthened and uncertainty surrounding the u.s. presidential election abated .
but the pause in the run up in prices will be brief , offering investors an appetizing entry point for a crucial commodity in today s globalized economy.silver may be down 10 % from its peak of $ 20.67 in q3 , but the sell-offs were based on sentiment , not fundamental reality and this is exactly where smart investment finds opportunity .
the strongest documented indication of this is the q3 earnings of silver miners , which only the savviest of investors are picking up on .
pan american silver ( nasdaq : paas ) reported q3 earnings of an impressive us $ 43.4 million up us $ 9.2 million over the previous quarter just for starters .
[ ] 1 .
the global silver lining : a precious metal premiumglobal investors are magnetically drawn to precious metals in times of uncertainty and instability .
global tensions are as high as they were in the 9/11 aftermath , when precious metals soared phenomenally as everyone hedged bets against global instability continue this article at oil priceread more financial news at : 21st century wire financial files