republican senator charles grassley wants answers on why the russian lawyer who met with donald trump jr. was allowed in the us after her visa had been denied .
grassley , chairman of the senate judiciary committee , said on fox & friends that she magically appeared in the us .
grassley has written to the secretary of state and dhs secretary in an effort to get to the bottom of this mystery.the second curious connection is that the dnc opposition research firm , fusion gps , is connected to the russian lawyer natalia veselnitskaya .
remember that fusion gps is responsible for the trump-russia dossier that made scurrilous claims against president trump including the golden showers incident : circa news reports : fusion has been a major focal point of the fbi and congress because it hired a former british intelligence agent named christopher steele to produce a salacious intelligence dossier that made wild and still unsubstantiated claims about trump ties to russia.does anyone else find it curious that this woman claimed to have dirt on clinton but never produced a thing .
was she told to just say that to get donald jr. to meet with her in a set up ?
her facebook profile shows anti-trump leanings so why would someone anti-trump want to deliver information to donald trump jr ?
also , once they met , she talked about foreign adoption and had nothing on clinton go figure sara carter of circa news reported : russian lawyer who got inside donald trump s inner circle had been denied us visa https : //t.co/d3dg59crm8 sara a. carter ( @ saracarterdc ) july 9 , 2017the us government s immigration policy prevented this woman from coming here but how did she get into the us after being denied ?
is our immigration policy that full of holes or is this just more monkey business from the obama administration and the dnc ?
one key clue is that the three lawyers arguing in court for the lawyer s entry to the us are all known anti-trump guys .
in particular is the lawyer that trump had to fire .
remember this guy : preet bharara : i was fired after refusing to step down https : //t.co/tm6raj0lvi via @ newsday catherine ( @ realalicat ) july 2 , 2017we smell a big setup !