toronto ( reuters ) - black people in canada s most populous province spent longer behind bars awaiting trial than white people charged with many of the same categories of crimes in each of the past five years , according to data obtained by reuters .
between april 2015 and april 2016 , the most recent period in which data is available , black people awaiting trial in ontario jails were there longer , on average , than white people charged with the same crime in 11 of 16 offense categories reuters examined .
there were approximately 6,000 black people and nearly 26,000 white people remanded to pre-trial detention during the period .
the data showed similar patterns in the four prior years .
( graphic : racial disparities in pre-trial detention - tmsnrt.rs/2z18vs7 ) among the categories examined , black people spent almost twice as long in remand in 2015-2016 for weapons offenses , equivalent to an additional 38 days .
they also spent 46 percent longer for serious violent offenses and 36 percent longer on charges of obstructing justice .
in three categories , white people awaiting trial were held longer in remand during the same period .
those included drug possession , theft and traffic offenses .
in two categories , the difference was 1 percent or less .
the data also showed black people arrested and held in custody between 2011 and 2016 were more likely than white people to spend more than a year in pre-trial detention .
reuters obtained the previously unreported data through access-to-information requests from ontario , which asks inmates to indicate their race when they enter jail .
other provinces do not collect this data or categorize it differently .
a spokesman for ontario attorney general yasir naqvi said the province takes systemic racism seriously and is working to address racial inequities , but declined to comment on the data .
the ontario crown attorneys association , which represents the province s prosecutors , and the association of justices of the peace , which represents the people who decide most of ontario s bail cases , declined to comment .
more than a dozen defense lawyers as well as prosecutors , criminologists , and a judge interviewed by reuters said shortcomings in canada s bail system appeared to play a role in the racial disparities shown in the data .
unlike the united states , canada virtually eliminated cash bail almost half a century ago .
instead , courts often require prisoners awaiting trial to secure a surety , meaning a relative or close friend who can appear in court and subsequently monitor them .
a surety needs assets to pledge , a crime-free record and , often , a home where the accused person can live until the case is complete .
a surety can not represent more than one defendant at a time .
current and former prosecutors interviewed for this story said securing a surety can be onerous and the requirement is perhaps relied upon too often ; but some said sureties remain the best way to protect the public and ensure defendants show up for trial .
critics of the system say the poor are less likely than middle-class or wealthy people to have connections to provide the assets to pledge or housing to act as a surety .
they add that this has an outsized impact on minorities , who are over-represented among canada s poor .
surety is a huge issue in ontario , said nicole myers , a criminologist at simon fraser university in british columbia .
if you are from a marginalized community or a criminalized community , it can be very difficult to find a surety the court deems appropriate .
the data did not take into account specifics of each case , the person s criminal record , the frequency of plea deals , whether the person had a bail hearing and why bail may have been denied .
reuters focused on offenses with the largest pre-trial populations when comparing the average periods in remand , to minimize the impact of outliers .
inmates charged in multiple offense categories were counted in only the more serious one ; multiple charges could affect someone s chances of getting bail .
studies , including one published last year by the ottawa police , have found ontario s black communities are more heavily policed than white ones .
this makes black people more likely to be caught breaching bail and makes it harder to find a surety without a criminal record who is not serving as surety for someone else , said chris sewrattan , a defense lawyer who represents many young black men from eastern toronto .
in a ruling this year , canada s supreme court called sureties one of the most onerous forms of release , not to be used unless other options have been considered , such as programs that assign a case worker and require the accused to check in regularly with the courts .
the court did not address race in its ruling .
at least six provincial governments in canada , including those of alberta , british columbia , and manitoba , have said they are reviewing bail practices .
an earlier reuters investigation found inmates awaiting trial are more likely to die behind bars than their sentenced counterparts .