santiago ( reuters ) - conservative sebastian pinera won chile s presidential election by a wider-than-forecast margin on sunday , pledging to jump-start economic growth in the world s top copper exporter and opt for more business-friendly policies than his center-left predecessor .
chile s electoral authority called the election for former president pinera , who won 54.58 percent of votes compared with 45.42 percent for the center-left alejandro guillier , in a race that had been considered a toss-up .
in the end , the 68-year-old pinera , who governed from 2010 to 2014 , won more votes than any president since chile s return to democracy in 1990 .
it was also the biggest ever loss for the center-left coalition that has dominated chile s politics since the end of augusto pinochet s dictatorship .
neither pinera nor guillier marked a dramatic shift from chile s long-standing free-market economic model , but pinera s victory underscores an increasing tilt to the right in south america following the rise of conservative leaders in peru , argentina and brazil .
he is due to be sworn in on march 11 .
despite our great differences , there are large points of agreement , pinera said of guillier as his supporters waved chilean flags in downtown santiago .
in the streets of santiago s wealthy neighborhoods , where pinera took some 90 percent of votes , residents blared their horns in support .
in his concession speech , guillier called his nine-point loss a harsh defeat and urged his supporters to defend the progressive reforms of outgoing president michelle bachelet s second term .
pinera defeated guillier , a former tv anchorman and current senator , by painting his policies as extreme in a country known for its moderation , and likening him to venezuela s socialist president nicolas maduro .
guillier had championed bachelet s agenda of reducing inequality by making education more affordable and overhauling the tax code .
the investor favorite in the $ 250 billion economy , pinera s proposals are seen as pro mining in a country where copper is king .
he has pledged support and stable funding for chile s state-run miner codelco [ cobre.ul ] , and has promised to slash red tape which had bogged down projects under bachelet .
the campaign exposed deepening rifts among chile s once bedrock center-left , an opening pinera leveraged to rally more centrist voters around his proposals to cut corporate taxes and double economic growth .
after a far leftist party made unexpected gains in november s first round , pinera seized on the division , campaigning on a platform of scaling back and perfecting bachelet s tax and labor laws .
bachelet s policies were seen by many in the business community as crimping investment at a time slumping copper prices were weighing on the economy .
i voted for him for the economy , said jose oyaneder , a 54-year-old salesman at campaign headquarters .
when he was president my ( business ) was quite good and i hope this time it s the same .
the results were tabulated in just over two hours after nearly 7 million chileans cast ballots in a country of 17 million people where voting is not mandatory .
the son of a prominent centrist politician , pinera is a harvard-trained economist who made his fortune introducing credit cards to chile in the 1980s .
as of 2017 , he was ranked # 745 on forbes global rich list , with a $ 2.7 billion fortune .
over months of aggressive campaigning , the former president brandished his business success and first term in office as proof of competence , contrasting himself with guillier s relative lack of political and executive experience .
pinera s first administration was marked by a vibrant economy lifted by booming copper prices , but is perhaps best remembered for the spectacular rescue in 2010 of 33 miners who were trapped underneath the atacama desert .
his time in power was also marred by incessant street protests by thousands of students seeking an education overhaul , while his government s responses were often seen as out of touch .
pinera has promised to make chile the first country in latin america to achieve developed nation status in the organization for economic cooperation and development , a paris-based club of wealthy nations .
some things have to be fixed - health , pensions , a lot of discrimination in chile , said laura garcia , 64 , who works in a cleaning company .
i have faith in pinera .