within hillary clinton s stump speeches , she describes a working class upbringing where her dad toiled away making draperies you d think it was a true working class environment for little hillary rodham but it wasn t. her upbringing was actually more upper middle class than working class .
this is really what we ve come to expect from hillary clinton .
many of her other recollections have been proven false .
in fact , it s been so many that we can t begin to name them all !
this makes you wonder if she even realizes that people in this day and age can fact check pretty easily .
check out the video at the bottom of this article where she describes her struggles in speeches on the campaign trail , hillary clinton has portrayed her upbringing as working class .
she talks about how her father eked out a living making drapery to support his family .
a nice story , but a check of the facts proves otherwise .
hillary clinton s childhood home is proof she is misleading her supporters about her beginnings .
in truth , her family was upper-middle class ( at worst ) , and their wealth gave hillary a good life , and an opportunity to attend yale university.located at 235 n. wisner st. in the affluent chicago suburb of park ridge , the clinton childhood home is a beautiful two-story house that her father paid for in full , in cash .
he was the owner of a successful drapery business and did quite well.clinton was able to attend wellesley college , a private women s college in massachusetts .
she then went on to yale , which , of course , all kids from working class families do .
it was at yale that hillary met bill clinton .
hillary was raised a conservative republican , but was radicalized in college and became a democrat.it should be noted that a childhood friend that went to high school with clinton recalls that she ran for student council president once .
she wanted to be the first female student council president in her school s history she lost.listen to hillary tell of her struggles : via : silence is consent