beirut ( reuters ) - saad al-hariri , who sparked a crisis by resigning as lebanese prime minister on nov. 4 during a visit to saudi arabia , is on his way to the airport , he said early on saturday , before his flight from riyadh to france .
hariri s abrupt resignation while he was in saudi arabia and his continued stay there caused fears over lebanon s stability .
his visit to france with his family to meet president emmanuel macron is seen as part of a possible way out of the crisis .
i am on the way to the airport , he said in a tweet .
however , okab saqr , a member of parliament for hariri s future movement , said that after hariri s visit to france , he would have a small arab tour before traveling to beirut .
macron , speaking in sweden , said hariri intends to return to his country in the coming days , weeks .
the crisis has thrust lebanon into the bitter rivalry pitting saudi arabia and its allies against a bloc led by iran , which includes the heavily armed lebanese shi ite hezbollah group .
in lebanon , hariri has long been an ally of riyadh .
his coalition government , formed in a political deal last year to end years of paralysis , includes hezbollah .
president michel aoun , a political ally of hezbollah , has called hariri a saudi hostage and refused to accept his resignation unless he returns to lebanon .
saudi arabia and hariri say his movements are not restricted .
on wednesday , macron invited hariri to visit france along with his family , providing what french diplomats said might be a way to reduce tensions surrounding the crisis by demonstrating that hariri could leave saudi arabia .
lebanese politicians from across the political spectrum have called for hariri to return to the country , saying it is necessary to resolve the crisis .
foreign minister gebran bassil , who heads president aoun s political party , said on thursday beirut could escalate the crisis if hariri did not return home .
we have adopted self-restraint so far to arrive at this result so that we don t head towards diplomatic escalation and the other measures available to us , he said during a european tour aimed at building pressure for a solution to the crisis .
saudi arabia regards hezbollah as a conduit for iranian interference across the middle east , particularly in syria , yemen and bahrain .
it says it has no problem with hezbollah remaining a purely political party , but has demanded it surrender its arms , which the group says are needed to defend lebanon .
although riyadh has said it accepted hariri s decision to join a coalition with hezbollah last year , after hariri announced his resignation saudi arabia accused lebanon of declaring war on it because of hezbollah s regional role .
lebanon , where sunni , shi ite , christian and druze groups fought a 1975-1990 civil war , maintains a governing system intended to balance sectarian groups .
the prime minister is traditionally from the sunni community , of which hariri is the most influential leader .
on friday , hariri said in a tweet that his presence in saudi arabia was for consultations on the future of the situation in lebanon and its relations with the surrounding arab region .
his scheduled meeting with macron in paris on saturday , and a lunch that his family will also attend , comes the day before arab foreign ministers meet in cairo to discuss iran .
maha yahya , director of the carnegie middle east centre in beirut , says it appears saudi arabia hopes the ministers will adopt a strongly worded statement against iran .
but she said not all the countries share riyadh s view that one way to confront iran is to apply pressure on lebanon .
there is quite a widespread understanding that there is only so much lebanon can do and it doesn t serve anybody to turn lebanon into your next arena for a fight between iran and saudi arabia , said .