because there s nothing more compassionate than convincing young boys and girls that the gender that god assigned to them at birth means absolutely nothing .
in fact , with a few government funded surgeries , they can try out any sex they think they might identify with you will want to contact the school board if you live in fairfax county , va and let them know how you feel about using your tax dollars for the radical indoctrination of your children.one of the nation s largest public school systems is preparing to include gender identity to its classroom curriculum , including lessons on sexual fluidity and spectrum the idea that there s no such thing as 100 percent boys or 100 percent girls.fairfax county public schools released a report recommending changes to their family life curriculum for grades 7 through 12 .
the changes , which critics call radical gender ideology , will be formally introduced next week .
the larger picture is this is really an attack on nature itself the created order , said peter sprigg of the family research council .
human beings are created male and female .
but the current transgender ideology goes way beyond that .
they re telling us you can be both genders , you can be no gender , you can be a gender that you make up for yourself .
and we re supposed to affirm all of it .
the plan calls for teaching seventh graders about transgenderism and tenth graders about the concept that sexuality is a broader spectrum but it sure smells like unadulterated sex indoctrination.get a load of what the kids are going to be learning in middle school : students will be provided definitions for sexual orientation terms heterosexuality , homosexuality and bisexuality ; and the gender identity term transgender , the district s recommendations state .
emphasis will be placed on recognizing that everyone is experiencing changes and the role of respectful , inclusive language in promoting an environment free of bias and discrimination .
eighth graders will be taught that individual identity occurs over a lifetime and includes the component of sexual orientation and gender identity .
individual identity will also be described as having four parts biological gender , gender identity ( includes transgender ) , gender role , and sexual orientation ( includes heterosexual , bisexual , and homosexual ) .
the district will also introduce young teenagers to the concept that sexuality is a broader spectrum .
by tenth grade , they will be taught that one s sexuality develops throughout a lifetime .
emphasis will be placed on an understanding that there is a broader , boundless , and fluid spectrum of sexuality that is developed throughout a lifetime , the document states .
sexual orientation and gender identity terms will be discussed with focus on appreciation for individual differences .
as you might imagine parents are freaking out .
parents need to protect their kids from this assault , said andrea lafferty , president of traditional values coalition .
who could imagine that we are in this place today but we are .
last week , the school board voted to include gender identity in the district s nondiscrimination policy a decision that was strongly opposed by parents.lafferty , who led the opposition to the nondiscrimination policy , warned that the district is moving towards the deconstruction of gender .
at the end of this is the deconstruction of gender absolutely , she told me .
the majority of people pushing ( this ) are not saying that but that clearly is the motivation .
school board spokesman john torre told the washington times the proposed curriculum changes have nothing to do with last week s vote to allow boys who identity as girls to use the bathrooms and locker rooms of their choice.he would have us believe it was purely coincidental.to make matters worse , lafferty contends parents will not be able to opt their children out of the classes because the lessons will be a part of the mandatory health curriculum.however , torre told me that parents will indeed be able to opt out of those classes including the sexual orientation and gender identity lessons .
they are not being forthright with the information , lafferty said .
they are not telling people the truth .
they are bullying parents .
they are intimidating and they are threatening .
i must confess that i m a bit old school on sex education .
i believe that god created male and female .
my reading of the bible does not indicate there were dozens of other options.however , i m always open to learning new things so i asked the school district to provide me with the textbooks and scientific data they will be using to instruct the children that there are dozens and dozens of possible genders.here s the reply i received from torre : lessons have not been developed for the proposed lesson objectives , he stated .
because of the need to develop lessons , the proposed objectives would not be implemented until fall 2016 .
in other words they don t have a clue.and the family research council s sprigg said there s a pretty good reason why they can t produce a textbook about fluidity .
it s an ideological concept , he told me .
it s not a scientific one .
he warned that fairfax county s planned curriculum could be harmful to students .
it s only going to create more confusion in the minds of young people who don t need any further confusion about sexual identity , he said.the board will introduce the changes on may 21 .
lafferty said she hopes parents will turn out in force to voice their objections.via : fox news