miami/tampa , fla. ( reuters ) - walter hodgdon scrapped plans to ride out hurricane irma on saturday when shifting forecast models suddenly put his home on a barrier island on florida s gulf coast directly in its path .
within hours , hodgdon and his partner had hastily boarded up their home and were driving to north carolina , having the time to store just a few valuable glasswares in an inner closet .
last night , during one of the models , they drew a line right over our house , said hodgdon , 58 , who lives on terra ceia where tampa bay meets the gulf of mexico .
we figured if we are going to leave , we are going to leave completely .
hodgdon and his partner , nels gullerud , were among the scores of people living on florida s west coast forced to make last-minute decisions about whether to hunker down - or flee - amid one of the fiercest atlantic storms in a century .
storm models that earlier in the week projected irma to bear most heavily on eastern florida now had the storm barreling right up the western coastline , menacing population hubs around tampa and fort myers .
people haven t known exactly what to do , because the situation changes every 12 hours , said adam gray , pastor of redeeming church in st. petersburg , florida , who two days ago week talked to relatives on the east coast about staying with him .
now his wife and young child had evacuated , while he stayed behind to help church members board up their houses and locate spare rooms on higher ground .
he planned to open the church to those unable to find shelter .
others in irma s path decided to take their chances .
as surrounding neighborhoods evacuated , andrea prather of fort myers stocked up on bottled water and food to ride out the storm with her boyfriend and her cat .
the 51-year-old pop singer felt safe on the 25th floor of a high-rise built to withstand hurricane-force winds .
still , as the most recent hurricane models showed the storm heading her way , her jitters flared .
when it made that turn , that s when i had that anxiety pit in my stomach , she said .
how can anyone be totally prepared ?
michael albrecht , a communications professor at eckerd college in st. petersburg , decided to stay at his parents fourth-floor condo in south pasadena , near the gulf of mexico .
he decided he would be safer in the concrete building with aluminum storm shutters , high above any storm surge , than at his own one-story house in nearby gulfport , on a street prone to flooding and surrounded by tall trees that could fall down .
no branches can hit you up here on the fourth floor , said albrecht , 40 .
i m worried about what if it s a week without air conditioning and electricity .
that ll be inconvenient but not life-threatening .
but after a week of making and changing evacuation plans , dionna duncan , 48 , on saturday morning simply opted to leave her home in palm harbor , florida .
she had been working all week , without time to prepare .
plywood and other supplies were sold out .
she could only put out a few sandbags .
she remembered to take 200-year-old family pictures .
but she left hanging in her closet the wedding veil that her daughters had wanted to wear someday .
you just forget , because you are in such a hurry , said duncan , who works in the insurance industry and had for years made detailed disaster plans .
when you are staring something like this in the face , it doesn t matter what your experience is .
most of your knowledge just escapes you .
retiree ann pinsker , 71 , and her husband chose to evacuate from their fort lauderdale condo on florida s east coast on thursday when they thought the storm was headed that way .
after a 3-1/2-hour drive stretched into 9-1/2 hours , they now fear the storm is headed directly at the hotel where they are staying in lakeland , in the central part of the state .
with fort lauderdale now predicted to be spared the brunt of the storm , their neighbors are sending them photographs from a hurricane party they are holding in the building .
i wish we were there , pinsker said .
but hindsight is 20-20 .