ever wonder if donald trump s insistence on repealing obamacare has a motive beyond , we need to undo everything the black man did ?
had the gop actually been able to repeal the aca , which contained a 3.8 percent tax on investment income that mostly affects the wealthy , trump s cabinet would save an average of $ 124,200 to $ 313,700 on their own tax bills , according to an analysis by maplight.many stand to save an awful lot more than that .
secretary of education betsy devos stands to save anywhere from $ 1.9 million to over $ 4 million .
secretary of commerce wilbur ross could save up to $ 1.31 million .
treasury secretary steve mnuchin could find his tax bill reduced by as much as $ 900,000 .
trump himself could save as much as $ 560,000 if that tax were repealed .
it s not hard to see that s.this is the wealthiest cabinet in u.s. history , and many members of the top 1 percent believe in continuing to send the wealth their way instead of distributing it more fairly via fair wages and benefits , and perhaps , maybe shifting the bulk of the country s tax burden back onto those who are currently not paying their fair share.maplight s analysis shows a possible reason why the trump white house is so desperate to repeal obamacare , and why trump made it a cornerstone of his campaign .
it may well not be just everything-obama-ever-did-is-evil rhetoric .
trump stated outright during the campaign that he could be the first presidential candidate to make money off his candidacy .
it s pretty much a given that he feels this way about his presidency , too.combine that with trump ongoing refusal to release his tax returns , and it starts looking like his efforts on repealing the aca are more because it benefits him and those in his circle , not because he cares about the american people.further evidence of this is shown in his and the gop s total disregard for the cbo scores on their plans , which demonstrated that repeal would harm more americans than it would help .
he s primarily motivated by self-interest , despite his ongoing assurances that all he wants to do is help regular americans .
this is just further evidence of that.read more : featured image via drew angerer/getty images