wellington ( reuters ) - a possible labour-green coalition narrowed the gap with the ruling national party in new zealand s final election tally , strengthening their position ahead of talks on sunday with the small nationalist party which holds the balance of power .
the final sept. 23 election results released on saturday showed national won 56 seats and labour and greens together took 54 seats , leaving them both reliant on new zealand first s nine seats to meet the 61 seats needed for a majority in parliament in new zealand s proportional representation system .
national lost two seats to the labour-green bloc compared with preliminary results - a development which labour leader jacinda ardern said buoyed their position at the negotiating table .
we will continue our negotiations in earnest with potential support parties beginning this weekend , ardern told reporters in auckland .
this now means that we have a strengthened mandate to negotiate and form a durable , stable coalition government .
ardern , 37 , took over the labour leadership nearly two months before the election , quickly drawing comparisons with youthful , cosmopolitan leaders like canada s justin trudeau and france s emmanuel macron .
she has almost single-handedly brought labour to within reach of forming government .
new zealand first said in an emailed statement that it would hold discussions on sunday with the national party at midday and with the labour party in the afternoon .
new zealand first leader winston peters told local media that knowing the facts puts us in a better position to make judgements .
peters has said he would only make a decision on which party to back after the final tally and after the results become official on oct. 12 .
prime minister bill english told reporters in queenstown that the final results did not change the nature of the negotiations , which would now likely focus on the economy .
i don t think it weakens it significantly at all , he said , referring to national s negotiating position .
the fundamentals haven t altered , and that is national has significantly more seats than labour , we are larger than a labour-greens combination .
if new zealand first chooses to go with labour , which are thought to have more in common in terms of policy , the gain in seats for the labour-greens bloc would make it easier for peters to justify the move , analysts said .
both parties have said they want to curb immigration , renegotiate certain trade deals and adjust the role of the central bank albeit in different ways .
if labour , the greens and nz first had formed a government with a majority of one ( seat ) ... that wouldn t have sat comfortably with many people , richard shaw , politics professor at massey university , referring to preliminary results .
a labour , greens , nz first coalition would now hold a three-seat majority after the final tally .
but some say peters could be swayed to go to national given it would be a straightforward coalition between two parties .
peters , a veteran new zealand politician who has now held the balance of power three times , has in past elections formed coalition governments with both the national party and labour .
the national party won 44.4 percent of the votes , the labour party 36.9 percent , new zealand first 7.2 percent , the green party 6.3 percent .