beijing ( reuters ) - attacks on china s legal or political system using the trial of taiwanese activist lee ming-che will prove futile , china s taiwan affairs office said on wednesday after lee s wife and supporters rejected the authority of the court that tried him .
lee , a community college teacher known for his pro-democracy and rights activism , went missing on a trip to mainland china in march .
chinese authorities later confirmed that he was being investigated on suspicion of damaging national security .
lee confessed on monday to attempting to subvert the beijing government , according to videos of his hearing released by chinese authorities .
his wife and supporters said the trial was not fair and that they did not recognize the court s authority .
an fengshan , a spokesman for the taiwan affairs office , told a regular briefing that any attempts to use this case for political means , to influence or slander the mainland s handling of the case in accordance with the law , or to attack the mainland s political or legal systems will all be futile .
the legal rights of lee and his family had been upheld and guaranteed , he said .
a meeting between lee and his wife and mother had been arranged after the hearing at the request of his family , an said .
the hearing process was broadcast by the court in videos and on social media website weibo in what an said was an open trial .
activists who had traveled to yueyang to support lee said after the trial they had been barred from attending , saying that was proof the case was not truly open or fair .
releasing videos and transcripts of court hearings has become increasingly common in china as part of a push for greater judicial transparency and oversight .
however , rights activists say that holding open trials in sensitive cases allows authorities to demonstrate state power as a deterrence , with statements and verdicts usually agreed in advance .
ties between beijing and taipei have been strained since president tsai ing-wen , leader of the independence-leaning democratic progressive party , took office last year .
tsai s refusal to say that taiwan and china are part of one country has angered beijing , as have her comments about human rights on the mainland .
beijing maintains that taiwan is part of china and has never renounced the use of force to bring it under its control .
proudly democratic taiwan has shown no interest in being governed by the communist party rulers in beijing .