monrovia ( reuters ) - former liberian warlord prince johnson has endorsed george weah for president before a nov. 7 run-off vote between the former soccer star and vice president joseph boakai .
the endorsement should help weah , who won 38.4 percent of the vote in the first round this month , more than anyone else but shy of the 50.1 percent needed to win outright .
it also puts pressure on boakai to drum up support from other candidates .
johnson s endorsement of ellen johnson sirleaf in 2011 helped the nobel peace prize winner get re-elected , though his influence has waned since then : he won 8 percent of votes this year , versus 11 percent in 2011 .
i am humbled to announce ... my full and unflinching support in collaboration with the congress for democratic change party of senator george weah , prince johnson said at his movement for democracy and reconstruction party headquarters .
the announcement follows two weeks of political wrangling , during which the two frontrunners from october s first round sought to gain support from a field of 18 other candidates .
weah is popular and famous , mainly because of his star performances for italian and french football clubs during the 1990s .
but he lacks political experience , and his policies to alleviate widespread poverty and chronic under-development are vague , making extra support vital .
this is historic and we welcome that , said cdc chairman wilson tarpeh .
johnson is reading the writing on the wall .
it tells you that the people of liberia are tired of one-party rule .
johnson s attempt at playing kingmaker makes many in liberia uncomfortable , given his role in the civil war that ended in 2003 .
in 1990 , his band of troops took control of parts of the capital monrovia to oust former president samuel doe , and he celebrated as the leader was executed .
still , his supporters are loyal and are expected to listen to his call to vote for weah .
johnson s backing will not win the vote alone for weah , but it will certainly boost his prospects , especially as other candidates are also likely to throw their weight behind the opposition leader , sensing his momentum , said roddy barclay , director at risk-advisory firm africa practice .