london ( reuters ) - a tough line from president donald trump has been met by a show of unity from both sides of iran s political divide , uniting hardliners who cast the united states as an implacable enemy with pragmatists who seek rapprochement with the west .
iran , which has kept up a steady drumbeat of angry statements for days , lashed out again on tuesday , threatening to teach the americans new lessons and keep all options on the table if washington blacklists its revolutionary guards .
trump , who has accused his predecessor barack obama of being too soft on iran , is expected to announce a hardening of policy this week , likely to include decertifying a landmark 2015 deal that lifted international sanctions in return for curbs on tehran s nuclear programme .
such a step would stop short of pulling out of the agreement , leaving that decision to congress .
trump is also expected to designate iran s most powerful security force , the islamic revolutionary guards corps ( irgc ) , as a terrorist organisation .
the irgc has a vast economic empire in iran , and blacklisting it could make it more difficult for iranian businesses to access the global financial system .
it seems the trump administration understands only swear words , and needs some shocks to understand the new meaning of power in the world , said iranian armed forces spokesman masoud jazayeri , who is also a revolutionary guards commander .
the americans have driven the world crazy by their behaviour .
it is time to teach them a new lesson .
several iranian newspapers ran the same photo on the front page on tuesday : the urbane , u.s.-educated foreign minister mohammad javad zarif laughing and hugging the commander of the irgc , major-general mohammad ali jafari , in a striking display of unity between the two main factions of iran s leadership .
we have a similar stance but different ways of saying it , the papers quoted jafari as saying .
iran s moderate president hassan rouhani won re-election less than five months ago after a campaign in which he called for better ties with the outside world and reform at home , openly criticising the influence of the irgc which he accused of backing his hardline opponent .
but the moderates and hardliners tend to rally together in public when threatened from abroad .
the americans are too small to be able to harm the revolutionary guards , ali akbar velayati , the top adviser to iranian supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei , was quoted as saying by isna .
we have all options on the table .
whatever they do , we will take reciprocal measures .
u.s. sanctions on the irgc could affect conflicts in iraq and syria , where tehran and washington both support warring parties that oppose the islamic state militant group ( is ) .
russia , iran s ally that is also fighting is in iraq and syria , said on tuesday that it does not consider the revolutionary guards to be a terrorist organisation .
the iranian nuclear deal , backed by european countries , china and russia , lifted broad international sanctions over iran s nuclear programme that had been tightened during the obama years and had caused severe damage to iran s economy .
but washington still maintains separate unilateral sanctions over tehran s ballistic missile programme and over allegations that it supports terrorism .
the lingering u.s. sanctions have slowed iran s re-emergence into the world economy , making global banks reluctant to take on business with iranian firms despite the nuclear deal .
the united states already blacklists some individuals and entities for supporting irgc activities , but not the guards themselves .
designating the guards as terrorists could make it more difficult for iranian businesses to take advantage of the lifting of the international sanctions , since banks are required to verify that their clients are not on terrorism blacklists .
iran s rial has dropped against the u.s. dollar in recent days in a sign of concern about trump s policy .
the rial was quoted in the free market around 40,400 to the dollar , currency exchangers in tehran told reuters , compared to 39,200 last week .
several exchangers said they had stopped selling dollars from monday and were waiting to assess the trend in the market .
the government told iranians on tuesday it would not let the decisions of the mentally unstable trump affect the market .
trump might say some things by the end of the week , but this should not create chaos in the market .
iran is a stable country , and nothing will happen , government spokesman mohammad baqer nobakht said in a weekly news conference .
iran s central bank governor , valiollah seif , was also quoted as saying by tasnim news agency that trump s words might have an emotional impact on the foreign exchange market , but it would not be long-term .
washington aims to put more pressure on the irgc , especially over its missile programme .
trump said in september that recent irgc missile tests illustrated the weakness of the nuclear deal .
iran says the nuclear deal does not require it to restrict its missile programme .
zarif , the iranian foreign minister , said iran purposefully excluded military capabilities from the pact , as it is not intended as leverage or a bargaining chip in future negotiations .
in an article published in the atlantic magazine on monday , zarif added : no party or country need fear our missiles ... unless it intends to attack our territory .