fox news the five host , jesse watters let loose on liberal crybaby co-host juan williams during their most recent show .
waters lost it over liberals who would dare to call president trump and his family unpatriotic .
watters started his rant by saying , i m very sick of the democrats calling the trump family unpatriotic ! '
he went on to say that the left are now the mccarthyites .he was only getting started however .
watters then gave juan williams a history lesson that just about blew the doors off the fox news set.watters to williams : let s remember what party defeated the soviet union , while the democratic party was trying to appease and mimic communism .
party .
democrats have been cozying up to dictators and our enemies for years .
giving the iranians billions of dollars , giving north koreans billions of dollars .
shaking hugo chavez s hand , shaking the castro s hands .
the clinton s were taking money from chinese nationals in 1996 reelection campaign and then selling satellite technology to the chinese that enabled their missile program to blow up .
the media colluded with the democrats , letting hillary cheat during the debates .
president obama , palling around with domestic terrorists , sitting in the same church as an american-hating preacher .
the democrats undermining the military .
juan williams attempted to break in and stop watters , but jesse was on a roll and he wasn t giving up.watters continued , giving birth to isis .
lying about a terrorist attack .
it was at that point , that juan williams was practically begging for mercy !
stop , stop !
how much more can we take .
watters finished his rant by telling williams , donald trump s family has done more for this country than any democrat elected official .
he s provided more jobs in the real estate industry , in the fast-food industry , in the fashion industry , in the hotel and casino industry .
he s created more wealth than anybody in this entire so to smear them as the mafia or unpatriotic is shameful .
and i think everyone needs to wake up and realize , that this family s a patriotic family and what s happening now is a coup against the will of the american people !
watch : video : jesse watters shuts juan williams up gives him a history lesson on the democrats ' connections to russia !
pic.twitter.com/e3e2o330v8 newt-trump fan club ( @ newttrump ) july 16 , 2017well done jesse well done ! !
!