( reuters ) - on friday , a cruise ship carrying around 3,000 passengers will dock at st. john s harbor in the caribbean island of antigua .
it will not be where the passengers expected to land when they booked , however .
the carnival plc ship was meant to dock in saint martin , 100 miles ( 160 km ) to the northwest .
however , hurricane irma devastated the island , wrecking its port and infrastructure , and leaving it out of bounds for tourists .
antiguan officials now expect the carnival fascination to visit every friday , and have gotten about 25 calls from major cruise lines such as royal caribbean cruises ltd and norwegian cruise lines looking to make stops through the end of the year .
for asot michael , antigua and barbuda s minister for tourism , the unexpected arrival of thousands of tourists is a bittersweet bonus .
we are going to be benefiting .
i don t want to benefit from others misfortune after such a disaster , michael said .
but because the port is so damaged in saint martin , so damaged in tortola in the british virgin islands , we re getting some of those cancellations .
those cruise lines now are making ports of call into antigua .
hurricane irma left behind a stark divide in the caribbean ahead of the winter tourism season that is the region s economic lifeblood .
as travel to the region picks up again , cruise lines , hotels , airlines and other companies are directing customers to places that are able to host them , and away from the worst-hit areas .
popular winter vacation spots such as saint martin , the british virgin islands and saint barthelemy that were devastated by the storm could be sidelined for weeks or months .
in 2016 , 29.3 million tourists visited the caribbean and spent $ 35.5 billion , both new records , according to the caribbean tourism organization .
for saint martin and saint bart , the holiday season looks very compromised , said jean-pierre mas , chairman of french travel agency federation snav .
my sentiment is that the winter season is lost .
decisions to book for the winter season are taken right now .
busy tourist destinations in the western caribbean , such as barbados and trinidad , were well away from the path of the storm .
cozumel , on mexico s gulf coast , got four additional visits this week as ships were rerouted to avoid the storm s impact , although cozumel tourism officials said three cruises were canceled .
florida , which was anticipating another record year for its $ 100 billion a year tourism industry , is expected to rebound in time for the peak winter travel months , moody s analytics said earlier this week .
walt disney co reopened its orlando disney world theme park on sept. 12 .
the florida keys , however , wrestled with more severe storm damage .
[ nl2n1lr0n1 ] [ nf9n1l0029 ] [ nl2n1ls1hw ] some travel companies said they are still assessing the situation and had not made firm decisions about rerouting ships .
tour operator virgin holidays said that it was beginning to return to regular operations in antigua , despite damage to some properties on the island .
antigua wasn t as badly damaged as we feared , and we have reopened tourism there , although three resorts are currently not on sale because of the damage , a spokesman for virgin atlantic said .
barbados , trinidad and tobago , st. lucia are three big tourist examples that were not impacted .
however , the small island of saint martin , which france shares with the netherlands , could miss out on much of its tourism season .
french president emmanuel macron on wednesday vowed to swiftly rebuild the islands of the french caribbean , including saint martin , and a french public reinsurance body estimated a cost of at least 1.2 billion euros ( $ 1.4 billion ) from the damage there and in saint barthelemy .
[ nl2n1lt1sf ] [ nl5n1lq09g ] hurricane irma badly damaged many hotels on the island , such as accorhotels mercure hotel .
a spokeswoman for accor said that while nobody had been hurt , the hotel would be closed until jan. 8 at least .
while 70 hotel rooms remain operational , they are being used to house military forces and other staff that are supporting the relief effort .
accorhotels is offering cancellation and reimbursement for those who had booked stays at the hotel .