legal expert and constitutional law professor jonathan turley makes a case for why we need to add to statues and not take them down .
he says we can learn more from keeping them up in direct opposition to what democrats are saying : turley recently argued against the removal of the george washington statue : george washington may have survived the winter at valley forge , but he may not see the end of the summer of charlottesville .
bishop james dukes of chicago s liberation christian center and others are calling for the removal of his and andrew jackson s statues and and stripping of their names from parks .
dukes insists that these monuments are a slap in the face and it s a disgrace for african americans given their history as slave owning presidents.the bishop s call for the removal of our first president s statue is the latest effort to strip away the names of historical figures over ties to slavery or segregation .
there is a movement to remove the name of woodrow wilson ( who helped establish princeton as a world academic institution ) from buildings and schools , due to his support for segregation .
the university of virginia was founded by thomas jefferson , but last year , university president teresa sullivan was denounced by students and faculty for merely quoting our third president in a public message because he was a slave owner.the call to remove washington s statue came less than a day after president trump asked whether washington would be next in the movement to remove statues like the robert e. lee monument in charlottesville .
the statement drew the ire of cnn s jim acosta who described the notion as absurd and said it was taken as a sign that the president perhaps needs a refresher course and needs to go back to history 101 .
history is precisely where this controversy should begin and end .
washington is rightfully condemned for his ownership of slaves .
there were contemporaries like john adams , john jay , benjamin franklin and alexander hamilton who were outspoken critics of slavery .
franklin called slavery an atrocious debasement of human nature , while adams referred to it as a foul contagion in the human character .
these visionaries not only saw a great evil but answered the call of history to stand steadfastly against it.however , before mayor rahm emanuel sends in the bulldozers into washington park , it is worth considering a few facts about our first president s history with slavery .
washington inherited a number of slaves at age 11 and received more slaves in his marriage to martha custis .
however , he gradually came to oppose slavery .
on the interim , washington tried to assuage his guilt by refusing to sell slaves that would break up families , telling an associate that it was against my inclination to hurt the feelings of those unhappy people by a separation of man and wife , or of families .
after the war , washington continued to discuss ways to convert his plantation from slaves to tenants at the suggestion of his close aide ( and outspoken opponent of slavery ) marquis de lafayette .
by 1786 , washington wrote his friend robert morris , i can only say that there is not a man living who wishes more sincerely than i do , to see a plan adopted for the abolition of [ slavery ] .
in the end , washington was the only one of nine slaveholding presidents ( and the only slaveholding founder ) who freed his slaves upon his death .
washington freed as many of his 317 slaves as possible .
some 123 slaves were his to emancipate while neither he nor martha could free the so-called custis dower slaves ( who remained property of the heirs to the estate of daniel parke custis , martha washington s first husband ) .
he further ordered that all of the elderly or sick slaves would be supported by his estate for the rest of their lives.so where does this leave us ?
with a complex and flawed figure who practiced a great evil while belatedly coming to reject it .
he finished his life allied with his more enlightened colleagues but this is no reason to forgive his prior history .
however , that is the point of history .
it is never some neat narrative divided cleanly between demons and angels .
washington was a great leader who held a nation together through sheer leadership and stands as one of the few leaders in history to refuse to become a monarch himself.curiously , dukes does offer a concession .
washington park and jackson park could be formally named after former mayor harold washington and civil rights leader rev .
jesse jackson or singer michael jackson .
it is unlikely to convince those who view these statutes as not simply reminders of past leaders but past struggles in an evolving society .
the same can not be said for michael jackson .
thriller may be the best selling album in history , but the battle of new orleans still has more of a hold on history.the fact is that we often learn as much from the failures as we do the triumphs of historical figures .
washington ultimately proved to be an early transitional figure in our ugly history of slavery .
washington himself described his desire at mount vernon to lay a foundation for a rising generation with a new destiny other than slavery.for my part , i am proud to teach at the george washington university , whose charter was paid for by washington himself as part of that same final testament .
of course , that does not mean we could not make other improvements .
another school in washington is named after a british king , george ii , who kept our nation under colonial oppression .
after all , the moonwalk and robot dance steps did have a transformative impact on my generation and jacksontown university has a nice ring to it.jonathan turley is the shapiro professor of public interest law at george washington university .
you can follow him on twitter @ jonathanturley.read more : the hill