houston ( reuters ) - an anti-abortion activist indicted for using a fake driver ’ s license id to aid secret filming inside planned parenthood facilities turned himself into authorities in houston on thursday and was offered a probation deal , prosecutors said .
david daleiden , indicted in january by a houston-area grand jury , appeared at harris county district court on a charge of tampering with a governmental record , which can bring up to 20 years in prison .
he also faces a misdemeanor charge for trying to procure fetal tissue .
daleiden leads the california-based center for medical progress that released the secretly filmed videos used to accuse the women ’ s health group of trading in aborted fetal tissue .
he was offered a probation deal in which , if he keeps a clean record for a certain period of time , charges would be dropped , prosecutors said .
daleiden ’ s lawyers said he planned to reject the deal and is seeking an apology from prosecutors .
daleiden told a news conference outside court that he wants texas to prosecute planned parenthood , saying it “ is open for business in baby body parts. ” planned parenthood has denied daleiden ’ s allegations and sued in federal court , arguing the people who recorded the videos acted illegally .
in a twist for the texas republican leaders who had ordered an investigation , the grand jury in january cleared planned parenthood of wrongdoing and indicted video makers daleiden and sandra merritt .
“ we ’ re glad they ’ re being held accountable , and we hope other law enforcement agencies pursue criminal charges , as well , ” said eric ferrero , vice president at planned parenthood federation of america .
merritt , a lesser figure in the filming , appeared at a houston court on wednesday and was also offered a probation deal .
lawyers for the activist do not dispute that the pair used false ids but said they did so for investigative journalism .
countering that contention , eric ferrero , vice president at planned parenthood federation of america , said , “ we don ’ t know of any journalists who have engaged in wire fraud and mail fraud , lied to multiple government agencies , tampered with government documents , and broken laws in at least four states only to lie about what they found .
it ’ s hard to imagine anyone calling that ‘ journalism ’ . ” the videos released last summer purported to show planned parenthood officials trying to negotiate prices for aborted fetal tissue .
under federal law , donated human fetal tissue may be used for research , but profiting from its sale is prohibited .
in response to the videos , texas and other republican-controlled states tried to halt funding for planned parenthood .
u.s. congressional republicans pushed for a funding cut .
planned parenthood has said daleiden and merritt presented fake ids in april 2015 and posed as research executives from a fictitious company to secretly film conversations at a health and administrative center in houston .