baghdad/erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - iraq s kurdish leader massoud barzani vowed on tuesday to press ahead with a referendum on kurdish independence on sept. 25 despite a vote by iraq s parliament to reject the move .
earlier the parliament in baghdad authorized the prime minister to take all measures to preserve iraq s unity .
kurdish lawmakers walked out of the session before the vote and issued statements rejecting the decision .
western powers fear a plebiscite in iraq s semi-autonomous kurdish region - including the oil-rich city of kirkuk - could ignite conflict with the central government in baghdad and divert attention from the war against islamic state militants .
iraq s neighbors - turkey , iran and syria - also oppose the referendum , fearing it could fan separatism among their own ethnic kurdish populations .
the referendum will be held on time ...
dialogue with baghdad will resume after the referendum , barzani , president of the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) , said in a statement on his ruling party s official website after the vote .
barzani told a gathering of kurds , arabs and turkmen in kirkuk that the referendum was a natural right , according to a tweet from his aide hemin hawrami .
barzani also said kirkuk should have a special status in a new , independent kurdistan .
iraqi lawmakers worry that the referendum will consolidate kurdish control over several areas claimed by both the central government in baghdad and the autonomous krg in northern iraq .
this referendum lacks a constitutional basis and thus it is considered unconstitutional , the parliamentary resolution said , without specifying what measures the central government should take to stop kurdistan from breaking away .
mohammed al-karbouli , a sunni muslim lawmaker , said : kurdish lawmakers walked out of ( tuesday s ) session but the decision to reject the referendum was passed by a majority .
a senior kurdish official dismissed the vote as non-binding though an iraqi lawmaker said it would be published in the official gazette after approval from the iraqi presidency .
the krg has said it is up to local councils of disputed regions in northern iraq to decide whether to join the vote .
kirkuk , an ethnically mixed city , voted last month to participate in the referendum , a move that stoked tensions with its arab and turkmen residents , as well as with baghdad .
kurdish peshmerga forces took control of the kirkuk area and other areas claimed by both baghdad and the kurds after islamic state militants overran about a third of iraq in 2014 and baghdad s local forces disintegrated .
at a news conference on tuesday , iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi said the kurds were continuing to illegally export kirkuk s oil , and he called for urgent talks .
i call upon the kurdish leadership to come to baghdad and conclude a dialogue , abadi said .
a kurdish delegation met officials in baghdad for a first round of talks in august concerning the referendum .
an iraqi delegation was expected to visit the kurdish capital of erbil in early september for a second round of talks , but the visit has yet to happen with less than two weeks before the vote .
kurds have sought an independent state since at least the end of world war one , when colonial powers divided up the middle east after the collapse of the multi-ethnic ottoman empire and left kurdish-populated territory split between turkey , iran , iraq and syria .