seoul ( reuters ) - south korea braced for a possible further missile test by north korea as it marked its founding anniversary on saturday , just days after its sixth and largest nuclear test rattled global financial markets and further escalated tensions in the region .
throughout the week , south korean officials have warned the north could launch another intercontinental ballistic missile , in defiance of u.n. sanctions and amid an escalating standoff with the united states .
pyongyang marks its founding anniversary each year with a big display of pageantry and military hardware .
last year , north korea conducted its fifth nuclear test on the sept. 9 anniversary .
tension on the korean peninsula has escalated as north korea s young leader , kim jong un , has stepped up the development of weapons , testing a string of missiles this year , including one flying over japan , and conducting its sixth nuclear test on sunday .
experts believe the isolated regime is close to its goal of developing a powerful nuclear weapon capable of reaching the united states , something u.s. president donald trump has vowed to prevent .
celebrating its founding anniversary , a front-page editorial of the saturday edition of north korea s official rodong sinmun said the country should make more high-tech juche weapons to continuously bring about big historical events such as a miraculous victory of july 28. .
the july date refers to the intercontinental ballistic missile test .
juche is north korea s homegrown ideology of self-reliance that is a mix of marxism and extreme nationalism preached by state founder kim il sung , the current leader s grandfather .
south korean nuclear experts , checking for contamination , said on friday they had found minute traces of radioactive xenon gas but that it was too early to link it to sunday s explosion .
the nuclear safety and security commission ( nssc ) said it had been conducting tests on land , air and water samples since shortly after the north korean nuclear test on sunday .
xenon is a naturally occurring , colourless gas that is used in manufacturing of some sorts of lights .
but the nssc said it had detected xenon-133 , a radioactive isotope that does not occur naturally and which has in the past been linked to north korea s nuclear tests .
there was no chance the xenon will have an impact on south korea s territory or population , the agency said .
trump has repeatedly said all options are on the table in dealing with north korea and on thursday said he would prefer not to use military action , but if he did , it would be a very sad day for north korea .
military action would certainly be an option .
is it inevitable ?
nothing is inevitable , trump told reporters .
if we do use it on north korea , it will be a very sad day for north korea .
even as trump has insisted that now is not the time to talk , senior members of his administration have made clear that the door to a diplomatic solution is open , especially given the u.s. assessment that any pre-emptive strike would unleash massive north korean retaliation .
north korea says it needs its weapons to protect itself from u.s. aggression and regularly threatens to destroy the united states .
south korea and the united states are technically still at war with north korea after the 1950-53 korean conflict ended with a truce , not a peace treaty .
the uss ronald reagan , a nuclear-powered carrier , left its home port in japan for a routine autumn patrol of the western pacific , a navy spokeswoman said .
that area included waters between japan and the korean peninsula , she added , without giving any further details .
the ronald reagan was out on routine patrol from may until august , and was sent to the sea of japan with the another carrier , the uss carl vinson , to take part in drills with japan s self defense forces as well as the south korean military .
north korea vehemently objects to military exercises on or near the peninsula , and china and russia have suggested the united states and south korea halt their exercises to lower tension .
while trump talked tough on north korea , china agreed on thursday that the united nations should take more action against it , but it also pushed for dialogue .
the u.n. security council is expected to vote on a new set of sanctions soon .
russian foreign minister sergei lavrov said that it was too early to draw conclusions about the final form of the u.n. resolution , russia s interfax news agency quoted lavrov as saying at a news conference on friday .
the united states on friday told the u.n. security council that it intends to call a meeting on monday to vote on a draft resolution establishing additional sanctions on north korea for its missile and nuclear program , the u.s. mission to the united nations said in a statement .
u.s. ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said last monday that she intended to call for a vote on sept. 11 and then the united states circulated a draft resolution to the 15-member council on wednesday .
the united states wants the security council to impose an oil embargo on north korea , ban its exports of textiles and the hiring of north korean laborers abroad , and to subject kim jong un to an asset freeze and travel ban , according to a draft resolution seen by reuters on wednesday .
it was not immediately clear how north korean allies china and russia would vote , but a senior u.s. official on friday night expressed scepticism that either nation would accept anything more stringent than a ban on imports of north korean textiles .
chinese officials have privately expressed fears that imposing an oil embargo could risk triggering massive instability in its neighbor .
north korea offered fresh vitriol against the pending sanctions , specifically targeting haley , who this week accused kim of begging for war .
there is nothing more foolish than thinking we , a strong nuclear state , will endure this evil pressure aimed at overthrowing our state , the north s official news agency said in a commentary .
even if nikki haley is blind , she must use her mouth correctly .
the united states administration will pay for not being able to control the mouth of their u.n. representative .
china is by far north korea s biggest trading partner , accounting for 92 percent of two-way trade last year .
it also provides hundreds of thousands of tonnes of oil and fuel to the impoverished regime .
china s economic influence has been felt by south korea as well .
the two countries have been at loggerheads over south korea s decision to deploy a u.s. anti-missile system , the terminal high altitude area defense , which has a powerful radar that can probe deep into china .
shares in south korean automaker hyundai motor ( 005380.ks ) and key suppliers slid on friday on worries over its position in china after highly critical chinese state newspaper comments .
the military section of china s global times newspaper on thursday referred to thaad as a malignant tumor .