she is the only presidential candidate who travels with a full-time physician .
she s been having brain freezes and admits to short-circuiting and video footage captures her , as she appears to be having a seizure in middle of being questioned by reporters .
she can t seem to recall anything and clearly has a serious problem with the truth .
is hillary clinton mentally or physically fit enough to serve our nation in any capacity ?
maybe it s time to take hillary s advice and follow the money : hillary clinton kicked $ 125,000 in donations from her family foundation to a hospital after receiving treatment for a blood clot in 2013 , the washington free beacon has discovered.hillary had never donated to the hospital before her treatment for the blood clot.clinton was discharged from new york presbyterian hospital in january 2013 after being treated for a blood clot .
doctors discovered the clot during follow-up treatment for a concussion she sustained weeks earlier after she passed out from dehydration , causing her to fall and hit her head.the new york times wrote in january 2013 : hillary rodham clinton , whose globe-trotting tour as secretary of state was abruptly halted last month by a series of health problems , was discharged from a new york hospital on wednesday evening after several days of treatment for a blood clot in a vein in her head .
her medical team advised her that she is making good progress on all fronts , and they are confident she will make a full recovery , philippe reines , a senior adviser to mrs. clinton , said in a statement.mrs .
clinton , 65 , was admitted to newyork-presbyterian/columbia hospital on sunday after a scan discovered the blood clot .
the scan was part of her follow-up care for a concussion she sustained more than two weeks earlier , when she fainted and fell , striking her head .
according to the state department , the fainting was caused by dehydration , brought on by a stomach virus .
the concussion was diagnosed on dec. 13 , though the fall had occurred earlier that week.the clot was potentially serious , blocking a vein that drains blood from the brain .
untreated , such blockages can lead to brain hemorrhages or strokes .
treatment consists mainly of blood thinners to keep the clot from enlarging and to prevent more clots from forming , and plenty of fluids to prevent dehydration , which is a major risk factor for blood clots.the clinton family foundation the clintons second , much smaller foundation then donated six figures to the hospital s fund , according to records filed with the internal revenue service.the same year clinton received treatment for the blood clot , the foundation made a $ 25,000 donation to new york-presbyterian fund inc. , the fund associated with the hospital.for entire story : free beacon