dublin ( reuters ) - ireland s foreign minister said on wednesday he hoped that talks to restore northern ireland s power-sharing government could reach a successful outcome by the end of the week after some further steps by the negotiating parties .
northern ireland has been without a devolved administration since its collapse in january , raising the prospect of direct rule being reimposed from london , potentially destabilizing a delicate political balance in the british province .
this week is an important week in the context of northern ireland and i hope we will have a successful outcome by the end of the week , simon coveney , dublin s representative in the talks , told ireland s upper house of parliament .
coveney said the parties were making progress but they still had some difficulties to overcome .
the main impediment in the talks between irish nationalists sinn fein and the pro-british democratic unionist party ( dup ) is disagreement over the rights of irish language speakers .
the prospect of britain s exit from the european union in 2019 has added extra urgency to the talks in northern ireland .
coveney warned london it would be impossible to avoid some form of hard border between ireland and northern ireland if britain does not maintain a customs partnership with the eu .
direct rule ( from london ) would in my view be devastating for northern ireland , not just in the context of brexit but in the context of community relations and the capacity to really find pragmatic and practical ways of reconciliation , he said .
the restoration of the administration would give northern ireland a greater say in brexit negotiations that are set to have a bigger impact on the province than on any other part of the united kingdom .
northern ireland will be the uk s only land frontier with the eu after its departure and dublin has proposed that britain reach a bespoke customs union partnership with the bloc to eliminate the risk of a hard border returning to the island .
the border issue is particularly sensitive given the decades of violence over whether northern ireland should be part of the united kingdom or ireland .
around 3,600 people were killed before a 1998 peace agreement .
i find it very difficult to see how we can solve the border issues on the island of ireland unless britain , ireland and the rest of the european union are part of a shared customs union , you can call it whatever you want , coveney said .
there is simply no way of avoiding some border infrastructure if you are having to manage the movement of goods from one customs union to another .
while britain insists it will leave the eu s customs union , coveney said the language around the issue has improved , citing a british proposal for a new customs partnership post-brexit .
i do think the british government is exploring ways in which we can try to discuss these things , he said .