lusaka ( reuters ) - democratic republic of congo ( drc ) government forces have been killing civilians in an insurgency-hit region , prompting the latest influx of refugees into northern zambia , a senior u.n. official said , citing accounts of asylum seekers .
zambia fears a looming humanitarian crisis after more than 6,000 refugees fleeing turmoil in the drc entered its territory in one month .
[ l5n1m32s5 ] pierrine aylara , the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) chief representative in zambia , told reuters that the latest asylum seekers had said they were fleeing congolese government forces .
it is the government of the drc that is said to be persecuting its own people by killing , maiming and torching houses , as well as committing rape and looting food stored in granaries , aylara said .
thousands of people have been killed and more than one million forced to flee their homes in the drc s eastern kasai region since the start of an insurrection nearly a year ago by the kamuina nsapu militia .
kamuina nsapu is demanding the withdrawal of military forces from kasai .
but u.n. monitors noted in a report that the conflict has shifted away from an insurrection of a specific community towards a wider upheaval far beyond its initial confines .
a rebel group known as elema was fighting the government mainly with machetes , bows and arrows in congo s haut katanga and tanganyika provinces , aylara said .
the group is not targeting civilians and aims to protect them , but is rather targeting government soldiers , the police as well as government establishments , she said .
the insurgency poses the worst threat yet to the rule of drc president joseph kabila .
his refusal to step down at the end of his constitutional mandate last december prompted a wave of killings and lawlessness across the vast central african nation .
in turn , government soldiers have become increasingly brutal to the civilian population as they are unable to tell who does and does not belong to this ( rebel ) group , aylara said .
drc government forces were fighting alongside a tribe known as the abatembo and targeting the luba and tabwa tribes who were believed to be sympathetic to the elema rebels , she said .
southern african leaders plan to appoint a retired african president to oversee a process aimed at bringing about free and all-inclusive elections in the drc to help heal the tensions that have caused internal strife and the refugee crisis .