athens ( reuters ) - greece s junior coalition party leader on monday faced questioning in parliament and calls for his suspension over a failed deal to sell greek army missiles to saudia arabia .
panos kammenos , defense minister in prime minister alexis tsipras government , secured a 66-million-euro deal with saudi arabia for the sale of surplus missiles to the gulf state .
the deal fell through in august and questions have arisen since over its transparency .
greece s supreme court prosecutor has ordered an investigation after press reports that the government used a middleman to broker the deal - something illegal in government-to-government deals since it is seen as likely to lead to corrupt practices .
kammenos has repeatedly denied wrongdoing .
his right-wing independent greeks party has just nine lawmakers in parliament , but tsipras s government depends on it for a thin majority of 153 seats in the 300-member assembly .
a fully legal government-to-government agreement to sell ammunition is being presented as corruption , kammenos told lawmakers .
it is a government-to-government deal and there are no intermediaries .
the money that would have left saudi arabia would have gone to the state coffers - no intermediary , no middlemen , he said .
but conservative opposition lawmakers have called for the minister s resignation and for a probe into the sale .
others have also questioned the possible sale of arms to saudia arabia , which is involved in the yemen conflict .
in any normal country , the prime minister would have suspended the defense minister until the case was cleared up , kyriakos mitsotakis , the main opposition new democracy leader , told a heated parliamentary debate .
is mr. kammenos perhaps blackmailing you with toppling the government ?
he asked tsipras .
the deal was approved in march by greece s top decision-making body on foreign affairs and defense matters , kysea , which is headed by tsipras .
the reasons it fell through are unclear .
greek anti-corruption laws ban the use of intermediaries in government-to-government agreements .
the government denies wrongdoing and says the so-called intermediary was an authorised representative of saudi arabian interests .