manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte declared the southern city of marawi liberated from pro-islamic state militants on tuesday , although the military said 20-30 rebels were holding about 20 hostages and still fighting it out .
in a rousing address to soldiers a day after the killing of two commanders of the rebel alliance , duterte said he would never again allow militants to stockpile so many weapons , but marawi was now free and it was time to heal wounds and rebuild .
i hereby declare marawi city liberated from terrorist influence , that marks the beginning of rehabilitation , duterte , wearing a camouflage cap and dark sunglasses , said during his unannounced visit .
isnilon hapilon , who was wanted by the united states and was islamic state s southeast asian emir , and omarkhayam maute , one of two brothers central to the alliance , were killed in a targeted operation on monday .
their bodies were recovered and identified , authorities said .
the 148-day occupation marked the roman catholic-majority philippines biggest security crisis in years and triggered concerns that with its mountains , jungles and porous borders , the island of mindanao could become a magnet for islamic state fighters driven out of iraq and syria .
more than 1,000 people , mostly rebels , were killed in the battle and the heart of the city of 200,000 has been leveled by air strikes .
duterte said the liberation was not a cause for celebration and later apologized to the people of marawi for the destruction .
we had to do it , he said .
there was no alternative .
armed forces chief eduardo ano said the remaining gunmen were now a law enforcement matter , while military spokesman restituto padilla described them as stragglers .
there is no way that they can get out anymore , there is no way for anyone to get in , padilla told news channel anc .
padilla said the military believed malaysian operative mahmud ahmad was in marawi , but it could not be certain .
he said mahmud was no threat .
dr. mahmud is an academic , he s not a fighter , padilla said .
we don t feel he is a problem .
but some security experts say otherwise and believe mahmud , 39 , a recruiter and fundraiser who trained at an al qaeda camp in afghanistan , could replace hapilon as islamic state s point-man in southeast asia .
another leader , abdullah maute , has yet to be accounted for .
intelligence indicated he died in an august air strike , though no body was found .
defence officials say the core leadership was key to recruiting young fighters and arranging for extremists from indonesia , malaysia , singapore and beyond to join the push to carve out an east asian wilaya , or islamic state province .
hapilon had teamed up with the moneyed maute clan in their stronghold of lanao del sur , one of the philippines poorest provinces , and brought with him fighters from his radical faction of abu sayyaf , a group better known for banditry .
defence secretary delfin lorenzana , who estimated marawi operations to have cost 5 billion pesos ( $ 97.5 million ) , said reconstruction could start in january .
there are still stragglers and the structures are still unsafe because of unexploded ordnance and improvised explosive devices , he said on radio .
the marawi occupation set alarm bells ringing in the philippines , with militants surprising security forces with their combat prowess , the volume of arms and ammunition they stockpiled and their ability to withstand intensive air strikes aided by u.s. surveillance drones and technical support .
( $ 1 = 51 pesos )