berlin ( reuters ) - two aging holocaust survivors joined forces with a younger israeli singer to perform songs of hope at berlin s brandenburg gate on wednesday at a time when germany is seeing a rise in anti-semitism .
saul dreier , a drummer aged 92 , and reuwen ruby sosnowicz , an 89-year-old accordionist , backed up gad elbaz at a site once used by adolf hitler for anti-semitic speeches .
i don t want to cry .
if i can be 92 and be here after what i went through - there are no words , dreier told reuters at the end of a long and emotional day this is a miracle .
i lost 30 people in my family , he told a crowd of around 80 people before the performance .
dreier said recent news of neo-nazi marches in the united states and germany made him sick and brought back memories of the horrors of the nazi regime that killed 6 million jews .
it s very frightening .
young people have to make sure it never happens again .
the men , who both live in florida , formed their holocaust survivors band in 2014 and went on to play in front of packed audiences from warsaw and las vegas to washington , d.c. elbaz said the event in berlin was meant to make sure younger people remained vigilant about the dangers of anti-semitism .
this is about reviving history and showing our generation how important it is not to forget where we came from , what we ve been through , and that it should never happen again , he said .
organizers plan to release a music video filmed during the performance of one of the songs , let the light shine on .
shani ramer , 48 , who was born in israel but grew up and lives in berlin , said the concert reminded her of family members who perished .
it touched my heart , she said .
she welcomed the concert s message of hope .
it s saying we are still here .
no one will kill us now .
abida ali , a muslim tourist visiting germany from pakistan , joined other bystanders dancing to the upbeat music .
ali said she had experienced no discrimination during her visit despite her head scarf .
it s only a small percentage of the people who are violent , she said .
there is hope .
everyone really wants peace .
a study by bielefeld university carried out last year showed that 78 percent of jews living in germany believe anti-semitism has increased to some extent , or to a large extent , in the previous five years .