donald trump held a bizarre press conference tuesday in which he defended the alt-right nazis who stormed the streets of charlottesville , virginia while giving nazi salutes .
the hate-rally resulted in one of trump s deplorables losing his sh * t when he decided to use his car as a weapon to mow down peaceful anti-racist protesters , resulting in the murder of heather hyer , 32 , and injuring 19 others .
the presser went so off the rails that david duke took to twitter to thank trump for sticking up for white supremacists.even republicans are not giving trump a pass after he blamed both sides for the appalling violence .
we must be clear , speaker paul ryan ( r-wis. ) wrote on twitter .
white supremacy is repulsive .
this bigotry is counter to all this country stands for .
there can be no moral ambiguity .
we must be clear .
white supremacy is repulsive .
this bigotry is counter to all this country stands for .
there can be no moral ambiguity .
paul ryan ( @ speakerryan ) august 15 , 2017sen .
marco rubio ( r-fla. ) went on a tweetstorm following trump s remarks.the organizers of events which inspired & led to # charlottesvilleterroristattack are 100 % to blame for a number of reasons .
1/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017they are adherents of an evil ideology which argues certain people are inferior because of race , ethnicity or nation of origin .
2/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017when entire movement built on anger & hatred towards people different than you , it justifies & ultimately leads to violence against them 3/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017these groups today use same symbols & same arguments of # nazi & # kkk , groups responsible for some of worst crimes against humanity ever 4/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017mr .
president , you ca n't allow # whitesupremacists to share only part of blame.they support idea which cost nation & world so much pain 5/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017the # whitesupremacy groups will see being assigned only 50 % of blame as a win.we can not allow this old evil to be resurrected 6/6 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) august 15 , 2017rep .
will hurd ( r-texas ) , who has a black father and white mother , said , i don t think anybody should be looking at getting props from a grand dragon of the kkk as any kind of sign of success .
apologize , the texas republican said .
racism , bigotry , anti-semitism of any form is unacceptable .
the problem here is that trump never apologizes for anything.majority whip steve scalise ( r-la .
) , the no .
3 republican in the house , took to twitter to denounce white supremacy .
i was clear about this bigotry & violence over the weekend and i ll repeat it today : we must defeat white supremacy and all forms of hatred , he tweeted.i was clear about this bigotry & violence over the weekend and i 'll repeat it today : we must defeat white supremacy and all forms of hatred .
https : //t.co/ioavve8txs rep. steve scalise ( @ stevescalise ) august 15 , 2017 i don t understand what s so hard about this , rep. steve stivers ( ohio ) tweeted .
white supremacists and neo-nazis are evil and shouldn t be defended .
i do n't understand what 's so hard about this .
white supremacists and neo-nazis are evil and should n't be defended .
steve stivers ( @ repstevestivers ) august 15 , 2017rep .
ileana ros-lehtinen ( r-fla. ) tweeted , blaming both sides for # charlottesville ? !
no .
back to relativism when dealing with kkk , nazi sympathizers , white supremacists ?
just no .
blaming `` both sides '' for # charlottesville ? !
no .
back to relativism when dealing with kkk , nazi sympathizers , white supremacists ?
just no .
ileana ros-lehtinen ( @ roslehtinen ) august 15 , 2017trump s newest poll numbers show a declining approval number from his own base .
the former reality show star s approval rating has sunk to its lowest level yet and that survey was taken from some respondents before he made his initial controversial remarks about the violence in charlottesville.republicans shouldn t be shocked over trump s comments today , after all , he tried to delegitimize our country s first black president by claiming barack obama is really a scary muslim from kenya who usurped the white house.photo by joe raedle/getty images