beijing ( reuters ) - chinese president xi jinping on wednesday told foreign journalists to roam the country and report more , even as five global news organisations found themselves without invitations to cover his speech .
the bbc , the economist , the financial times , the guardian and the new york times were not invited to the event where xi introduced his new leadership line-up following a once-in-five-years communist party congress , the foreign correspondents club of china ( fccc ) said .
two reuters journalists were invited .
we encourage reporters to travel and see more of china ... to learn about and continue to report on more aspects of china , xi told a gathering of chinese and international journalists .
he did not take questions .
we do not need lavish praise from others .
however , we do welcome objective reporting and constructive suggestions .
under xi , china has stepped up censorship and tightened controls on the internet and various aspects of civil society .
reporting conditions for foreign journalists in china have deteriorated in recent years , according to media watchdog groups , with areas of the country including tibet effectively off-limits .
the fccc criticized the exclusion of the western news organisations .
it is hard to avoid the conclusion that these media organisations have been singled out to send a message , the fccc said in a statement posted on twitter .
using media access as a tool to punish journalists whose coverage the chinese authorities disapprove of is a gross violation of the principles of press freedom .
the beijing bureau chiefs at the economist and financial times both confirmed to reuters that they had not received invitations .
the new york times had applied for and not received an invitation , a spokesperson said in an email .
we are disappointed that we were denied access to president xi s press conference .
the bbc will continue to report fairly and objectively on the stories of china , the bbc said in a statement .
the guardian published a story saying it was among those organisations excluded .
foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang referred specific questions about the congress to the press center but said foreign reporters were welcome to cover the gathering .
we handle foreign reporter applications according to rules and regulations , he told reporters .
an official at the press center told reuters that it had organized many events that foreign media could and did attend .
the standing committee unveiling venue had limited space and so there was no guarantee all foreign media who applied could attend , the official said .
we hope that foreign media can really pay attention to china s development and objectively and fairly report on china and the communist party , said the official , who asked not be named .
there were more than 3,000 reporters covering the congress , according to state media , and the leadership announcement was held in a side room at beijing s great hall of the people , not in the cavernous main auditorium .