berlin ( reuters ) - twenty-seven years after german reunification , nearly two-thirds of germans still see persistent divisions between those in the former communist east and the west , a sort of berlin wall in the head , a new poll for bild newspaper showed on monday .
conducted by pollster insa , the survey showed 64.6 percent of those polled believed germans saw such divisions , compared to 22.9 percent who felt they had been overcome .
the poll - released a day before germany s reunification holiday - showed that 74 percent of germans in the former east saw the invisible barrier , compared to just 62.3 percent of those who lived in the former west germany .
the lingering divisions became evident in the german national election on sept. 24 , in which voters dealt mainstream political parties their biggest defeats in the post-war era , while the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party won 12.6 of the vote and moved into parliament for the first time .
{ nl5n1m40ih ] support for the afd and its take your country back platform was particularly strong in eastern germany , fueled by anger about chancellor angela merkel s decision to open the doors to a million mostly muslim migrants in 2015 .
malu dreyer , the social democratic premier of the western state of rhineland-palatinate , said the election results were a wake-up call for the big political parties about the continuing unmet concerns of east germans .
we under-estimated how much transformation pressure the east germans had , and how much they had to accomplish to make reunification a reality , she told broadcaster bayrischer rundfunk on monday .
reunification didn t impact the daily lives of most west germans .
iris gleicke , the german government s commissioner for eastern german affairs , said unemployment was down and average income had increased sharply in the region since reunification , but population decline remained a problem .
gleicke said glamorization and demographic changes had strengthened regional trends , with per capita gross domestic product falling behind that of the west by 27 percent , and industrial productivity lagging by 20 percent .
she called for more efforts to ensure essential services in the east and to guard against the rise of far-right extremism .
where the government is not present anymore , gaps are necessarily filled by those who are up to no good , she said .
separately , research minister johanna wanka announced a new project on monday to examine how many nazis were able to continue working in east germany s education and research institutions after world war two .