dakar/bamako ( reuters ) - five soldiers from niger and three u.s. army special forces troops were killed and two wounded in an ambush on a joint patrol in southwest niger on wednesday , according to nigerien and u.s. officials .
the five green berets were attacked while on a routine patrol in an area known to have a presence of insurgents , including from al qaeda in islamic maghreb ( aqim ) and islamic state , a u.s. official told reuters .
it was unclear who fired on the u.s. and u.s.-backed forces , the official said .
those forces were not patrolling the area with any specific objective , such as a high-value target or rescuing a hostage , the official added .
a spokesman for u.s. africa command confirmed the attack after radio france international ( rfi ) reported a lethal ambush near the niger/mali border .
we can confirm reports that a joint u.s. and nigerien patrol came under hostile fire in southwest niger , said the spokesman .
namatta abubacar , an official for the region of tillaberi in niger , said five nigerien soldiers were among the dead .
a niger diplomatic source said the attackers had come from mali and had killed several soldiers , without saying whether any of the u.s. troops stationed in the west african country were among the victims .
u.s. president donald trump was briefed by telephone on the attack by white house chief of staff john kelly while trump flew back on air force one from las vegas , where he had been visiting victims and first responders affected by sunday s mass shooting .
rfi said earlier on wednesday a counter-attack was underway .
african security forces backed by western troops are stepping up efforts to counter jihadist groups forming part of a growing regional insurgency in the poor , sparsely populated deserts of the sahel .
a relatively new militant group called islamic state in the greater sahara has claimed some of the attacks .
geoff d. porter , head of north africa risk consulting , said that any confirmation of islamic state s role in wednesday s strike would lead to a strategic shift from libya toward the sahel band , stretching eastwards from senegal to chad .
the emphasis ... will now shift south , he said .
the u.s. africa command has hundreds of soldiers deployed across the region , including at an air facility in agadez , and offers training and support to niger s army in aspects such as intelligence gathering and surveillance .