simferopol , crimea ( reuters ) - a man who led protests against russia s plans to annex crimea from ukraine was jailed for eight years in the disputed territory on monday - a move ukraine s president called an act of russian repression .
crimean tatar leader ahtem chiygoz was found guilty of stirring up mass disorder by calling street demonstrations in february 2014 against a referendum which later sealed russia s seizure of the peninsula .
prosecutors at the court in simferopol - the capital of russian-controlled crimea - said two people died in the unrest .
ukrainian president petro poroshenko said the jailing of chiygoz added to the case against russia which had already been recognized as an occupier at the highest international level .
one can unlawfully confine someone s freedom , but it s impossible to break the will !
you may occupy foreign land , but it will burn under your feet , poroshenko said on twitter .
there was no immediate comment from russian authorities .
chiygoz was deputy head of the mejlis representative body of crimean tatars which also condemned monday s ruling .
mejlis head refat chubarov , who fled crimea after its annexation , called the sentence a new attempt to intimidate crimean tatars and suppress their will .
the crimean tatars are a largely sunni muslim group who suffered mass deportation under soviet dictator josef stalin in 1944 and make up more than 12 percent of crimea s largely ethnic russian population of about 2 million .
many of them were among the strongest critics of moscow s march 2014 annexation of crimea , which has drawn sanctions on russia from the united states and europe .
kiev and its western allies say the seizure was illegal .
but russian president vladimir putin justified it , saying he needed to protect its overwhelmingly pro-moscow population from ukrainian nationalists .
chubarov said lawyers would launch an appeal with the supreme court of russia as the nation that occupied crimea .
one can already forecast its decision - it will support the decision by crimea s illegal supreme court .
accordingly , our next step will be the european court of human rights , he added .
chiygoz s lawyer nikolai polozov told reuters television the sentence was unlawful , as chiygoz was a citizen of ukraine , where the criminal code did not contain such an offense .
his team would seek chiygoz s extradition to ukraine , he added .