london ( reuters ) - the deputy head of iran s revolutionary guards warned europe that if it threatens tehran , the guards will increase the range of missiles to above 2,000 kilometers , the fars news agency reported on saturday .
france has called for an uncompromising dialogue with iran about its ballistic missile program and a possible negotiation over the issue separate from tehran s 2015 nuclear deal with world powers .
iran has repeatedly said its missile program is defensive and not negotiable .
if we have kept the range of our missiles to 2,000 kilometers , it s not due to lack of technology .
... we are following a strategic doctrine , brigadier general hossein salami said , according to fars .
so far we have felt that europe is not a threat , so we did not increase the range of our missiles .
but if europe wants to turn into a threat , we will increase the range of our missiles , he added .
the head of iran s revolutionary guards military force , major general mohammad ali jafari , said last month that iran s 2,000-kilometre missile range could cover most of american interest and forces within the region , so iran did not need to extend it .
jafari said the ballistic missile range was based on the limits set by the country s supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei , who is the head of armed forces .
iran has one of the middle east s largest missile programs and some of its precision-guided missiles have the range to strike israel .
the united states accused iran this month of supplying yemen s houthi rebels with a missile that was fired into saudi arabia in july and called for the united nations to hold tehran accountable for violating two u.n. security council resolutions .
iran has denied supplying the houthis with missiles and weapons .
yemen is in total blockade .
how could we have given them any missile ?
salami said , according to the fars report on saturday .
if iran can send a missile to yemen , it shows the incapability of ( the saudi coalition ) .
but we have not given them missiles .
salami said the houthis managed to increase the range and precision of their missiles in a scientific breakthrough .
jafari , the head of the revolutionary guards , said on thursday that iran only provides advisory and spiritual assistances to the houthis .
iran long denied sending fighters to syria to help president bashar al-assad in the fight against the rebels , and said the revolutionary guards presence on the ground was advisory in what seemed to be a correction of jafari s comments , salami said on saturday that iran s support for the houthis was political and spiritual .
the united states has imposed unilateral sanctions on iran , saying its missile tests violate a u.n. resolution that calls on tehran not to undertake activities related to missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons .
the united states says iran s missile program is a breach of international law because the missiles could carry nuclear warheads in the future .
iran denies it is seeking nuclear weapons and says its nuclear program is for civilian uses only .