washington ( reuters ) - federal prosecutors opened their case against ahmed abu khatallah on monday by telling jurors he orchestrated the 2012 attack on a u.s. diplomatic compound in benghazi , libya , that killed u.s .
ambassador christopher stevens and three other americans .
khatallah has been awaiting trial since 2014 , when he was captured by a team of u.s. military and fbi officials in libya and transported on a 13-day journey to the united states aboard a navy vessel .
in his opening statement in u.s. district court for the district of columbia , federal prosecutor john crabb said khatallah hates america with a vengeance and played a leading role in organizing the sept. 11 , 2012 , attack on the u.s. diplomatic mission in benghazi .
khatallah , he said , didn t light the fires and he didn t fire the mortars but you will hear he is just as guilty as the men who lit those fires .
khatallah , who face charges including murder and providing material support to terrorists , sat at the table wearing a white shirt and headphones that allowed him to hear an arabic translation of the proceedings .
defense attorney jeffrey robinson denied that his client had anything to do with the planning of the attack .
the evidence is going to show that mr. abu khatallah did not participate in the attack , he said .
monday s session included harrowing testimony from special agent scott wickland , who described how he tried to get stevens and state department staffer sean smith to safety as they crawled on their bellies through thick , black smoke as fire engulfed the mission .
at first i had my hand on the ambassador and we were crawling , he recalled .
i was breathing through the last centimeter of air on the ground ... and i am yelling to the other guys , come on !
we can make it !
and within that 8 meters , they disappeared .
crabb , the prosecutor , also previewed some of the other testimony the jury will hear from witnesses who claim they heard khatallah discuss his involvement in the attack .
one witness , who was later paid $ 7 million to help the united states lure khatallah to the spot where he was captured , will tell jurors he heard the defendant say he would have killed all of the americans that night , crabb said .
crabb also showed grainy video footage from the night of the attack with images of more than a half-dozen suspected associates of khatallah .
khatallah appeared in one video as armed militia entered a room that held closely guarded maps and other records .
robinson said his client went to the mission only to see what was happening and warned people to steer clear of the gunfire .
he also said some of the government s witnesses are people who lie .
the trial , which resumes on tuesday , is expected to last several weeks .