mexico city ( reuters ) - the wife of a detained former mexican governor is living in britain and has demanded back artwork , golf clubs and crystal that were seized by the government , according to a letter obtained by news site animal politico .
karime macias is the wife of former ruling party veracruz governor javier duarte , who is awaiting trial on charges of embezzlement and organized crime , in a case that public auditors said was the worst they had ever seen in mexico .
in the letter , which the news site posted online , macias said she was forced to leave the country and shelter in the uk because of persecution at home .
reuters did not obtain the letter and could not verify its authenticity .
macias lawyers did not respond to a request for comment .
macias has not been charged with any crime .
neither the attorney general s office nor the veracruz government responded to requests for comment .
macias confirmed in the letter that diaries in which she had reportedly written i deserve abundance repeatedly were hers , and said that her phrases were of a spiritual nature .
macias said she wanted back personal items including paintings , luxury pens , golf clubs and books that she said were seized by prosecutors without a warrant , adding that she feared other items found were planted there .
in april , duarte was arrested in a guatemala hotel where he had been with his wife after fleeing the country .
he has denied any wrongdoing , and macias was not detained .
top mexican auditor asf said in 2016 that the irregularities in public funds under duarte were the highest amount it had ever seen .
prosecutors say duarte headed an organization consisting of at least nine other people , whose criminal operations were carried out in veracruz , the eastern gulf state of campeche and mexico city between 2011 and 2016 .
at a hearing in july , a judge gave prosecutors six months to proceed with the investigation against duarte .
he is one of four ex-governors detained this year from president enrique pena nieto s institutional revolutionary party , or pri .
corruption is one of the central issues in mexico s july 2018 election , with public discontent widespread over a spate of conflict-of-interest rows that have dogged the cabinet and pena nieto himself .