sydney ( reuters ) - australia s prime minister malcolm turnbull said he would not call a general election after a citizenship crisis claimed another member of parliament on saturday , leaving his government clinging to power with the support of two independents .
australia s constitution bars dual nationals from parliament , and turnbull s centre-right coalition government was thrown into disarray last month by a high court ruling that five of them were ineligible to be lawmakers .
earlier on saturday , conservative liberal party mp john alexander told reporters in sydney he was no longer certain that he was solely australian , and that meant he had to resign .
turnbull will deal with issues such as a no-confidence motion when they arise , he told a televised news conference in vietnam s central city of danang , where he is attending a summit of asia-pacific leaders .
we have the support of the crossbench on matters of confidence and supply .
there is no question of that happening , turnbull added , ruling out the possibility of a no-confidence motion .
his centre-right coalition government must rely on the two independents to vote with it to safeguard its position and block the passage of legislation it opposes .
turnbull said he expected a dec. 2 by-election would return barnaby joyce both to parliament and to his former position as deputy prime minister , thus bolstering the government .
he ruled out an early return to australia following alexander s resignation .
it is my obligation that i must resign , alexander told a news conference .
that s what i will do .
i think there is a great need for certainty , to clarify the situation and to do so as expeditiously as possible .
alexander had been waiting for britain s home office to clarify whether he held british citizenship by descent .
it is not known whether they responded .
he would have to confirm sole australian citizenship before fighting a by-election to regain his seat .
alexander said he planned to contest the by-election which the sydney morning herald said must be announced no later than monday , to allow the minimum 33-day campaign required to hold the poll on december 16 .
only the two independents now guarantee turnbull s position after the high court ruling expelled three members of the liberal-national coalition government from parliament , with a fourth resigning days later , after confirming his dual nationality .