trump s not backing down from his in your face style anytime soon .
that s the problem with our country , we don t have fighters in our country .
and his critics are just gon na have to deal with it .
donald trump is on the cover of time magazine , and the headline reads : deal with it .
the meme-worthy photo shoot features the republican presidential hopeful posing with a 27-year-old american bald eagle the emblem of the united states .
every frame was the same , schoeller told time .
mr. trump knows exactly how he looks , and he strikes one pose and doesn t move .
the same could not be said for 27-year-old uncle sam , who was hit by a car in the 1990s and has since segued into a life on the educational and entertainment circuits .
he s very difficult to photograph , said schoeller .
if you ask him to look up a little bit , he says no or he just doesn t do it .
he literally has one angle .
if i ask him to smile , he puts on a big grin and then he goes back to his zoolander blue steel look .
the blue steel look appears , sans eagle , on the cover of this week s time.it s a look america has grown very accustomed to since trump became a household name in the 1980s and one they ve been showing their love for more than ever in recent months.the republican front-runner said it all on wednesday that when it comes to the polls in the crowded 2016 presidential race , the only thing constant is trump .
asked at a news conference ahead of a town-hall forum in new hampshire who he saw as his strongest rival in the crowded republican field , trump said : you know it changes .
the only thing constant is trump .
via : uk daily mail they re going up and down like yo-yos , he said of his republican rivals .
but i ve been up there for a long time and i hope i m going to be up there for a long time .
saying he had seen newspaper reports that he would grow tired of the presidential race , trump said : i m not going anywhere folks .
i m not doing this for my health .
i m doing this to make america great again .
here is a great interview by entertainment tonight : trump told time magazine , i don t have a racist bone in my body .
the fact that i want a strong border and the fact that i don t want illegal immigrants pouring into this country , that doesn t make me a racist , it means i love this country and i want to save this country .