nancy pelosi just flunked constitutional law !
pelosi repeated her request that the national park service deny a permit to an alleged alt-right demonstration called patriot prayer .
pelosi said not allow these elements to use a national park to spew forth their venom .
she then said that protecting people was the park service s first responsibility .
this is a trend of the left lately they claim stopping free speech , protests and removing statues have become homeland security issues .
jeh johnson just commented this week that we must remove statues because they ve become a homeland security issue .
see where this is going ?
the left claims to be for free speech but in reality they aren t for anyone on the opposing side speaking out .
this is getting into dangerous territory but not because of what the right is doing ironicjeh johnson suddenly thinks confederate statues are a threat to homeland security : this is rich !
the guy who opened our borders to criminals during the obama era is now telling us that statues are a homeland security threat ?
former obama administration official jeh johnson said on this week with martha raditz that the removal of confederate statues was a matter of public safety and homeland security on sunday oh brother ! according to david french of national review : where to begin ?
first , it s flat-out unconstitutional for the park service to deny a permit to any group simply because public officials deem the group s speech venomous .
even if their speech is truly vile , they have the same right of access to the park as any other expressive organization.second , while we want law enforcement to protect people , it is also required to protect liberty .
any police force that maintains security without also protecting liberty has failed in its core constitutional function.third , the quote is wrong .
she s obviously referring to oliver wendell holmes s famous statement in schenck v. united states that the most stringent protection of free speech would not protect a man in falsely shouting fire in a theatre and causing a panic .
fire .
wolf .
whatever .
it s not important compared to the next point below.fourth , anyone who quotes schenck is quoting bad law .
in fact , it s one of the most odious free speech decisions in the court s history .
the court upheld the espionage act conviction of the secretary of the socialist party of america for writing and distributing a pamphlet opposing the draft during world war i. schenck could never be sent to jail for this conduct today .