united nations ( reuters ) - the united nations blacklisted a saudi arabia-led military coalition on thursday for killing and injuring 683 children in yemen and attacking dozens of schools and hospitals in 2016 , even as it said the coalition had taken action to improve child protection .
the blacklist attached to the u.n. annual report on children in armed conflict also named the iran-allied houthi rebel group , yemen government forces , pro-government militia and al qaeda in the arabian peninsula for violations against children in 2016 .
the u.n. report said the houthis and affiliated forces killed and injured 414 children in 2016 .
the report from u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres was submitted to the security council on thursday and seen by reuters .
a draft of the blacklist was reported by reuters on tuesday .
the actions of the saudi-led coalition objectively led to it being blacklisted for killing and injuring 683 children and for 38 attacks on schools and hospitals last year , the report said , adding that all incidents were verified by the u.n .
the coalition had been briefly added to the blacklist in 2016 and then removed by then-u.n. chief ban ki-moon pending review .
at the time , ban accused saudi arabia of exerting unacceptable undue pressure after sources told reuters that riyadh threatened to cut some u.n. funding .
saudi arabia denied threatening ban .
in an effort to dampen controversy surrounding the report , the blacklist this year is split into two categories .
one lists parties that have put in place measures to protect children , which includes the saudi-led military coalition , and the other includes parties that have not .
the report , which was produced by u.n. children and armed conflict envoy virginia gamba and issued in guterres name , does not subject those listed to u.n. action but rather shames parties to conflicts in the hope of pushing them to implement measures to protect children .
guterres spoke with saudi king salman by phone on wednesday .
u.n. spokesman stephane dujarric said : they had a very positive discussion on issues of mutual interest , including the situation in the middle east and beyond .
saudi u.n .
ambassador abdallah al-mouallimi plans to hold a news conference on friday .
yemen has been devastated by more than two years of civil war in which president abd-rabu mansour hadi s government , backed by the saudi-led coalition , is fighting to drive the houthis out of cities they seized in 2014 and 2015 .
more than 10,000 people have been killed and the conflict has ruined the economy and pushed millions to the brink of famine .
the houthis control much of northern yemen , including the capital , sanaa .
u.n. sanctions monitors reported to the security council in january that the saudi-led coalition had carried out attacks in yemen that may amount to war crimes .
riyadh denies the allegation .
the u.n. sanctions monitors said at the time that the coalition was made up of saudi arabia , bahrain , kuwait , qatar , the united arab emirates , egypt , jordan , morocco and sudan .
the coalition has received limited u.s. support , including in logistics .
saudi arabia and the united arab emirates are major recipients of u.s. arms .
saudi arabia is also a major customer of british defense companies .
the coalition needs to stop making empty promises to exercise caution , take concrete action to stop these deadly unlawful attacks in yemen , and allow desperately needed fuel and aid to reach those in need , said jo becker , children s rights advocacy director at human rights watch .
until this happens , governments should suspend all saudi weapons sales , she said .
the annual children and armed conflict report is produced at the request of the u.n. security council .
in 2015 the united nations left israel and the palestinian militant group hamas off the blacklist , after they had been included in an earlier draft , but criticized israel over its 2014 military operations .