brussels ( reuters ) - nato allies backed plans on wednesday for two new military headquarters to help protect europe in the event of a conflict with russia , laying the ground for the u.s.-led alliance s biggest expansion in decades .
hoping to add to its deterrent factor against russia , nato defense ministers agreed to create an atlantic command and a logistics command to help respond more quickly to threats in europe , officials said .
this is vital for our transatlantic alliance , nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg told a news conference .
it is about how to move forces across the atlantic and how to move forces across europe .
costs will not be discussed until 2018 but the two new regional bases have broad support and show nato s focus on its traditional task of defending its territory after out-of-area campaigns in the balkans , libya and afghanistan in recent years .
germany is eager to host the logistics command , diplomats said , given its strategic location straddling central europe , allowing for swift movement of equipment and personnel across borders in the event of a conflict .
maritime nations such as portugal , spain , france and the united states could host the atlantic command , diplomats said , stressing that no decision had yet been taken .
in a staggered response to russia s 2014 annexation of ukraine s crimea peninsula , nato has already put troops on rotation in the baltic states and poland , strengthened its presence in the black sea and sought to modernize its forces .
the kremlin , which denies harboring any aggressive intentions toward europe , has condemned the moves as an attempt to encircle russia .
nato says russia s war games in september , which massed tens of thousands of troops on the alliance s eastern flank , are another reason for it to be better prepared to deter moscow .
russia has increased its naval patrols in the baltic sea , the north atlantic and the arctic and deployed submarines , nato officials say , although the size of its navy is smaller now than during the cold war era .
we want to pull nato back to europe , and we want to focus more on nato s maritime role , norway s defence minister frank bakke-jensen said .
the new atlantic command would survey a vast area and have the task of making sea lanes safe for u.s. reinforcements to europe , manned by experts in cyber warfare as well as conventional weapons .
the maritime area between greenland , iceland and britain is a clear vulnerability for nato in a conflict and that needs better surveillance in peacetime , diplomats said .
the decision is unlikely to revive a much larger cold war-era atlantic command that was disbanded in 2002 , but it would mean an expansion for nato after years of cutbacks following the fall of the soviet union .
at the height of the cold war , the number of personnel manning nato s then 33 commands reached 22,000 .
there are just seven such commands today , with fewer than 7,000 people .
nato countries also agreed on wednesday to provide cyber weapons to top commanders for use in military operations and missions , officials said , potentially allowing the alliance to take on computer hackers for the first time .
the step follows nato s decision last year to make cyber a domain of warfare along with land , sea and air , although until now commanders were limited to defensive tasks .
under the agreement taken by nato defense ministers , alliance commanders can now call on allies such as the united states and britain to take down a hostile server or a website , although the details have yet to be formalized .
it may be a more proportionate response , stoltenberg said .