london ( reuters ) - kenya s opposition leader raila odinga said on friday his withdrawal from a presidential election rerun scheduled for oct. 26 meant the poll had been canceled and there should be fresh nominations for a new vote .
odinga said that based on a 2013 supreme court ruling , kenya s independent electoral boundaries commission ( iebc ) now had 90 days to accept new nominations following his withdrawal this week from the rerun against president uhuru kenyatta .
kenyatta and odinga were due to return to the polls because the supreme court nullified kenyatta s win in an aug. 8 election , citing procedural irregularities .
but odinga s withdrawal this week has thrown the country into political turmoil .
a regional and trade gateway , kenya is east africa s richest economy and an important western ally in the fight against militant islamists in the region .
the opposition leader said he could return to the supreme court to seek a clarification , but if the iebc went ahead with the oct. 26 election it would be in breach of the law .
if it goes ahead it is not an election , it is a selection , odinga told reuters in an interview during a visit to london .
this must be done right in the interest of electoral democracy in our country .
as far as we are concerned , the elections are canceled and we expect that the iebc will return to the process of nominations shortly , he said .
odinga s withdrawal had fueled speculation about whether the vote would go ahead at all .
but on wednesday , the election board said the polls would be held as planned and all eight of the original candidates would be on the ballot .
only odinga and kenyatta polled more than 1 percent in the august election .
odinga said the only relevant law now was the supreme court decision of 2013 stating that if a presidential election were nullified , the election commission would hold a ballot in which the president-elect and the petitioner were the only candidates .
that law also goes on to say that if one of the candidates dies or pulls out , the election commission is obligated to carry out fresh nominations .
that is where we are right now , he said .
what we are demanding is that the electoral commission should respect the supreme court and carry out elections in accordance with the ruling , odinga said .
if need be we will go for clarification .
in 2013 , kenyatta defeated odinga in a hotly contested election .
odinga challenged the decision in the supreme court , which ruled that kenyatta had won fairly .
the standoff over the elections has sparked demonstrations , but the numbers of protesters has tended to be in the hundreds rather than the thousands .
earlier on friday , police used teargas to disperse demonstrations in kenya s three main cities , and shot dead two protesters in the southwestern country of siaya , a local official said .
on thursday , the government banned demonstrations in the centers of the capital nairobi , the port city of mombasa and the western city of kisumu , an opposition stronghold .
the interior minister said demonstrators had damaged and looted property .
odinga said he supported the right of kenyans to demonstrate enshrined in the constitution and accused heavy policing for any outbreak of violence .
( the government ) are talking about a benevolent dictatorship - we can assure them that the people of kenya will not take it lying down , odinga said .
the government sending the police to stop the people by throwing teargas and using live bullets , they are basically violating the fundamental rights of the people ...
i support the exercise of their fundamental right .