san diego/new york ( reuters ) - a federal judge on thursday said he was leaning toward approving a $ 25 million settlement of fraud claims against president donald trump and his trump university real estate seminars but deferred a final decision to a later date .
at a hearing in san diego , judge gonzalo curiel noted that , under the class action settlement , former trump university students were expected to recover 80 percent of the money they spent on courses and mentoring programs .
“ that is an extraordinary amount , ” the judge said , noting the recovery rate in similar lawsuits is usually closer to between 11 and 20 percent .
he did not specify when he would rule .
a florida woman objected to the settlement , saying she should have the opportunity to opt out and take trump to court herself .
patrick coughlin , a class action lawyer for the students , said the students would actually receive over 90 percent of their money back .
some 3,730 students submitted claim forms in the class action that dates to 2010 , according to court papers .
the students , who paid as much as $ 35,000 for the seminars , claimed they were lured by false promises that they would learn trump ’ s investing “ secrets ” from his “ hand-picked ” instructors .
trump vowed to continue fighting the fraud claims during the presidential election campaign but agreed to the settlement soon after .
he has admitted he did not personally select the instructors , but his lawyers have described the claim as mere sales “ puffery. ” trump accused curiel of bias last year based on the indiana-born judge ’ s mexican ancestry .
sherri simpson , of fort lauderdale , florida , who paid $ 19,000 , objected to the settlement provision blocking students from opting out of the deal .
she has said in court papers she would like to seek full recovery from trump , plus punitive damages and other relief .
gary friedman , a lawyer for simpson , argued in court the notices were defective .
curiel questioned friedman and said he would consider the objection .