image : democratic party activist and gunman , james t. hodgkinson.21st century wireyesterday , a crazed gunman affiliated with america s radical progressive and never trump movement attacked republican members of congress and their staff during a practice session for an annual charity baseball game in alexandria , virginia.steve scalise ( r-la ) among those shot were majority whip steve scalise ( r-la ) , the third ranking republican in the house.in total , five people were wounded , including two police officers .
all were taken to local hospitals for treatment.according to arizona senator jeff flake , scalise was standing on second base , fielding balls during batting practice when the shooting began.had the capitol police not been on the scene it would have been a massacre , said kentucky senator rand paul .
as terrible as it is , it could have been a lot worse .
the gunman , james t. hodgkinson , was shot dead by police , dying later of multiple wounds.hodgkinson , 66 , is from belleville , illinois , was an ardent supporter of 2016 democratic party presidential candidate bernie sanders , but also expressed a rabid hatred of conservatives and president donald trump as seen in his facebook profiles and letters to newspapers .
trump is a traitor .
trump has destroyed our democracy .
it s time to destroy trump & co , and republicans are the taliban of the usa , said hodgkinson.watch this cell phone footage of the event : however , the story appeared to be an embarrassment for democratic party-oriented mainstream media outlets like cnn and msnbc .
not surprisingly , cnn seemed to avoid any extended coverage of the shooting , opting instead to focus most of its news coverage yesterday on the grenfell tower fire in london .
ever since hillary clinton s epic defeat last november , most us mainstream media organizations have been going all-out to discredit the new president .
cnn s own kathy griffin , a 56-year-old comedian sparked public outrage last month after releasing a photo and video depicting her holding the bloodied head of president trump in an isis-style video.other liberal media sources are attempting to frame the attack as a gun control story , rather than a politically-motivated act of domestic terrorism.the following is a live debate which aired on rt international on wednesday night , featuring 21wire s patrick henningsen , tighe barry from code pink , and lionel a frequent contributor on rt america .
watch : read more daily shooter news at : 21st century wire daily shooter filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv