the last three recipients of the highly coveted arthur ashe award for courage were gay : gma host , robin roberts ( 2013 ) , first openly gay nfl player , michael sam ( 2014 ) , and now america s transgender darling , bruce ( caitlyn ) jenner .
why are we celebrating the demasculinization of america s men ?
has espn s sports coverage taken backseat to their obvious progressive agenda ? at the 1976 summer olympics in montr al , bruce jenner won the gold medal for the men s decathlon , setting a world record with 8616 points.in july , jenner will be honored with another award , this time for a much different achievement .
on monday , time reported that at espn s espy awards , the former world s greatest male athlete will receive the acclaimed arthur ashe award for coming out as a transgender.in an interview with diane sawyer back in april , jenner stated that he was a woman trapped in a man s body and had struggled with this conundrum since childhood.jenner explained in an interview with vanity fair that his cover photo shoot with legendary photo-journalist annie leibovitz was a good day .
this shoot was about my life and who i am as a person .
it s not about the fanfare , it s not about people cheering in the stadium , it s not about going down the street and everybody giving you that a boy , bruce , pat on the back , o.k .
this is about your life .
jenner told vf , if i was lying on my deathbed and i had kept this secret and never ever did anything about it , i would be lying there saying , you just blew your entire life .
you never dealt with yourself , and i don t want that to happen .
the transition hasn t been entirely smooth for jenner .
he admits that he had some second thoughts about becoming a woman .
in a passage from the vf interview , jenner tells reporter buzz bissinger that he suffered a panic attack the day after undergoing 10-hour facial feminization surgery in march.jenner remembers thinking , what did i just do ?
what did i just do to myself ?
bissinger reveals in the interview that jenner has not removed his penis.the ashe award , which jenner will be receiving alongside his family at the espy award show in july , is one of the most prestigious in sports .
according to espn , the recipients reflect the spirit of arthur ashe , possessing strength in the face of adversity , courage in the face of peril and the willingness to stand up for their beliefs no matter what the cost .
via : breitbart news