( reuters ) - bernie sanders ’ democratic presidential campaign has sued ohio ’ s secretary of state in federal court over what it calls an unconstitutional attempt to prevent young people from voting in the state ’ s march 15 primary election .
“ it is an outrage that the secretary of state in ohio is going out of his way to keep young people – significantly african-american young people , latino young people – from participating , ” the u.s. senator from vermont said in a statement released on tuesday .
the lawsuit , filed in u.s. district court in columbus and joined by six ohio 17-year-olds , alleged that a directive by republican secretary of state jon husted would “ arbitrarily discriminate ” against young voters .
citing u.s. census figures , it said such voters were more likely to be black or latino than older groups of voters .
sanders , who is seeking the democratic nomination for the nov. 8 election , has attracted support from young voters but has lagged behind rival hillary clinton in winning votes among minorities .
ohio is one of more than 20 states where 17-year-olds who will be 18 by the time of the general election are allowed to vote in primaries , the campaign statement said .
husted ruled last december that those voters would not be allowed to participate in the presidential primary .
he denied there had been any changes to voting rules .
“ we are following the same rules ohio has operated under in past primaries , under both democrat and republican administrations .
there is nothing new here , ” husted said on twitter .
“ if you are going to be 18 by the november election , you can vote , just not on every issue. ” he said that 17-year-olds were “ not permitted to elect candidates , which is what voters are doing in a primary when they elect delegates to represent them at their political party ’ s national convention. ” ( reporting by eric walsh in washington ; editing by peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .