manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte on thursday ordered the new army commander to recruit and organize 10 new infantry battalions to crush remnants of pro-islamic state militants , days after they were defeated in a southern city .
the military on monday declared victory over the maute group , which seized control in marawi city on may 23 , after killing the last 40 remaining militants , including a few foreign fighters .
more than 1,100 people , including 165 soldiers , died in the five-month conflict .
we were instructed to organize ten additional battalions , new military chief lieutenant-general rey leonardo guerrero told reporters after duterte installed him to head the 130,000-strong armed forces .
one battalion comprises about 500 soldiers .
we really intend to put pressure and sustain effort to be able to finish all of them and complete the resolution of armed conflict in the country .
the philippines has been waging protracted guerrilla warfare for nearly 50 years against maoist rebels and muslim separatists that has killed more than 160,000 people , displaced two million and stunted growth in resource-rich rural areas .
guerrero , who was promoted from army commander in duterte s home region on the southern island of mindanao , said the army had also been ordered by the president to try to defeat the 4,000-strong communist new people s army .
duterte broke off negotiations with the maoist rebels early this year due to continued attacks on mines , plantations , construction and other companies to raise funds , as well as attacks on isolated army and police outposts .
the government is engaged in peace talks with muslim separatists trying to carve out an autonomous region in the south , enlisting the main moro islamic liberation front to help fight a small group of rebels who have pledged allegiance to islamic state .
we already have timetables and targets and i intend to meet that , guerrero , who only has two months to serve before he retires , said .
the military has a multi-year program , it s not dependent on personalities , but its tasks are lined up regardless of who assumes the leadership .