washington ( reuters ) - fresh from democratic presidential primary wins over the weekend in three u.s. states , bernie sanders said on sunday he had political momentum that could help him win the backing of democratic power brokers in his race against hillary clinton .
sanders easily won nominating contests in alaska , washington and hawaii on saturday .
his latest remarks reflect his plan to chip away at clinton ’ s commanding lead in the number of delegates needed to win the party ’ s nomination for the november election .
interviewed on sunday by u.s. broadcasters , sanders said democratic “ super-delegates , ” who can change their allegiance , might face pressure to rally behind him because most polls suggest he has a better chance than clinton of beating a republican candidate .
“ momentum is with us , ” sanders , a senator from vermont , said on cnn ’ s state of the union news program .
“ a lot of these super-delegates may rethink their position with hillary clinton. ” sanders also criticized clinton ’ s reliance on wealthy donors to fund her campaign .
he cited a fundraising dinner being hosted next month by actor george clooney , where supporters will have to donate at least $ 33,400 to attend , or $ 353,400 , nearly seven times the annual median income , if they want “ premium ” seating .
“ it is obscene that secretary clinton keeps going to big money people to fund her campaign , ” sanders told cnn .
“ our events , we charge $ 15 or $ 50 for people to come .
so , it ’ s not a criticism of clooney .
it ’ s a criticism of a corrupt finance system. ” about 85 percent of the votes at the july 25-28 democratic national convention in philadelphia , where a party nominee will be chosen to face the republicans in the nov. 8 election , are being determined by state nominating contests .
the other 15 percent is held by party power brokers who are free to vote as they like , meaning they could hold the key in a tight contest .
super-delegates include party leaders and elected senators , members of the u.s. congress and governors .
after saturday ’ s contests , the former secretary of state led sanders by just under 300 pledged delegates in the race for the 2,382 needed to be nominated .
adding in the support of super-delegates , which the party created in the early 1980s to give leaders more control over the nominating process , clinton had 1,712 delegates to 1,004 for sanders , according to a tally by realclearpolitics.com .
the u.s. senator from vermont needs to win up to two-thirds of the remaining delegates to catch clinton , who will keep piling up delegates even when she loses under a democratic party system that awards them proportionally in all states .
sanders is turning his attention to his native new york , where democratic voters will divide up 247 delegates on april 19th .
his campaign manager on sunday wrote a letter to clinton ’ s manager insisting that a planned televised debate between the candidates in april be held in the state , which clinton represented as a u.s. senator for eight years .
jeff weaver said in the letter that the clinton campaign had resisted holding the debate in new york .
“ is the secretary concerned about debating before the people who twice elected her to the u.s. senate ? ” weaver wrote .
spokesmen for clinton did not respond to requests for comment .