( reuters ) - the u.s. congress is careening toward major deadlines on a republican tax bill , the budget and other policies .
here is the outlook for what promises to be a sprint to the end of 2017 .
tuesday , nov 28 : the senate budget committee voted on tuesday to send republican tax-cut legislation to the senate floor for a vote , possibly as soon as thursday , with 51 votes needed for passage .
thursday , nov. 30 , or friday , dec. 1 : possible final senate vote on tax bill , although delay was possible .
ahead of a floor vote , several republican senators were making demands for possible changes to the legislation .
if the senate approves the bill , a conference would begin to reconcile differences between the senate and house of representatives tax measures .
a compromise bill would need to be approved before going to president donald trump for enactment .
friday , dec. 8 : expiration date for funding needed to keep the u.s. government open .
congress has three choices : approve a massive bill for more than $ 1 trillion to keep the government operating through sept. 30 , 2018 ; pass a shorter extension of current funding to buy more time ; or fail to pass anything and risk a partial government shutdown , stalling the tax effort .
u.s. treasury hits its limit on borrowing , but takes steps to postpone any need for action by congress , eliminating any need for a debt limit increase in an end-of-year catch-all bill .
tuesday , dec. 12 : special u.s. senate election in alabama pits republican roy moore , a conservative firebrand accused of sexual misconduct involving teenage girls , against democrat doug jones .
the election could mean trouble for the tax overhaul effort .
moore , a critic of senate republican leader mitch mcconnell , could cause turmoil if elected .
a win by jones would shrink even more republicans ’ narrow margin of senate control .
thursday , dec. 14 : house ’ s last scheduled session of 2017 .
friday , dec. 15 : senate ’ s last scheduled session of 2017 .
friday , dec. 22 : the last weekday before christmas and a potential deadline for sending tax legislation to trump .
disaster aid : on nov. 17 , the white house asked congress to approve $ 44 billion in more aid for disaster-hit puerto rico , the virgin islands , texas , florida and other states .
if approved , as expected , aid would total nearly $ 96 billion .
additional requests are expected .
dreamers : trump has threatened to end an obama-era program that helped “ dreamers , ” people brought illegally into the united states when they were children .
trump gave congress until early march to come up with a replacement program , but democrats and some republicans want to do this in december .
chip : the children ’ s health insurance program , which helps millions of lower-income pregnant women and children , is running out of money .
congress has struggled to approve a five-year renewal for the program that normally enjoys bipartisan support .