santiago ( reuters ) - a group of armed men claiming to represent the nation s indigenous mapuche people hijacked and burned 29 logging trucks in southern chile on monday morning as a years-long conflict with forestry companies heated up .
the government convened an emergency meeting less than two weeks after a similar hijacking in which 18 trucks were burned , and several high-ranking officials denounced the attack later in the day .
we re going to combat violence and we are not going to allow minoritarian groups , which don t value dialogue , to ruin the great effort all regional actors in the south are doing to promote development and overcome exclusion , chilean president michelle bachelet said in televised remarks .
it was not clear to what extent the attacks have broader support among mapuche communities .
many mapuche leaders doubt all such attacks are carried out by indigenous people , saying non-indigenous groups with a radical political agenda may be involved .
the group weichan auka mapu , or fight of the rebel territory in the local mapudungun tongue , claimed responsibility , national media reported .
according to local authorities , at least two people were responsible for the arson attack , although local media reported that as many as seven people were responsible .
around 600,000 mapuche live in chile , concentrated in araucania and bio bio , two lush and hilly provinces roughly 400 miles ( 645 km ) south of santiago , the nation s capital .
ever since the chilean army invaded mapuche territory in a brutal campaign in the late 1800s , relations with the state have been fractious .
the conflict has accelerated in recent years , with armed groups burning houses , churches , trucks , and forest plantations .
it has also spread geographically .
the monday attack occurred in the region of los rios , south of the traditional conflict zone .
the trucks belonged to sotraser , a subcontractor that mainly serves subsidiaries of chilean forestry companies empresas cmpc and arauco [ antcoc.ul ] .
the company reported $ 6 million in damages .
while that figure is not significant in relation to chile s larger timber industry , subcontractors have begun to register dozens of attacks annually in recent years , weighing on the sector .