paris ( reuters ) - france on monday urged chadian authorities to press ahead with parliamentary elections after securing billions of dollars in pledges from donor countries aimed at helping to revive the country s struggling economy .
president idriss deby , who was re-elected in 2016 after gaining power in 1990 at the head of an armed rebellion , said in february that lack of financial resources meant chad s parliamentary elections would be postponed indefinitely .
the legislative elections are an important moment in democratic life , french foreign ministry spokeswoman agnes romatet-espagne told reporters in a daily briefing .
we hope in this regard that the chadian authorities ... will be in a position to announce a calendar ( for elections ) soon .
in a statement on friday , chad s government said it had secured about $ 18.5 billion in pledges for a 2017-2021 national development program , double its original expectations .
romatet-espagne said france would contribute 223 million euros ( $ 267.27 million ) .
the former french colony , one of the poorest nations in the world , has been rocked by humanitarian crises over the past decade , including conflicts in the east and south , drought in the arid sahel region and flooding .
that has been compounded since 2012 by instability on its borders with libya , nigeria and central african republic , forcing chad to increase its security budget to handle thousands of refugees and counter a growing cross-border threat .
its economy has especially been hit by a more than 50 percent drop in the price of oil , which represent three-quarters of its revenues .
however , critics say too much of its revenues goes to the army .
military spending has helped chad intervene in the central african republic , mali , in neighboring countries threatened by boko haram and as far afield as the saudi arabia-led coalition to fight houthi combatants in yemen , international crisis group analyst richard moncrieff said in a note on sept. 8 .
this engagement has strengthened relations with western powers and brought substantial financial and political support .
the eu , france and the u.s. in particular today consider deby as their principal partner in the fight against terrorism in the sahel .
for deby it is win-win : tackle domestic armed opposition , pay his troops and gain significant leverage over donors .
the headquarters of france s 4,000-strong counter-terrorism barkhane force is in the chadian capital n djamena .
asked at science po university on sept. 6 whether france s policy in west africa was still based on francafrique , foreign minister jean-yves le drian sought to play down that perception .
we no longer talk about francafrique but africafrance , le drian said .
france does not support corrupt ( leaders ) , but on the contrary there are presidents who have been elected by universal suffrage - you mentioned some of them ( deby and niger president mahamadou issoufou ) - and whose elections were not contested , and that is the reality .
franceafrique describes an informal web of relationships paris has maintained with its former african colonies and its support , sometimes in the form of military backing , for politicians who favor french business interests .