amed , indonesia ( reuters ) - a balinese town once bustling with holidaymakers has almost emptied of tourists after warnings that nearby mount agung could erupt at any time - a snapshot of the growing cost the rumbling volcano poses to indonesia s economy .
business has slumped at many hotels , dive resorts and restaurants in towns around the volcano since authorities issue the highest alert level for mount agung last month .
an owner of a dive center in amed , around 15 km ( 9 miles ) from the volcano and just outside the official danger zone , said many of her guests had canceled .
if ( the situation ) lasts for nine months or more ... then we have no choice but to close down because we will have no money left to operate and pay the staff , said helene rabate , a spaniard who runs the center .
cafes and restaurants were largely empty and few visitors were seen at the usually crowded dive centers of this seaside town .
the last time agung erupted was in 1963 , when more than 1,000 people were killed .
since then , tourism has transformed towns like amed from sleepy fishing and agricultural villages .
restaurant owner wayan widarti has seen a dramatic drop in customers .
it could be worse than when the bali bombing happened because there s uncertainty on when ( the eruption ) is going to happen and how long we wait , she said , referring to the 2002 nightclub bombing that killed 202 people and prompted a slump in visitors to the holiday island .
bali , famous for its surf , beaches and temples , attracted nearly 5 million visitors last year - more than half the total number of foreign tourists to indonesia .
tourism , a cornerstone of bali s economy , is indonesia s fourth-biggest earner of foreign currency after natural resources like coal and palm oil .
indonesian policy makers have been seeking to boost an economy whose growth rate has been stuck at around 5 percent for the last few years , so any protracted damage to tourism will be particularly unwelcome .
indonesian officials have said bali remains safe for tourism , but there have been cancellations even in areas further away from the volcano amid concerns that ash clouds could disrupt air connections .
some tourists are still in the area at a safe distance from the volcano .
we plan to ... just follow security instructions ... and take a fast boat to escape if there is an eruption , said arlin shiu , a woman from hong kong who was traveling with a friend .
disaster management authorities have imposed an exclusion zone of up to 12 km , prompting more than 140,000 residents to flee to neighboring villages .
for people who live in safe zones , there is no reason to evacuate , bali governor i made mangku pastika said , adding that makeshift evacuation centers were straining under the weight of thousands of extra evacuees .
( interactive : mount agung awakens - tmsnrt.rs/2ymkrsy )