vatican city ( reuters ) - the vatican needs to bring cases of suspected money laundering to trial , a european finance watchdog urged on friday , saying the good progress made by its financial regulators needed to be matched by judicial muscle .
moneyval , the monitoring body of the council of europe , said the vatican s prosecutor also should be more proactive in other financial crimes , such as corruption , embezzlement or abuse of office , and actively consider appealing sentences which he considers unduly lenient .
on the law enforcement side , after five years of development of ( anti-money laundering legislation ) it is somewhat surprising that no prosecution or indictment has so far been brought before the ( vatican ) tribunal which involves a count of money laundering , the report said .
it said the success rate of the prosecutor before the tribunal is so far not encouraging .
in a statement , the vatican acknowledged there are still areas for further improvement , in particular as regards law enforcement and the judicial side .
pope francis has made cleaning up vatican finances a priority since his election in 2013 , and holy see staff worked with the moneyval evaluators .
but his efforts appear to have hit obstacles in recent months .
the vatican s finance minister , cardinal george pell , has taken an indefinite leave of absence to face accusations of historical sexual offences in his native australia .
he denies them .
in june , the vatican s first auditor general resigned , and last week , the vatican bank s deputy director general was fired under circumstances that the vatican has not made clear .
the 200-page report generally praised the work of the vatican s financial intelligence authority , known by its italian acronym aif and headed by swiss lawyer rene bruelhart .
it said the number and quality of suspicious activity reports sent to the aif by vatican departments or individuals had increased significantly , meaning the bureaucratic reporting procedures have steadily improved .
the aif passes on reports it deems worthy of further investigation to the prosecutor s office .
but the report lamented the lack of prosecution in cases of suspected money laundering .
in 2015 , for example , an investigation was opened after an internal report said a department of the holy see that oversees real estate and investments was used in the past for possible money laundering by italian bankers , insider trading and market manipulation .
the case still has not gone to trial .
in april , italy put the vatican on its white list of states with cooperative financial institutions , ending years of mistrust .
hundreds of suspicious or dormant accounts at the vatican bank , which was the officially known as the institute for works of religion ( ior ) have been closed in recent years .
the moneyval report said the aif s supervision of the ior is now firmly established .