trey gowdy is ticked !
about eight hours ago , adam schiff and i looked dan coats in the eyes and we assured him that there would be no selective leaking of his testimony to us , gowdy told outfront host erin burnett .
and i ll be damned if eight hours later , there aren t three different leaks with what he told us .
https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=lvlm77mp2wgseveral stories have emerged with reported details of the testimony given by director of national intelligence dan coats in a closed-door session before house investigators.here s one from nbc : director of national intelligence dan coats tells house investigators pres .
trump seemed obsessed with russia probe https : //t.co/v39fpksqlb pic.twitter.com/5prpvrryjq nbc news ( @ nbcnews ) june 23 , 2017trey gowdy who sits on the house intelligence committee sounded irate about the leaked testimony so soon after he and his democratic counterpart on the committee , rep. adam schiff ( d-ca ) promised coats that what he said in the session would not be made public.about eight hours ago , adam schiff and i looked dan coats in the eyes and we assured him that there would be no selective leaking of his testimony to us .
and i ll be damned if eight hours later , there aren t three different leaks with what he told us.so if anyone is questioning why congressional investigations aren t taken seriously , and are viewed as political exercises , you need to look no further than the fact that we looked one of our intelligence officials in the eyes and promised him there would be no selective leaking .
and here i am being asked about it not even eight hours later.gowdy believes the leaks could keep other witnesses from being forthcoming in closed-door sessions .
you re going to have a chilling effect on other witnesses who want to share classified , sensitive information when it makes its way to the headlines before the transcript s even dry , gowdy said.the south carolina congressman was asked about whether president donald trump s firing of fbi director james comey constitutes obstruction of justice .
gowdy replied that he d leave that up to special counsel robert mueller .
congress does not investigate crime , gowdy said .
we re not equipped to do it .
we re not very good at it .