jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia s military chief was temporarily barred from traveling to the united states at the weekend due to an administrative error , the u.s. embassy in jakarta said in an online statement on wednesday .
general gatot nurmantyo was about to board a flight to the united states on saturday when he was told that the customs and border protection agency had denied him entry , even though he had a visa and an official invitation from the chairman of the u.s. joint chiefs of staff to attend a conference in washington .
general gatot nurmantyo and his wife were delayed in their ability to board their flight due to an administrative error .
the error was quickly corrected .
we have taken appropriate measures to prevent this matter from occurring again , the u.s. embassy said in a statement , without elaborating .
the incident prompted top u.s. officials , including defense secretary jim mattis and envoys in jakarta to apologize to indonesia as it demanded details as to why nurmantyo was blocked , where he had been able to travel to the united states on official trips before .
u.s .
homeland security department said earlier this week that the u.s. embassy in jakarta had informed nurmantyo s office that he might be delayed in boarding his flight because of unspecified u.s. security protocols .
it added that the u.s. government was unable to resolve the problem before nurmantyo arrived at the airport and he was denied boarding .
the general was eventually cleared and booked on another flight but he chose not to travel .
nurmantyo told reporters on tuesday that he did not travel on a later flight because he had informed president joko widodo of the issue and that he would only travel on further orders from the president .
there s no signal ( from the president ) so i no longer have the initiative to go , nurmantyo said , adding he was disappointed at not being able to meet his friend and counterpart general joseph f. dunford , who had invited him to attend an anti-terrorism conference .