kisumu , kenya ( reuters ) - kenyan opposition supporters skirmished with police and threw up burning barricades in pockets of the country on thursday , seeking to derail president uhuru kenyatta s likely re-election with a low voter turnout .
the election commission said that more than one in 10 polling stations failed to open .
voting was delayed until oct. 28 in four of kenya s 47 counties - all in the opposition-supporting west - due to security challenges .
the repeat election is being closely watched across east africa , which relies on kenya as a trade and logistics hub , and in the west , which considers nairobi a bulwark against islamist militancy in somalia and civil conflict in south sudan and burundi .
in the western city of kisumu , police used tear gas and fired live rounds over the heads of stone-throwing youths heeding opposition leader raila odinga s call for a voter boycott .
gunfire killed one protester and wounded three , a nurse said .
in homa bay county next door , police said they shot dead one protester and injured another .
riot police fired tear gas in kibera and mathare , two volatile nairobi slums .
protesters set fires and threw stones in kibera , and in mathare a church was firebombed .
around 50 people have been killed , mostly by security forces , since the original aug. 8 vote .
the supreme court annulled kenyatta s win in that poll on procedural grounds and ordered fresh elections , but odinga pulled out of the rerun and urged a boycott because , he said , the poll would not be fair .
in the capital , polling stations saw a sprinkling of voters instead of the hours-long queues that waited in august .
with kenyatta all but ensured a victory , eyes are on the turnout , which was nearly 80 percent in the august vote .
the election commission said thursday s estimated turnout was 48 percent , excluding the counties where voting did not take place .
we are requesting them ( voters ) humbly that they should turn out in large numbers , kenyatta , the u.s.-educated son of kenya s founding father , jomo kenyatta , said after voting .
we re tired as a country of electioneering and i think it s time to move forward .
a decade after 1,200 people were killed over another disputed election , many kenyans feared violence could spread .
as well as delayed voting , the poll is likely to trigger legal challenges to the result , stirring longer-term instability and ethnic divisions .
on wednesday , the supreme court was due to hear a case seeking to push back the polls .
but it was unable to sit after five out of the seven judges failed to show up .
the lack of a quorum is highly unusual for a supreme court hearing , a statement from the european union said .
not hearing this case has de facto cut off the legal path for remedy .
in kisumu , the scene of major ethnic violence after the disputed election in 2007 , many schools designated as polling stations were padlocked .
young men milled about outside .
in kisumu central , constituency returning officer john ngutai said no voting materials had been distributed and only three of 400 staff had turned up .
one nervous official said his election work was a suicide mission .
reuters found no polling stations open .
wafula chebukati , head of the election commission , said counties where voting would be delayed included homa bay , kisumu , migori and siaya .
but residents were skeptical .
today , not a single polling station opened .
people have been throwing stones all day at the police .
so i don t think people will accept that elections take place .
unless raila says ok , it won t happen , said social worker christine onyango .
kisumu businessman joshua nyamori , 42 , was one of the few brave enough to defy odinga s stay-away call , but could not cast his ballot .
residents fear reprisal from political gangs organized by politicians .
this is wrong , he said .
in the coastal city of mombasa , protesters lit tyres and timber along the main highway .
reuters contacted a dozen polling stations there after voting closed .
the highest turnout was 89 voters out of 793 .
we have seen you , we know you and we have marked you , a group of opposition supporters shouted at voters outside a polling station .
four armed police were on guard at each station - double the number on duty last time .
yvonne mwenesi , 21 , was beaten outside another polling station before police rescued her .
i had just voted and as i walked out , a group of men who i know attacked me saying i had betrayed them by voting , she said , her nose bleeding .
on the eve of the vote , odinga backed off previous calls for protests and , speaking in english , urged supporters to stay home and hold vigils instead .
some politicians who preceded him urged in the kiswahili language that supporters should ensure the vote did not take place .
odinga s national super alliance coalition , whose supporters attacked polling staff in the run-up to the vote , could argue in court that the lack of open polling stations showed the re-run was invalid .
the supreme court said it would annul this election too if it did not meet legal standards .
the head of the election commission said last week he could not guarantee a free and fair vote , citing political interference and threats of violence .
one election commissioner quit and fled the country .
another official was tortured and murdered days before the aug. 8 vote .