brussels ( reuters ) - eu leaders offered ukraine closer ties on friday at a summit meant to cement kiev s ties with the west , but they declined to promise that the country could one day join the bloc .
as fighting escalated in ukraine s industrial east , eu leaders held a summit with ukrainian president petro poroshenko and five other former soviet republics , part of a tug-of-war with russia for influence through trade and cooperation .
in a summit statement also signed by ukraine , georgia , moldova , azerbaijan , armenia and belarus , eu leaders agreed to the european aspirations and european choice of the partners - code for deeper integration without offering membership .
ukraine , which ousted a russian-backed president in february 2014 in a pro-european uprising , wants the promise of future membership of the eu , the world s biggest trading bloc , as it seeks to overcome entrenched corruption and economic neglect .
a promise of eu membership is important , it s symbolic , said ukraine s finance minister oleksandr danylyuk on the margins of the biennial summit .
no other country was willing to pay such a high price as we did , he told reuters .
kiev , fighting a russian-backed insurgency in the east , sees a promise of membership as a morale-boosting next step after agreeing a free-trade accord with the bloc and winning visa-free travel to the eu for its citizens .
some eu leaders are sympathetic to kiev and commission president jean-claude juncker said he promised poroshenko a formal study into how ukraine might join the eu s customs union .
the summit s chairman donald tusk , a former polish prime minister , said : i would have preferred that the wording of the ( summit ) agreement were more ambitious without giving details .
but other leaders warned ukraine not to push too hard , in part because governments are seeking to curb immigration and face down far-right political parties at home , and also because ukraine s fragile economy is not yet ready to meet eu norms .
stubbornness is good , but the most important thing is not guarantees on entering ( the eu ) , but to be stubborn about reforms , said lithuania s president dalia grybauskaite .
any membership is only as valuable as it is beneficial for ukraine , she said , referring to the country s need to reform to meet eu business , health and other trade standards .
luxembourg s prime minister xavier bettel echoed that position , saying it was not the right moment to be discussing any future ukrainian membership of the european union .
backed by washington , the european union is seeking to build an outer ring of market democracies from the caucasus to the sahara without offering eu membership , a policy that has had limited success so far .
ukraine is also unhappy about being grouped in with belarus , a russian ally whose authoritarian leader , president alexander lukashenko , did not attend the summit on friday despite being invited for the first time .
on leaving the summit , poroshenko said he expected a breakthrough soon on a stalled 600 million euro ( $ 712 million ) loan to the financial sector from the eu that is held up by ukraine s failure to meet conditions .
danylyuk told reuters he also saw the next imf aid tranche coming early next year .
wary that reforms will slow as ukraine moves closer to elections in 2019 , the eu and imf governments are using their financial support to push anti-corruption reforms .
european commissioner johannes hahn , who oversees eu integration , said it was ridiculous that 1.5 million ukrainians signed up to a wealth declarations register last year but only 100 people had been assessed to date .
danylyuk countered that he was facing a campaign against his economic reform efforts from powerful business groups that benefited from corruption and legal loopholes .
this is a fight , he said .
for vested interests , it s like we are taking their money .