beijing ( reuters ) - china on wednesday said that any attempt to hype up its decision to jail a taiwanese rights activist for subversion would be futile , after taiwan s ruling political party labeled the result unacceptable .
a chinese court on tuesday jailed li ming-che , taiwanese community college lecturer and human rights non-governmental worker , for five years for subverting chinese state power .
li was tried alongside a mainland activist , peng yuhua , who received a seven year sentence for the same charge .
both were found guilty of attempting to promote political reform in china through discussions of democracy in social media chatrooms .
taiwan s ruling democratic progressive party ( dpp ) said the result was totally unacceptable and called for beijing to return li to taiwan .
it is not a crime for li to share his opinions about democratic freedoms with friends , they said .
china s taiwan affairs office spokesman ma xiaoguang told reporters at a regular news briefing : any attempts to hype up the case for political ends or to instigate opposition between compatriots across the straits will all be futile .
although taiwan and beijing should have mutual respect for each other s social systems and development paths , taiwan can not impose its political ideas on the mainland or use the cover of democratic freedoms to break chinese law , ma said .
ties between beijing and the self-ruled island of taiwan have been frosty since taiwan s tsai ing-wen led the independence-leaning dpp to election victory last year .
beijing claims the island as part of china and has never renounced the use of force to bring it under its control .
chiu e-ling , secretary general of the taiwan association for human rights , told reporters at a press conference on tuesday that li s supporters would call on tsai and her government go beyond mere words to secure li s release .
they also expressed concern over the verdict s implication for the rights of taiwanese citizens , saying that li had expressed his opinions online while on taiwan soil .
the global times , a state-backed tabloid popular with china s nationalists , said in an editorial on wednesday that the dpp s statement was tantamount to encouraging taiwanese to come to china and break the law .
we hope that taiwanese people will not accept the dpp s witchcraft and will not become an assault team or sacrificial victims for them , the paper said .
one s own safety should be more important than the slogans they utter , it added .