berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel opened what promised to be marathon coalition talks on friday , hoping to bring three opposing political camps into a stable government despite signs there would be less money to paper over differences .
merkel said she was optimistic as she entered talks between her conservative bloc , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens , despite an assessment by her own party that the next government would have less fiscal room than expected .
the outcome of the talks is keenly awaited both at home and across europe , with many fretting that the european union could be rudderless with the bloc s longest-serving leader too busy to grapple with crucial issues like euro zone governance reform .
highlighting the challenge , a report by merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) found that there would be only 30 billion euros free for new projects over the next four years if parties stuck to their commitment to taking on no new debts .
the shortfall will make all the more difficult the tricky three-way pact , dubbed a jamaica coalition because the three parties colors - black , yellow and green - match those of the jamaican flag , which is untried at national level .
higher eu contributions as a result of brexit and lower central bank profits might reduce spending room by some 15 billion euros , according to calculations seen by reuters , an obstacle to the fdp s demands for tax cuts or the greens hope for environmental and infrastructure spending .
the talks between merkel s conservative bloc , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens are styled as exploratory , but negotiators aim to get down to details of tax and budget policy in their first full meeting together .
there will be many differences , she said on her arrival at the berlin talks , adding : there is readiness on my side to think about this creatively .
party delegations each made five-minute presentations before breaking ahead of further discussions due on tuesday .
fdp chief christian lindner had earlier said that no matter how good the atmosphere and seriousness the parties were far apart on 85 percent of the material to be discussed .
after , fdp secretary-general nicola beer said she continued to believe there was a 50:50 chance of a jamaica coalition resulting .
merkel , weakened by a surging far-right in last month s national election , needs to make the awkward alliance fly as her previous grand coalition partners - the center-left social democrats ( spd ) - say they want to rebuild in opposition after their worst election result in more than half a century .
merkel has been able to steer europe through its euro zone and refugee crises in part due to her dominance at home .
now that dominance is waning - her conservatives last month had their weakest election showing since 1949 .
voters have given these parties the task of governing , wrote newspaper die welt .
these possible partners should not be giving the impression that they are inching warily toward each other like strangers in a crammed lift .
an infratest dimap poll for ard showed 83 percent of germans wanted the parties to find a compromise deal .
merkel , 63 , has suffered two further setbacks since the national election : the cdu was defeated in a regional election in lower saxony on sunday , and the party s premier in the eastern state of saxony resigned on wednesday , saying younger , fresher leadership was needed to revitalize the conservatives .
should the three party groups fail to form a coalition , some in their ranks fear this could lead to public disenchantment and fuel further support for the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) , which entered parliament for the first time last month .
if she can not clinch a three-way coalition pact , merkel could try to form a minority government , or else call fresh elections - an unprecedented scenario .
alternatively , she could try to team up again with the spd .
the social democrats reject that option , though senior party official thomas oppermann has indicated they could reconsider on one condition : merkel steps aside .