davos , switzerland ( reuters ) - u.s. vice president joe biden urged executives in davos to use their influence to drive change in countries where lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender people face repression , putting gay rights at the heart of this year ’ s meeting .
the issue is on the official agenda for the first time at the world economic forum , where political leaders from countries that discriminate against gay people , such as nigeria and russia , schmooze business leaders and billionaire investors .
biden told u.s. executives including nathan blecharczyk , co-founder of apartment-sharing firm airbnb , muhtar kent , chairman and ceo of the coca cola company , and anthony scaramucci , founder of hedge fund skybridge capital , to push for change .
“ you can change the terms of debate , ” he said .
“ you actually put governments on notice. ” he said he and president barack obama privately raise the issue of repression of the lgbt community when they meet political leaders .
“ i have had some run-ins with at least four heads of state already on this , ” said biden .
banging his fist on the table , biden said there was no national cultural justification to discriminate against lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender people .
“ people used to be cannibals as part of their culture , people used to do terrible things as part of their culture , ” he said .
chad griffin , president of the human rights campaign , the united states ’ largest lgbt civil rights organization , said business leaders should take the opportunity in davos to confront the leaders of countries with “ hateful laws ” .
big business has been key to lobbying for change on gay marriage around the world .
some leading companies , including google , twitter and ebay , released videos of their employees voicing their support for marriage equality ahead of a country-wide vote on the issue in ireland .
apple ceo ( aapl.o ) tim cook came out last year , but according to the u.s.-based center for talent innovation , 41 percent of lgbt people do not feel comfortable disclosing their sexuality at work .
a u.s. supreme court ruling legalized same-sex marriage nationwide last year but it is still legal in many u.s. states to fire someone based on their sexual orientation .