maracaibo/caracas , venezuela ( reuters ) - the newly elected opposition governor of venezuela s western zulia state was dismissed on thursday by the pro-government local state legislature , adding to disarray among foes of the ruling socialists .
the sacking of juan pablo guanipa , one of five opposition governors in venezuela s 23 states , came after he refused to swear loyalty to an all-powerful national legislative superbody aligned with president nicolas maduro s ruling socialists .
they held a secret , express session to remove him , guanipa s spokeswoman erika gutierrez told reuters of the morning meeting of zulia s state legislature .
venezuela s opposition democratic unity coalition , which groups several dozen anti-maduro parties , has been in crisis since a surprise defeat at this month s state elections .
despite polls showing it would win a comfortable majority due to widespread public anger over venezuela s brutal economic crisis , the opposition only took five states compared to 18 for maduro s socialist party candidates .
opposition leaders blamed dirty tricks by the government , including the last-minute moving of many vote centers in opposition areas , along with abstention by supporters disillusioned at the failure of protests earlier this year .
driving home its advantage , the government said only governors who recognize the supremacy of the pro-maduro constituent assembly could take office .
four opposition governors did that this week , sparking recriminations and bickering within the coalition , but guanipa said he would never kneel before the dictatorship .
this is an assault on the will of the people , he tweeted after his removal on thursday , denouncing a coup in the oil-rich state on the border with colombia .
opposition in-fighting prior to this week , the opposition , along with various major foreign nations including the united states , had refused to recognize the constituent assembly .
elected in july after four months of anti-maduro protests , the body has overridden the opposition-run national congress .
one major opposition leader , henrique capriles , said he would no longer participate in the coalition while henry ramos , leader of the democratic action party whose four governors swore themselves in before the assembly , was a member .
capriles justice first party , and the popular will party of detained opposition leader leopoldo lopez , have called for a complete reformulation of the opposition grouping .
officials from maduro down have been rubbing their hands in glee at the opposition implosion , and cheekily urging the controversial ramos - a polarizing figure unpopular among young opposition militants - to stand for president in 2018 .
backstabbing has broken out in the opposition , all against all , crowed maduro earlier this week .
the constituent assembly also announced on thursday local mayoral elections would be held in december , giving the opposition a short time-frame to develop strategy .
popular will has already said it plans to boycott that vote .
young protesters , who saw hundreds of their fellow demonstrators jailed , injured or even killed in anti-maduro street protests earlier this year , are disgusted by what for them is now a bleak political scenario .
more than 125 people , including supporters of both sides plus security officials and bystanders , died in four months of unrest that maduro said amounted to a u.s.-backed coup attempt .
let the people continue speaking loud and clear in defense of peace , sovereignty and the sacred right to self-determination , constituent assembly head delcy rodriguez said , announcing the december municipal vote that the socialists now expect to win handily given the opposition s disillusionment .