washington ( reuters ) - technology companies could face civil penalties for refusing to comply with court orders to help investigators access encrypted data under draft legislation nearing completion in the u.s. senate , sources familiar with continuing discussions told reuters on wednesday .
the long-awaited legislation from senators richard burr and dianne feinstein , the top republican and democrat on the senate intelligence committee , may be introduced as soon as next week , one of the sources said .
it would expose companies like apple inc , which is fighting a magistrate judge ’ s order to unlock an iphone connected to the mass-shooting in san bernardino , california , to contempt of court proceedings and related penalties , the source said .
senators are expected to circulate the draft bill among interested parties next week and hope to introduce it soon after , though a timetable is not final , the source said .
the senators ’ proposal would not seek criminal penalties , as some media reports have stated , the sources said .
the controversial proposal faces an uphill climb in a gridlocked congress during an election year and would likely be opposed by silicon valley .
tech companies have largely supported apple in its legal fight against the justice department , which is seeking access to a phone used by rizwan farook , one of two shooters in the san bernardino attack last december in which 14 were killed and 22 wounded .
it is particularly unlikely the proposal will gain traction in the u.s. house of representatives , which staked out positions strongly supporting digital privacy in the wake of revelations about government-sanctioned surveillance of communications by former national security agency contractor edward snowden .
last year , amid stiff private sector opposition , the white house backed away from pushing for legislation to require u.s. technology firms to provide investigators with mechanisms to overcome encryption protections .
but the issue found renewed life after the shootings in san bernardino and paris .
an august email from robert litt , the top u.s. intelligence community lawyer , obtained by the washington post , noted that momentum on the issue “ could turn in the event of a terrorist attack or criminal event where strong encryption can be shown to have hindered law enforcement. ” separately , democratic senator mark warner and republican representative michael mccaul last week introduced legislation to create a national commission to further explore solutions to the so-called “ going dark ” problem , where strong encryption has made it more difficult for law enforcement to access communications belonging to criminal suspects .