washington ( reuters ) - the united states will call on g20 countries this week to use fiscal policy in order to boost global demand , a senior u.s. treasury official said on monday .
“ we will urge greater use of policy space , including fiscal space , to bolster global demand .
that would lead to strengthened confidence and i would expect reduce volatility , ” the treasury official said in a preview call with reporters ahead of a g20 meeting later this week in shanghai , china .
g20 finance ministers , including u.s. treasury secretary jack lew , and central bank governors will meet on feb. 26-27 , with sagging global growth , divergent monetary policies and currency devaluations set to dominate the agenda .
while there , the united states will also urge all members to refrain from manipulating exchange rates for competitive purposes , in line with existing g20 commitments , said the official , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
“ i see those commitments as being a strong indication from g20 members that they will manage their currencies in ways that are globally consistent .
i think that those commitments are very , very important , ” the official said .
lew has repeatedly called on china to more clearly communicate its currency policies and actions amid uncertainty over beijing ’ s transition to a market-determined exchange rate .
recent chinese efforts to improve its communications have been constructive , the official said .
china ’ s economic slowdown has also skittered financial markets as it seeks to rebalance its economy toward consumption-led growth .
the senior treasury official said that supply-side reforms in china were “ crucial ” as it pivots to a stronger services sector , and praised the country ’ s ongoing efforts to reduce excess capacity .
lew is scheduled to travel to beijing for two days immediately following the g20 gathering , where he will meet with senior chinese government officials , treasury said in a statement .
in those meetings he will urge china to “ follow through ” on its commitment to market-based economic reforms , the senior treasury official said .
on friday , imf chief christine lagarde called on g20 officials to focus on global economic spillovers from their policy decisions .
an increasing number of central banks , including the european central bank and the bank of japan , have turned to negative interest rates over the past year in order to avoid deflation and promote economic growth .