havana ( reuters ) - the mansion in havana where u.s. president barack obama and his family will spend two nights has survived war , revolution and an albanian occupation .
now , with u.s.-cuban diplomatic ties restored and overall relations warming , the u.s. ambassadorial residence is re-emerging as a center of influence on the communist-ruled island .
built from 1939 to 1942 , the two-story building is more than half the size of the white house , according to u.s. state department data , and was constructed with the finest materials and craftsmanship of the time .
the united states abandoned it from 1961 to 1977 after the 1959 cuban revolution overthrew a pro-american government and washington severed ties with fidel castro , leaving the home to at first albanian and later swiss caretakers .
the coral limestone exterior and marble floors and columns are both imposing and inviting , said one man who lived there and likened it to the finest u.s. ambassadorial residences in london or paris or buenos aires .
“ this is a place that was built to impress , ” said john caulfield , who was america ’ s chief diplomat in cuba from 2011 to 2014 and inhabited the upstairs two-bedroom , two-bath residential suite with a living room .
the upper level also has four other large bedrooms with private baths , among them the presidential suite .
obama , michelle obama , their two daughters and the first lady ’ s mother will stay there sunday and monday nights during the first visit by a u.s. president to cuba in 88 years .
the public and working areas are on the ground floor .
the state department bought the land and built the residence as america was being drawn into world war two and sought the profile of a nation on the rise .
“ it ’ s really an example of soft power .
you walk through that door and it impresses .
it ’ s expensive , but not as expensive as an aircraft carrier , ” caulfield said .
the neighborhood , now known as cubanacan , was called country club park when it was built .
the 5-acre ( 2-hectare ) plot has a swimming pool and tennis court .
“ not bad for public housing , ” caulfield said .
the highest ranking official to previously stay there was vice president richard nixon in 1955 .
according to lore , it was built as a winter white house for president franklin roosevelt , who used a wheelchair .
while the state department could not confirm that , the elevator , ramps and wide doorways made it wheelchair-friendly 50 years before the americans with disabilities act required such features in government buildings .