with a growing number of muslim refugees and immigrants living in america who are strict adherents of sharia law , it should come as no surprise that female genital mutilation is not so uncommon anymore in many parts of the united states .
it is a felony to perform a clitorectomy on a female in america , but getting caught is the hard part a petition from the womens group equality now reveals that immigration has put the united states on a list that will be much more difficult for progressive immigration enthusiasts to cheer .
a massive influx of immigrants from muslim-populated countries in africa and the middle east has led the group to conclude that more than half a million girls in the u.s. are in danger of having their exposed sexual organs skinned from their bodies.the practice is known as female genital mutilation ( fgm ) .the atlantic describes how the procedure is carried out : it usually involves the complete removal of the clitoris , and often the removal of some of the inner and outer labia .
in its most extreme form infibulation almost all the external genitalia are cut away , the remaining flesh from the outer labia is sewn together , or infibulated , and the girl s legs are bound from ankle to waist for several weeks while scar tissue closes up the vagina almost completely .
a small hole , typically about the diameter of a pencil , is left for urination and menstruation .
the cutting is usually done with a razor , a kitchen knife , or a pair of scissors .
it is rare for any anesthesia to be used.as the united states continues to mail out immigrant visas to countries with hostile and violent attitudes towards women , it will increasingly challenge americans self-perception of what it means to live in a first world country.haha dukureh , an fgm-survivor and founder of the activist organization safe hands for girls , warned that every year thousands of girls here in the united states go through female genital mutilation .
breitbart newsa gwinnett county muslim man was deported today after female serving 10 years in an american prison ( on the american taxpayer dime ) for a genital mutilation sentence .
an ethiopian man convicted of aggravated battery and cruelty to children was removed from the united states on monday.khalid adem , 41 , was arrested for using scissors to mutilate the genitals of his 2-year-old daughter.he was deported on monday after serving 10 years in prison.adem was an ethiopian citizen and native when he was living in gwinnett county , georgia in 2006 .
( he was convicted in 2006 , but his wife who turned him in believes the crime was committed in 2001 ) .
his case was drew national attention for being the first criminal conviction in the united states for female genital mutilation ( fgm ) .he became the catalyst for the specific criminalization of fgm under georgia state law.female genital mutilation is a federal crime , and any involvement in committing this crime is a human rights violation that results in imprisonment and potential deportation .
( this crime includes doing the procedure within the united states as well as sending women overseas to be cut ) .
jihad watch