san francisco ( reuters ) - u.s .
senator ron wyden pledged on wednesday to fight legislation expected shortly in congress that would limit encryption protection in american technology products .
the proposal by senators richard burr and dianne feinstein , the top republican and democrat on the senate intelligence committee , would give federal judges authority to order technology companies to help law enforcement officials access encrypted data , according to sources familiar with the situation .
“ i believe weakening strong encryption puts at risk millions of americans , families and communities from one end of the country to another , ” wyden told reuters after his speech at the rightscon digital rights conference in san francisco .
“ this issue is as important as any that i ’ ve been involved in in my 15 years in the intelligence committee. ” asked if he would put a hold on the expected legislation , the oregon democrat , who is a leading privacy advocate , said : “ i would do anything within my power as a united states senator to block any plan that weakens strong encryption. ” his remarks followed a high-stakes confrontation between the u.s. justice department and apple over a court order that the company provide access to an iphone used by one of the assailants in a deadly shooting rampage last december in san bernardino , california .
the government said on monday it unlocked the phone without apple ’ s help and dropped its legal action .
apple and other technology companies strongly opposed the court order , saying anything that helps authorities bypass the security features of tech products will undermine security for everyone .
government officials have insisted that criminal investigations could be crippled without access to phone data , and both sides are gearing up for a fight in congress .
wyden said he would revive a 2014 bill he introduced to block court attempts by u.s. law enforcement to undercut encryption as in the apple case .
without such a measure , he said the fbi would try again to get a precedent allowing it to compel companies to hack their customers “ as sure as night follows day. ” recalling his role in the successful fight to stop a copyright bill four years ago opposed by internet companies , wyden told the conference : “ we can win this fight for security and liberty .
i know it ’ s not going to be easy , but we have done it before . ”