okay , let s address this hillary might win the popular vote , isn t that electoral college situation just awful thing head on.no , it s not awful .
it s great , and it protects the importance of your vote .
it s also uniquely american and demonstrates yet again the once-in-creation brilliance of the founding fathers.first of all , she s probably not going to win the actual number of votes cast .
she may win the number of votes counted , but not the votes cast.states don t count their absentee ballots unless the number of outstanding absentee ballots is larger than the state margin of difference .
if there is a margin of 1,000 votes counted and there are 1,300 absentee ballots outstanding , then the state tabulates those .
if the number of outstanding absentee ballots wouldn t influence the election results , then the absentee ballots aren t counted.who votes by absentee ballot ?
students overseas , the military , businesspeople on trips , etc .
the historical breakout for absentee ballots is about 67-33 % republican .
in 2000 , when al gore won the popular vote nationally by 500,000 votes and the liberal media screamed bloody murder , there were 2 million absentee ballots in california alone .
a 67-33 breakout of those yields a 1.33- to 0.667-million republican vote advantage , so bush would have gotten a 667,000-vote margin from california s uncounted absentee ballots alone !
so much for gore s 500,000 popular vote victory .
( that was the headline on the n.y. times , and it was the lead story on nbc nightly news , right ?
no ?
you re kidding .
) getting back to the win the popular vote/lose the electoral college scenario : thank g-d we have that , or else california and n.y. would determine every election .
every time.but the electoral college brilliantly smooths out the variances in the voting proclivities among states and regions .
farmers in the middle of the country and importers and exporters on the shore get roughly equal say , as do madison ave. execs and factory workers in tennessee.shortcomings ?
sure .
the e.c .
can make an r vote meaningless in a very few heavily d states or vice versa .
but without the electoral college , the country s entire population is subject to the disproportionate voting preferences of the few most populous states .
american thinker