new york ( reuters ) - britain , france and australia urged myanmar leader aung san suu kyi on monday to push for an end to military violence against rohingya muslims , while her national security adviser said those who had fled could return but the process had to be discussed .
the military response to insurgent attacks last month in the western region of myanmar sent more than 410,000 rohingya muslims fleeing to neighboring bangladesh , escaping what the united nations has branded as ethnic cleansing .
the government says about 400 people have been killed in the fighting .
we will make sure that everybody who left their home can return to their home but this is a process we have to discuss , myanmar national security adviser thaung tun told reuters on monday after a ministerial meeting on the crisis hosted by britain on the sidelines of the united nations general assembly .
we want to make sure that everybody who needs humanitarian assistance gets it , without discrimination .
that is one of the things we agreed on , he said .
nobel laureate suu kyi has faced a barrage of international criticism for not stopping the violence .
she is due to speak to the nation on tuesday about the crisis , which the united states has described as a defining moment for myanmar .
we expect from mrs aung sang suu kyi tomorrow a strong statement in this direction , french foreign minister jean-yves le drian told reporters in new york .
british foreign secretary boris johnson hosted a ministerial meeting to discuss ways to resolve the rohingya crisis , which included ministers from canada , denmark , turkey , australia , indonesia , sweden , bangladesh , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley and a representative of the european union .
what we are trying to get everyone to agree is that , number one , the killings have got to stop , and the violence has got to stop .
and we look not just to the military but also to daw suu to show a lead on that , johnson told reuters before the meeting .
in a statement afterwards , johnson said that while myanmar had made encouraging progress towards democracy in the last few years , the situation in rakhine , the terrible human rights abuses and violence are a stain on the country s reputation .
it is vital that aung san suu kyi and the civilian government make clear these abuses must stop , he said .
johnson said he was encouraged by our discussion and by the participation of the senior burmese representatives , but we now need to see action to stop the violence and open up immediate humanitarian access .
china , which , like the united states has worked to forge closer ties with myanmar , a strategically important country in southeast asia , will not attend , a chinese spokesman said , citing a really packed calendar for foreign minister wang yi .
turkish foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu told reuters ahead of the british meeting that a lasting political solution needed to be found for the rohingya in myanmar .
about a million rohingya lived in rakhine state until the recent violence .
most face draconian travel restrictions and are denied citizenship in a country where many buddhists regard them as illegal immigrants from bangladesh .
australian foreign minister julie bishop told reuters she wanted to hear suu kyi offer a solution to what is a tragedy of enormous proportions .
she said that during the ministerial meeting in new york there was unanimity in the view that the violence must end and that there be a ceasefire .
and we emphasized the need for humanitarian support to get through and also that the rohingya must be able to return home , bishop said .
the united states urged the myanmar government to end military operations in rakhine state , grant humanitarian access , and commit to aiding the safe return of civilians to their homes , haley said in a statement after the meeting .
people are still at risk of being attacked or killed , humanitarian aid is not reaching the people who need it , and innocent civilians are still fleeing across the border to bangladesh , haley said .
washington has also called for an end to the violence and a restoration of humanitarian aid , and a deputy assistant secretary of state , patrick murphy , is due in myanmar this week .
we urge the ( myanmar ) government to act quickly to restore the rule of law , investigate alleged human rights abuses and violations , and to hold security forces and others responsible for abuses and violations fully accountable for their actions , a spokeswoman for the u.s. state department said .
u.s.-myanmar ties improved after the military began withdrawing from government in 2011 , and paved the way for a 2015 election won by suu kyi s party .
but the military retains a strong hand in government and remains responsible for security .
a trump administration official told reuters last week the violence made it harder to build warmer ties with myanmar , and there would likely be some easing in the short term , but he did not expect a return to sanctions .
for years , the united states and western allies imposed sanctions on myanmar in support of suu kyi s campaign for democracy .
myanmar s response was to forge closer ties with china .
human rights watch u.n. director louis charbonneau called for strong u.n. action to compel myanmar security services to end their ethnic cleansing campaign .
with so many influential leaders gathered in new york , the next step should be work on a u.n. general assembly resolution condemning the abuses and a security council resolution to impose targeted sanctions and an arms embargo on the commanders leading this brutal campaign he said .
however , myanmar earlier this month said it was negotiating with china and russia , both permanent veto wielding members of the security council , to block any bid to censure the country over the violence .