beijing ( reuters ) - china will on monday put on trial a taiwanese activist , who disappeared while on a visit to the mainland in march , on suspicion of subverting state power , in what court authorities said would be an open trial .
lee ming-che , a community college teacher and human rights advocate , went missing on his march visit but authorities later confirmed he had been detained , straining already-tense ties between the mainland and the self-ruling island .
lee s trial will begin first thing on monday morning , at the intermediate people s court of yueyang city , in the central province of hunan , a woman who answered the telephone at the court told reuters .
authorities have video-streamed or live-blogged increasing numbers of court proceedings in recent years as part of a push towards judicial transparency .
but rights activists say that in sensitive cases , holding open hearings is a tool for authorities to demonstrate state power and that usually the defendant has agreed to an outcome .
photographs of a billboard announcement of the trial date and time , which circulated online on friday , were genuine , the woman at the court confirmed .
the announcement said lee would stand trial alongside another man , peng yuhua , who is suspected of the same crime .
it is not clear who peng is or what his relationship to lee is , if any .
lee ching-yu , lee s wife , who has been campaigning for his release , was contacted this week by a man who said he was her husband s lawyer and who told her to come to the mainland for the trial , taiwan s mainland affairs council said on thursday .
the council said the taiwan government would help her apply for travel documents and arrange lawyers to go with her .
lee s case has strained relations between taipei and beijing , which have been difficult for decades but particularly tense since president tsai ing-wen , leader of taiwan s independence-leaning democratic progressive party , took office last year .
beijing regards the island as a breakaway province and it has never renounced the use of force to bring it back under mainland control .
proudly democratic taiwan has shown no interest in being run by communist party rulers in beijing .