washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court on tuesday paved the way for a major ruling on the limits of presidential powers , agreeing to decide the legality of president barack obama ’ s unilateral action to shield more than 4 million illegal immigrants from deportation .
the court agreed to hear obama ’ s bid to resurrect his plan , undertaken in 2014 through executive action bypassing the republican-led congress , that was blocked last year by lower courts after texas and 25 other republican-governed states sued to stop it .
a ruling is due by the end of june .
the case is not the first time obama has asked the supreme court to rescue a major initiative .
the court in 2012 and 2015 rejected conservative challenges to his signature healthcare law .
the white house expressed confidence the court would now deem as lawful obama ’ s immigration action , which was crafted to let millions of illegal immigrants whose children are american citizens or lawful permanent residents to get into a program that protects them from deportation and supplies work permits .
texas and the other states contend obama exceeded his presidential powers and usurped the authority of congress .
texas attorney general ken paxton , a republican , said courts have long recognized the limits to presidential authority .
“ the court should affirm what president obama said himself on more than 20 occasions : that he can not unilaterally rewrite congressional laws and circumvent the people ’ s representatives , ” paxton said .
the nine justices will review a november ruling by the new orleans-based 5th u.s .
circuit court of appeals that upheld a february 2015 decision by u.s. district judge andrew hanen in brownsville , a city along the texas border with mexico , to halt obama ’ s action .
with some of his major legislative initiatives suffocated by republican lawmakers , the democratic president has resorted to executive action to get around congress on issues including immigration , gun control and the obamacare law .
the most recent executive action came this month when he acted unilaterally to expand background checks for certain gun purchases .
his executive actions have antagonized republicans who accuse him of unlawfully taking actions by executive fiat that only congress can perform .
the case raises several legal issues , including whether states have legal standing to sue the u.s. government over decisions on how to enforce federal laws .
the high court added a separate question on whether the president ’ s action violated a provision of the u.s. constitution that requires the president to “ take care that the laws be faithfully executed. ” the obama administration called the president ’ s action mere guidance to immigration officials on how to exercise discretion given by congress on how to enforce immigration laws .
obama ’ s action was “ consistent with the actions taken by presidents of both parties , the laws passed by congress and the decisions of the supreme court , ” white house spokeswoman brandi hoffine said .
those eligible for obama ’ s program , directed at illegal immigrants with no criminal record , would be able to work legally and receive some federal benefits .
states were not required to provide any benefits .
his order expanded on a 2012 program that provided similar relief for people who became illegal immigrants as children .
the case could have repercussions beyond immigration because it would set a precedent for the circumstances under which states can sue the federal government over a range of executive actions .
future presidents , republican or democratic , could face new constraints if the states win .
the case is one of the most important the supreme court will decide during its current term , along with a challenge to a restrictive texas abortion law .
if the court sides with obama , he would have until his term ends in january 2017 to implement the immigration plan .
with the u.s. presidential election looming in november , it would be up to the next president to decide whether to keep it in place .
obama ’ s action came after a bipartisan immigration policy overhaul bill passed by the senate died in the house of representatives .
the immigration issue has driven a wedge between hispanics , an increasingly important voting bloc , and republicans , many of whom have offered tough words about illegal immigrants .
most of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants are hispanics , coming from mexico and other latin american countries .
the ruling is due just months before the presidential election .
the two leading democratic presidential hopefuls , hillary clinton and bernie sanders , said on tuesday the court should uphold obama ’ s action .
republican candidates ted cruz and marco rubio said as president they would undo obama ’ s immigration moves .
senate democratic leader harry reid said obama ’ s executive action relied on well-established constitutional authority .
he said he recently met with the illegal immigrant parents of u.s citizens and lawful permanent residents , saying that “ these law-abiding men and women continue to live in constant fear of being separated from their children .
these families must be allowed to step out of the shadows and fully contribute to the country that they love and call home . ”