houston mayor sylvester turner didn t tell his citizens to evacuate people are furious with him !
houstonians are now trapped 5 people reported dead this will only get worse with devastating flooding continuing to make waters rise even higher gov .
abbott called for evacuations but local officials like the houston mayor contradicted him .
local leaders know best , francisco sanchez , spokesman for the harris county office of homeland security and emergency management , tweeted in response to abbott s warning .
there were no evacuation orders in houston , and only ones in a few communities in harris county , sanchez stressed.in a follow-up tweet , sanchez urged residents to heed the advice of local officials like harris county judge ed emmett and houston mayor sylvester turner , rather than abbott.local officials know best .
houston has no evacuation order .
in harris county : very limited to select communities .
local leaders know best .
https : //t.co/dpw11lb1en francisco sanchez ( @ disasterpio ) august 25 , 2017things have gotten so bad in houston that the the us army corps of engineers has announced plans to begin releasing water into buffalo bayou from two flood-control dams in the attempt to prevent uncontrollable flooding downtown and near the houston ship channel.just horrific : twitter is inundated with tweets from people begging for water rescues , as flood waters continue to rise across houston .
pic.twitter.com/sjfgwgqrwd matt mcdermott ( @ mattmfm ) august 27 , 201715 nursing home residents evacuated in dickinson , tx : city authorities said sunday night that they had rescued more than 1,000 people who had been trapped on their roofs or in their homes.sheriff s deputies rescue trucker from deep flooding : houston s mayor on sunday defended the decision not to evacuate the city ahead of the storm insisting that to do so would have created an even worse nightmare .
if you think the situation right now is bad , you give an order to evacuate , you are creating a nightmare .
especially when it s not planned , mayor sylvester turner told abc.houston we have a problemthe texas governor said it s not the time to second guess the houston mayor : now is not the time to second-guess the decisions that were made , abbott said .
we re at the stage where we just need to respond to the emergencies and necessities the people of houston have .
the officials comments came as everyone from hospital patients to tv anchors and prison inmates were forced to flee the ravaged southeast part of the state.patients at houston s ben taub hospital were being moved to other medical facilities when water seeped into the basement , damaging its electrical system.khou-tv anchorman len cannon was on the air sunday morning when he spotted water coming into the station .
he and his co-workers were forced into a second-floor conference room .