beirut/paris ( reuters ) - france can play a productive role in the middle east by taking a realistic and impartial approach , iranian president hassan rouhani told his french counterpart , emmanuel macron , in a phone call on tuesday , according to iranian state media .
tensions between iran and france increased last week after macron said that tehran should be less aggressive in the region and should clarify its ballistic missile program .
his foreign minister also denounced tehran s hegemonic temptations during a visit to saudi arabia .
iranian state media said rouhani told macron that the islamic republic was ready to develop its relations with france on all bilateral , regional and international issues based on mutual respect and shared goals .
rouhani referred to the adventurism of some inexperienced princes in the region - an allusion to iran s arch geopolitical rival , saudi arabia - and said france could play a positive role in easing the situation .
we are against adventurism and creating division in the region and believe that france , by keeping an independent vote and its position in the region , can , with a realistic and impartial approach , have a productive role , he said .
in a rare statement on both calls , macron s office said he had talked to rouhani and israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu separately , telling them both that it was vital to keep lebanon disassociated from regional crises .
he also said france was attached to the 2015 iran nuclear deal with world powers , but that regional and ballistic issues should be discussed separately and constructively .
macron also stressed the importance for the countries of the region to work collectively to reduce tensions , the statement said .
the foreign ministers of saudi arabia and other arab states criticised iran and its lebanese shi ite muslim ally hezbollah at talks in cairo on sunday , calling for a united front to counter iranian influence .
rouhani also highlighted the importance of maintaining stability in lebanon and , in the phone call with macron , noted what he characterized as the threat posed by israel .
hezbollah are a part of the lebanese people and are incredibly loved in this country .
their weapons are only defensive and are only for use in the face of a potential attack , rouhani said .
now we have to try so the lebanese groups can , with security , have a government that can help advance their country .
macron , whose country has called for hezbollah to disarm , has tried to mediate in a regional crisis that erupted after lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri announced his resignation in a broadcast from saudi arabia on nov. 4 , accusing tehran and hezbollah - which was part of his coalition government - of sowing strife across the middle east .
macron spoke on monday with netanyahu , who is due in paris in december , according to diplomatic sources .
according to the iranian state media , macron invited rouhani to paris for a climate summit on dec. 12 .
macron s office did not respond when asked to confirm the invite .