vilnius/kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian president petro poroshenko denied on friday interfering with the work of law enforcement bodies investigating corruption and he urged such agencies to refrain from playing politics .
ukrainian authorities this week have faced accusations of deliberately sabotaging anti-corruption reforms , which are a key condition for international support for the country as it grapples with a russian-backed separatist insurgency .
perceived backsliding by kiev on its reform commitments , including delays in establishing an independent court to handle corruption cases , has held up billions of dollars in loans under ukraine s $ 17.5 billion imf program .
over the last 2.5 years of activity of the anti-corruption institutions , everybody , including the heads of these institutions , has said there has not been a single instance of interference by the president in their work , poroshenko said .
we consider it unacceptable when the leaders of any law enforcement bodies , including anti-corruption , begin to play in the political field , he told a news conference during a visit to the lithuanian capital vilnius .
they must be independent , protected from political influence .
action by ukraine s parliament and prosecutors against existing anti-corruption bodies such as the nabu investigative bureau provoked a wave of criticism this week from reformers and kiev s foreign backers including the imf .
poroshenko s faction is the largest in parliament and the president also nominates the general prosecutor .
corrupt empire strikes back read the headline of the english language newspaper kyiv post on friday .
the head of the international monetary fund , christine lagarde , said she had urged poroshenko during a telephone conversation late on thursday to speed up the fight against corruption .
lagarde said she and poroshenko had discussed the need to safeguard the independence of nabu and similar institutions and that they agreed on the urgency of establishing an anti-corruption court .
on friday poroshenko said he would soon introduce a draft law to set up such a court , taking into account recommendations by the venice commission , a leading european rights watchdog .
the effectiveness of the work of anti-corruption bodies should not be in the number of press conferences ( they give ) , but in the number of corrupt officials who are put behind bars , he added .
poroshenko was asked about the current furor surrounding former georgian president mikheil saakashvili after ukrainian law enforcement officials twice failed to detain him this week on charges of aiding a criminal organization .
the situation with saakashvili is not worthy of international attention , because there are specific crimes that were committed and we must ensure transparency of the investigation and absolute openness , poroshenko said .
if he flees from the investigation , this undermines his credibility , he added .
saakashvili became a regional governor in ukraine in 2015 at poroshenko s invitation but they later fell out , with the former georgian leader accusing the president of corruption .
saakashvili denies the charges against him .