it s painful to watch the stupidity and irresponsibility of the democrats who run the city of chicago along with chicago teachers union president , karen lewis , one of the most hard-core radical , leftist s in the business .
it s t-minus one week for chicago public schools.as schools let out for the summer , cps administrators are scrambling to come up with a more than $ 600 million teacher pension payment due at the end of the month and the district has zero reserves , according to media reports.the problem is further compounded by a more than $ 1 billion school budget shortfall for the next fiscal year and an angry teachers union hell bent on securing another raise the district can t afford .
with no plan , no money and no where to turn , chicago mayor rahm emanuel seems to be focused solely on a state bailout as the solution .
springfield has to step up and help in this case , not only as it relates to just the pension payment , ( but also ) the educational opportunities of our children , emanuel said , according to the chicago tribune .
because a payment will then begin to impact the classroom .
and ctu could soon partner with its mortal enemies at city hall to lobby state lawmakers for more money .
right now , the district needs us , ctu vp jesse sharkey told the news site .
the politics of ( chicago mayor ) rahm emanuel going to springfield are a lot different than the politics of rahm emanuel and ( ctu president ) karen lewis going to springfield .
the dire financial situation comes amid a federal investigation into a $ 20 million no-bid contract to a previous employer of former cps superintendent barbara byrd-bennett , who resigned this month .
it feels like a complete mess , better government association senior editor sarah karp told abc 7.karp doesn t think recently elected republican gov .
bruce rauner , who ran on a platform of fiscal restraint and criticized union influence in illinois , is receptive to calls for a bailout .
he previously suggested that bankruptcy may be the best way out for cps , abc 7 reports .
now , chicago public schools does not have somebody in the state house that is a democrat or is seemingly sympathetic at all to what s going on here , karp said.meanwhile , school ended for the summer on friday , and principals around the city are left scratching their heads in planning for next school year .
normally you do your planning in the summer and you can t do too much planning without the actual dollar amount , coles language academy principal jeff dase told abc 7.dase said many chicago principals are concerned that the budget turmoil , and looming possibility of layoffs and program cuts , could convince many of the city s teachers to seek jobs elsewhere.the tribune reports the city council could authorize cps to increase taxes on residents , or secure some sort of bailout , or negotiate concessions with ctu , but not even all three combined could put the budget back on track .
and then there s another $ 228 million payment coming due for costs related to interest rate swaps on the district s debt .
( e ) ven if cps wins concession from the city council , state lawmakers and ctu , the district won t be able to close its annual $ 1 billion budget gap , according to a may 22 report by ernst & young , which spent four weeks meeting with school finance officials and analyzing budget documents , the tribune reports .
the report shows that even with a capital improvement tax , a separate , even-larger property tax increase , additional state aid , increased state funding of teacher pensions , concessions from the ctu and $ 150 million with of budget cuts , cps would still face an annual $ 350 million shortfall .
next june s teacher pension payment is set to balloon to $ 700 million .
via : eag news