london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may wants to draw a line under allegations of misconduct against one of her junior ministers , mark garnier , a statement from her office said on thursday after an investigation found he had not breached ministerial rules .
may ordered the investigation in october after the mail on sunday newspaper reported garnier , now a junior international trade minister , asked secretary caroline edmondson to buy two sex toys .
the statement come a day after may forced her most senior minister , damian green , to resign for lying about whether he knew pornography had been found on computers in his parliamentary office .
the investigation into garnier s conduct said he had not breached the rules since becoming a minister in 2016 .
addressing events between garnier and his staff member , it said the incident happened before garnier became a minister , and that whilst there was no dispute about the facts , there was a significant difference of interpretation between the parties .
it was not his intention to cause distress , and mr garnier has apologized unreservedly to the individual .
on that basis the prime minister considers that a line should be drawn under the issue , the statement from may s office said .
the harvey weinstein sexual harassment scandal has triggered a debate about a culture of abuse by some powerful men at the heart of britain s westminster parliament .
that has played a role in the departure of two of may s senior ministers after former defence secretary michael fallon resigned in november saying his past conduct had fallen below the required standard .
the departures have added to may s political difficulties at a time when she is trying to manage a party and electorate still split over brexit , negotiate an exit deal with the european union and convince voters she can drive through domestic reforms .
nevertheless , having secured progress in brexit negotiations and steered key eu withdrawal legislation through difficult tests in parliament , she is not facing immediate pressure to quit from her own party .