the republican healthcare plan is a travesty and the numbers don t lie .
sen. orrin hatch does , though .
sen. bernie sanders ( i-vt ) tweeted on thursday , let us be clear and this is not trying to be overly dramatic : thousands of people will die if the republican health care bill becomes law .
sanders is correct but he s being stingy with his numbers .
actually , tens of thousands of our country s neediest will die if trumpcare becomes law and all because republicans want to gift the wealthy with a tax cut.let us be clear and this is not trying to be overly dramatic : thousands of people will die if the republican health care bill becomes law .
bernie sanders ( @ berniesanders ) june 23 , 2017medicaid saves lives and that s a fact that hatch refuses to acknowledge .
the utah senator responded to sanders accurate tweet , saying , the brief time when we were * not * accusing those we disagree with of murder was nice while it lasted .
the brief time when we were * not * accusing those we disagree with of murder was nice while it lasted .
https : //t.co/qr1rzon1cg senator hatch office ( @ senorrinhatch ) june 23 , 2017when was that brief time , orrin ?
was it when sarah palin called obamacare the death panels then when the affordable care act became law , lives were saved .
trumpcare assures death to thousands of vulnerable americans.twitter users reacted swiftly to hatch s tweet.well you could stop trying to actively murder us while you line your pockets .
just see how that works out for public discourse .
dennis perkins ( @ dennisperkins5 ) june 24 , 2017it is an unavoidable fact that people are going to die if this bill passes you useless cynical octogenarian piece of shit joe mande ( @ joemande ) june 24 , 2017 in this house we declare orrin hatch is a murderer david kaib ( @ davidkaib ) june 24 , 2017can we accuse you of trying to bankrupt people , then ?
because that is also true greg olear ( @ gregolear ) june 24 , 2017have you guys considered not trying to pass laws that will kill people ?
parker molloy ( @ parkermolloy ) june 24 , 2017hey man .
fellow verified account here .
i can cuss at you without being banned so here goes : you are a crap person , mister !
virgil texas ( @ virgiltexas ) june 24 , 2017but if thousands will die as a result , what do you call it , senator ?
`` a good tax cut ? ''
harleypeyton ( @ harleypeyton ) june 24 , 2017death panels , anyone ?
shannon watts ( @ shannonrwatts ) june 24 , 2017stop trying to kill people then dickhead dan ( @ dannolan ) june 24 , 2017stop trying to murder poor people steve schreiber ( @ sschreiber13 ) june 24 , 2017fuck you .
im putting you in the toilet you old bitch .
fuck you jesse farrar ( @ bronzehammer ) june 24 , 2017vote no on the murder bill , senator david greenwald ( @ davidegreenwald ) june 24 , 2017hey quick question who came up with `` death panels '' victoria mcnally ( @ vqnerdballs ) june 24 , 2017how rude of us to point out the fact that trumpcare will kill thousands of us and wreck countless other lives .
we must mind our manners .
lawrence glickman ( @ larryglickman ) june 24 , 2017well , we must n't make our precious senators feel sad .
that would be the greatest crime of all , apparently .
kevin gannon ( @ thetattooedprof ) june 24 , 2017you 're a fucking murderer dude .
make peace with it .
prolific jezzer ?
( @ leducviolet ) june 24 , 2017healthcare is literally life and death .
life and death language utterly applies .
matt debenham ( @ debenham ) june 24 , 2017you 're a repulsive liar who cares about nothing but money .
fuck you for hurting the american people , you soulless fucking monster .
beth ? ? ?
( @ bourgeoisalien ) june 24 , 2017how can you stand being you 2nd amendment muslim ( @ 2dammuslim ) june 24 , 2017obamacare is not perfect but republicans insisted on a watered-down version before it passed and now we re left with a healthcare system that needs to be fixed but not eradicated .
some conservatives think that the gop health care plan isn t cruel enough .
we disagree with conservatives .
this proposal to repeal obamacare is cruel enough already .
if it becomes law , it will destroy families , financially and emotionally .
sanders never mentioned the word murder in his tweet so we suspect that hatch has a guilty conscience.as former vice-president joe biden put it , slashing medicaid hurts kids , the elderly , people with disabilities and those struggling with addiction .
all for tax breaks for the wealthy .
hatch already knows this .
the opioid crisis is sweeping across the u.s. and republicans want to target a program which would help some drug addicts eventually become useful citizens in this country .
by the way , the senator s state ranks 4th in overdose deaths.photo by chip somodevilla via getty images .