berlin ( reuters ) - britain must choose from a range of existing off-the-peg models for its relationship to the european union when it leaves the bloc , brussels chief negotiator michel barnier has told a group of newspapers .
barnier , who is leading the eu s negotiations with britain after last year s brexit vote , told handelsblatt that while it was in both sides interest to maintain a close relationship , the range of possible relationships was limited .
the only way to do it without difficulties is by staying within the internal market .
that would be the norway model , but the british government rejects it , he said .
another option would be a free trade agreement like the ceta-deal with canada .
even a canada-style deal would take several years to negotiate .
asked if there would be a specific british model after the country left on march 30 , 2019 , barnier said : no .
european leaders decided this weekend that britain had not made enough progress on exit negotiations to begin work on devising a future relationship , leading to concern in europe and the world that britain could crash out of the bloc in disorderly fashion , with serious economic and political consequences .
a disorderly exit would bring enormous problems - mainly for britain , but also for us , he said in the interview with handelsblatt and four further european newspapers .
that would affect everything from food supply to healthcare .
he added : britain would leave the single air traffic space , losing take-off and landing rights .
it would no longer be a member of the euratom treaty and could no longer import nuclear material from the eu for hospitals and power stations .
the process of designing a longer-term relationship with the eu was also fraught with difficulties , he added , warning that the eu would need to find ways to head off any british attempts to undercut european environmental or welfare standards .
we will have to arrange future co-operation on defense and security policy in a separate treaty , he said .
we will have to ward off british attempts to influence our decision-making processes in this area .
( corrects to remove statement that a bespoke deal could be available after brexit )