brussels/madrid ( reuters ) - catalonia s former leader carles puigdemont was spared custody on monday , when a brussels court ruled he could remain at liberty in belgium until it had heard spanish charges against him of rebellion .
the court s decision means puigdemont , who left spain last month after madrid fired his secessionist government and dissolved the catalan parliament , is free to campaign for independence in an election in the region on dec 21 .
puigdemont said on monday his government s actions were legitimate and criticized the spanish judicial system for a clear lack of independence and neutrality .
the december vote is shaping up to be a de facto independence referendum .
puigdemont s pdecat and another secessionist party said at the weekend they might run on a combined ticket , but would need to make a decision on any formal alliance - which might also include other parties - by a deadline of tuesday .
alliances could however also form after the election .
the independence push has dragged spain into its worst political crisis since its return to democracy four decades ago .
it has deeply divided the country , fuelling anti-spanish feelings in catalonia and nationalist tendencies elsewhere .
puigdemont turned himself in to belgian police on sunday along with four of his ex-ministers , after spain issued a european arrest warrant on charges of rebellion as well as misuse of public funds .
all five are barred from leaving belgium without a judge s consent .
they will appear before a belgian court on nov. 17 for a hearing to discuss the arrest warrant , prosecutors in brussels said in a statement .
puigdemont , writing in britain s guardian newspaper , called for scrutiny of the spanish judicial system and said the crisis could be solved only with a political and not a judicial solution .
does anyone think that the sacked catalan government can expect a fair and independent hearing , uninfluenced by political and media pressure ?
i do not , he wrote .
spain s central government took control of catalonia , which accounts for a fifth of the national economy , after local leaders held an independence referendum on oct. 1 despite a constitutional court ban .
the region s parliament then passed a unilateral declaration of independence .
in response , spain s prime minister mariano rajoy fired the government and called the snap regional elections .
eight of puigdemont s allies stayed behind in spain and have been detained on similar accusations to the ones the deposed leader faces .
on sunday , the first part of a gad3 survey showed that pro-independence parties would win the election in catalonia but may not gain the parliamentary majority needed to continue with secession .
on monday , the second part showed just one in seven people in the region believe the current standoff between barcelona and madrid will end in independence , while more than two thirds think the process has been bad for the economy .
published in la vanguardia newspaper , that survey polled 1,233 people between oct. 30 and nov. 3 .
optimism that a negotiated solution would be found was low , with just over a fifth of respondents thinking the crisis would lead to talks between regional authorities and madrid .
the uncertainty has prompted more than 2,000 companies to relocate their legal headquarters out of the region since oct. 1 .
the bank of spain has said that if the conflict persists it could lead to slower growth and job creation .