lima ( reuters ) - peru s president pedro pablo kuczynski on wednesday signaled both his vice presidents would resign if congress forced him from office , calling an opposition bid to remove him a coup attempt that had to be resisted .
the rightwing populist party that controls congress , popular force , aims to oust kuczynski in a vote on thursday on grounds he is morally unfit to govern , after finding he once had business connections with a company at the center of latin america s biggest graft scandal .
kuczynski , who denies anything improper or illegal , said popular force was misusing its majority to attempt a power grab .
the constitution and democracy are under attack .
we re facing a coup dressed in supposedly legitimate legal interpretations , he said in a late night speech on national television .
this is a conviction that my two vice presidents share , because neither wants to be part of a government born of an unjust and anti-democratic maneuver , kuczynski said .
he was flanked by first vice president martin vizcarra and second vice president mercedes araoz .
if kuczynski loses thursday s congressional vote to remove him and his two vice presidents depart as well , new presidential and legislative elections would be called .
a 79-year-old former wall street banker , kuczynski has struggled to govern since winning last year s presidential election but only a small share of congressional seats for his center-right party .
popular force says its efforts to remove him are well within the bounds of the constitution and key to its fight against corruption .
he simply doesn t care about the country , popular force lawmaker luz salgado said after kuczynski s address .
earlier this week , salgado called for vizcarra to govern the country through 2021 , when kucyznski s term ends .
vizcarra and araoz both pledged their loyalty to the center-right president on wednesday but declined to comment on whether that meant they would resign if he was removed from office .
araoz told reuters on sunday that she and vizcarra would not quit .
in recent days , kuczynski s supporters have increasingly called for his vice presidents to refuse to replace him .
they believe new elections would cost popular force its majority amid widespread contempt for elected officials as a graft scandal taints much of the country s political class .
but investors worry a new ballot could sweep anti-establishment candidates to power in one of latin america s most stable economies .
kuczynski s government does not think it will come to that , said a government source .
it expects about a dozen opposition lawmakers to oppose the motion or abstain from voting , said the source , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
eighty-seven votes are needed to oust kuczynski .
congress passed the motion to start presidential vacancy proceedings last week with 93 votes .
on wednesday , thousands of peruvians marched in front of congress to denounce what they saw as popular force s bid to exploit the crisis to sabotage country s democratic institutions , pointing to its recent efforts to also oust the attorney general and a justice in the constitutional court .
popular force emerged from the rightwing populist movement started in the 1990s by former president alberto fujimori , who is serving a 25-year-sentence for graft and human rights crimes during his autocratic 1990-2000 government .
the united states , where kuczynski once held citizenship , said peru was a strong democracy .
we are confident that the peruvian people and institutions will address this situation according to peru s constitutional norms , the u.s. state department s bureau of western hemisphere affairs said .
the political crisis stems from a disclosure by brazilian builder odebrecht [ odbes.ul ] , which has landed elites in jail from colombia to the dominican republic since acknowledging bribing officials across the region for much of the century .
responding to a request by congress , odebrecht said it paid more than $ 4 million to consulting companies owned by kuczynski or a close business associate for about a decade starting in 2004 .
some deposits were made to a company kuczynski owned while he was minister in a government that awarded odebrecht lucrative contracts .
odebrecht said saturday that there was no indication the transactions were part of its past corrupt dealings with politicians , which it can only discuss with prosecutors .
kuczynski once strenuously denied ever having any ties with odebrecht .
he has since apologized to peru for not disclosing his connections with the company , blaming forgetfulness and poor organization of his personal records after decades of work in finance and public administration .
but he said there was nothing improper about the payments .
being careless and sloppy is a defect but it is not ... a tool for dishonesty and much , much less , for crime , kuczynski said .
kuczynski had once raised hopes that his decades of finance and public administration experience would usher in a new period of investments to spur faster economic growth in the world s no.2 copper producer .
but in a sign of how the crisis has engulfed his government , peru postponed an auction of a $ 2 billion copper project , scheduled for wednesday , until february .