rep. maxine waters ( d. , calif. ) struggled friday on msnbc to explain what the democratic party stands for besides opposing president trump.waters has been one of the most outspoken critics of trump in congress , repeatedly calling for his impeachment and insisting that if investigators connect the dots , then his campaign s alleged collusion with russia will become apparent.given waters public profile as a staunch trump opponent , msnbc host katy tur asked the lawmaker what democrats actually stand for beyond opposing trump s agenda .
congresswoman , what do the democrats stand for other than being against donald trump ?
tur asked .
what do you stand for other than trying to get donald trump impeached ?
everyone knows that i am the ranking member of the financial services committee and that i have spent many , many hours and days implementing the dodd-frank reforms , waters responded.the california democrat proceeded to frame her work on dodd-frank in the context of opposing republicans , which tur noted .
we pushed back on the republicans , we fight against them , waters said .
[ they ] attempt [ ed ] to go get rid of the consumer financial protection bureau before we came up with the reforms under dodd-frank .
tur pushed back .
are democrats focusing enough on their ideas ?
she asked.waters then went on to explain how effective the democrat party has been in their organizing efforts to disrupt town halls where republican political leaders are speaking to their constituents .
listen , if you have not been keeping up with the town halls that have been going on , waters said , referring to the protesters at many republican town halls , where we have basically organized america around the [ affordable care act ] and protected obamacare and the thousands of people who have come out who now are very much informed about the difference between obamacare and trumpcare .
wfbwhat maxine doesn t understand is that when tea party members attended town hall meetings across american and challenged their elected leaders on reckless tax legislation they didn t need to be organized by the republican party .
tea party members weren t just targeting democrat politicians , they were targeting anyone who they felt wasn t representing the people who elected them into office .