finally , something else about those lawyers .
i nearly fell out of my chair upon reading the very first paragraph of the notes of clinton s interview , which identifies the lawyers for clinton who were permitted to be present for the interview .
among them is cheryl mills , clinton s longtime confidant and chief-of-staff at the state department.readers may recall that i suggested back in may that the fix was in in the investigation of the clinton emails .
the reason was that the justice department was allowing cheryl mills a witness , if not a subject , of the investigation to invoke attorney-client privilege on behalf of mrs. clinton in order to thwart the fbi s attempt to inquire into the procedure used to produce clinton s emails to the state department .
mills was a participant in that procedure and it is the procedure in which , we now know , well over 30,000 emails were attempted to be destroyed , including several thousand that contained government-related business.when she worked for clinton at state , mills was not acting in the capacity of a lawyer not for then-secretary clinton and not for the state department .
moreover , as clinton s chief-of-staff , mills was intimately involved in issues related to clinton s private email set up , the discussions about getting her a secure blackberry similar to president obama s , and questions that were raised ( including in foia requests ) about clinton s communications.that is to say , mills was an actor in the facts that were under criminal investigation by the fbi .
put aside that she was not mrs. clinton s lawyer while working for the state department ; as i explained in the may column , mills , after leaving the state department , was barred by ethical rules from acting as mrs. clinton s lawyer in connection with a matter in which the lawyer participated personally and substantially as a public officer or employee .
there is no way mills should have been permitted to participate as a lawyer in the process of producing clinton s emails to the state department nearly two years after they d both left.i thought it was astonishing that the justice department indulged her attorney-client privilege claim , which frustrated the fbi s ability to question her on a key aspect of the investigation .
but it is simply unbelievable to find her turning up at mrs. clinton s interview participating in the capacity of a lawyer under circumstances where clinton was being investigated over matters in which mills participated as a non-lawyer government official.flashback : remember when cheryl mills walked out of fbi meeting : read more : nro