geneva ( reuters ) - british opposition leader jeremy corbyn said on friday he wanted to see much more information about the brexit divorce deal struck between prime minister theresa may s government and the european commission .
may sealed the deal after a pre-dawn dash to brussels , thereby clearing the way for the start of arduous talks on future trade ties between britain and the eu after brexit .
asked if he thought the deal with the eu was a breakthrough , corbyn told reporters : until i see more of it , no .
speaking in geneva after a visit to the united nations , corbyn said his party stood ready for another parliamentary election in britain at any time , noting may s reliance for her majority on northern ireland s democratic unionist party ( dup ) .
they ( the dup ) seem to be calling the shots all the time .
they scuppered a deal she was trying to make a few days ago and they clearly put conditions on this , which is why i want to see a much fuller statement than we ve had thus far , he said .
the next election in britain is not due until 2022 , but there has been much media speculation that it could come much earlier due to may s lack of a parliamentary majority and deep divisions within her governing conservative party over brexit .
corbyn said labour had consistently called for maintaining the benefits of belonging to the eu s customs union and single market during a transitional period as britain leaves the bloc .
the transitional period is unspecific and i think she needs to bring some clarity to that , he said .
the transition should be long enough to guarantee uk and eu jobs and to deal with common problems , such as regulating airspace , he said .
it should also ensure that consumers , workers and environmental rights were put into british law .
the statements that have been made this morning do not specify what regulatory framework there will be in the future and that remains to be seen , because there are still many people in the conservative party who want to live in a de-regulated environment , where britain basically lowers wages and conditions and the tax take on large corporations .
corbyn said he hoped friday s deal included sections on the rights of family reunion for eu and british citizens , adding they should be granted unilaterally and not negotiated .
a reference in the deal to involving the european court of justice on citizenship issues for up to eight years was a sign that the government accepted the need for judicial oversight of citizens rights , he said .