siena , italy ( reuters ) - former italian prime minister silvio berlusconi was ordered on thursday to stand trial accused of bribing a witness in a 2013 under-aged prostitution case , a legal source said .
berlusconi , leader of the center-right forza italia ( go italy ! )
party , is charged with paying a piano player at his wild bunga bunga parties to give false witness at that trial , at the end of which he was eventually acquitted .
the new trial will begin in the tuscan city of siena in february , the source said , not long before a national election which must be held by may at the latest .
the 81-year-old four-times prime minister denies all wrongdoing in the case , and has always maintained that the parties at his plush residence near milan were nothing more than elegant dinner parties .
the new case will lead to unwelcome publicity for berlusconi but may not have much impact on his prospects at the election .
he has already undergone numerous trials on various charges and with a range of outcomes , and most of his supporters either care little about his legal problems or believe his assertion that he is the victim of politically motivated prosecutors .
forza italia is the lynchpin of a center-right alliance which is set to win most seats at the election , according to opinion polls , although they suggest no party or coalition will secure an absolute majority , leading to a hung parliament .
berlusconi is accused of paying pianist danilo mariani to lie in the 2013 trial when he was accused of having sex with 17-year-old moroccan nightclub dancer karima el mahroug , better known in italy by her stage name , ruby the heartstealer .
mariani , who was also sent to trial for alleged perjury , is one of numerous people whom prosecutors believe berlusconi paid to give false testimony at that trial .
the alleged payments to various witnesses are being handled in different courts around the country according to the location of the banks that received the money .
berlusconi was originally found guilty of paying to have sex with a minor and sentenced to seven years in jail , but the verdict was overturned in 2014 by an appeals court , which ruled that there was no proof he had known mahroug s age .
berlusconi s political career has been dogged by non-stop legal battles .
after a conviction for tax fraud in 2013 , he was barred from office , but this month he asked the european court of human rights to overturn the ban .