gennevilliers , france ( reuters ) - in gennevilliers , a communist-held suburb on the paris outskirts , president emmanuel macron s promises to help the poor are met with scorn .
it was in this drab working-class neighborhood that the former investment banker launched his anti-poverty plan this week as he struggles to shake off the tag of president of the rich .
unemployment here is above the national average and one in four people live in poverty .
macron pledges to overhaul professional training to get the jobless back to work quicker .
he has also announced increased disability allowances , a revamp of social housing , and the phasing-out of an unpopular housing tax .
yet his plans to assist poorer households have been eclipsed by reforms widely perceived as favoring the rich and investors , including the scrapping of a wealth tax and a cut in corporate tax .
nathalie and pascal dilard were forced to give up their flat after they lost their jobs .
with their teenage son , they now reside with pascal s elderly parents , living off 400 euros a month .
anti-poverty ?
i m sorry , but when i see our situation , that makes me laugh , nathalie , 50 , said as anti-riot police pushed back protesting unionists during macron s visit .
my problem with him is that he helps the rich , not the little people like us .
we can just die , she said .
six months into his presidency , macron , 39 , is moving fast with his drive to re-shape france s social and economic model .
that has won him praise from international investors , euro zone allies and billionaires such as bernard arnault , the head of luxury giant lvmh , who say his pro-business policies will win new investments and create jobs .
but in a country whose soul is equality , as former president francois hollande once said , and whose tax and welfare systems have produced lower levels of inequality than in britain or the united states , macron s reforms have angered left-wing opponents , unions and workers .
trickle-down commentators have likened macron s policies to the trickle-down economics espoused by former u.s. president ronald reagan and britain s conservative prime minister margaret thatcher .
they believed tax cuts for the rich would benefit the poor through increased consumption and investment .
macron on sunday rejected trickle-down economics , opting instead for a rock-climbing analogy whereby he wanted lead climbers to be strong enough to haul up those behind .
the measures planned for the next five years will increase the living standards of the poorest 10 percent by 2.1 percent , while the richest 10 percent will be 1.2 percent better off by 2022 , according to a french treasury study .
the only segment of the population that will be marginally worse off is the upper middle class , it said .
but according to the ofce economic think-tank , that will translate into a 700 euros per year income increase for the richest 10 percent , while the poorest 10 percent will be less than 200 euros better off .
former harvard university economist philippe aghion , who helped shape macron s economic program , said macronomics was more akin to the scandinavian model because of the place given to state investment in training and education .
nonetheless macron s reforms have re-ignited the debate about redistribution between rich and poor and reveal a weak public confidence that the measures will bring investments beneficial for the whole economy , said the eurointelligence think-tank .
you will never motivate the french people with competitiveness .
you will always motivate them with grands projets , said economist christian saint-etienne , referring to large-scale undertakings such as france s post-war state investment in high-speed trains , planes and nuclear plants .
in gennevilliers , two retirees bemoaned macron s intention of increasing a social welfare tax on pensions .
my husband worked 50 hours a week from the age of 15 .
and now they tell us you pensioners are getting too much in retirement !
said one of them , 63-year-old lisianne jouvenaux .