just when you thought only muslim terrorists teach their kids to use violence against anyone who doesn t agree with them along comes the hateful american left .
what these poor misguided parents have clearly missed is how many latino s don t support amnesty for people who ve illegally crossed our borders it seems like plenty of people have wanted to take a bat to donald trump s head this year , and last night in oregon , some kids finally had the chance with a pi ata shaped like the republican presidential candidate.at the grand opening for el diablito , a food cart in portland , oregon , on saturday , a group of predominately of children and latinos took turns hitting a candy-filled trump pi ata with a baseball bat.the group had some choice words as they took swings at the life-size presidential candidate figure , which had trump posing with his mouth open and his middle fingers raised .
i want to kill him , one child said as he watched someone hit the pi ata.one woman eagerly smashed the pi ata as she hit it several times .
because f * * * trump , she said when asked why she wanted a turn .
i m sorry i know there are kids here , but he really sucks that hard .
another man took several swings at the pi ata as he spoke about why he didn t believe that trump should be elected .
you re bringing hate and we don t want you as a president , the man said as he hit the figure.the owner of el diablito said , however , that the donald trump pi ata had nothing to do with politics , and was instead a way of bringing people to his food truck s grad opening .
it has nothing to do about politics , actually , he said .
it s about having a good time .
i figured that would be the best character for everybody to be excited to take a hit at , he added .
it s all about popularity and he s at the top of it right now a video of the event concludes with a little girl smashing the body off of the pi ata and a man holding the trump figure s head by the hair as its body likes broken on the ground.via : uk daily mail