harare ( reuters ) - a u.s. citizen was charged on friday with attempting to overthrow the zimbabwean government , which carries a sentence of up to 20 years in jail , after police earlier accused her of insulting 93-year-old president robert mugabe .
martha o donovan , who works for magamba tv , which describes itself as zimbabwe s leading producer of political satire , was picked up in a dawn raid on her harare home , her lawyer said .
o donovan , who denies both charges , was expected in court on saturday , lawyer obey shava said .
police spokeswoman charity charamba could not be reached for comment on the new , much more serious , charge .
o donovan was first charged with insulting and undermining the president , according to a police charge sheet , which accused her of last month calling mugabe a selfish and sick man on twitter , the first such arrest since the creation of a ministry of cyber security last month .
that charge carries a maximum sentence of one year in jail , her lawyer said .
shava said police then accused o donovan of setting up magamba , being behind a shadowy twitter character called @ matigary and setting up another twitter account @ openparlyzw for the sole purpose of overthrowing the government through unconstitutional means .
the government has been particularly uneasy about social media after activists such as pastor evan mawararire and his # thisflag movement last year used social media to organize a stay-at-home demonstration , the biggest anti-government protest in a decade .
a national election is due in 2018 .
the police search warrant showed that central to its investigation was a post on o donovan s twitter feed referring to a goblin whose wife and step-sons had imported a rolls-royce , an apparent reference to mugabe , though he was not named .
in a statement to police seen by reuters , o donovan said : i deny the allegations being leveled against me as baseless and malicious .
that is all i wish to say .
the u.s. embassy in harare confirmed an american citizen had been arrested and said it was monitoring the situation closely .
shava said his client had refused to sign a new document known as a warned and cautioned statement with the fresh charge .
the document sets out the government s case and signing it signals a suspect understands the charge .
she had signed the statement on the lesser charge .
police seized her computers , cellphones and other electronic devices in the raid on her home .