shortly after 7 a.m. on wednesday , the police say , james t. hodgkinson , of belleville , ill. , opened fire on a baseball field in alexandria , va. , just steps from the y.m.c.a. , spraying bullets at members of the republican congressional team practicing there.four people were shot in the assault , including representative steve scalise of louisiana , the majority whip and third-ranking republican in the house .
an ensuing firefight with the police took mr. hodgkinson s life.the suspect s brother said mr. hodgkinson was a critic of mr. trump , upset over last fall s election and intent on bringing his protest to washington .
but his more immediate motive for the attack remained unclear late wednesday , even as investigators surrounded mr. hodgkinson s home on the outskirts of belleville , a town of 40,000 across the mississippi river from st. louis .
i know he wasn t happy with the way things were going , the election results and stuff , his brother , michael hodgkinson , said in a phone interview after he received the news on wednesday .
nytrepresentative steve scalise ( r-la ) , a husband and father of 2 young children is still listed in critical condition , simply because his political views didn t align with those of the radical democrat party to which the shooter belonged.brave members of the gop were determined not to allow what happened to stop them from playing in tonight s game .
they took a knee before the game and prayed for their friend and colleague steve scalise : the congressional players who witnessed the shootings by the liberal democrat terrorist yesterday , got a surprise visit from ivanka trump at the game tonight .
watch mi republican rep. mike bishop ( # 8 ) who was on the field when rep. steve scalise was shot , pose for a picture with ivanka trump : https : //twitter.com/ten_gop/status/875493467471962112president trump also took time to address the players and to send his love , thoughts and prayers to steve scalise and his family : https : //twitter.com/ten_gop/status/875507877535993861president trump and first lady melania visited steve scalise in the hospital last night :