beirut ( reuters ) - syrian government forces will advance soon to take raqqa city , which u.s.-backed fighters seized from islamic state last month , a senior iranian official said on friday .
ali akbar velayati , the top adviser to iran s supreme leader , also accused the united states of seeking to divide syria by stationing its forces east of the euphrates river .
we will witness in the near future the advance of government and popular forces in syria and east of the euphrates , and the liberation of raqqa city , he said in televised comments on a visit to beirut .
since early in the syrian war , iran has provided critical military support to the damascus government , helping it regain swathes of land from rebels and militants .
last month , u.s.-backed militias declared victory in raqqa , islamic state s former headquarters in syria , after months of fighting with the help of the u.s.-led coalition .
the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias , is also battling islamic state in eastern syria with u.s.-led air strikes and special forces .
the sdf assault in deir al-zor has focused on territory east of the river , which bisects the oil-rich province .
the syrian army , with russian air power and iran-backed militias , is waging its own separate offensive against islamic state there , mostly to the west of the river .
the u.s.-led coalition and the russian military have been holding deconfliction meetings - to prevent clashes between planes and troops - though the two offensives have sometimes come into conflict .
the u.s.-led coalition against islamic state has repeatedly said it does not seek to fight syrian president bashar al-assad s military .
after capturing raqqa , the sdf said the people of the majority arab city would decide their own future within the framework of a decentralized , federal , democratic syria .
the kurdish-led sdf pledged to protect the frontiers of ( raqqa ) province against all external threats and to hand control to a civil council from the city .
but last week , damascus said it deemed raqqa occupied until the syrian army took control .
with islamic state near defeat in syria , rivalry between damascus and kurdish-led forces is emerging as a fault line that could draw the united states in more deeply and complicate russian diplomacy .
syria s main kurdish groups hope for a new phase of negotiations to shore up their autonomous regions in the north .
the syrian government , however , has asserted in more forceful terms its claim to territory under sdf control including oil fields in the east .