will the mainstream media report about this ? contradicting statements by virginia gov .
terry mcauliffe , the virginia state police say they did not find caches of weapons stashed around charlottesville in advance of last saturday s deadly white nationalist rally.in an interview monday on the pod save the people podcast , hosted by black lives matter activist deray mckesson , mcauliffe claimed the white nationalists who streamed into charlottesville that weekend hid weapons throughout the town .
they had battering rams and we had picked up different weapons that they had stashed around the city , mcauliffe told mckesson.mcauliffe s comments were picked up by other news outlets and spread through social media .
but corinne geller , a spokesperson for the virginia state police , says that no such stashes were found .
the governor was referring to the briefing provided him in advance of saturday s rally and the extra security measures being taken by local and state police , geller tells reason .
as a safety precaution in advance of august 12 , such searches were conducted in and around emancipation and mcintire parks .
no weapons were located as a result of those searches .
the virginia state police also disputed mcauliffe s claims that virginia state police were underequipped to deal with the heavily armed militia members at saturday s rally .
the governor was referencing the weapons and tactical gear the members of various groups attending the rally had on their persons , geller says .
i can assure you that the virginia state police personnel were equipped with more-than-adequate specialized tactical and protective gear for the purpose of fulfilling their duties to serve and protect those in attendance of the august 12 event in charlottesville .
mcauliffe claimed in an interview with the new york times that law enforcement arrived to find a line of militia members who had better equipment than our state police had .
in longer comments that were later edited out of the times story , mcauliffe said that up to 80 percent of the rally attendees were carrying semi-automatic weapons .
you saw the militia walking down the street , you would have thought they were an army , he said .
reason