riots erupted in charlotte after police officers shot and killed keith lamont scott .
rioters didn t care that scott had a history of shooting at cops , they didn t care that he was abusive to his wife and small child .
keith s mom said he was a devout muslim .
black lives matter had an agenda and to hell with facts .
several months later , the real story comes out and it turns out the police officers were only acting in self-defense when they shot and killed the belligerent , armed with a stolen gun , fired at police # keithlamontscott .
just announced : no charges will be brought against charlotte-mecklenburg police officer brentley vinson in the september shooting death of a man in university city , district attorney andrew murray announced wednesday.keith lamont scott , 43 , was shot sept. 20 in a confrontation with officers outside his apartment.murray said that evidence in the case shows that scott stepped out of his suv with a gun in his hand and ignored at least 10 commands from the five officers on the scene to drop it.murray : ofcr vinson acted lawfully when he shot scott .
no charges will be filed .
pic.twitter.com/hxq7ldn5vl mark becker ( @ markbeckerwsoc9 ) november 30 , 2016murray : i know that some in the community will be frustrated but i 'm asking we should not jump to conclusions pic.twitter.com/dn5hw6q1q0 mark becker ( @ markbeckerwsoc9 ) november 30 , 2016murray said that scott obtained the gun which had been stolen in gaston county 18 days before the confrontation .
one bullet was found in the chamber of the gun , the safety was off and murray said scott s dna was found on the grip and ammunition slide.murray said that speculation in the community that scott was unarmed initial reports from a family member on facebook said he was holding a book were untrue .
a reading book was not found in the front or back seats of mr. scott s suv , murray said.officer vinson s gun was examined after the shooting and four bullets were missing , murray said .
guns taken from the other officers at the scene had not been fired , he said.people who claimed on social media that they had seen the shooting and scott was unarmed were later found to be in error three people who d made the claim told state bureau of investigation agents in interviews that they hadn t actually seen the shooting.warning graphic content : the charlotte-mecklenburg police department released the full-length dash camera video of the fatal police shooting of keith lamont scott .
scott s family asked the police to release the video to the public .
cmpdmurray said he ran the evidence in the case past 15 veteran prosecutors in his officer and they were unanimous in their recommendation that there was insufficient evidence to charge vinson in the case.in the aftermath of scott s death , charlotte was roiled by two nights of rioting and nearly a week of street demonstrations .
after street violence , dozens of arrests and the death of one man in uptown , gov .
pat mccrory declared a state of emergency.murray : scott 's widow told cmpd detectives that scott did not own a gun but her texts suggest otherwise mark becker ( @ markbeckerwsoc9 ) november 30 , 2016murray : live round found in chamber of scott 's gun pic.twitter.com/ntqtovipsl mark becker ( @ markbeckerwsoc9 ) november 30 , 2016murray : scott 's dna on slide and grip of the gun pic.twitter.com/q5dbx2ckwm mark becker ( @ markbeckerwsoc9 ) november 30 , 2016murray : totality of evidence does not support shot to scott 's back being first pic.twitter.com/m82mdupfzn mark becker ( @ markbeckerwsoc9 ) november 30 , 2016https : //twitter.com/jaredwyand/status/803991294406230016