bucharest ( reuters ) - romanian anti-corruption prosecutors opened an investigation on monday into the leader of the ruling social democrat party , liviu dragnea , on suspicion of forming a criminal group to siphon off cash from state projects , some of them eu-funded .
dragnea , currently on trial in a separate abuse-of-office case , told reporters he rejected the new charges .
opposition parties called on him to resign as parliament speaker pending the criminal inquiry .
prosecutors said dragnea was suspected of forming an organized criminal group that included public servants and businesspeople in 2001 .
they said there were suspicions the group was still active .
the investigation focused on road construction firm tel drum sa , formerly controlled by the county council of the southern teleorman region , a body that dragnea headed until 2012 , prosecutors said .
dragnea and eight other people conspired to privatize the company through intermediaries , so that it came under the influence and control of the suspect liviu dragnea , the prosecutors added .
the company won many public contracts , at times without tenders or benefiting from confidential information that helped it beat other bidders , the prosecutors statement said .
dragnea and people close to him received cash and other assets from it , the statement added .
tel drum director petre pitis , also under investigation , declined to comment as he left a closed-door hearing at the office of anti-corruption prosecuting agency dna .
a company representative told reuters that an official reaction was not expected on monday .
the group of nine people was suspected of seeking to fraudulently obtain important sums from public works contracts funded with domestic and european funds , by committing abuse of office , eu funds fraud , tax evasion , money laundering and accessing confidential information , the dna statement read .
the case was based on a notice sent by the european anti-fraud office ( olaf ) in 2016 regarding suspicions that dragnea and other regional officials had used forged papers to secure eu funds for road rehabilitations , prosecutors said .
i categorically do not feel guilty , i never formed a criminal group , dragnea told reporters .
the 55-year-old , who got a suspended prison sentence last year for illegally using his influence within the party to sway a 2012 referendum , has dismissed past investigations as politically motivated .
opposition liberal ioan cupsa said dragnea should resign .
once more , he is making parliament and the image it has with public opinion vulnerable , he was quoted saying by state news agency agerpres .
dragnea said he had no intention of stepping aside .
transparency international ranks romania among the european union s most corrupt states .
brussels , which keeps romania s justice system under special monitoring , has praised magistrates for their efforts to curb graft .
the ruling social democrats are currently preparing a judicial overhaul the european commission , foreign diplomats and romania s own president have all said could place the justice system under political control .
thousands of romanians protested against the overhaul earlier this month .
at the start of 2017 , attempts by the ruling coalition to weaken anti-corruption legislation triggered the country s biggest protests in decades .