london ( reuters ) - britain s agreement with the european union over key brexit terms still leaves major issues like freedom of movement undecided , some campaigners said on friday .
prime minister theresa may and eu commission president jean-claude juncker unveiled an agreement earlier on the irish border , citizens rights and the brexit bill , opening the way for talks on trade and a transition period .
while the status of the eu s only land border with the united kingdom was perhaps the thorniest issue , the deal safeguarding the rights of 3 million eu citizens in britain and around 1.2 million britons living elsewhere in the eu will affect households across the continent .
london and brussels agreed to offer equal treatment in social security , health care , employment and education and to let british judges ask the european court of justice to weigh in when necessary for eight years after brexit .
but jane golding , who heads british in europe , a coalition of 10 citizens groups representing around 35,000 britons living in the rest of the bloc , said fundamental issues had not been dealt with .
the really big one is free movement , and we are worried that that is just simply going to be deferred until the next phase , golding , a briton who has lived in berlin for nine years , told reuters .
in future , if you don t have the right of free movement , the right to go and work and live in those other countries and have your qualifications recognized in those other countries , you could be passed up for those opportunities , and that s going to impact your career , she said .
eu and british officials say that british citizens on the continent will , as things stand , only have rights in the member state they are living in on the day of brexit .
however , the two sides are prepared to negotiate further on this next year .
britain , for example , had earlier offered a lifetime guarantee of residence rights but that is , for the time being , off the table , with people losing those rights if they leave the country for five years .
however , that is an area where both sides may continue to look for tradeoffs .
getting a deal that works is crucial to both britain , the world s sixth-largest economy , and the eu , the world s biggest trading bloc .
britons hold positions in major businesses across the continent and take advantage of overseas study schemes such as erasmus , while tens of thousands of elderly people rely on eu agreements for access to public services and their pensions in countries such as spain .
eu citizens fill key roles in britain s state-run health service , construction sector and many professional jobs , with british business leaders keen to retain unfettered access to the continent s labor market .
nicolas hatton , co-chair of campaign group the3million , said he was unhappy that the deal backed britain s stance of making eu citizens apply to remain in the country .
all eu citizens here will need to apply to stay , while so far we were granted residents rights , he told reuters .
this application process will be made with the home office and with the current hostile environment policy ... we are very worried .
there will be errors , there will be mistakes , people will be affected by these mistakes , he said .
responding to fears of overly bureaucratic barriers , friday s joint report from the negotiators emphasized that the process for applying to remain will be as transparent and easy as possible .
application forms will be short , simple , user-friendly and adjusted to the context of the withdrawal agreement , it reads .
but britons in the eu face uncertainty as to what the process may involve in different member states , while europeans in britain have complained about the need to fill in an 85-page application form for residency and to produce tax returns and provide details of their movements over the last five years .
at an early morning media conference in brussels , may offered reassurance to europeans : they will be able to go on living their lives as before , she said .