washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama said on friday that donald trump ’ s recent comments that south korea and japan should acquire nuclear weapons show the leading republican presidential candidate is not well informed on international relations .
trump told the new york times in an interview published on sunday that he would consider letting the countries build their own nuclear weapons , rather than having them count on u.s. protection against north korea and china .
obama has made no secret of his disdain for the billionaire businessman , and he continued that theme with his repudiation of trump ’ s pronouncements .
“ what do the statements you mentioned tell us ? ” obama told reporters at a news conference at the conclusion of a nuclear security summit .
“ they tell us that the person who made the statements doesn ’ t know much about foreign policy or nuclear policy or the korean peninsula , or the world generally. ” obama said trump ’ s candidacy had come up as a topic with world leaders on the sidelines of the summit , and he lamented the state of the republican race .
“ even ... those countries that are used to a carnival atmosphere in their own politics want sobriety and clarity when it comes to u.s. elections because they understand the president of the united states needs to know what ’ s going on around the world , ” he said .
obama took apart trump ’ s positions point by point .
the u.s. alliance with japan and south korea was one of the cornerstones of america ’ s presence in the asia pacific region and had underwritten peace and prosperity there , he said .
the relationship had been a boon to u.s. commerce and influence in addition to preventing nuclear escalation and conflict , he added .
“ you don ’ t mess with that .
it is an investment that rests on the sacrifices that our men and women made back in world war ii when they were fighting throughout the pacific , ” obama said .
“ we don ’ t want somebody in the oval office who doesn ’ t recognize how important that is . ”