washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump ’ s white house wants to sell half of the nation ’ s emergency oil stockpile and open the alaska national wildlife refuge to drilling as part of plans to balance the budget over the next 10 years , documents by the administration showed .
the white house budget , which will be delivered to congress on tuesday , is meant as a proposal and may not take effect in its current form .
but it reveals the administration ’ s policy hopes , which include ramping up american energy output .
the u.s. strategic petroleum reserve , the world ’ s largest , holds about 688 million barrels of crude oil in heavily guarded underground caverns in louisiana and texas .
congress created it in 1975 after the arab oil embargo caused fears of long-term motor fuel price spikes that would harm the u.s. economy .
the trump budget proposes to start selling spr oil in fiscal year 2018 , which begins on oct. 1 , with sales that would generate $ 500 million , according to the documents .
the sales from the reserve would gradually rise over the following years , peaking at nearly $ 3.9 billion in 2027 , and totaling nearly $ 16.6 billion from 2018 to 2027 .
the announcement surprised oil markets , and pulled down u.s. crude prices for immediate delivery to just over $ 50 per barrel during asian trading hours .
[ o/r ] yet the bigger effect , if implemented , would be more long-term as it is planned to last a decade .
the brent forward curve < 0 # lco : > shows prices rising toward $ 55.60 per barrel by april 2018 , but then declining toward $ 53.75 per barrel by late 2018 .
the white house budget plan , released just after trump left saudi arabia , the defacto leader of the organization of the petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) , is seen as undermining opec-led plans to tighten global markets by cutting production , and points toward a future of ongoing ample supplies .
the trump budget would also seek to raise $ 1.8 billion over the coming decade by leasing oil in the arctic national wildlife reserve , the largest protected wilderness in the united states , believed to hold rich reserves of crude .
increased drilling in alaska would add to rising u.s. oil production which , largely thanks to shale , has jumped over 10 percent since mid-2016 to 9.3 million barrels per day .
u.s. politicians have been debating whether to open the reserve in northeastern alaska to drilling since the 1970s , with opponents citing the risk of spills and the contribution to global climate change .
trump has already moved to expand u.s. offshore drilling , including in parts of the arctic , as part of his broader effort to support the oil and gas industries .
he has also moved to trim the u.s. environmental protection agency , including by proposing a more than 30 percent cut to its funding .
mick mulvaney , the director of the office of management and budget , told reporters on monday that the overall budget proposal was part of an effort to help the u.s. economy grow at a rate of 3 percent a year .
“ it drives our tax reform policy , our regulatory policy , trade , energy ... everything is keyed toward getting us back to 3 percent , ” he said .
the white house did not immediately respond to questions about the energy-related budget proposals .
trump ’ s budget would also restart a nuclear waste fund that would bring in more than $ 3 billion by 2027 .
the obama administration stopped charging nuclear energy utilities the fee in 2014 after it stopped the licensing process for nevada ’ s yucca mountain - a waste dump that cost the government billions of dollars but never opened .
the trump administration proposed reviving yucca in details of the budget released in march .