hey barack hussein obama america is still waiting for statement about any of the recent violent murders of innocent cops .
but you can t be bothered right ?
god forbid you address the war on law enforcement ( that you started ) , because it s not nearly as important to you as shining a spotlight on supposed racial inequality is it ?
president barack obama issued a personal invitation via twitter to a muslim high school student who got in trouble last week in texas for bringing a home made briefcase clock to school , touching off a terrorism scare.cool clock , ahmed .
want to bring it to the white house ?
we should inspire more kids like you to like science .
it 's what makes america great .
president obama ( @ potus44 ) september 16 , 2015fourteen year-old ahmed mohamed was taken in handcuffs by police from macarthur high school in irving , texas after he brought his invention to school the monday after the fourteenth anniversary of the 9/11 islamist terror attacks on the u.s. an alarm for the briefcase clock went off in class , prompting a teacher to observe the devise looked like a bomb .
police investigated and on wednesday announced no charges would be filed .
cool clock , ahmed .
want to bring it to the white house ?
we should inspire more kids like you to like science .
it s what makes america great.at wednesday s press briefing held right after obama tweeted his invitation to mohamed , white house press secretary josh earnest attacked the teachers at mohamed s school for erring on the side of caution in an era of islamist terror attacks and troubled student school massacres.earnest also announced obama was inviting mohamed to the white house astronomy night on october 19 .
( quotes assembled from transcribing and various sources . )
i think the president like many of us was struck by the news reports of this particular incident .
the fact is that america s best teachers in our schools , in our best schools at least , nurture the intellectual curiosity of all of our students .
in this instance it is clear that at least some of ahmed s teachers failed him .
that s too bad ( it s not ) too late for all of us to use this as a teachable moment .
this episode is a good illustration of how pernicious stereotypes can prevent even goodhearted people who have dedicated their lives to educating young people from doing the good work they set out to do .
this is an instance where you have people who have otherwise dedicated their lives to teach our children who failed in that effort , potentially because of some things in their conscience and the power of stereotypes .
the white house was pleased to extend an invitation to ahmed to participate in astronomy night .
we ll bring together nasa scientists , others to spend time with young people .
it will be an opportunity to talk about science , the solar system .
it should be a good event .
we re hopeful he ll feel right at home .
ahmed mohamed has become an instant celebrity and sees his case as one of racial inequality rather than about his poor judgment for bringing to school a device that looked like a bomb.here he is bragging about getting ready to sue the school : going to meet my lawyer .
pic.twitter.com/ycxooeoz3z ahmed mohamed ( @ istandwithahmed ) september 16 , 2015here are some of the tweets that offering ahmed mohamed support : @ istandwithahmed @ ibjiyongi @ anildash i hope someone from @ mit reaches out to ahmed with a full scholarship .
he deserves it !
@ potus tony silva ( @ silva1982 ) september 16 , 2015