donald trump just got back from binge-golfing over a span of five days and he s on track to triple the time former president barack obama spent on the golf course in his first year in office even though he repeatedly disparaged his predecessor for golfing .
there are at least 27 tweets which trump unleashed about obama golfing , and on the campaign trail , he continued that .
if i were in the white house i don t think i d ever see any of the places that i [ own ] , trump said during the campaign just last year , citing one of his golf courses in florida .
i just want to stay in the white house and work my ass off , make great deals .
right ?
who s going to leave ?
who s going to leave ?
mark knoller of cbs news keeps detailed statistics of presidencies.by my count , pres trump has spent all or part of 87 days at one of his golf clubs plus one in japan .
more often than not , wh wo n't say when he plays golf .
compares at same point in presidencies : obama 24 rounds of golfgeorge w bush 7 rounds .
mark knoller ( @ markknoller ) november 26 , 2017trump golfed for 5 days straight.last day of his florida holiday , pres trump back at one of his eponymous golf clubs .
5th day in a row .
no photo op for the press pool , dropped off across-the-street at public library .
mark knoller ( @ markknoller ) november 26 , 2017sunday night , the vacationer-in-chief expressed his concern over the russia scandal being brought up by wait for it bringing it up , then went on to tell how much he s done in 10 months , more than any president ever .
since the first day i took office , all you hear is the phony democrat excuse for losing the election , russia , russia , russia , he tweeted .
despite this i have the economy booming and have possibly done more than any 10 month president .
make america great again !
since the first day i took office , all you hear is the phony democrat excuse for losing the election , russia , russia , russia .
despite this i have the economy booming and have possibly done more than any 10 month president .
make america great again !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) november 26 , 2017to be clear , trump is saying that he s accomplished more than george washington and franklin d. roosevelt even though he s the least popular president in the history of polling and has not passed any major legislation .
you know who isn t taking vacations right now ?
robert mueller , that s who.photo by ian macnicol/getty images .