united nations ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump escalated his standoff with north korea over its nuclear challenge on tuesday , threatening to totally destroy the country of 26 million people and mocking its leader , kim jong un , as a rocket man .
in a hard-edged speech to the united nations general assembly , trump offered a grim portrait of a world in peril , adopted a more confrontational approach to solving global challenges from iran to venezuela , and gave an unabashed defense of u.s. sovereignty .
the united states has great strength and patience , but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies , we will have no choice but to totally destroy north korea , trump told the 193-member world body , sticking closely to a script .
as loud , startled murmurs filled the hall , trump described kim in an acid tone , saying , rocket man is on a suicide mission for himself and his regime .
his remarks rattled world leaders gathered in the green-marbled general assembly hall , where minutes earlier u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres appealed for statesmanship , saying : we must not sleepwalk our way into war .
trump s most direct military threat to attack north korea , in his debut appearance at the general assembly , was his latest expression of concern about pyongyang s repeated launching of ballistic missiles over japan and underground nuclear tests .
swedish foreign minister margot wallstrom crossed her arms during the speech .
it was the wrong speech , at the wrong time , to the wrong audience , wallstrom later told the bbc .
a junior north korean diplomat sat in the delegation s front-row seat for trump s speech , the north korean u.n. mission said .
the mission did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
in germany , chancellor angela merkel said she would do everything in her power to ensure a diplomatic solution .
anything else would lead to disaster , she said .
trump s saber-rattling rhetoric , with the bare-knuckled style he used to win election last november , was in contrast to the comments of some of his own cabinet members who have stated a preference for a diplomatic solution .
defense secretary james mattis , who earlier this month raised the prospect of a massive military response if needed , on tuesday told pentagon reporters that secretary of state rex tillerson was working to resolve the crisis diplomatically .
interviewed by fox news , tillerson highlighted washington s policy of pressuring north korea through sanctions .
we have the strictest sanctions ever put in place .
we do believe there are early signs of those having an effect , he said .
ultimately though we re going to need the assistance of the neighbors in the region .
reaction in the united states to trump s speech was mixed .
mitt romney , the 2012 republican presidential nominee , tweeted that trump , a fellow republican , gave a strong and needed challenge to u.n. members to confront global challenges .
but democrat ed markey of the u.s. senate foreign relations committee denounced trump s remarks , telling cnn the president had yet to exhaust his other options in encouraging pyongyang to negotiate .
in a thunderous speech , 42 minutes long according to the official transcript , trump took aim at iran s nuclear ambitions and regional influence , venezuela s collapsing democracy and the threat of islamist extremists .
major portions of the world are in conflict and some in fact are going to hell , he said .
his speech recalled the fiery nationalist language of his jan. 20 inaugural address when he pledged to end what he called an american carnage of rusted factories and crime .
his strongest words were directed at north korea .
he urged u.n. member states to work together to isolate the kim government until it ceases its hostile behavior .
in an apparent prod at china , the north s major trading partner , trump said : it is an outrage that some nations would not only trade with such a regime but would arm , supply and financially support a country that imperils the world with nuclear conflict .
the u.n. security council has unanimously imposed nine rounds of sanctions on north korea since 2006 and guterres appealed for that 15-member body to maintain its unity .
turning to iran , trump called the 2015 nuclear deal negotiated by his predecessor , barack obama , an embarrassment and hinted that he may not recertify the agreement when it comes up for a mid-october deadline .
we can not abide by an agreement if it provides cover for the eventual construction of a nuclear program , he said .
he said the iranian government masks a corrupt dictatorship behind the false guise of a democracy .
iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif tweeted a withering response : trump s ignorant hate speech belongs in medieval times - not the 21st century un - unworthy of a reply .
fake empathy for iranians fools no one .
french president emmanuel macron , in his u.n. speech , said his country would not close the door to negotiations over north korea and staunchly defended the iran nuclear deal .
renouncing it would be a grave error , macron said .
trump called the collapsing situation in venezuela completely unacceptable and warned the united states was considering what further actions it can take .
we can not stand by and watch , he said .
venezuela rejected trump s threats and said it was prepared to resist any u.s. actions , even a military invasion .
at what was billed as an anti-imperialist rally in caracas , venezuelan president nicolas maduro described trump as the new hitler of international politics .
stocks , bonds and currency markets ended little changed on the day .
i think world markets have become complacent about north korea , said scott minerd , global chief investment officer of guggenheim partners .