anyone who uses a driving service such as uber or lyft takes on the risk that their driver might be completely unhinged .
while on the way to a bernie sanders rally in salt lake city , utah , one man , named samuel grenny , and his girlfriend experienced the horror of being passengers in a lyft car driven by a racist donald trump supporter.the young couple s ride quickly became a progressive s nightmare after they told the driver where they were going .
i explained where we were going and what it was for , and very quickly he seemed to tense up about it , grenny told fox 13 .
he started to say that muslims categorically are terrorists .
and then he proceeded to call muslims pieces of crap , but a much unkinder word than that .
at that point my girlfriend started videotaping , she was very shaken .
the verbal exchange was recorded .
in the video , the conversation between the driver and the couple went like this : grenny : you told me , in a cab that i m paying for , that muslims are pieces of [ expletive ] .
driver : muslims are pieces of [ expletive ] .
grenny : oh good , please tell me some more about how you feel man .
driver : why don t you pull your head out of your [ expletive ] [ expletive ] ?
grenny : why don t you pick up a freaking book , man .
you are literally what is wrong with this country , and you re trying to blame minorities .
driver : no you are the one that s wrong with this [ expletive ] country .
driver : get the [ expletive ] out you piece of [ expletive ] .
grenny : good luck buddy .
driver : [ expletive ] get out of my car .
at that point , the couple is forced to leave the car before they reach their destination.grenny contacted lyft and complained about the driver .
lyft gave grenny a full refund and an apology .
lyft also fired the driver .
as grenny notes , the service industry is no place for a person like that to be working in.here is the video footage of the incident and the fox 13 news report on the story below.report : recording : featured image from video screenshot