islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistan s electoral commission on wednesday barred from contesting elections a new political party that is backed by an islamist with a $ 10 million u.s. bounty on his head , a government official said .
haroon khan , a spokesman for the commission , said a four-man panel rejected the registration of milli muslim league ( mml ) as an official political party .
khan said muhammad raza khan , chief of the election commission of pakistan ( ecp ) , told mml s lawyer at the final hearing of the registration that the new party has links with militant groups and as such we can t enlist you .
the ecp spokesman said the commission cited an interior ministry recommendation that the mml was affiliated with lashkar-e-tayyeba ( let ) , a militant group blamed for the 2008 mumbai attacks that killed 166 people , and that such groups could breed violence and extremism in politics .
the united states has designated let founder hafiz saeed a terrorist and offers a $ 10 million reward for information leading to his conviction .
saeed , currently under house arrest , heads the jamaat-ud-dawa ( jud ) islamict charity , which washington says is a front for let .
pakistan s reluctance to press charges against him has been a sore point in relations with washington and india over the past decade .
saifullah khalid , the head of mml , said his party would challenge the decision .
an attempt is being made to keep patriotic forces away from politics , he said .
the party is likely to continue operating unofficially , as it did last month when one of its leaders contested a by-election in the eastern city of lahore as an independent candidate .
the candidate , yaqoob sheikh , won several thousand votes , though officials from mml and jud ran his campaign .
saeed s portraits adorned posters promoting sheikh .
the move to bar the party appears at odds with what political and former military sources told reuters was a plan by the military s inter services intelligence ( isi ) spy agency to integrate militant-linked organizations by bringing them into politics as part of a de-radicalization drive .
pakistani army spokesman major-general asif ghafoor also said last week the integration of militants into the country s politics would be based on seeking a constructive role for the militant-linked groups , although he did not comment on the military s role in any such strategy .
it is in my knowledge that the government has started some discussion over it , that is , how do we mainstream them , ghafoor said .
neighbors india and afghanistan accuse pakistan s military of backing and using militant groups such as let as proxies , a charge the army denies .
the mml is actively running a campaign for its candidate contesting another by-election on oct 26. , to be held in the northwestern city of peshawar .