michigan born and raised rock phenom kid rock is a big fan of president trump and he s not afraid to admit it .
i m proud to say robert ritchie , aka kid rock was born and raised in romeo , mi , the same rural hometown where i grew up .
hunting was a common sport for kids who attended our high school , and many of the parents were employed by chrysler , ford or gm .
given his strong rural american roots , it s no surprise that he s such a big supporter of made in america products .
kid rock has been putting his money where his mouth is for quite some time with his wildly popular line of made in detroit products .
he recently caused quite a stir with his line of t-shirts that are being sold that proudly show his support for president trump.kid rock has announced his latest venture , the american badass grill .
much like trump , the outspoken rocker is taking it to china in his most recent videos , that show both his love for guns and his love for american made products.here s his hilarious american-made american badass grill ad that showcases both ritchie s love for guns and his dislike for products made in china .
we got grills that are made in china , and we got .50 cals that are made in america .
this is 100 percent pure american badass .
the goal was to show what it looks like when chinese-made grills meet american-made explosives .
: here s the ad kid rock uses on his website to describe why he s making made in america grills .
go here to purchase the versatile $ 100 grill : in this ad , ritchie and friends can be seen using a special technique to destroy bbq grills that are made in china .
if it s not made in america like the kid rock american badass grill , you don t want it .
: it really would be dumb to buy any grill other than the american badass , which aims to make grilling great again .
when you get something made in america , the quality is going to be better , kid rock explains .
win , win , win , win , all the way around .
it is one of the most versatile grills on the market .
it is large enough to fit 12 burgers , small enough to take the party on the road , and also features a dual damper system that allows it to cook in different ways .
the american badass grill comes with a dual damper system so you can control heat , the key to perfect grilling , the website says .
open the vents , let in more air and you ll turn up the heat for fast grilling with a nice sear .
close the vents to lower heat for low and slow grilling .
the grills cost about $ 100 .
to paraphrase another american hero , go buy kid rock s stuff .
wfb