apparently hillary s secret emails may contain information about a special relationship between huma and hillary .
clinton insiders continue to come forward with allegations of hillary s affairs with women during her marriage to bill .
why is it be a big deal for any of the men running for president to have an affair , but a non-issue when it comes to hillary ?
why does hillary get a pass on her alleged affair/s ?
the top aide to hillary clinton says meeting clinton was amazing , and that she remembers thinking about the now-democrat presidential candidate , oh my god , she s so beautiful and she s so little !
you know these things that happen in your life that just stick ?
huma abedin said in a call your girlfriend podcast interview .
she walked by and she shook my hand and our eyes connected and i just remember having this moment where i thought , wow .
call your girlfriend describes itself as a podcast for long-distance besties everywhere .
the podcast is hosted by ann friedman , a freelance journalist and new york magazine columnist , and aminatou sow , a digital strategist who was named one of forbes 30 under 30 in tech fields .
the hosts said abedin the vice chair of clinton s presidential campaign was among the top 10 people they were hoping to interview for their podcast .
you re a big deal to young ladies , sow complimented abedin at the start of the interview.abedin said she prefers to have a role that is behind the scenes .
i really work as part of a village , as my boss coined the phrase , she added .
it does take a village to support hillary clinton .
i am part of that village .
asked about the first time she met clinton , abedin said in the fall of 1996 when she was 21 she was working in the former first lady s office as an intern for her then-chief-of-staff melanne verveer .
clinton , she said , was very good about meeting all the interns in her office .
but abedin said it was in little rock after bill clinton was re-elected president that hillary clinton shook my hand and our eyes connected and i just remember having this moment where i thought wow , this is amazing .
and i just it just inspired me .
you know , i still remember the look on her face , she continued .
and it s funny , and she would probably be so annoyed that i say this , but i remember thinking , oh my god , she s so beautiful and she s so little !
via : breitbart news