monrovia ( reuters ) - liberia s president ellen johnson sirleaf on tuesday said democracy in the west african country was being threatened , a day after the supreme court put a presidential runoff on hold over fraud allegations .
former footballer george weah was initially set to face vice-president joseph boakai on tuesday to determine who will replace the term-limited nobel peace prize laureate .
a successful vote would be liberia s first democratic transfer of power in more than seven decades .
but on monday , the supreme court ordered the elections commission to fully examine allegations levelled by charles brumskine , who finished third in last month s first round poll .
the ruling could push back the run-off date by weeks or even result in the first round being re-run .
democracy is only as strong as its weakest link and at these moments , our democracy is under assault .
our country s reputation is under assault , our economy is under stress , johnson sirleaf said in a radio address .
the national elections commission ( nec ) has said the first round of voting was largely fair , and international observers said they saw no major problems with the poll .
however brumskine s complaint cites gross irregularities and accuses nec officials of fraud , an allegation the body denies .
a growing chorus of parties have voiced support for brumskine s case , including boakai s ruling unity party , which last week accused johnson sirleaf , one of its own members , of trying to influence the vote .
she rejected the accusation .
allegations , hate speech , inciteful language has been defining what should be a proud moment in our history , she said on tuesday .
we politicians must do better ...
historians will look back at this time and judge us by how we conduct ourselves at this critical moment in time .
boakai , brumskine and two other first-round candidates - alexander cummings and benoni urey - held a meeting in the capital monrovia on tuesday .
while they called upon their supporters to remain calm and pledged to respect the law , they also vowed to fight to ensure the credibility of the vote .
we thought this would be peaceful , transparent , and meet the standard that it would bring dignity to our country , boakai said afterward .
unfortunately the process was peaceful but not transparent , not credible and didn t represent the will of the liberian people .