mcconnell was shut down completely in this debate as all amendments he put forth were rejected including the mcconnell-burr amendment.congress approved sweeping changes tuesday to surveillance laws enacted after the sept. 11 attacks , eliminating the national security agency s disputed bulk phone-records collection program and replacing it with a more restrictive measure to keep the records in phone companies hands.two days after congress let the phone-records collection and several other anti-terror programs expire , the senate s 67-32 vote sent the legislation to president barack obama , who signed it tuesday night .
this legislation will strengthen civil liberty safeguards and provide greater public confidence in these programs , obama said in a statement .
officials said it could take at least several days to restart the collection.the legislation will revive most of the programs the senate had allowed to lapse in a dizzying collision of presidential politics and national security policy .
but the authorization will undergo major changes , the legacy of agency contractor edward snowden s explosive revelations two years ago about domestic spying by the government.in an unusual shifting of alliances , the legislation passed with the support of obama and house speaker john boehner , r-ohio , but over the strong opposition of senate majority leader mitch mcconnell .
mcconnell failed to persuade the senate to extend the current law unchanged , and came up short in a last-ditch effort tuesday to amend the house version , as nearly a dozen of his own republicans abandoned him in a series of votes .
this is a step in the wrong direction , a frustrated mcconnell said on the senate floor ahead of the senate s final vote to approve the house version , dubbed the usa freedom act .
he said the legislation does not enhance the privacy protections of american citizens .
and it surely undermines american security by taking one more tool form our warfighters at exactly the wrong time .
the legislation remakes the most controversial aspect of the usa patriot act the once-secret bulk collection program that allows the national security agency to sweep up americans phone records and comb through them for ties to international terrorists .
over six months the nsa would lose the power to collect and store those records , but the government still could gain court orders to obtain data connected to specific numbers from the phone companies , which typically store them for 18 months.it would also continue other post-9/11 surveillance provisions that lapsed sunday night , and which are considered more effective than the phone-data collection program .
these include the fbi s authority to gather business records in terrorism and espionage investigations and to more easily eavesdrop on suspects who are discarding cellphones to avoid surveillance.read more : ap