sydney ( reuters ) - hundreds of people attended rallies in australia s major cities on sunday to protest an advertisement the indian community described as highly insulting in its depiction of the hindu deity lord ganesha .
the india forum australia ( ifa ) arranged the protests in sydney , melbourne , brisbane , adelaide and perth in response to a meat and livestock australia ( mla ) advertisement , aired earlier this month .
the ad featured various religious figures including the hindu god , considered vegetarian by followers , sitting down to a meal of lamb .
ifa president nihal agar said on sunday the mla had not listened to the indian community s earlier concerns when the ad initially screened .
to say something is legal is one thing , but it s something else to touch the heart and that is how mla has failed our community , he said .
this is not the multicultural australia that we truly love .
earlier this month , india s high commission in canberra lodged a complaint with the australian government asking for the ad s removal .
the advertising standards bureau dismissed complaints , saying lord ganesha was depicted positively and that the advertisement s intent was to be inclusive .
assistant minister for social services and multicultural affairs , zed seselja , told reuters on sunday that he had met prime minister malcolm turnbull and leaders of australia s hindu community because of the genuine hurt that had been caused .
seselja said organizations needed to consider the impact on people of faith when they exercised their freedom of speech but cautioned against censorship .
an mla spokesman said in a statement after the ad first aired that the organization had undertaken extensive research and consultation while making the advertisement .
the industry association has a history of controversial campaigns , geared at generating discussion and promoting meat consumption .
another advertisement this year featuring indigenous australians welcoming boat arrivals to a barbecue on a beach was described as insensitive while a previous campaign was criticized for promoting violence against vegans .