paris ( reuters ) - european union countries should take advantage of a slowdown in the flow of migrants from africa and the middle east to devise a more coherent approach to a crisis that has strained relations between member states , the head of the oecd said on friday .
in the first six months of 2017 , the number of people landing on european shores reached 85,000 , only about a tenth as many as at the peak of the migration crisis in the second half of 2015 , according to data from the organisation for economic co-operation and development .
right now we have an opportunity .
there is a little bit of a breathing space , secretary general angel gurria said in an interview .
but i think we should use the opportunity of this quiet period to be able to have a better approach because , eventually , there are some 3.3 million refugees in turkey and almost two million in lebanon and jordan .
if they start moving , there is going to be a problem , he said .
citing the example of migrant arrivals from libya , gurria said italy should not be left to carry the burden alone .
italy can not do this on their own ( logistically ) .
and they also can not do it on their own financially , gurria said .
gurria , who has repeatedly highlighted the benefits of migration , said illegal immigrants who had come to the united states as children , the so-called dreamers , were entitled to u.s citizenship .
last month , president donald trump s administration ended the deferred action for childhood arrivals policy ( daca ) , which began in 2012 under former u.s. president barack obama , and has been sending conflicting signals since about its future .
the program has allowed nearly 800,000 dreamers to work legally in the u.s without being deported .
these are american citizens , gurria said .
some of them don t even speak the language of the country where they came from .
they grew up in the u.s , went to school in the u.s , he added .
now , in many cases , because they are becoming adults , they will enrich the u.s. economy .
we believe very strongly that this is where they belong .