this letter is quite possibly the most important letter these students will ever receive throughout their entire college career .
it should be adopted by every college and university in america as part of a contract the students are asked to read and accept.it s finally happened .
a college president , faced with whining students who are offended by well everything , has written a letter to the entire student body .
( some of which i presume will offend some students ) he reminds them they are in college and that perhaps the reason they feel bad is a little thing known as a conscience .
dr everett piper of oklahoma wesleyan university explained what their purpose and his is at the university.here is his letter in its entirety : dr. everett piper , presidentoklahoma wesleyan universitythis past week , i actually had a student come forward after a university chapel service and complain because he felt victimized by a sermon on the topic of 1 corinthians 13 .
it appears that this young scholar felt offended because a homily on love made him feel bad for not showing love !
in his mind , the speaker was wrong for making him , and his peers , feel uncomfortable.i m not making this up .
our culture has actually taught our kids to be this self-absorbed and narcissistic !
any time their feelings are hurt , they are the victims !
anyone who dares challenge them and , thus , makes them feel bad about themselves , is a hater , a bigot , an oppressor , and a victimizer .
i have a message for this young man and all others who care to listen .
that feeling of discomfort you have after listening to a sermon is called a conscience !
an altar call is supposed to make you feel bad !
it is supposed to make you feel guilty !
the goal of many a good sermon is to get you to confess your sins not coddle you in your selfishness .
the primary objective of the church and the christian faith is your confession , not your self-actualization ! so here s my advice : if you want the chaplain to tell you you re a victim rather than tell you that you need virtue , this may not be the university you re looking for .
if you want to complain about a sermon that makes you feel less than loving for not showing love , this might be the wrong place.if you re more interested in playing the hater card than you are in confessing your own hate ; if you want to arrogantly lecture , rather than humbly learn ; if you don t want to feel guilt in your soul when you are guilty of sin ; if you want to be enabled rather than confronted , there are many universities across the land ( in missouri and elsewhere ) that will give you exactly what you want , but oklahoma wesleyan isn t one of them.at okwu , we teach you to be selfless rather than self-centered .
we are more interested in you practicing personal forgiveness than political revenge .
we want you to model interpersonal reconciliation rather than foment personal conflict .
we believe the content of your character is more important than the color of your skin .
we don t believe that you have been victimized every time you feel guilty and we don t issue trigger warnings before altar calls.oklahoma wesleyan is not a safe place , but rather , a place to learn : to learn that life isn t about you , but about others ; that the bad feeling you have while listening to a sermon is called guilt ; that the way to address it is to repent of everything that s wrong with you rather than blame others for everything that s wrong with them .
this is a place where you will quickly learn that you need to grow up ! this is not a day care .
this is a university ! we applaud dr piper and wish more colleges and universities had more like him .
then again , oklahoma wesleyan is not yale or dartmouth , where the presidents are careful not to offend the spoiled brats of well-to-do parents in order to keep those tuition checks and honorariums coming in .
via :