it is becoming increasingly difficult to separate leftists from islamic terrorists as both destroy monuments , statues , and seek to eliminate freedoms we enjoy .
on a day in which an islamic terrorist killed over a dozen people in barcelona , senior editor wilber cooper has the audacity to publish an article for vice magazine urging the left to destroy mt .
rushmore just like isis would.in his article let s blow up mount rushmore , cooper attacks the founding fathers and calls for a demolition of the monument .
his call to erase historical markers , such as statues , echoes the recent movement from left-wingers for a culture war that would decimate americans political traditions and heroes .
those targeted heroes include thomas jefferson , former president and chief author of the bill of rights such as the first amendment and general and president george washington , who declined offers to become a dictator after winning the revolutionary war.cooper argues that these historical monuments and statues help preserve a system of racial exploitation and inequality , and should be erased to help build a new society .
he says , it s going to be impossible to improve america if we can t be honest about its origins and its past .
he insists that trump and his white supremacist cohorts believe the reverence some americans have for these statues is simply respect for history , and that tearing them down is tantamount to ripping pages out of a textbook .
but monuments built by the state are not history they are manifestations of power .
upon acknowledging the insensitivity of the article s title given the tragic events which occurred earlier today in spain , vice magazine deleted the original article and wrote an editor s note : the headline and url of this story have been updated .
we do not condone violence in any shape or form , and the use of blow up in the original headline as a rhetorical device was misguided and insensitive .
we apologize for the error .
they have since changed the title to get rid of mount rushmore .
wow .
what an improvement .
leftists continue to contradict their self-proclaimed peace-seeking objectives and prove that they are actually seeking to burn down the united states by getting rid of every trace of this great country s history .
and you can bet they are coming for the constitution next.read more : breitbart