washington/new york ( reuters ) - backers of republican presidential hopeful marco rubio have spent nearly as much money in the weeks leading up to super tuesday ’ s nominating contests as all of his rivals combined , including an outsized spend in texas .
the super pac supporting the u.s. senator from florida , conservative solutions , poured $ 4.2 million into 10 super tuesday states between feb. 10 and feb. 27 , almost twice as much as groups backing rival ted cruz , according to a reuters analysis of federal election commission filings .
super pacs supporting all candidates combined , including rubio , spent $ 8.8 million in those states during that period .
the biggest chunk of money from rubio 's allied super pac was $ 1.5 million targeting u.s .
senator cruz 's home state of texas , the biggest prize among the super tuesday states in terms of the number of delegates up for grabs .
( click here for a graphic : tmsnrt.rs/1lr2j0c ) cruz is poised to defeat republican front-runner donald trump in texas by a double-digit margin , with rubio running a distant third in opinion polls .
efforts to reach an official at conservative solutions were unsuccessful , but experts said the spending could be an effort to prevent cruz from reaching a threshold of victory that would allow him to sweep the state ’ s 155 delegates .
“ given the delegate allocation , if rubio can keep trump or cruz under 50 percent in some districts , he stops them from getting all the delegates in that district , ” said university of houston political science professor brandon rottinghaus .
in the texas republican primary , delegates are allocated proportionally by congressional district .
texas-based republican strategist joe brettell said a strong showing by rubio in the state could also help the 44-year-old senator justify another run for the presidency in 2020 if he should fail to win the nomination this time .
rubio has emerged as the republican establishment ’ s favored candidate to take on trump for the presidential nomination , drawing a flood of endorsements and donor cash since former florida governor jeb bush dropped out on feb. 20 .
but the senator has struggled to distinguish himself from cruz in both the polls and recent nominating contests .
cruz ’ s allied super pac spent $ 738,000 in his home state during the period .
trump ’ s campaign is largely self-funded and he does not have an allied super pac .
the review of super pac spending does not include money spent by campaigns , which are set to disclose their february spending on march 20 .
super pacs supporting the candidates , as well as other outside groups trying to influence voters , are required to notify the federal election commission shortly after purchasing ads .
super pacs , which were created after the u.s. supreme court ’ s citizens united decision in 2010 , can raise and spend unlimited amounts of money but are barred from coordinating with the campaigns .
this year is shaping up to be one of the most expensive elections in american history .
and a lot of the money lately has been spent targeting trump .
between the super pacs supporting rubio and cruz as well as other groups that are working to bring down trump , $ 7.2 million has been spent in super tuesday states and in national ad buys attacking the new york real estate billionaire , according to the reuters review .
one of the ads the conservative solutions pac is running in texas takes aim at trump university , a for-profit program he launched that is now the subject of lawsuits from unhappy attendees .
trump called for the ad to be taken down , saying it was inaccurate .
( reporting by ginger gibson and grant smith ; editing by richard valdmanis and jonathan oatis ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .