jerusalem/ramallah ( reuters ) - israel hailed u.s. president donald trump s recognition of jerusalem as its capital on wednesday , but the palestinians condemned the move and said it diminished washington s role as a peace mediator .
in a landmark speech in washington , trump reversed decades of u.s. policy in defiance of warnings from around the world that the gesture risked creating further unrest in the middle east .
past u.s. presidents have insisted that the status of jerusalem - home to sites holy to the jewish , muslim and christian religions - must be decided in negotiations between the two sides .
palestinian factions called a general strike on thursday throughout the occupied west bank , the gaza strip and palestinian areas of jerusalem and for rallies to be held at midday ( 1000 gmt ) in protest at trump s move , raising the chances of violent clashes .
israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu said in a pre-recorded video message that trump s decision had made for a historic day and was an important step toward peace .
he added that any peace deal with the palestinians would have to include jerusalem as israel s capital and he urged other countries to follow the u.s. lead by also moving their embassies to the city .
he said there would be no change to access to jerusalem s holy sites .
israel will always ensure freedom of worship for jews , christians , and muslims alike .
but palestinian president mahmoud abbas said trump s move was tantamount to the united states abdicating its role as a peace mediator and declared jerusalem as the eternal capital of the state of palestine .
israel captured arab east jerusalem in the 1967 middle east war .
it later annexed it , declaring the whole of the city as its capital , a move not recognized internationally .
palestinians want east jerusalem as the capital of their future state which they want to establish in the israeli-occupied west bank and the gaza strip .
with this announcement , the american administration has chosen to violate all international and bilateral agreements and resolutions and it has chosen to violate international consensus , abbas said .
the move , he said , would serve the extremist groups which try to turn the conflict in our region into a religious war that will drag the region ... into international conflicts and endless wars .
israeli-palestinian peace talks have been frozen since 2014 .
trump s adviser and son-in-law , jared kushner , is leading trump s efforts to restart them but those efforts have shown little progress .
israel s west bank settlement building has been one of the main obstacles .
palestinian islamist group hamas , which dominates the gaza strip , said trump s move was flagrant aggression against the palestinian people and urged arabs and muslims to undermine the u.s. s interests in the region and to shun israel .