harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe president robert mugabe moved patrick chinamasa from the finance ministry on monday to lead a new cyber security ministry that will focus on crimes on social media and other websites ahead of an election due next year .
chinamasa will be replaced at the treasury by home affairs minister ignatius chombo in a cabinet reshuffle that also diminished the role of vice president emmerson mnangagwa , seen as a potential successor to mugabe .
chombo s move , announced in a government statement , comes against the backdrop of a severe hard currency shortage that has dealt a fresh blow to confidence and investment in the southern african economy , which uses the u.s dollar .
chinamasa was appointed finance minister after mugabe s re-election in 2013 and his move to head the new ministry of cyber security , threat detection and mitigation was unexpected .
its creation comes after chinamasa said last month the government would now treat social media as a security threat after accusing users of spreading rumors about shortages of basic goods , which caused panic buying and price increases .
the government has been uneasy with social media after activists such as pastor evan mawararire and his # thisflag movement last year used social media to organize a stay-at-home demonstration , the biggest anti-government protest in a decade .
government critics took to twitter deriding chinamasa as new minister of twitter , facebook , instagram and whatsapp affairs .
chinamasa , a lawyer by training , will also be responsible for bringing to parliament a long awaited cyber crimes bill that criminalize false information posted on the internet , revenge porn , cyber-bullying and online activity against the government .
meanwhile chombo , who does not have a finance background and is a staunch mugabe supporter who comes from the 93-year-old leader s rural home district , was the surprise pick for minister of finance .
he will have to contend with a serious shortage of foreign currency that has seen u.s. dollar bank balances lose value against cash dollars , fanning a thriving black market .
the worthless zimbabwe dollar was replaced by the u.s. dollar in 2009 but the economy has struggled over the past 18 months because of a massive domestic shortage of greenbacks .
as a result , cash , especially crisp , new , $ 100 bills , has enjoyed a steady 10 percent to 20 percent premium over dollars stored electronically in bank accounts - nicknamed zollars - meaning people have to transfer more than face value to the person selling the dollars on the black market .
when mugabe said on saturday he was going to review the performance of his ministers , speculation was rife that mnangagwa , who said last week he had been poisoned in august , would be among the casualties .
mnangagwa has come under attack from a ruling party faction that accuses him of seeking to force mugabe to resign in his favor .
the zanu-pf is divided into two camps , one supporting mnangagwa to succeed him and another rallying behind first lady grace mugabe .
mnangagwa , who denies the accusations , lost oversight of the justice ministry to the head of zimbabwe s spy agency happyton bonyongwe .
bonyongwe , a retired army general who headed the national intelligence agency for 15 years , will be responsible for new legislation and will supervise the election due next year , including determining which foreign observers to invite .
mugabe , who has ruled the former british colony since independence in 1980 , has said he plans to run for another 5-year term next year , his last under the constitution , when he will be 94 .
in total , 10 cabinet ministers changed posts while two were dropped entirely .