21st century wire says if there is no real terrorist threat , then the thing to do is to create one .
such is the received wisdom of today s federal bureau of investigation.according to its latest public relations release by the fbi s counter terrorism department , the agency plans to significantly increased its use of stings in order to catch would-be terrorists .
in other words , it s planning to ramp-up its policy of using entrapment in order to organize , recruit , train and even supply materials to budding neophyte terrorists in the us.this should come as no surprise to anyone who has been following these incidents .
in spite the grand announcement , in reality all the fbi has been doing for the last 25 years are just that : stings , stings and more stings fbi direct : james comey has spend a lot of time in front of congress this year .
the logic is astounding , if not insane , but for some reason , this type of antiquated thinking still dominated us federal law enforcement institutions : we re not going to wait for the person to mobilize on his own time line , said michael b. steinbach , who leads the f.b.i .
s national security branch .
he added that the f.b.i .
could not afford to just sit and wait knowing the individual is actively plotting .
since before 9/11 , fbi agents have relied on the practice of using informants to pose as jihadi radicals or small arms dealers , in order to excite and recruit fringe members of society into constructive pursuits such as bomb-making , and will often bring them to the scene of a mock terrorists crime before agents leap out from behind the shadows to make a high-profile arrest of the unwitting dupe/suspect.in 2016 , most of the recruitment required to assemble these theatrical , state-managed scenarios is done online via friends on social media , as fbi cyber agents look for individuals who appear to be supporting isis or al-qaeda .
if successful , online grooming transitions to real world meeting , and with any luck blossoms into a contrived terror plot courtesy of the fbi confidential informant .
1993 wtc bomber : ramzi yousef.perhaps the best-ever example of a fbi sting resulting in a real terrorist attack is an event which the mindless us mainstream media still wrongly attribute to real terrorists the 1993 world trade center bombing.in this all-fbi-hatched plot , the agency used at least one known informant , a man named emad salem , a former egyptian army officer .
salem later demonstrated on secret recording he made how the fbi originally asked him to supply the conspirators with harmless powder instead of actual explosive to construct their bomb , but for reasons still ( officially ) unknown , the fbi chose to allow a real bomb to be deployed at the wtc on the day of the supposed sting .author tom secker at global research explains it in the simplest terms : this relatively ragtag group who were inspired by cia asset the blind sheikh and trained by triple agent ali mohamed managed to pull off the bombing .
the result was a bomb detonating underneath the wtc and putting thousands of innocent americans at risk.still , ever single major us television and newspaper outlet still moronically refers to the 1993 wtc event as a terrorist attack on american soil .
team america : fabricated terroraccording to the fbi s own records , nearly 70 % of ( reported ) isis-linked terrorist prosecutions ( not convictions ) are being cooked-up via the use of informants and stings/entrapment : undercover operations , once seen as a last resort , are now used in about two of every three prosecutions involving people suspected of supporting the islamic state , a sharp rise in the span of just two years , according to a new york times analysis .
charges have been brought against nearly 90 americans believed to be linked to the group .
back in may , the fbi arrested a man , james medina , for allegedly for planning an attack on a miami-area aventura turnberry jewish center synagogue with an explosive device .
as it turns out , the synagogue was never actually in any real danger as the bomb was a fake sold to him by an fbi undercover agent , before the man was stopped before the man was stopped by fbi agents posing as fellow terrorists who set up a sting operation .
fbi chat-up lines : are you a muslim ?
which mosque do you go to ?
do you know al-qaeda ?
in 2015 , one classic exhibit was the frame-up of 20 year old christopher lee cornell , snared in one of the most bogus fake terror plot ever , and yet the us mainstream media couldn t stop gushing over the event as if it were an isis-inspired attack , only no attack actually took place.according to david steele , a 20-year marine corps intelligence officer and former-cia case officer , most us terror plots are cooked by by us authorities : most terrorists are false flag terrorists , or are created by our own security services .
in the united states , every single terrorist incident we have had has been a false flag , or has been an informant pushed on by the fbi .
in fact , we now have citizens taking out restraining orders against fbi informants that are trying to incite terrorism .
we ve become a lunatic asylum .
some other similar would-be high-profile terror icons and patsies include : paris shooter amedi coulibaby ( see his incredible informant case here ) , ottawa shooter zehaf-bibeau ( see his patsy story here ) , boston bomber tamerlan tsarnaev ( see his informant story here ) , the underwear bomber umar farouk abdulmutallab ( see his patsy story here ) , buford rogers ( read his informant story here ) , jerad miller ( read his informant story here ) , naji mansour ( read his entrapment story here ) , quazi mohammad nafis ( read his patsy story here ) , mohamed osman mohamud ( read his entrapment story here ) , and even the infamous okc bomber timothy mcveigh ( read his sheep-dipped , patsy story here ) .in reality , it is the covert culture of washington dc which does more to promote genuine terrorism , at home and internationally much more than any other single nation state outside of saudi arabia and israel .
until the major of people realize thisread more zany fbi plots at : 21st century wire daily shooter filessupport our work & become a 21wire.tv member here