islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistan allowed the wife and mother of an indian man convicted of spying to visit him on monday in islamabad , eight months after he was sentenced to death by a military court .
kulbhushan sudhir jadhav , a former officer in the indian navy , was arrested in march 2016 in the pakistan province of baluchistan , where there has been a long-running conflict between national security forces and militant separatists .
the case has added to tensions between the nuclear-armed neighbors , who often accuse each other of violating a 2003 ceasefire along their disputed border in kashmir , where the countries sometime engage in intense artillery duels .
pakistan released a picture of jadhav s mother , avanti , and wife , chetankul , seated at a desk and speaking to him from behind a glass window .
the mother and wife of commander jadhav sitting comfortably in the ministry of foreign affairs pakistan .
we honor our commitments , a spokesman for pakistan s foreign office , mohammad faisal , said in an earlier twitter posting when the women first arrived at the ministry in islamabad .
india s foreign affairs office has not responded to a request for comment on the meeting .
after jadhav was sentenced to death in april , india asked the world court for an injunction to bar the execution , arguing that he was denied diplomatic assistance during what it says was an unfair trial .
the world court ordered pakistan in may to delay jadhav s execution , and said islamabad had violated a treaty guaranteeing diplomatic assistance to foreigners accused of crimes .
pakistan authorities say jadhav confessed to being ordered by india s intelligence service to conduct espionage and sabotage in baluchistan to destabilize and wage war against pakistan .
baluchistan is at the center of a $ 57 billion chinese-backed belt and road development project that at first focused on chinese companies building roads and power stations , but is now expanding to include setting up industries .
in a transcript released by pakistan of what it says is jadhav s confession , the former naval officer says disrupting the chinese-funded projects was a main goal of his activities .