new york ( reuters ) - u.s. catholics voiced support for pope francis on sunday after he criticized donald trump ’ s immigration stance as “ not christian , ” but many interviewed by reuters said the controversy would not necessarily sour them on the republican presidential contender .
the pontiff injected himself into the u.s. campaign during a conversation with reporters on his flight home from mexico on thursday .
in his comments , francis disparaged trump ’ s vow to build a wall along the southern u.s. border to keep out illegal immigrants .
a sampling of opinion from people before and after sunday mass suggested that many catholics saw the pope ’ s comments as well-intentioned and grounded in a moral worldview .
many said francis , who has become a champion of inclusion in his three-year tenure as head of the roman catholic church , was right to insist on the humane treatment of all immigrants .
even so , most of those interviewed in boston and new york would not rule out voting for trump based on what francis said .
about 21 percent of the u.s. population identifies as catholic .
“ i agree with the pope as far as being a true christian , you accept everybody , ” said paul nappi , 65 , outside our lady of mount carmel in brooklyn , new york .
“ i happen to like trump but i don ’ t know if he ’ s literally about building walls or that ’ s just a figure of speech. ” many churchgoers said the media unfairly whipped up the controversy to goad the pope and trump into a fight days before saturday ’ s south carolina republican primary .
trump ’ s victory there made the billionaire real estate mogul the clear front-runner for his party ’ s nomination for the nov. 8 election to succeed democratic president barack obama .
“ it ’ s very treacherous for the media to ask those questions to the pope because they were questions inspired by the media itself , ” said catalina carmona , 31 , a lawyer visiting new york from colombia .
“ he was put in a difficult situation and he said what a leader in his position would be able to say. ” francis never directly criticized trump or mentioned him by name when he told reporters : “ a person who thinks only about building walls , wherever they may be , and not building bridges , is not christian. ” carol menkiti , 76 , of somerville , massachusetts , said of the pope ’ s remarks : “ i felt he was using an analogy that ’ s often used .
i love the pope. ” “ i don ’ t think he comments on politics , but he talks about the human condition , ” she said after attending mass at st. paul ’ s church in cambridge , massachusetts .
a spokesman for francis sought on friday to tone down the controversy , insisting the pontiff was not making a personal attack on trump or any statement about the u.s. election .
after initially saying it was “ disgraceful ” for the pope to judge another ’ s faith in god , the blunt-spoken trump said francis was “ a nice man ” who was probably misinterpreted by the media .
but from the pulpit of st. paul ’ s , the rev .
james flavin did not shy away from the issue .
in his sunday sermon , he linked the pope ’ s remarks about “ walls ” to many of the social justice themes he has sounded since his papacy began in march 2013 .
“ the pope denounced a world divided by walls , ” flavin said .
“ he ’ s challenging us to change the world through our imitation of christ. ” how much the pope ’ s views will influence u.s. catholics in the voting booth is an open question , but parishioners suggested a muted impact at best .
while most of those interviewed said they respected the pope ’ s moral authority , joe ruggiero , 70 , thought francis sometimes “ gets a little carried away ” with what he characterized as a “ basically socialist ” point of view .
“ catholics believe the pope is infallible in issues of faith , not issues of politics , ” ruggiero said outside the cathedral of the holy cross in boston .
nappi said the pope ’ s influence over catholics would not necessarily be the sole determining factor in how catholics vote .
“ i think anytime the pope says something , of course it ’ ll have an affect on catholic voters , ” he said .
“ me personally , i like to weigh all the issues before i make a definitive opinion one way or another. ” ( additional reporting by scott malone in boston ; writing by frank mcgurty ; editing by peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .