jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia s parliament speaker , setya novanto , has been taken into custody by the anti-corruption agency after being arrested over his alleged role in causing state losses of $ 170 million linked to a national electronic identity card scheme .
novanto , clad in an orange vest worn by detainees of the corruption eradication commission ( kpk ) , was transferred from a hospital on sunday night into a kpk detention facility .
he is one of the most senior politicians to be detained by the agency , popular among ordinary indonesians for targeting members of the establishment suspected of abuse of power .
novanto was arrested on friday night but his detention was postponed while he received treatment for injuries suffered in a car crash the day before .
delay of the arrest is no longer needed , as a medical statement showed novanto did not need further hospital treatment , laode muhammad syarif , the deputy head of the agency , said in a video on its official periscope page .
on sunday night , novanto told reporters he was still suffering from vertigo after the crash that he said had injured a leg , an arm and his head .
i thought i would be given time for recovery , but i obey the law , novanto was quoted by news website kumparan.com as saying .
novanto will be held for 20 days for questioning , said kpk spokesman febri diansyah .
he will be detained in a sparsely-furnished holding cell with some mattresses and a shared toilet .
graft agency officials tried to arrest novanto , the chairman of golkar , indonesia s second-largest party and partner in the ruling coalition , at his house in jakarta late on wednesday .
but they failed to find him , sparking speculation that he had gone into hiding .
later , novanto was involved in a car accident and his lawyer , fredrich yunadi , said a journalist was driving the vehicle and interviewing his client at the time .
the car crash was found to be an accident , media cited jakarta s deputy director of traffic police as saying , dismissing speculation that the mishap was staged .
novanto has denied wrongdoing but has repeatedly missed summonses for questioning by the agency in recent months , saying he was ill and needed heart surgery .
the agency is investigating state losses of about $ 170 million after allegations that sums ranging from $ 5,000 to $ 5.5 million , generated by marking up procurement costs for the id cards , were divided up among politicians in parliament .
novanto was named a suspect on nov. 10 again after he had used a controversial legal maneuver , a pre-trial motion , to get earlier charges dropped last month .
president joko widodo told reporters on monday that he had asked novanto to follow the legal process .
the kpk has been collaborating with the u.s. federal bureau of investigation on the case , said agency spokesman diansyah .
the fbi has been investigating the activities of johannes marliem , a u.s.-based contractor for the id card scheme , who later committed suicide in los angeles .
the parliament speaker s legal battle with the graft agency has gripped indonesia , with newspaper front pages splashing the story and social media circulating memes mocking him .
novanto gained a measure of international fame in september 2015 when donald trump , then a u.s. presidential candidate , hailed him as a great man at a news conference .
do they like me in indonesia ?
trump asked after introducing novanto to reporters at trump tower .
yes , highly , novanto replied .