this is what happens when you have government leaders who represent their own self interests , putting job opportunities and national security for its citizens dead last .
sound familiar ? a well-known iranian born writer , ramin peymani explains in a huffington post- germany article , der syrer eine fl chtlingsgeschichte ( the syrians , a refugee story ) , that , while living in germany , he met up with the syrian refugee in the checkout line at a local grocery store.being iranian , peymani could speak fluently with the refugee , who freely admitted that he , and all the others claiming to be refugees , were not fleeing war , but had merely come in search of jobs and money.the syrian told peymani that his mother lived in america , that that his sister was still in syria .
did you escape with your mother ?
why your sister has not come ?
peymani asked .
no , i did not flee .
none of us had to flee , the syrian freely admitted .
the assad regime is cruel and unjust , but you can live in syria , if you just don t mess with it .
peymani then asked if the syrian had then fled from the islamic state terrorists .
the syrian s answer in this regard was revealing as well : i come from damascus , like most of us [ refugees ] do that i ve met in the camp .
there is no is [ in damascus ] ; it is in other regions , for example , towards iraq .
peymani then asked him the logical next question : are you saying that most syrians do not flee from war and persecution ?
the syrian answered : yes .
my friends and i went because we didn t want to go to the army .
and because it is easier to get a good job and earn money in europe .
peymani then wanted to know why so many syrians had come so suddenly .
why now are so many coming ?
is it because the assad regime has become worse ?
the syrian replied : no .
he [ assad ] has been in power many years already .
the regime is cruel and can kill opponents , but my family and i have not been touched , and none of my friends either .
so why had they all now come to europe , peymani asked , to which the syrian replied : in the summer we saw on the internet that germany wanted people to live there .
we were invited to come here .
and it was said that the state would take care of us and we would be given jobs .
but i can not find one peymani also asked him what route he had followed to germany .
i lived in turkey for some time after my mother had emigrated to the united states to be with relatives .
but i could not get a visa for the usa , even though my mother has a green card .
peymani asked him if he had fled to turkey because of the war in syria ?
laughing , the syrian replied : no ( laughs ) .
my friends and i are here because we thought we d find work .
we did not like turkey .
he was then asked if his story is typical of the people who leave syria ?
the syrian replied : i think most go for the same reason as i did .
all men of my age , who want to just live better elsewhere .