new delhi ( reuters ) - india s main opposition congress party on monday elevated rahul gandhi , the scion of the country s most fabled political dynasty , as its president , preparing to challenge the dominance of prime minister narendra modi ahead of national polls in 2019 .
in a long-awaited move , gandhi , the great-grandson of india s founding prime minister jawaharlal nehru , was elected unopposed to head the party .
he will take the reins from his mother sonia , the party s longest-serving president , since 1998 .
calling it a historic occasion , the congress party said gandhi would take charge as president on dec. 16 .
television broadcast images of party supporters celebrating and distributing sweets outside congress offices in the capital , new delhi , and the financial hub of mumbai .
gandhi s ascent coincides with state polls in modi s western home state of gujarat that are shaping as a test for the prime minister , who has been facing criticism for softening economic growth and poor implementation of a nationwide sales tax .
the congress hopes a round of state elections offers the party , and gandhi , a shot at revival ahead of the next national elections , due in 2019 .
modi s depiction of gandhi as an undeserving prince has helped sideline gandhi since the last national election , during which time congress has suffered some of its worst results in local elections .
the nehru-gandhi family has ruled the country for most of its 70 years since independence from britain .
gandhi s father and grandmother were both prime ministers , and both assassinated .
following congress defeat in the 2014 polls , gandhi struggled to convince voters , as well as many within his party , of his leadership skills .
but senior congress leader ghulam nabi azad said gandhi was now ready for the next challenge .
the entire country has lots of expectations from rahul gandhi , azad said .
much before he was elected he has shown his mettle .
he knows his responsibility .
modi s bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) swiftly dismissed gandhi s election , saying he had become president only on the basis of dynastic principle .
the new india is loath to ( accept ) dynastic principle and the family character of the congress further diminishes its appeal , bjp spokesman g.v.l .
narasimha rao told reuters .
gandhi , until now a vice-president of congress , is widely seen as a prime ministerial candidate if the party returns to power one day .
the 47-year-old has increasingly gone public in slamming modi s governance since the last national polls , as he looks to shed the reticent image that has for years been synonymous with his political dynasty .
but he has also faced political backlash .
in 2015 , for example , he took nearly two months of leave , prompting modi s party to accuse him of holidaying while parliament was in session .
modi still trumps gandhi in popularity rankings , however .
nearly nine of 10 indians have a favourable opinion of him and more than two-thirds are satisfied with the direction in which he is taking the country , a pew survey found in november .
modi s favourable rating was 30 points more than gandhi s , it showed .