washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump complained on monday that the united states is shouldering an unfair burden of the cost of the united nations , but said if the world body reforms how it operates , the investment would be worth it .
trump , who has frequently criticized the cost to the united states of supporting the nato alliance , took his concerns directly to the ambassadors of the u.n. security council , who joined him at the white house for a lunch .
“ if we do a great job , i care much less about the budget because you ’ re talking about peanuts compared to the important work you ’ re doing , ” trump told the 15 council envoys .
the united states is the biggest u.n. contributor , paying 22 percent of the $ 5.4 billion core budget and 28.5 percent of the $ 7.9 billion peacekeeping budget .
these assessed contributions are agreed by the 193-member u.n. general assembly .
trump said the u.s. share of those budgets was “ unfair. ” he has proposed a 28 percent budget cut for diplomacy and foreign aid , which includes an unspecified reduction in funding for the united nations and its agencies , as well as enforcement of a 25 percent cap on u.s. funding for peacekeeping operations .
“ we need the member states to come together to eliminate inefficiency and bloat and make sure that no one nation shoulders a disproportionate share of the burden , ” he said .
trump ’ s remarks came as the general assembly prepares to negotiate in the coming months the u.n. regular budget for both 2018 and 2019 and the peacekeeping budget from july 1 , 2017 to june 30 , 2018 .
united nations secretary-general antonio guterres met briefly with trump at the white house on friday for the first time since both took office earlier this year .
the united states currently owes the united nations $ 896 million for its core budget , u.n. officials said .
the united states is also reviewing 16 u.n. peacekeeping missions as the annual mandates come up for renewal by the security council in a bid to cut costs .
u.n. agencies such as the u.n. development program ( undp ) , the children ’ s agency unicef , and the u.n. population fund ( unfpa ) , are funded by governments voluntarily .
the state department said this month it was ending funding for unfpa , the international body ’ s agency focused on family planning , as well as maternal and child health in more than 150 countries .
guterres warned that the cut could have “ devastating effects ” on vulnerable women and girls .
in 2016 , the united states was the top contributor to the undp ’ s core budget , with an $ 83 million donation ; the leading donor to unicef ’ s core budget in 2015 with $ 132 million ; and the fourth-largest donor to the unfpa , giving $ 75 million .