( reuters ) - a man who assaulted police officers with a four-foot sword outside queen elizabeth s buckingham palace residence shouting allahu akbar ( god is greatest ) was being questioned by counter-terrorism police on saturday .
two unarmed officers suffered slight cuts as they detained the man , who drove at a police van on friday evening , then took the sword from the front passenger foot-well of his car , london s metropolitan police said .
it was too early to say what the man was planning to do , said commander dean haydon , the head of the met s counter terrorism command .
we believe the man was acting alone and we are not looking for other suspects at this stage , he said .
it is only right that we investigate this as a terrorist incident at this time .
europe has been on high alert following a string of militant attacks , including four this year in britain which killed 36 people .
the country s threat level remains at severe , meaning an attack is highly likely .
no members of the royal family were present in the palace , which is a magnet for tourists in britain s capital in the peak august holiday weekend .
i want to thank the officers who acted quickly and bravely to protect the public last night demonstrating the dedication and professionalism of our police , prime minister theresa may said in a message on twitter .
the suspect was initially arrested on suspicion of grievous bodily harm and assault on police .
he was then further arrested under britain s terrorism act .
police said they were investigating a 26-year-old man from the luton area , an ethnically diverse town 35 miles ( 55 km ) north of london where police have carried out investigations linked to other militant attacks , including one earlier this year on london s westminster bridge .
my partner saw a sword ( ... ) as well as a policeman with blood on him , looking like his hand or chest was injured .
the police officer had it in his hand , walking away with it , said an unnamed witness quoted by the times newspaper , who said tourists were running away from the scene .
something happened before , which is why the people ran away .
i m not sure what this was .
but people were already scared and i saw the policeman pull the man from the car the witness said .
the suspect was treated at a london hospital for minor injuries , and there were no other reported injuries .
this is a timely reminder that the threat from terrorism in the uk remains severe , haydon added .
the police , together with the security services , are doing everything we can to protect the public and we already have an enhanced policing plan over the bank holiday weekend to keep the public safe .