moscow ( reuters ) - moscow s ambassador to the united nations said the united states and ukraine have told russia they will not work on a russian proposal to deploy united nations peacekeepers in eastern ukraine , the tass news agency reported .
russian president vladimir putin this month suggested armed u.n. peacekeepers be deployed to eastern ukraine to help protect ceasefire monitors from the organization for security and cooperation in europe ( osce ) and to help end a conflict between ukrainian troops and russia-backed separatists , which has killed more than 10,000 people since 2014 .
putin originally said the peacekeepers should be deployed along the line of contact between ukrainian government forces and pro-russian separatists , but later said they could also be deployed in other areas where osce inspectors work .
however , washington and kiev also want peacekeepers to be deployed along those parts of ukraine s border with russia which kiev does not control .
tass cited vasily nebenzia , moscow s u.n. ambassador , as saying on monday the united states and ukraine had formally told russia in the united nations security council that they were unwilling to work on moscow s draft resolution on the subject because they had too many objections to it .
the u.s. and ukrainian delegations said after the first discussion that they were not ready to work on the ( russian ) text in future , nebenzia was cited as saying .
( they said ) they had significant objections and that , possibly , the ukrainians would have a counter proposal to deploy peacekeepers to donbass ( eastern ukraine ) .
moscow was not abandoning its own proposal , however , said nebenzia , saying it would continue to advance it when the conditions were right .
ukraine has advocated an alternative plan that would ban any russian nationals from taking part in a peacekeeping mission which it wants deployed along the part of its border with russia which it does not control , an idea moscow has so far baulked at .