caracas ( reuters ) - venezuelan president nicolas maduro looked to the world of digital currency to circumvent u.s.-led financial sanctions , announcing on sunday the launch of the petro backed by oil reserves to shore up a collapsed economy .
the leftist leader offered few specifics about the currency launch or how the struggling opec member would pull off such a feat , but he declared to cheers that the 21st century has arrived !
venezuela will create a cryptocurrency , backed by oil , gas , gold and diamond reserves , maduro said in his regular sunday televised broadcast , a five-hour showcase of christmas songs and dancing .
the petro , he said , would help venezuela advance in issues of monetary sovereignty , to make financial transactions and overcome the financial blockade .
opposition leaders derided the announcement , which they said needed congressional approval , and some cast doubt on whether the digital currency would ever see the light of day in the midst of turmoil .
the real currency , the bolivar , is in freefall , and the country is sorely lacking in basic needs like food and medicine .
still , the announcement highlights how sanctions enacted this year by u.s. president donald trump s administration are hurting venezuela s ability to move money through international banks .
washington has levied sanctions against venezuelan officials , pdvsa executives and the country s debt issuance .
sources say compliance departments are scrutinizing transactions linked to venezuela , which has slowed some bond payments and complicated certain oil exports .
maduro s pivot away from the u.s. dollar comes after the recent spectacular rise of bitcoin , which has been fueled by signs that the digital currency is slowly gaining traction in the mainstream investment world .
the announcement bewildered some followers of cryptocurrencies , which typically are not backed by any government or central banks .
ironically , venezuela s currency controls in recent years have spurred a bitcoin fad among tech-savvy venezuelans looking to bypass controls to obtain dollars or make internet purchases .
maduro s government has a poor track record in monetary policy .
currency controls and excessive money printing have led to a 57 percent depreciation of the bolivar against the dollar in the last month alone on the widely used black market .
that has dragged down the monthly minimum wage to a mere $ 4.30 .
for the millions of venezuelans plunged into poverty and struggling to eat three meals a day , maduro s announcement is unlikely to bring any immediate relief .
economists and opposition leaders say maduro , a former bus driver and union leader , has recklessly refused to overhaul venezuela s controls and stem the economic meltdown .
he could now be seeking to pay bondholders and foreign creditors in the currency amid a plan to restructure the country s major debt burden , opposition leaders said , but the plan is likely to flop .
it s maduro being a clown .
this has no credibility , opposition lawmaker and economist angel alvarado told reuters .
i see no future in this , added fellow opposition legislator jose guerra .
maduro says he is trying to combat a washington-backed conspiracy to sabotage his government and end socialism in latin america .
on sunday he said venezuela was facing a financial world war .