our military men and women never had to wonder if president george w. bush cared about them former press secretary for george w. bush , dana perino , has a new book out about her tenure during the bush administration entitled , and the good news is : lessons and advice from the bright side .
one of the stories from the book is certainly raising some eyebrows about the former president .
she describes a visit to walter reed military hospital by the then president during 2005 .
one of the men the president was visiting was a marine who was in intensive care .
what s his prognosis ?
the president asked .
well , we don t know sir , because he s not opened his eyes since he arrived , so we haven t been able to communicate with him .
but no matter what , mr. president , he has a long road ahead of him , said the cno.the president and his aides then proceeded to carry out the purple heart ceremony for the young , unconscious marine.the marine had just opened his eyes .
i could see him from where i stood.the cno held the medical team back and said , hold on , guys .
i think he wants the president .
the president jumped up and rushed over to the side of the bed .
he cupped the marine s face in his hands .
they locked eyes , and after a couple of moments the president , without breaking eye contact , said to the military aide , read it again .
so we stood silently as the military aide presented the marine with the award for a second time .
the president had tears dripping from his eyes onto the marine s face .
as the presentation ended , the president rested his forehead on the marine s for a moment.now everyone was crying , and for so many reasons : the sacrifice ; the pain and suffering ; the love of country ; the belief in the mission ; and the witnessing of a relationship between a soldier and his commander in chief that the rest of us could never fully grasp .
( in writing this book , i contacted several military aides who helped me track down the name of the marine .
i hoped for news that he had survived .
he did not .
he died during surgery six days after the president s visit .
he is buried at arlington cemetery and is survived by his wife and their three children .
) via : controversial times