patrick henningsen 21st century wirethis week some devastating news befell john sidney mccain iii.on wednesday , his staff announced that the us senator had been diagnosed with a brain tumor called glioblastoma discovered during recent testing at the mayo clinic in phoenix , arizona.since then warm wishes and tributes have been pouring in for the former republican presidential candidate .
both the us media and political establishment have closed ranks and are rallying around the senator to help soften the blow.putting previous feuds aside , president donald trump was magnanimous and cordial to the arizona senator , wishing him and his family the very best .
melania and i send our thoughts and prayers to senator mccain , cindy , and their entire family , said trump .
get well soon .
even former electoral rival president barack obama pitched in a little love for the 80 year old : john mccain is an american hero & one of the bravest fighters i 've ever known .
cancer does n't know what it 's up against .
give it hell , john .
barack obama ( @ barackobama ) july 20 , 2017regarding mccain s diagnosis , we all can acknowledge the difficulties and risks involved with various cancer treatments , especially with brain cancer .
likewise , nearly everyone these days can attest to losing a friend , a loved one or family member to the disease.as with anyone suffering from this terrible condition , we wish the senator well , along with a successful treatment and recovery.still , mccain has a lot in his favor .
unlike most americans , he will not have to worry about his medical care , and will be receiving the best cancer treatment money can buy , if not the best in the world , and with absolutely no expense spared .
in this way , the senator is extremely fortunate.and for those reasons , this is not an easy article to write .
for fear of appearing too cruel in the face of his dramatic medical disclosure , one would be expected to suspend any political critique for now .
hence , the media has placed an unofficial moratorium on any negative coverage of mccain.that said , he is a special case .
as much as any political leader he deserves to be panned , even under the present circumstances , because his geopolitical handiwork continues to cause havoc in certain corners of the world.cancer treatment in syriaimmediately after mccain s major health announcement , the us mainstream media and republicans began fretting over the prospect that his extended absence from the legislature might jeopardize his party s ability to pass legislation to repeal the affordable care act ( commonly known as obamacare ) .with that in mind , maybe it s worth asking : how many innocent syrians have been denied basic medical treatment , supplies and pharmaceuticals as a result of the harsh us-led regime economic sanctions imposed on syria ?
this brutal campaign of collective punishment has been led by us senator john mccain.of course , the idea of sanctions as a form of economic warfare hardly registers in the west as being at all harmful to the population of syria .
sanctions ?
they re not against the people of syria , only against assad .
that s the general mainstream phantasm when it comes to sanctions , even though the official numbers show a vivid tale of devastation.one can only imagine how many among syria s population of 20 million are no longer able to receive cancer treatment in syria as a result of mccain s insistence on punitive sanctions .
before the conflict in syria began in 2011 , citizens were able to get free medical treatment including high-end state-of-the-art cancer treatment ( consider that one simple aspect of this war , as men like john mccain still claim to be delivering freedom to the syrian people by backing armed terrorist factions ) .before the terrorist forces occupied the eastern part of the city , aleppo was home to one of the middle east s top cancer treatment centers , al-kindi hospital .
this is important because after mccain s secret trip to the aleppo area in may 2013 , the very same rebels he was cavorting with and supplying weapons to the free syrian army ( under the command of jabbat al nusra aka al qaeda in syria ) would later order the bombing on this cancer treatment hospital.professor tim anderson explains the destruction of al kindi hospital in december 2013 , including the shameful spin applied after the fact by bbc and western mainstream media : in an orwellian revision of events the bbc ( 21 december 2013 ) reported the destruction of al-kindi with the headline : syria rebels take back strategic hospital in aleppo .
the introduction claimed the massive suicide lorry bomb had managed to seize back a strategic ruined hospital occupied by assad loyalists .
al-kindi was said to have been a disused building and according to an unconfirmed report , 35 rebels died in the attack .
in fact , these rebels were a coalition of free syrian army and jabhat al nusra , while the assad loyalists were the staff and security guards of a large public hospital.watch as mccain s freedom fighters in syria drive a suicide truck bomb into the ground level of al kindi cancer treatment center in aleppo : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=www.youtube.com/watch ? v=kcwwgtupgpe .
how many syrian lives were needlessly cut short as a direct result of that bombing carried out by mccain s own free syrian army ?
for the cost of mccain s treatment at the world-famous mayo clinic , who knows how many syrians could have received desperately needed treatment at al kindi or other similarly crippled facilities in syria ?
one hundred , or possibly one thousand ? add to this , how many have died or suffer permanent health afflictions as a direct result of us economic sanctions which have crippled syria s own national health service ?
one hundred thousand , or maybe five hundred thousand ?
one million ?
one day , those figures will be recorded and we will have the answer.the other piece of us legislation currently on the table which republicans are desperate to pass is the $ 1-trillion us infrastructure spending package .
juxtapose that scene next to the systematic destruction of syria s infrastructure by us coalition and idf airstrikes and destruction by proxy militant forces on the ground .
estimates for the cost to syria range from $ 180 billion to $ 275 million .
if the conflict continues past 2020 , then these numbers could easily double.in spite of all this , john mccain claims to have no regrets about the damage that he and his fellow war hawks have inflicted on syria.the cancer of conflictat the same time that political figures like barrack obama dutifully respect the official washington line on john mccain as the consummate vietnam war hero , very few in the establishment would dare to criticize the powerful arizona senator for his central role in engineering instability and violent conflict in foreign countries.john mccain sneaks into syria illegally in may 2013 to meet with known terrorists , promising them weapons and regime change by way us bombs would drop in the fall of 2013 .. americans should be reminded that more than any other single us official , john mccain has been the driving force behind the training and arming of violent jihadist and terrorists fighting groups in syria , and that those same terrorists have slaughtered tens of thousands of innocent civilians including women and children in syria and beyond all sacrificed at the altar of a us-led geopolitical power play in the middle east , and in the name of israeli security interests .
back in 2012 , a delusional mccain , along with another dotty war enthusiast , connecticut senator joe liberman , insisted that the us needed to arm the rebels in syria in order to save lives .
their statement read : the bloodshed must be stopped , and we should rule out no option that could help to save lives .
we must consider , among other actions , providing opposition groups inside syria , both political and military , with better means to organize their activities , to care for the wounded and find safe haven , to communicate securely , to defend themselves , and to fight back against assad s forces .
from the onset of hostilities in 2011 , the bold-faced lie that mccain and partner lindsey graham have promulgated is that violent jihadists were nothing more than affable moderate rebels .
that piece of washington fiction has been widely discredited by now.later on in 2015 , mccain announced that the us should be supplying stinger missiles to the so-called rebels in syria : we certainly did that in afghanistan .
after the russians invaded afghanistan , we provided them with surface-to-air capability .
it d be nice to give people that we train and equip and send them to fight the ability to defend themselves .
that s one of the fundamental principles of warfare as i understand it , said mccain.soon after that statement , thousands of us-made tow missiles were smuggled into syria and used by terrorists groups under the command umbrella of al nusra.in her recent expos for trud newspaper , bulgarian journalist dilyana gaytandzhieva revealed the massive scale and scope of the illegal us-nato weapons trafficking operation to arm thousands of terrorist fighters in syria.despite the overwhelming destruction in syria and the abject failure of his policies , mccain has never given up on the policy of illegal weapons trafficking in syria .
just this week , mccain , chairman of the senate armed services committee , openly protested against the trump administration s latest announcement to bring an end to the cia s failed program of illegally arming and training anti-assad terrorists in syria .
rather than admitting what everyone else in the world seems to know already that the us train and equip program has been a debacle instead he feigns defiance , while demonstrating a breathtaking level of ignorance by accusing the white house of being part of a russian conspiracy : if these reports are true , the administration is playing right into the hands of vladimir putin .
making any concession to russia , absent a broader strategy for syria , is irresponsible and short-sighted .
when promoting their latest war , mccain is normally part of a tandem act , accompanied by his geomancing interest , south carolina senator lindsey graham , who arguably views the world through an even more deranged , albeit binary comic book prism : breaking syria apart from iran could be as important to containing a nuclear iran as sanctions .
if the syrian regime is replaced with another form of government that doesn t tie its future to the iranians , the world is a better place .
like a world view gleaned straight from ian fleming s goldfinger.in his seminal 2008 interview with mccain heading to the gop presidential nomination , the atlantic magazine s jeffrey goldberg asked , what do you think motivates iran ?
.
to which mccain replied : hatred .
i don t try to divine people s motives .
i look at their actions and what they say .
i don t pretend to be an expert on the state of their emotions .
i do know what their nation s stated purpose is , i do know they continue in the development of nuclear weapons , and i know that they continue to support terrorists who are bent on the destruction of the state of israel .
you ll have to ask someone who engages in this psycho stuff to talk about their emotions .
mccain s views on iraq were even more disturbing , essentially surmising that the invasion and occupation was a good thing , and that we shouldn t have left because leaving iraq gave rise to al qaeda .
ok .
admittedly , it s a bit counter intuitive , but it works for neoconservatives.these statements by mccain and graham are not admissions made by normal well-adjusted individuals , but rather by cold , dark hearted sociopaths who generally view the lives of arabs ( along with slavs , russians and others ) as necessary cannon fodder in the pursuit of military industrial profits for a select cadr of transnational corporate defense contractors whose interests senator john mccain represents in his home state of arizona ; boeing , raytheon , lockheed martin , general dynamics , and the list goes on , and on.the geopolitical hubris doesn t end there , as mccain still maintains even after 6 years of absolute implosion of his own foreign policy agenda that removing syrian president bashar al assad from power is still a key pillar of the us strategy for syria .
the administration has yet to articulate its vision for syria beyond the defeat of isil , let alone a comprehensive approach to the middle east , said mccain this week.the reality , of course , is that isil/isis could have been defeated already had the us-led coalition and israel not illegally intervened in syria territory .
far from doing much to defeat isis since they have invaded syrian airspace since 2014 , the us has conveniently stretched-out the isis problem through the extension of its own self-styled international mandate which was originally intended to serve as a precursor to the eventual break-up of syria into federal states and ethnic cantons .
this might explain mccain s rush to enact regime change in syria before lording over the eventual break-up of the sovereign nation-state.all things russianthe other country which mccain is determined break is russia .
vladimir putin is a murder and a kgb thug , crowed mccain on cnn last year , as he protested against positive statements about russia made by then candidate trump.suffice to say , he , along with the boards of boeing , raytheon , lockheed martin , are all extremely happy about nato pressing right up against the russian border in eastern europe.but 2013 was indeed a busy year for the senator stirring up trouble internationally .
as part of his opening gambit against moscow , it was mccain who was the driving force behind the us-backed coup d etat in ukraine in february 2014 which ultimately led to a bloody civil war which continues to this day in the ukraine .
apparently , this was mccain s way of stopping putin .
his is a very dodgy track record ; whether it s neonazis , or jihadi terrorists , mccain seems always ready to do a deal with the devil , and that s what makes him particularly dangerous.below we can see mccain helping to whip-up nazi-linked , neofascist street mobs in kiev helping to bring the ensuing junta into power .
some mainstream us pundits have claimed that this never happened , and that it s just a conspiracy theory invented by russian propagandists to discredit mccain .
unfortunately for them it is true , and here is the photo to prove it : senator john mccain ( az ) shares the stage in kiev with far-right , neonazi right sector strongman , oleg tyhanbock , ahead of violent street protests in ukraine in december of 2013 , in advance of the us-backed coup ..
looking back at his erratic and flippant behavior , attacking nearly anyone who even suggested d tente with russia or that supplying lethal arms to militants in syria was a bad idea , it s no surprise that cognizant onlookers have questioned whether or not mccain is in a normal frame of mind.frankly speaking , how could any one in their right mind be so consistently on the wrong side of every issue ?
how could any politician s judgement be that poor ?
unless there was something else going on below the surface the questions didn t stop there .
mccain s performance during a recent senate intelligence committee hearing on russian influence in us elections was an embarrassment .
onlookers were stunned when mccain lost the plot during the hearing when asking former fbi director james comey : well , at least in the minds of this member , there s a whole lot of questions remaining about what went on , particularly considering the fact that as you mentioned , it s a big deal as to what went on during the campaign , so i m glad you concluded that part of the investigation , but i think that the american people have a whole lot of questions out there , particularly since you just emphasized the role that russia played .
and obviously she was a candidate for president at the time .
so she was clearly involved in this whole situation where fake news , as you just described it , is a big deal took place .
you re going to have to help me out here .
in other words , we re complete , the investigation of anything former secretary clinton had to do with the campaign is over and we don t have to worry about it anymore ?
to which comey replied : with respect to i m a little confused .
with respect to secretary clinton , we investigated a criminal investigation with her use of a personal email server .
mccain then finished digging his own hole by responding : so at the same time you made the announcement there would be no further charges brought against then-secretary clinton for any activities involved in the russia involvement and our engagement and our election .
i don t quite understand how you can be done with that but not done with the whole investigation of their attempt to affect the out of come our election .
it was clear mccain had no idea what was going on .
at that point any reasonable person would have concluded that john mccain had in fact lost his mind and was no longer fit to serve in public office .
in fact , 21wire made this very same case back in 2013 after mccain was caught playing video poker on his iphone during a senate committee where lawmakers were debating the very war of which he is a chief architect .
here is the photo : as stunning displays of ignorance go , the video poker incident was one of mccain s greatest ever , and certainly should have been a warning to everyone that this man had no business making military decisions , let alone litigating war and peace between nuclear superpowers like the united states and russia.perhaps an announcement is forthcoming , but it s surprising after being diagnosed with brain cancer at 80 years old why mccain has not yet announced his resignation from office ? it s fair to say that while this senator is being treated in the world s leading medical facilities , thousands of innocents will have died needlessly because of us sanctions and support for terrorists all in the name of defense , energy and ever vast corporate profits .
strange as that might sound to some , for those who consider themselves members of a ruling elite and its mandarin management class , that is perfectly acceptable quid pro quo in 2017.after world war ii , the military industrial complex and the international arms trade has spread conflict like a disease across the planet , metastasizing in ways , in places , and on a scale which no one could have previously imagined before .
undoubtedly , over the last decade , john mccain has played a key role in spreading that anguish .
for the people of syria , afghanistan and the ukraine , that will be his legacy , not the chimerical image of a maverick senator or the war hero .
once again , we implore the senator to do the right thing by the american people and for those innocents around the world who have suffered at the hands of an arms industry whose interests john mccain represents please , just retire .
* * * read more mccain news at : 21st century wire john mccain filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv