washington ( reuters ) - bernie sanders ’ high-flying democratic presidential campaign fell back to earth on saturday in nevada .
if the vermont senator can not quickly find a way to broaden his appeal to minorities and union members , last week ’ s 22-point rout of clinton in new hampshire could prove to be his campaign highlight .
the race moves next week to south carolina , where blacks make up more than half of the democratic electorate , and on march 1 to a string of southern states with big blocs of african-americans , who strongly support clinton and have been slow to warm to sanders .
the rush of march contests in big , diverse states — democrats in nearly two dozen states will vote between march 1 and march 15 — could leave sanders grasping for political life .
“ this was a bad day for sanders , ” said david woodard , a political scientist at clemson university in south carolina .
“ he needs to find a way to cut into clinton ’ s base , and i don ’ t think he is going to find it here. ” although clinton ’ s 5-point win was relatively narrow , it was enough to blunt sanders ’ momentum .
recent voter surveys had shown a tight race in nevada , raising the prospect of another damaging setback for clinton .
entrance polls in nevada showed clinton trounced sanders , a self-described democratic socialist , by 3-to-1 among black voters , and also beat him in union households by 11 percentage points .
the enthusiasm of younger and liberal voters who rallied around sanders ’ calls for reining in wall street and reducing income equality was not enough in nevada to counter clinton ’ s union and organizational clout , allowing her to reclaim front-runner status as the race shifts to more friendly turf .
after the new hampshire setback , clinton ’ s campaign was banking that sanders would be unable to breach a so-called “ firewall ” of hispanic and african-american support for the former secretary of state in southern and western states .
nevada ’ s result appeared to support that view .
“ he ’ s running a strong campaign , but being close is overrated if you can ’ t make the sale , ” said mo elleithee , a clinton aide in her 2008 campaign and now the executive director of the georgetown institute of politics and public service .
the sanders campaign said it was heartened in nevada by entrance polls showing he beat clinton among hispanics by about eight points .
“ what we learned today is hillary clinton ’ s firewall with latino voters is a myth , ” arturo carmona , deputy political director for bernie 2016 , said in a statement .
but the clinton campaign questioned those numbers , saying that at one point she had won 60 percent of the delegates in 22 latino-majority precincts .
clinton ’ s convincing showing in nevada could reduce the chances of a late run by an independent candidate such as former new york mayor michael bloomberg , who would likely scoop up moderate voters turned off by a socialist nominee .
in a sense , sanders was a victim in nevada of his own success .
his ability to close the gap on clinton in iowa and rout her in new hampshire , nearly all-white states , raised expectations that he could ride to another upset in nevada .
“ nevada put out the bern , ” said ken tietjen , a clinton supporter who stood outside her las vegas victory rally at caesar ’ s palace .
“ hillary has all the momentum going forward. ” but sanders ’ strong showings in the first three contests , along with his formidable fundraising , suggest staying power .
that could help extend the democratic race beyond the cluster of early march contests and into april and may , when a string of contests in whiter and more liberal states could help him .
sanders has money for the long haul , although clinton had more on hand at the end of january .
federal election reports filed as the nevada results were announced showed sanders had raised $ 21.3 million in january and had $ 14.7 million on hand .
in january , hillary raised $ 13.2 million from individual donors and had $ 32.9 million on hand .
some black voters said on saturday they did not see a reason to switch their loyalty away from clinton , a fondness that dates back to her husband bill clinton ’ s presidency but which was strained by her bitter primary battle with barack obama in 2008 .
asked who he was backing , thomas anderson , an african-american in columbia , south carolina , said on saturday : “ hillary , of course. ” “ she ’ s got more experience .
she knows what the country needs , ” he said , adding “ bernie ’ s a cool guy .
i ’ m down with bernie too. ” clinton ’ s embrace of obama ’ s presidential legacy , and her argument that sanders would begin to unravel some of obama ’ s policies on healthcare and other issues , also has made an impression .
darien gambrell , 23 , said she heard clinton planned to continue a number of obama ’ s policies .
“ i think that ’ s a good thing .
i liked some of his ideas , even the ones that didn ’ t seem to work at first , ” she said , adding she would not want a candidate who would reverse obama ’ s work .
( additional reporting by luciana lopez and jane ross in nevada , emily flitter and steve holland in south carolina , michelle conlin in new york , amanda becker in washington ; editing by stuart grudgings ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .