prague ( reuters ) - the traffic jams and roadworks that snarl the 200 km main highway from the capital prague to the southeast are a symbol of how many czechs feel their government is broken - and how they are looking for a new champion to fix it .
a ring road around prague is nowhere near completion after decades of zoning setbacks , a rail link to prague s airport has been debated for 20 years without a shovel going in the ground .
the world bank ranks the country 130th in the world when it comes to efficiency in issuing building permits , the worst in the european union .
in the oct 20-21 election , voters look set to hand power to a man who says he can sort it all out : billionaire businessman andrej babis , whose anti-establishment rhetoric is reminiscent of u.s. president donald trump .
i see results , the others are only talkers , said erwin heinl after meeting babis at a pensioners club in varnsdorf , 125 km ( 75 miles ) north of prague .
it is the only possible choice .
the central european country joined the eu in 2004 and has made great strides in economic development .
but people feel wages and public services have been slow to catch up with the richer west while business sharks made billions in often murky privatizations and public contracts .
babis , whose ano party is far ahead of rivals in the polls , has been able to sell himself as a man fighting obstacles from coalition partners , while taking credit for popular decisions such as pension hikes during his time as finance minister .
the bet on babis is not straightforward .
as the second richest czech , he grew his chemicals , food and media empire in the same environment he and voters criticize .
he is also not a new face , having governed as junior partner to the center-left social democrats since 2014 .
social democrats still stand for the old rule and ano is a symbol of the new rule , hence its credit for the economic success , government stability and so on , said daniel prokop from the median polling agency .
many people respect babis for his business approach to management which he says politicians lack .
he is skillful as a businessman , he could show that also running the state , karina brtinska , 63 , said after meeting babis at a campaign stop at the main square in varnsdorf .
his successes include a budget surplus last year .
babis , as finance minister until may this year before he was removed by the prime minister , raised revenue by introducing value-added tax cross-checks and real-time reporting of shop sales .
but the budget was chiefly helped by economic growth , low interest rates , and a drop in public investments resulting from issues such as slow preparation of road building that meant less spending .
his ano has held the transport ministry for the past four years .
czechs built close to 160 km of highways in the past 10 years , compared with 2,300 km in poland 250 km in slovakia .
the czechs also pledged to raise defense spending , but under ano running the defence ministry it dropped below 1 percent of gdp before a small pick up this year , still far away from the nato goal of 2 percent .
babis has also shaken off the impact of investigation for alleged fraud in tapping a 2 million euro subsidy - a charge that could carry a jail sentence .
he denies any wrongdoing and portrays it as an attempt by adversaries to block him from sweeping out graft .
he is not afraid of anyone .
he is honest , said anna havelkova , an ano supporter in varnsdorf .
babis put his agrofert group of more than 250 companies into a trust fund this year but remains the fund s beneficiary .
agrofert has been receiving farming and investment subsidies and also has numerous deals with the public sector , raising criticism from rivals and media of conflicts of interests .
babis had acknowledged having conflicts of interest prior to moving agrofert to the trust funds but said he never abused it .
forbes puts babis s net worth at 88 billion crowns ( $ 4.01 bln ) , up from 40 billion in 2013 just before he joined the government .
ano voters are also unfazed by babis membership of the communist party before a democratic revolution in 1989 , or his contacts with secret police at the time .
success is always accompanied by envy .
everyone has a past , but i am interested in the present .
he has a vision and i believe he can fulfill it , said businessman slavomir svitana attending babis rally in downtown prague .