des moines ( reuters ) - with iowa kicking off the 2016 election season in one week , democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton tried to erase doubts about her judgment raised by rival bernie sanders on monday while digging deep into her years of governing experience .
at a cnn town hall meeting , sanders argued that his own judgment , not clinton ’ s experience , is the most crucial quality for the next commander-in-chief .
clinton , in response , evoked president barack obama , saying when he selected her to be secretary of state he gave approval to her judgment .
“ you have to have somebody who is a proven , proven fighter , ” clinton said .
anxious to put down a threat from the democratic socialist , clinton faced the challenge of convincing democratic voters not to be swayed by sanders ’ populist rhetoric and to stick with her despite a clamor for candidates outside the political establishment .
the town hall at drake university lacked the feel of a normal debate .
it featured separate appearances by sanders , former maryland governor martin o ’ malley and clinton and all three took audience questions at the event .
clinton was more animated than usual , raising her voice to make points , and sanders made the audience laugh with some jokes .
the overall tone was polite , in contrast to a more rancorous fourth debate between the three last week .
sanders cited clinton ’ s 2002 senate vote to authorize the iraq war and her prior support for the canada-to-texas keystone pipeline as evidence that her experience is misguided .
clinton has shifted her position on both issues , while sanders opposed both from the start .
“ experience is important but judgment is also important , ” he said .
sanders also defended his call for raising taxes to fund a “ medicare-for-all ” program , u.s. infrastructure and tuition-free college education .
“ we will raise taxes .
yes , we will , ” said sanders , a vermont senator .
but he said the money would actually save money for families because they would no longer pay health insurance premiums .
clinton has been making the case that her time as secretary of state and a senator from new york , make her more experienced .
but on the town hall stage on monday , she pushed back at sanders ’ judgment argument by evoking obama , who remains popular with democratic voters and was critical of her iraq war vote when the two competed in 2008 .
“ [ obama ] ended up asking me to be secretary of state , ” clinton said .
“ it was because he trusted my judgment and we worked side by side over those four years. ” clinton , who lost the democratic primary to obama in 2008 , was for months the clear front-runner to be the party ’ s nominee this time around , but opinion polls have showed a surge of support for sanders in recent weeks .
she argues that while sanders ’ goals on issues such as social inequality are laudable , some are unobtainable and he lacks the experience to tackle a wide range of issues .
“ when you ’ re in the white house you can not pick the issues you want to work on , you ’ ve got to be ready to take on every issue that comes your way , including those you can not predict , ” clinton told the jewish federation of greater des moines on monday .
clinton also went to great lengths at the town hall to criticize republican front-runner donald trump , particularly for insulting minorities .
“ he started with mexicans , he ’ s now with muslims , ” she said .
clinton got some much-needed praise from president obama in a politico interview published on monday , exactly a week before iowans hold the nation ’ s first nominating contest for the november 8 election .
while never explicitly criticizing sanders , whose campaign is focused on pledges to redress social inequality and contain wall street excesses , obama praised clinton ’ s experience and suggested several times that clinton ’ s messages are grounded in realism .
“ ( s ) he ’ s extraordinarily experienced — and , you know , wicked smart and knows every policy inside and out — ( and ) sometimes ( that ) could make her more cautious , and her campaign more prose than poetry , ” obama said .
( editing by mary milliken ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .