donald trump is still delusional and twitter users were quick to remind him of who lost the popular vote in november.it s been almost six months since the 2016 election concluded in november , but trump is still under the delusion that he won the popular vote and is insisting that he would still win if another election were held.in a pair of tweets on sunday , trump declared that the abc news/washington post poll is fake news even though the poll showed that most trump supporters don t regret their vote and that a slim majority approve of his foreign policy and his pressure on american companies to keep jobs here .
apparently , trump only believes polls are fake when the numbers are against him.for instance , his approval rating is the lowest for any president since 1945 in the first 100 days .
and most americans don t trust him.trump also liked the part of the poll that suggests he would win the popular vote if the election were held again.new polls out today are very good considering that much of the media is fake and almost always negative .
would still beat hillary in .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) april 23 , 2017 popular vote .
abc news/washington post poll ( wrong big on election ) said almost all stand by their vote on me & 53 % said strong leader .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) april 23 , 2017the problem is that trump lost the popular vote by nearly 3 million votes in 2016 despite low voter turnout by democrats and a protest vote against hillary in favor of third party candidates.twitter users didn t wait long to put trump in his place .
@ realdonaldtrump would still beat hillary in the popular vote you never beat hillary in the popular vote .
how do people take you seriously ? !
william legate ( @ williamlegate ) april 23 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you didn t win the popular vote. ? ? ? ?
btw , where is all the evidence of those 3 million illegal votes ?
we re waiting .
pic.twitter.com/za8bhefv3a holly # theresistance ( @ aynrandpaulryan ) april 23 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump would you like to note the rest of the poll ?
52 % said they would not trust you in a crisis .
shawn garrett ( @ shawngarrett ) april 24 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump still beat her ?
you didn t beat her in popular vote .
what planet do you live on ?
# earlystagealzheimers # dementiasettingin t i ( @ themixxradio ) april 23 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump what an egotistic , incurably delusional man-child .
what happened to you before , that makes you constantly feel the need for validation ?
sad !
francis b. baraan ( @ mrfrankbaraan ) april 23 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump umm you lost by 3 million votes .
maybe you should worry about getting stuff done and not about an election that happened six months ago impeach donald trump ( @ impeach_d_trump ) april 23 , 2017featured image via drew angerer/getty images