berlin ( reuters ) - largely unperturbed by angela merkel s failure to form a government after a september election , many germans are taking the prospect of several more months of coalition talks in their stride .
the country is used to lengthy transitions but this is the longest since reunification in 1990 .
it is 87 days since the election and few experts see a government in place before march .
eu leaders fear delays to euro zone integration plans , some of which are to strengthen the banking system , and many economists warn europe s biggest economy must reform and invest in broadband and infrastructure to stay competitive .
but as caretaker chancellor , merkel is voting at eu summits , parliament is passing laws required by international mandates , local authorities are wading through asylum applications and a bright outlook in europe s biggest economy is buoying the mood .
i haven t noticed much difference from before , said nadja helling , 36 , cradling a steaming mug of gluehwein at a berlin christmas market .
it s not ideal but nobody is panicking .
domestic and foreign demand are driving solid growth and the effects of low borrowing costs and european central bank stimulus are supporting record-high employment levels and rising real wages .
we have jobs and are enjoying the christmas markets , said helling s friend , silvia .
what s the problem ?
the munich-based ifo institute raised its forecasts last week and expects the german economy to expand by 2.6 percent next year , the highest rate since 2011 , adding , however , that this might be the peak .
the ifw institute in kiel said the delayed formation of a government does not pose an economic risk , but also sounded a warning for the longer term .
a boom may feel good but it carries the seeds of a crisis .
the view that a boom is harmless , as long as consumer prices are under control , falls short , said the ifw s stefan kooths .
the reality experienced by many germans belies dire warnings from commentators last month about looming instability and even new elections after merkel , weakened by losing votes to the far-right , was humiliated by the collapse of 3-way coalition talks .
she is now wooing the social democrats ( spd ) , reluctant partners after voters punished them for sharing power with merkel s conservatives over the last four years .
germany s transition pales into comparison with some other eu partners , such as belgium and the netherlands where a coalition took 225 days to clinch a deal this year .
i suspect the process will take some time yet but people who talk about instability are mistaken .
we have a stable caretaker government , an effective parliament and a democracy that is functioning very well , said nils diederich , politics professor at berlin s free university .
confounding some predictions , the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) , dogged by infighting , has so far failed to capitalize on the lack of a proper government despite being the third-biggest party .
opinion polls have barely changed since the sept. 24 election , indicating there is little sense of crisis .
the ifo institute said on tuesday uncertainty about the shape of the government was growing but that a surprise drop in its business moral survey in december after a record high the previous month was nothing too unusual .
indeed , seasonally adjusted unemployment is at the lowest level since 1990 and christmas sales forecasts are bright , with the hde retail industry association expecting sales over the festive season to rise by 3 percent to a record high .
merkel , unruffled as ever , has sought to reassure voters and investors that it is business as usual in germany , with most incumbent ministers staying on in an interim government .
if anything , there is a striking lack of urgency about the talks , partly to keep skeptical spd rank and file on board .
after party leaders meet on wednesday to draw up a rough timetable , no further talks are expected before january .
meanwhile , the bundestag lower house has agreed to roll over military missions in afghanistan and mali and debated topics from brexit to planned job cuts by siemens .
germany s federal structure means much business that affects ordinary people , including dealing with asylum applications , housing and school issues , goes ahead regardless of berlin .
deutsche bahn has launched a much delayed fast train link between berlin and munich , complete with the usual teething problems , and christmas markets have opened , albeit with tight security after last year s attack .
the impasse has had little effect on brexit talks because there is consensus among germany s main parties about the german , and eu , position towards britain .
plans for euro zone reform , however , are more contentious , although merkel said on monday , she hoped to make progress on the issue by march .
the main possible negative effect is that the momentum in europe ( for reform ) , that was desired after the brexit vote might be lost , said thomas jaeger , politics professor at cologne university .
the spd , determined to stamp its identity on any coalition deal with merkel , backs deeper integration than merkel s conservatives , but is split over whether it should agree to a grand coalition with merkel .
its leader martin schulz has championed french president emmanuel macron s proposals for a euro zone budget and finance minister and wants a united states of europe by 2025 .
the only political crisis in germany is the struggle for direction by the main parties , in particular the spd , said diederich .
the spd needs time to overcome this .