brussels ( reuters ) - catalonia s separatist leader carles puigdemont called on spain s government on saturday to allow him to return home in time for the opening session of the catalan parliament so that he can become the region s next president .
puigdemont , who ruled in catalonia until october and faces arrest in spain for his role in organizing an illegal referendum on independence and proclaiming a catalan republic , is currently in self-imposed exile in belgium .
separatist parties secured a parliamentary majority in a regional election on thursday , though it is still unclear whether puigdemont and other jailed leaders of the movement will be able to attend assembly sessions .
i want to come back to catalonia as soon as possible .
i would like to come back right now .
it would be good news for spain , puigdemont told reuters in an interview .
asked if he would be back in time for the opening session which has to take place at the latest on january 23 , he said : it would be natural .
if i am not allowed to be sworn in as president , it would be a major abnormality for the spanish democratic system .
i am the president of the regional government and i will remain the president if the spanish state respects the results of the vote , he also said .
puigdemont , who has called for dialogue with the spanish government to resolve the current tensions between the turbulent region and the authorities in madrid , said he was ready to listen to any proposal from prime minister mariano rajoy even if this offer fell short of an offer of independence .
if the spanish state has a proposal for catalonia , we should listen , puigdemont said , asking for a dialogue of equals .
rajoy on friday said he was open to dialogue but implicitly rejected puigdemont s demand to meet soon , saying he would talk with whoever was catalonia s president only once they have been elected by the new regional parliament .
before that , his first interlocutor should be ines arrimadas , whose centrist , anti-independence party scored most votes on thursday , he said .
arrimadas does not have enough seats or allies to form a government , while separatist parties put together have a narrow majority .
past calls for dialogue on both the separatist and unionist side in the past have failed to yield concrete results and the crisis is likely to keep haunting madrid , as well as eu leaders , for a long time .
negotiations to form a government in catalonia are likely to open after jan. 6 following the holiday break .
parliament must vote by feb. 8 on putting a new government into place .