united nations ( reuters ) - the united states wants the united nations security council to vote next monday to impose the strongest possible sanctions on north korea over its sixth and largest nuclear test , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said on monday .
north korea said it tested an advanced hydrogen bomb for a long-range missile on sunday , prompting global condemnation and a u.s. warning of a massive military response if it or its allies were threatened .
china s u.n .
ambassador liu jieyi pushed north korea on monday to stop taking actions that are wrong , deteriorating the situation and not in line with its own interests and truly return to the track of solving the issue through dialogue .
haley said the 15-member council would negotiate a draft resolution this week .
she described north korean leader kim jong un as begging for war and that while the united states doesn t want conflict , our country s patience is not unlimited .
enough is enough , haley told the council .
only the strongest sanctions will enable us to resolve this problem through diplomacy .
since 2006 , the security council has unanimously adopted eight resolutions ratcheting up sanctions on north korea over its ballistic missile and nuclear programs .
haley said the council s incremental approach to sanctions had not worked .
the council last month imposed new sanctions over north korea s two long-range missile launches in july .
the resolution aimed to slash by a third pyongyang s $ 3 billion annual export revenue by banning exports of coal , iron , lead and seafood .
diplomats have said the council could now consider banning pyongyang s textile exports and the country s national airline , stop supplies of oil to the government and military , prevent north koreans from working abroad as well as add top officials to a blacklist to subject them to an asset freeze and travel ban .
a resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the united states , britain , france , russia or china to pass .
typically , china and russia only view a test of a long-range missile or a nuclear weapon as a trigger for u.n. sanctions .
china has not publicly said it will back new sanctions .
russian u.n .
ambassador vassily nebenzia said he would consider a u.s. draft resolution but questioned whether further sanctions would make a difference .
whatever measures we are planning now , i m not sure that they will influence the other side to abandon what they have been doing .
this is not the way to get parties at the table ... to seek for a political solution , he told reporters .
he told the council there was an urgent need to maintain a cool head and avoid escalating tensions , and called for a return to dialogue , including by leveraging mediation efforts of u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres .
both russia and china pushed their proposal to kick-start talks with a joint suspension of north korea s ballistic missile and nuclear programs and the military exercises by the united states and south korea .
liu said he hoped it would be seriously considered by the parties .
the idea that some have suggested of a so-called freeze-for-freeze is insulting , haley told the council .
when a rogue regime has a nuclear weapon and an icbm ( intercontinental ballistic missile ) pointed at you , you do not take steps to lower your guard .
no one would do that .
we certainly won t. through sanctions , the security council has tried to choke off funding and support for north korea s ballistic missile and nuclear programs , though some western states have expressed doubt about russia and china s commitment to implement them .
haley said in july that cutting off oil supplies to the north korean government and military was an option .
china supplies most of north korea s crude .
according to south korean data , beijing supplies roughly 500,000 tonnes of crude oil annually .
it also exports 200,000 tonnes of oil products , according to u.n. data .
the u.n. resolution adopted last month capped the number of north koreans working abroad at the current level .
diplomats said a new resolution could impose a complete ban .
some diplomats estimate that between 60,000 and 100,000 north koreans work abroad .
a u.n. human rights investigator said in 2015 that north korea was forcing more than 50,000 people to work abroad , mainly in russia and china , earning between $ 1.2 billion and $ 2.3 billion a year .
the council could ban textiles , which were north korea s second-biggest export after coal and other minerals in 2016 , totaling $ 752 million , according to data from the korea trade-investment promotion agency ( kotra ) .
nearly 80 percent of the textile exports went to china .
the military-controlled airline , air koryo , could be banned .
it flies to beijing and a few other cities in china , including dandong , the main transit point for trade between the two countries .
it also flies to vladivostok in russia , but flights to bangkok , kuala lumpur and kuwait have ended .