bangkok ( reuters ) - the european union will resume political contact at all levels with thailand , its foreign affairs council said on monday , after putting relations on hold following a 2014 coup by the thai military .
the move comes after thailand s prime minister prayuth chan-ocha announced in october that a general election would take place in november 2018 - the most precise date the junta has given after many delays since the 2014 coup .
the government , however , has yet to end a political ban that would allow political parties to campaign ahead of the vote .
the eu is thailand s third trade partner after china and japan .
thailand is the eu s third-largest trading partner in the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) .
thailand exported goods worth 19.6 billion ( $ 23.11 billion ) to the eu in 2015 , according to the european commission .
the council decided to resume political contacts at all levels with thailand in order to facilitate meaningful dialogue on issues of mutual importance , including on human rights and fundamental freedoms , and the road towards democracy , the eu s foreign affairs council said in a statement .
in june 2014 , the eu said it would keep its relations with thailand under review and put on hold the signing of a partnership and cooperation agreement ( pca ) , which was aimed at closer economic and political ties with thailand .
it has expressed concerns over freedom of expression in the country and has called for a swift return to democracy .
the signing of pca and talks on eu-thailand free trade agreement ( fta ) could resume with a democratically elected civilian government under the new constitution , the statement said .
the united states also downgraded ties with thailand following the coup , scaling back joint military exercises , among other things .
according to the european commission , the eu exported goods worth 13.4 billion ( $ 15.80 billion ) to thailand in 2015 , including machinery and transport equipment .
( $ 1 = 0.8480 euros )