( reuters ) - the republican national committee filed two lawsuits on wednesday seeking to obtain emails related to democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton ’ s tenure as u.s. secretary of state .
clinton , front-runner to be her party ’ s candidate in november ’ s general election , has faced questions about her emails since it emerged a year ago that she used a private email account and a private server during her time in the post from 2009-2013 .
clinton has apologized for the email arrangement , which is being investigated by the federal bureau of investigation , but has said she did nothing wrong and believes the government will vindicate her .
the rnc said it filed the lawsuits after the state department failed to respond in a timely manner to a freedom of information act request submitted in december .
it sought the information to ensure the public has information to decide if clinton is “ fit to serve ” as president , the rnc said in a statement .
the first lawsuit seeks emails , blackberry messenger or text messages between then-secretary of state clinton and several key senior aides , including her chief of staff , cheryl mills , and director of policy planning , jake sullivan .
the second lawsuit seeks emails and other electronic exchanges between nearly a dozen state department officials and any clinton associate using one of more than a dozen different internet domain names .
it covers the period between feb. 1 , 2013 , when clinton left the job , and dec. 4 , 2015 .
the request includes any emails to the state department officials from clinton ’ s campaign website , hillaryclinton.com , or the website of former president bill clinton ’ s foundation , clintonfoundation.org .
the suit also targets emails from domains like mediamatters.org , a liberal non-profit group that seeks to counter what it believes is misleading conservative information in the u.s. media .
this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .