harare ( reuters ) - new zimbabwean president emmerson mnangagwa is expected to form a new cabinet this week , with all eyes on whether he breaks with the past and names a broad-based government or selects old guard figures from robert mugabe s era .
of particular interest is his choice of finance minister to replace ignatius chombo , who was among members of a group allied to mugabe and his wife , grace , who were detained and expelled from the ruling party .
chombo is facing corruption charges and is due to appear in court for a bail hearing on monday .
in a tentative sign that he might do things differently , zanu-pf cut the budget for a special congress to be held next month and also slashed the duration by half from six days , the state-owned herald newspaper reported on monday .
mnangagwa was sworn in as president last friday after 93-year-old mugabe quit under pressure from the military .
he vowed to rebuild zimbabwe s ravaged economy and serve all citizens .
but behind the rhetoric , some zimbabweans wonder whether a man who loyally served mugabe for decades can bring change to a ruling establishment accused of systematic human rights abuses and disastrous economic policies .
the composition of the new government will show a clear path whether we continue with the status quo or the clear break with the past that we need to build a sustainable state .
it s a simple choice , said former finance minister and opposition leader tendai biti .
the opposition movement for democratic change has called for an inclusive transitional authority to mark a break with mugabe s 37-year rule and enact reforms to allow for credible and free elections due next year .
zimbabwe needs all hands on deck ... we can not continue reproducing these cycles of instability , biti , who earned international respect as finance minister in a 2009-2013 unity government , told reuters .
some economic and political analysts say mnangagwa s choices may be limited after cyber security minister and close ally patrick chinamasa said last week he saw no need for a coalition , as zanu-pf had a parliamentary majority .
and with mnangagwa saying on friday elections would go ahead next year as scheduled , the opposition would have little to gain from participating in a coalition just eight months before the vote , professor anthony hawkins , a business studies professor , said .
if i were an opposition politician i would say : what s in it for me ?
unless i m convinced i m going to lose the election , i won t participate , hawkins told reuters .
he ( mnangagwa ) might introduce technocrats from commerce and that will send out a signal of sorts ... as far as the international community is concerned legitimacy is important .
it s a very delicate situation and he has very little room for maneuver .
the standard newspaper , which has been critical of mugabe and his government over the years , said mnangagwa would be judged on how he delivers on the bold commitments he made at his inauguration .
it said he must walk the talk on graft that has exacerbated the country s economic decline .
mugabe s fall after 37 years in power was spurred by a battle to succeed him that pitted mnangagwa , his former deputy who had stood by him for 52 years , and mugabe s wife , grace , 52 , who has been at the couple s blue house mansion in harare and hasn t been seen in public since .