washington , d.c. may day is the day for commies to come out in force the antifa thugs are proudly marching for communism but when a journalist asked why they were carrying a north korean flag , this happened : jack posobiec attacked by antifa uses reasonable force for self defense https : //t.co/1hq606sjbt jack posobiec ( @ jackposobiec ) may 1 , 2017 attacked again assaulted by antifa again and i defended myself # mayday2017 pic.twitter.com/3ddqk1nayn jack posobiec ( @ jackposobiec ) may 1 , 2017the antifa medics say we expect violence antifa yells `` can i get a shoutout on 4chan ! ''
# mayday2017 pic.twitter.com/qna8qxult7 jack posobiec ( @ jackposobiec ) may 1 , 2017the hate for america is big !
the sign below says : smash the state america was never great antifa just can t help but be violent they have proven to be total thugs !
they even sell knives on their website !
they were successful in threatening the city of portland until they shut down a traditional parade : portland antifa shuts down traditional parade : the irony in this entire cancellation of a tradition in portland , oregon is that now the antifa ( anti fascists ) have pissed off the more moderate lefties .
one group was going to speak at the parade event against white supremacy but now they won t get the chance .
it s turning out that the antifa group is more violent than any other radical group we ve known .
they re even selling knives on their website !
a threatening email has derailed one of the portland rose festival s signature events , and spurred new debate about the ongoing political protests in portland.organizers of the 82nd avenue of roses parade announced tuesday that the event will be canceled , for fear that the east portland parade could be disrupted by the type of riots which happen in downtown portland .
( see video below ) originally scheduled this saturday , april 29 , the parade is meant to highlight the local community and businesses along southeast 82nd avenue , aiming to turn around the negative perception many people have of the area .
it started in 2007 and has since become a popular event on the rose festival calendar.this year s parade was once again set to feature the multnomah county republican party as one of the many groups slated to march , but that inclusion drew ire from some of the city s left-leaning protest groups.at least two protests were planned for the day of the parade , one by oregon students empowered and another by direct action alliance .
both events were mentioned in an email sent to parade organizers on saturday , threatening to shut down the event with hundreds of protesters in the street .
you have seen how much power we have downtown and that the police can not stop us from shutting down roads so please consider your decision wisely , the anonymous email said , telling organizers they could cancel the republican group s registration or else face action from protesters .
this is non-negotiable .
the parade is organized by the 82nd avenue of roses business association , a part of the neighborhood business organization venture portland .
representatives from neither organization returned calls for comment.the cancelation isn t necessarily a win for the protest groups .
jacob bureros , an organizer with the direct action alliance , said the organization which intended to speak out against fascism and white supremacy during the parade is sad to hear the news .
we are disappointed that the parade was canceled , he said .
we re members of this community and this is an awesome parade .
james buchal , chairman of the multnomah county republican party , said his group was ready to march despite the protesters .
he said the party had no hand in cancelling the event , and was taken by surprise when they heard the news .
after seeing the email last weekend , they had no plans to back out .
we weren t willing to just walk away quietly , he said .
the next thing we knew the whole thing was canceled .
the problem is the police said they couldn t offer additional security for the parade so the organizers backed out .
we know the portland police department can move to stop this type of activity.check out this recent shut down of protesters blocking a bus in downtown portland : portland protesters were doing the usual idiotic tactic of blocking the street and not letting traffic proceed what they didn t realize is that the police aren t taking this anymore watch the takedown of these punks awesome ! check out the lady with the thumbs up !
haha !
read more : oregon live