vienna ( reuters ) - austria s conservative people s party and the far-right freedom party ( fpo ) said on friday they had agreed on a commitment to the european union and budget discipline as well as cuts in migrants welfare benefits as basic policies for a new coalition government .
people s party leader sebastian kurz started coalition talks with the fpo last week after his party won a parliamentary election with 31.5 percent of the vote .
kurz s hard line on immigration and his decision to force a collapse of the current coalition with the social democrats , who came second , made the anti-immigration freedom party ( fpo ) a natural partner .
some european leaders have expressed concern about the likely return to power of the fpo , which first became a major force in the 1990s under the late joerg haider , who praised hitler s employment policies .
austria s new government will focus on actively shaping the austrian eu council presidency and a commitment to further develop the european union according to the principle of subsidiarity , fpo chief heinz-christian strache said at a news conference with kurz in vienna on friday .
subsidiarity is the principle that power should be exercised at the lowest feasible level .
austria will take on the rotating eu council presidency for six months from next july .
kurz has repeatedly said that any government must have a clear pro-european orientation .
however , just like strache , he wants the eu to slim down and focus mainly on core issues such as trade and securing external borders .
kurz and strache said they had also agreed to reduce inefficiencies in state spending to be able to cut taxes and meet eu budget criteria .
finance ministry projections last month forecast austria s 2018 structural deficit at 1.1 percent of gdp , well above an eu limit of 0.5 percent .
we are jointly committed to ensuring sustainable financing as the basis of our work , kurz said .
the goal was not to spend more than is earned .
details will be negotiated between the parties , he said .
both parties called in their election campaigns for tax cuts for low earners and for companies , and both promised not to introduce a wealth or inheritance tax .
to achieve this , they plan to reduce welfare benefits for migrants and consider introducing a five-year residence qualification for citizens of other eu countries to be eligible for welfare payments in austria .
three of austria s nine provinces have already cut benefits for new arrivals , saying the system was being overstretched by an influx of refugees .
austria took in asylum seekers equivalent to more than 1 percent of its population in 2015 , most of them fleeing conflict in the middle east .