san cristobal/maracaibo , venezuela ( reuters ) - venezuela s critical medicine shortage has spurred medical flea markets , where peddlers offer everything from antibiotics to contraceptives laid out among the traditional fruits and vegetables .
the crisis-wrought latin american nation is heaving under worsening scarcity of drugs , as well as basic foods , due to tanking national production and strict currency controls that crimp imports .
the local pharmaceutical association estimates at any given time , there is a shortage of around 85 percent of drugs .
sick venezuelans often scour pharmacies and send pleas on social media to find treatment .
increasingly , however , they are turning to a flourishing black market offering medicines surreptitiously bought from venezuelan hospitals or smuggled in from neighboring colombia .
here i can find the vitamins i need for my memory , said 56-year-old marisol salas , who suffered a stroke , as she bought the pills at a small stand at the main bus terminal in the andean city of san cristobal .
around her , venezuelans asked sellers for medicine to control blood pressure as well as birth control pills .
people are looking for anticonvulsants a lot recently , said antuam lopez , 30 , who sells medicine alongside vegetables , and said hospital employees usually provide him with the drugs .
leftist president nicolas maduro says resellers are in league with a u.s.-led conspiracy to sabotage socialism and are to blame for medicine shortages .
in the middle of a market in the humid and sweltering city of maracaibo , dozens of boxes full of medicines including antibiotics and pain killers are stacked on top of each other .
the packaging is visibly deteriorated : the cases are discolored and some are even dirty .
doctors warn these drugs usually smuggled in from colombia , a few hours drive from maracaibo pose risks .
we ve found that a lot of them have not been maintained at proper temperatures , warned oncologist jose oberto , who leads the zulia state s doctors association .
still , some venezuelans feel they have no choice but to rely on contraband medicine .
i had to buy medicine from colombia , and it worried me because the label said hospital use , said retiree esledy paez , 62 .
but they are often prohibitively expensive for venezuelans , many of whom earn just a handful of dollars a month at the black market rate due to soaring inflation .
norkis pabon struggled to find antibiotics for her hospitalized husband to prevent his foot injury from worsening due to diabetes .
but the treatment costs 900,000 bolivars ( $ 9.43 ; twice the minimum wage ) and i do not know what to do , said pabon , who is unemployed .