harvard is agreeing to erase the history of their law school founder to satisfy individuals or groups who don t agree with him .
didn t we see something similar to this happening in the middle east ?
it wasn t that long ago that isis destroyed all symbols of christianity in iraq and other countries because they represented the history of christ and was offensive to the islamic terrorists .
did americans think that was okay ?
this politically incorrect nonsense needs to stop before every ounce of history has been sanitized from our public and private schools , colleges and universities harvard university has decided to drop its famous law school emblem after a handful of students said it was racist because it was tied to an 18th-century family of slave holders.the harvard corporation , the body that governs the university , voted in favor of a harvard law school committee recommendation to drop the seal .
harvard s president , drew faust , told the dean of the law school , martha minow , he approved the idea , reuters reported.the emblem has been around since 1936 .
it shows three sheaves of wheat with the motto , veritas , the latin word for truth , scrolled across the top.the image comes from the coat of arms used by the family of isaac royall , a man the media paints as the son of an antiguan slaveholder who was also the endower of the first law professorship at the university , reuters said .
via : wndthe university denied it was revising history.maybe they were just caving to threats or threatening behavior like this protest that took place on campus .
students can be seen here protesting at harvard university over death of thug , michael brown : harvard protestors crowd at the law school to rally against the # ferguson decision , yelling `` no justice , no peace . ''
pic.twitter.com/chmsam1kny meg bernhard ( @ meg_bernhard ) december 1 , 2014 in light of recent events , drew faust shows her support .
pic.twitter.com/p8ej81vxza harvard university ( @ harvard ) december 11 , 201412-11-14 harvard president drew faust declared via twitter that black lives matter .
harvard s official twitter account posted an image wednesday of faust wearing a t-shirt with the movement s slogan and the statement , in light of recent events , drew faust shows her support .
in november , 2015 , portraits of black harvard law school faculty members were defaced on a day after a campus rally for black students , according to the law school .
several portraits were discovered thursday with black strips of tape placed diagonally over the black faculty members faces .
the portraits were on the first floor of wasserstein hall , which houses two hallways with more than 180 framed portraits of law professors.harvard law school dean michele minow said in a statement the harvard university police department is investigating the incident as a hate crime .
harvard law school students started a facebook page with the following stated mission : we are a movement of students calling for the decolonization of our campus , the symbols , the curriculum and the history of harvard law schoolhere is a post from that page : while we accept the request to change the shield , we do so on the understanding that the school will actively explore other steps to recognize rather than to suppress the realities of its history , mindful of our shared obligation to honor the past not be seeking to erase it , but rather by bringing it to light and learning from it , faust said , reuters reported .
via : wndin the end , we can t help but wonder how much this former harvard law school student , turned commuity agitator in chief had to do with their decision to erase history at harvard :