seoul ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump may travel to the heavily fortified demilitarized zone ( dmz ) separating north and south korea when he visits south korea next month , the south s yonhap news agency said on tuesday , citing a defense source .
the white house sent an advance team of working-level officials in late september to check candidate sites for trump s special activity in south korea , the source was quoted as saying .
trump was expected to send a significant message to north korea , either verbally or kinetically , during his first trip to the peninsula as u.s. commander-in-chief , the source said .
the truce village of panmunjom and the observation post , both inside the dmz , were among locations trump was considering visiting , the source said .
yonhap did not elaborate and the white house did not comment .
trump and north korean leader kim jong un have been engaged in an increasingly bellicose exchange of rhetoric , with trump suggesting the military option was the only way to halt the north s missile and nuclear programs .
a trip to the dmz , following in the footsteps of his predecessor , barack obama , and vice president mike pence , would bring trump within yards of north korean soldiers , who stand eyeball to eyeball with their south korean enemies , and likely be regarded by the north as highly provocative .
in recent weeks , north korea has launched two missiles over japan and conducted its sixth nuclear test , all in defiance of u.n. security council resolutions , and may be fast advancing toward its well publicized goal of developing a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the u.s. mainland .
trump repeatedly has made clear his distaste for dialogue with north korea .
last week , he dismissed the idea of talks as a waste of time , a day after secretary of state rex tillerson said washington was maintaining open lines of communication with kim jong un s government .
our country has been unsuccessfully dealing with north korea for 25 years , giving billions of dollars & getting nothing .
policy didn t work !
the u.s. president said in a twitter post on monday .
reclusive north korea and the rich , democratic south are technically still at war because their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce , not a peace treaty .
the north regularly threatens to destroy the south and its main ally , the united states .
trump is scheduled to visit japan , south korea , china , vietnam and the philippines starting from nov. 3 .