moscow ( reuters ) - russian prime minister dmitry medvedev said on thursday that a decision by the international olympic committee ( ioc ) this week to ban the russian team from next year s winter olympics had been deliberately taken to sour the pre-election mood .
medvedev was referring to a march presidential election in which incumbent vladimir putin is standing for re-election .
this is politics , said medvedev , in comments broadcast on state television .
the decision was made in the run-up to the presidential elections in our country , aiming to create a certain mood in our society .
abroad , they understand very well the importance attached in our country to high achievement in sports .
for millions of our people , the decision was a heavy blow .
medvedev , addressing the government , said that allegations that russia had run a state-sponsored doping program were an outright lie .
medvedev s comments came a month after putin suggested that doping bans against some russian athletes who competed at the 2014 sochi games were an attempt to sow discontent ahead of next year s presidential elections .
the ioc on tuesday banned russia from the 2018 pyeongchang winter olympics after evidence emerged of unprecedented systematic manipulation of the anti-doping system but left the door open for some russians to compete as neutrals if they demonstrate they have a doping-free background .
putin said on wednesday that russia would not prevent its athletes from competing in pyeongchang as neutrals , damping down calls from some russians to boycott the games .
russia is expected to make a final decision on its stance regarding the ioc ban at a meeting of russian olympic authorities next week .
in the weeks ahead of the decision , the ioc banned more than 20 russian athletes for life from the olympics as a result of an investigation into the alleged tampering of russian athletes positive tests by laboratory and security officials at the 2014 sochi games .
russian authorities have never acknowledged the state s alleged role in the scandal but have pledged to work with international sports bodies to help curb the use of performance-enhancing drugs in the country .
russia s athletics federation , paralympic committee and national anti-doping agency rusada remain suspended over doping scandals .