one thing about donald trump that s so appealing to americans is that he s not a professional politician and speaks with great honesty .
the canned answers of his opponents leave the people feeling empty and uninspired .
jeb bush is just one example of the snooze fest that happens when a professional politician speaks .
however you feel about teflon don , he s one of a kind and passionate about america .
i have to say i really look forward to his press conferences .
new polls from nbc news and marist out from new hampshire and iowa show that , once again , billionaire donald trump is winning a fight with yet another career politician : this time , former florida gov .
jeb bush.bush s position in the all-important first-in-the-nation caucus state of iowa has deteriorated significantly as he s at a meager 6 percent in a poll with a margin of error of 5.5 percent meaning he s slipping further and further into the lower tiers of candidates there .
trump , meanwhile , is at 29 percent in iowa while fellow political outsider and conservative dr. ben carson is at 22 percent .
the two of them carson and trump combined earn 51 percent of the gop primary electorate in iowa .
throw in carly fiorina , the former hewlett-packard ceo who s also never held political office and is currently at 5 percent , and sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) 96 % another political outsider who s only held office for two years in the u.s. senate and is at 4 percent and a strong majority of 60 percent of iowa republicans support a political outsider and not another bush.the concurrently released poll from the first-in-the-nation primary state of new hampshire shows a nearly identical trend there .
new hampshire , which unlike iowa is a pretty much must-win-state for bush to be able to get the nomination or at least to get it early enough that there isn t a convention feud later , clearly doesn t like him .
trump tops the field again with 28 percent .
carson is in third with 11 percent .
bush has slipped back to fourth place with just 8 percent a six-point slide from when trump got in the race in july , when the same pollsters found him at 14 percent an embarrassingly low number for the guy who is supposed to the frontrunner at this point .
what s more , in second place just ahead of carson but still quite a ways behind trump is ohio gov .
john kasich with 12 percent .
that means kasich another establishment-minded republican candidate has moved bush out of the way and essentially blown past him as the new establishment frontrunner.these new polling results come amid a renewed fight between trump and bush over the past couple weeks .
trump has always had his guns trained on not just democratic candidate hillary clinton , but bush as the gop establishment frontrunner , since the beginning of the race .
he hit bush in his announcement speech and has repeatedly aggressively criticized the former governor as weak , lacking leadership skills and part of the same old tired political class that s led america down a horrendous path it s currently on.bush initially tried to challenge trump at the beginning of the race as having been too tough on illegal immigrants along with a whole host of other politicians and cultural figures who pushed back on trump s announcement speech but trump not only survived through that firestorm he came out of it in a much stronger position .
so , as other candidates attempted to attack trump over the past couple months after that , bush has remained relatively quiet about the front-running billionaire .
trump , meanwhile , has systematically destructed once-promising gop candidates one at a time as they ve come knocking at his door .
one by one , trump has essentially ended chances at the gop nomination for former texas gov .
rick perry and sen. lindsey graham ( r-sc ) 47 % and deflated candidacies of wisconsin gov .
scott walker , sen. rand paul ( r-ky ) 93 % and sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) 80 % .
read more : breitbart news