( reuters ) - pennsylvania governor tom wolf , a democrat , said on wednesday he would allow a republican budget bill for fiscal 2016 to become law without his signature , ending nine months of stalemate that starved schools and social service agencies of funding .
due to the political gridlock , the state until now only had a partial spending plan in place for this fiscal year , which began on july 1 .
wolf , who took office in january 2015 , previously said he would veto the latest $ 30 billion budget bill .
but on wednesday he said he would let it become law to allow funding to flow to schools , some of which have said they could have to close within weeks without state aid .
the move leaves the worst-rated u.s. state , illinois , as the only one without an enacted budget for the current fiscal year .
earlier in march , standard & poor ’ s ratings services warned that it could downgrade pennsylvania ’ s ‘ aa- ‘ credit rating by the end of the month without an enacted budget that addresses the structural deficit .
“ we still face enormous problems that this budget does not even pretend to address , ” he said in a statement , noting that the spending plan is still out of balance .
“ let ’ s be clear : the math in this budget does not work .
next fiscal year - that already has a $ 2 billion deficit - will now begin with an extra $ 300 million deficit , ” he said .
the announcement and additional $ 200 million of education funding in the budget “ come at a critical time as more schools are nearing the end of their financial rope , ” the pennsylvania school boards association said in a statement .
the group supported wolf ’ s efforts to increase education funding .
his campaign promise to restore education funding by imposing a new tax on natural gas extraction met resistance in the republican-led legislature .
the association said the state should also reimburse school districts for interest payments on loans they had to take to stay open .
through december , when lawmakers finalized a partial spending plan , schools had borrowed about $ 1 billion with interest costs of up to $ 50 million .