corruption and socialism go hand in hand brazil is no exception ! here s the backstory on the corrupt brazillian president and how she drained the coffers .
it hasn t helped that the lower oil prices have devastated brazil s economy : the impeachment of brazilian president dilma rousseff is about more than cooking the books to hide election-year spending or looting the state-owned oil company for her campaigns and cronies .
what s really on trial are rousseff s socialist policies.those policies drove up deficits to win votes , bet too heavily on exports to china and not only failed to retool the world s ninth-largest economy to compete in the world but drove it into a recession.rousseff was first elected in 2010 on the coattails of her mentor luiz in cio lula da silva a leftist labor leader who exceeded expectations as president from 2003-2011 .
da silva benefited from the windfall of revenue from exports of oil , natural gas , minerals and agriculture goods which convinced him that his bloated anti-poverty programs were sustainable.unfortunately , both da silva and rousseff ignored the dire need to improve education , reform tangled tax codes , fix stifling labor laws , invest in infrastructure or make it easier to create or operate a business .
read more : nypfast forward to today : rio de janeiro ( ap ) the acting governor of rio de janeiro state has declared a state of financial disaster so he has more leeway to manage the state s scarce resources less than two months brazil hosts the olympic games.francisco dornelles announced the decision on friday .
it will allow rio s state government to change its budgetary priorities without disrespecting brazil s fiscal laws.the move will let dornelles adopt exceptional measures to pay costs related to the games as the state grapples with the country s economic recession.the 2016 summer olympic games will be held in rio de janeiro on aug. 5-21.dornelles office said in a statement that the decision was made because a dip in revenues from taxes and oil royalties was stopping the state of rio de janeiro from honoring its commitment to the organization of the olympic and paralympic games .
the financial crisis has brought several difficulties in essential public services and it could cause the total collapse of public security , health care , education , urban mobility and environmental management , the statement said.rio s state government is in such dire straits that two of its hospitals were taken over by the rio de janeiro city government to allow doctors to keep receiving their paychecks .
some police stations are so underfunded that they have asked neighbors to donate basic items like toilet paper .
public workers and retirees have suffered months-long delays in receiving their money.read more : yahoo news