geneva ( reuters ) - syrian refugees could again seek to reach europe in droves if aid programs are not sustained in five neighboring countries hosting the bulk of them , the united nations said on tuesday .
the u.n. high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) was giving details of the $ 4.4 billion appeal to support 5.3 million syrian refugees in surrounding countries as well as to host communities in turkey , lebanon , iraq , jordan and egypt that have taken them in .
the agency , which has received only 53 percent of its $ 4.63 billion appeal for 2017 , needs international support , amin awad , director of unhcr s middle east and north africa bureau , told a news briefing .
he listed many reasons , including : the vast number of refugees that we have in the region , the geopolitical status of that region , the risk that a population of 5.3 million people can bring to an area , a small region already volatile as it is , if there is no assistance .
we had the experience of 2015 , we don t want to repeat that , he said .
the lack of funding led to an acute shortage of services that year , when one million refugees fled to europe , he added .
about half were syrians , unhcr figures show .
an eu-turkey deal has largely halted the flow , but a unhcr funding shortfall has led to fresh cutbacks in vital programs providing food , health care , education and shelter to syrian refugees , awad said .
that means we re not able to provide stoves , we are not able to deliver kerosene , we are not able to deliver enough thermal blankets , we are not able to winterise tents , we are not able to drain water and snow from camps , we are not able to do engineering work to insulate some of the buildings .
people are sitting in cold , open buildings , he said .
turkey currently hosts 3.3 million syrian refugees , the largest number , followed by lebanon with one million .
these are the biggest donors , these are the real donors .
they provided space , international protection , awad said .
now the material assistance is left to the donors and international community ... and that s not coming through .
so we have to be prepared for consequences , he said .
awad , asked about countries in the region closing their borders to syrian refugees , replied : borders are managed , in some instance are closed .
host countries have cited concerns over security , economic crises , and xenophobia , but syrians continue to arrive , he said .
lebanon is still accepting vulnerable cases , medical cases , so is turkey , awad said .
there have been cases of refoulement , returning refugees to places where they could face war or persecution , in violation of law , he said .
we are seeing expulsion , we are seeing people sent back .
unhcr spokesman adrian edwards declined to provide specifics on syrian refugees being expelled .