bangkok ( reuters ) - the only son of fugitive former thai prime minister thaksin shinawatra has been formally charged with money-laundering , the department of special investigations told reuters on wednesday .
panthongtae shinawatra is accused of receiving a 10 million baht ( $ 300,000 ) check in 2004 related to an earlier corruption case involving 9.9 billion baht ( $ 296 million ) of fraudulent loans extended by the state-owned krungthai bank when his father was prime minister .
the deputy spokesman of the department of special investigation ( dsi ) , woranan srilum , said panthongtae had turned himself in on tuesday but had been released as no arrest warrant for him has been issued .
panthongtae could now gather evidence for his case , woranan said , while the dsi must decide whether to take the case to the criminal court .
panthongtae was not available for comment .
he complained this month of victimization and called for the dropping of the money-laundering investigation .
his lawyer declined to comment when contacted by reuters .
supporters of the shinawatras say the legal action is the latest bid by authorities in junta-ruled thailand to squeeze the shinawatra family out of politics and blunt its influence .
beginning in the late 1980s , former policeman thaksin built a telecommunications conglomerate that made him one of thailand s richest and most powerful men .
after entering politics , he won landslide election victories , beginning in 2001 , with the support of the rural and urban poor who saw him as the first political leader to care for them .
but he made powerful enemies , especially in the bangkok-based establishment , which saw him and his populist ways as a threat .
ousted in a 2006 coup , and later convicted of corruption , which he denies , thaksin has overseen from self-exile victory for his party in every election since , most recently in 2011 , when his sister , yingluck shinawatra , became prime minister .
she was ousted in a 2014 coup .
last month , the supreme court sentenced yingluck to five years in jail in absentia for mismanaging a rice subsidy scheme .
recently , old cases against thaksin have been revived , including an accusation that he abused power while he was prime minister by ordering the export-import bank of thailand to give low interest loans to myanmar in 2006 to further his business interests .
in another case , thaksin was accused of graft and negligence in connection with the approval of a lottery scheme in 2003 .
authorities are also looking to charge him with royal insult and computer crime for an interview he gave to south korean media in 2015 .
thaksin , in a message he posted on twitter this month , denied any thought of ever offending the royal institution .
watcharapol prasanrajkit , chairman of the national anti-corruption commission , denied any bid to target the shinawatras saying the cases just happened to be coming up at this time .
how thaksin s political machine performs in an election expected in november 2018 will be keenly watched .