disney s just doing their part to advance a radical leftist agenda by punishing conservatives and anyone who dares to challenge their views espn has become the latest corporate entity jump on the pig-pile on donald trump.following moves by macy s , nbcuniversal , and nascar to distance themselves from the presidential candidate , espn has decided to move an annual golf tournament honoring late north carolina state basketball coach jim valvano from the trump national golf club .
we decided it was appropriate to change the venue , and are grateful for the opportunity to stage the event at pelican hill on short notice , the network announced in a statement .
this charity outing benefits the v foundation s stuart scott memorial cancer research fund , providing resources for important cancer research for minority populations , including hispanics and african americans .
our decision reflects our deep feelings for our former colleague and support for inclusion of all sports fans .
diversity and inclusion are core values at espn and our decision also supports that commitment .
corporations seeking to limit speech have tangled with the businessman-turned-politician since his remarks critical of illegal immigration that came during his presidential announcement last month .
when mexico sends its people , they re not sending their best , trump maintained on june 16 .
they re sending people that have lots of problems , and they re bringing those problems with us .
they re bringing drugs .
they re bringing crime .
they re rapists .
via : breitbart newsdisney s espn is the top cable network in viewers , advertising and affiliate revenue , according to data from nielsen and snl kagan .
the all-sports network ended 2014 by ousting comcast s usa network from the no .
1 spot for the first time in recent memory , thanks to a stream of negative news out of the nfl that stimulated viewing along with an unquenchable interest in world cup soccer .
the flagship network is poised to see its affiliate fees per subscriber , per month , rocket from $ 6.04 last year to $ 6.55 in 2015 and as much as $ 7.21 in 2016 , according to snl kagan estimates .
espn s five networks will net $ 8.80 by the end of 2016 , according to estimates .
meanwhile , advertising revenue at the sports networks is poised to balloon to $ 2.3 billion next year .
via : ny post