london ( reuters ) - nine months after prime minister theresa may invited president donald trump for a formal state visit to britain , no arrangements have yet been made and there is no sign of the visit taking place soon , u.s. and british officials said .
discussions between washington and london about a trump visit have continued , said one official who asked not to be named , but so far the white house has not signaled when and how the president wants to proceed .
may s invitation to trump during a visit to washington a few days after he took office sparked controversy in britain .
just hours after she left the white house , trump announced his widely-criticized ban on travel from muslim-majority countries .
such is the controversy that some officials on both sides of the atlantic are privately having second thoughts about the visit , worried about street demonstrations that might greet trump in london and other british cities .
there have been signs of relief in some quarters that he has yet to appear on her majesty s schedule , said a british official who spoke on condition of anonymity .
given trump s penchant for showmanship and his pre-presidential visits to the two golf courses he owns in scotland , many trump-watchers expected britain to be one of the first stops on any presidential european tour .
white house representatives told british officials at the time of the invite that trump had accepted .
but a senior u.s. government official told reuters in july that trump had no plans to visit britain in the near future .
a full-scale state visit to britain involves considerable pomp .
upon arriving in london , the president would be greeted by queen elizabeth and other members of the royal family at a ceremony near the houses of parliament .
some british opponents of trump including former labour party leader ed miliband have promised to organize protests should he visit .
we remain in the same position with the trump visit the queen extended an invitation to president trump to visit the uk , it was accepted , and there is no change to those plans .
but a date has not been set , a spokesman for the british embassy in washington said .
we re looking forward to welcoming president trump to the uk , the spokesman added .
u.s. officials , including trump aides and spokespeople and representatives of the u.s. embassy in london , did not respond to detailed emails requesting comment .