why should barack obama bother with the courts ?
he s always been above the law .
he s already proven to us that he doesn t need a court ruling to bring millions of illegal aliens into our country .
he s not following any laws when he demands our border patrol agents stand down to drug cartels , dangerous gangs , pedophiles , members of terror groups and rapists crossing our open borders .
he doesn t need a law to ensure that in exchange for votes for the democrat party , american taxpayers will reward illegal aliens with the right to free education , free food , free health care and subsidized housing .
who needs the law when you re america s first black president .
the obama administration revealed today that it will not take the fight over executive immigration amnesty to the supreme court , essentially admitting defeat in its fight to lift a court-ordered stay placed by a texas judge.obama s executive actions still have to be settled in court , but yesterday s decision prevented the administration from moving forward in its efforts to sign up illegal immigrants for the amnesty programs .
the department believes the best way to achieve this goal is to focus on the ongoing appeal on the merits of the preliminary injunction itself , said patrick rodenbush , a spokesman for the justice department to the new york times .
although the department continues to disagree with the fifth circuit s refusal to stay the district court s preliminary injunction , the department has determined that it will not seek a stay from the supreme court .
the arguments for the legal battle begin next month before the fifth circuit court , but the results of yesterday s decision mean the final will likely be pushed into 2016 .
there s an important hearing scheduled for july 6 at which the department of justice is preparing its arguments on the legal merits of the executive actions that the president announced last fall , white house deputy press secretary eric schultz told reporters aboard air force one .
the department of justice remains focused on that argument and that hearing proceeding on an expedited basis .
obama is traveling to miami today for a series of fundraisers for the democratic national committee.via : breitbart news