( reuters ) - the race between hillary clinton and bernie sanders for the u.s. democratic presidential nomination - once a civil affair - has taken a sour turn , with mud-slinging from both camps over the former secretary of state ’ s win in the nevada caucuses .
sanders ’ supporters are alleging that foul play by casino managers helped clinton out in saturday ’ s contest , while clinton ’ s camp has blasted - in at times vulgar terms - the vermont senator ’ s assertion he took the state ’ s latino vote .
the tensions reflect the tight battle between the two heading into next saturday ’ s south carolina primary .
sanders , who had surged in recent months to challenge front-runner clinton , is trying to maintain momentum against her in a part of the united states where she wields an advantage among minority voters .
the angrier tone also marks a turn from what has been a mostly civil race on the democratic side , in contrast with the noisy insult-hurling that has characterized much of the republican race .
.
while sanders and the former first lady have publicly clashed on their approaches to healthcare and regulating wall street , they have frequently emphasized their common ground on social issues .
sanders has also refused so far to join in republican attacks on clinton ’ s record as secretary of state .
“ let ’ s talk about the real issues facing america , ” he said during one televised debate .
the tone soured after nevada .
officials with national nurses united , which endorsed sanders , have said there were irregularities at casino caucus sites - such as casino managers wearing clinton paraphernalia - which they said amounted to intimidation of casino employee voters .
“ from what nurses observed in nevada sanders campaign should call for un observers to protect democracy , ” the union said in one twitter post on sunday .
neither clinton nor sanders ’ campaigns immediately responded to requests for comment on the allegations .
meanwhile , both campaigns have argued about what the polling from the nevada caucuses show .
one set of entrance and exit poll results conducted by cbs news showed sanders took 53 percent of latino votes in the state .
this is a critical group for sanders as he seeks to broaden his support base after his early results - a very narrow loss and a decisive win - in iowa and new hampshire , which have overwhelmingly white voter populations .
“ i don ’ t typically like to swear on twitter , but by all accounts so far this is complete and utter bullshit , ” clinton spokesman nick merrill wrote on twitter , referring to a sanders ’ campaign press release asserting he took the latino bloc in nevada .
clinton has been expected to find easier territory as contests move into the south in the state-by-state battles to pick a party presidential nominee for the november general election .
her backers say minority voters are her “ firewall ” against sanders ’ popularity among young voters who dislike establishment politics and are attracted by his vows to take on wall street excesses and high college fees .
she won nevada , which is nearly a quarter latino , by just over 5 points .
sanders ’ camp , meanwhile , has disputed clinton camp assertions that she drew the lion ’ s share of the union votes in the nevada contest , accusing her campaign of inventing figures .
“ they do have a tendency to make stuff up , ” sanders ’ spokesman michael briggs said in an email .
the american federation of teachers issued a press release on monday listing 23 unions that back clinton .
( writing by richard valdmanis ; editing by frances kerry ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .