barcelona ( reuters ) - moments before catalonia s leader , carles puigdemont , baulked at declaring independence from spain this week , cracks were already appearing in his secessionist ranks .
some members of his political alliance say they were waiting for him at barcelona s 18th-century regional parliament building on tuesday evening , fully expecting him to call for an independence vote in the chamber that night .
instead , after arriving late , to the cheers of thousands of supporters , the former journalist and lifetime advocate of independence told his allies an hour before entering the chamber that there had been a late change of plan , according to one of those present .
there would be no vote .
instead , puigdemont made a symbolic declaration of independence , then suspended it and called for negotiations with madrid .
we are annoyed , we are hurt , we are angry because he came up with a strategic change one hour before the parliamentary session , said carles riera , a member of the catalan parliament from the far-left cup party , which backs an unequivocal declaration of independence and whose support keeps puigdemont s minority government alive .
a spokesman for puigdemont s party denied he had surprised all of his own political allies , saying his core coalition had agreed the plan in the morning .
the cup was not included in that morning meeting but was informed afterwards , the spokesman said , without saying when .
the cup s claim of betrayal reveals the shaky political foundations upon which catalonia s independence movement is built , a jumble of parties ranging from anti-capitalists to free marketeers whose only common cause is to split from spain .
there are now doubts over puigdemont s ability to survive the worst confrontation between catalonia , a former principality with its own language and culture , and madrid in 40 years .
members of the cup say puigdemont lost his nerve at the crucial moment .
one cup lawmaker present at the meeting , eulalia reguant , quit the day after , citing his reversal .
instead of persuading spanish prime minister mariano rajoy to accept talks , his gesture was met with an ultimatum : renounce independence by thursday or madrid will use its constitutional power to take control of the region directly .
now puigdemont , 54 , finds himself in a struggle with not only madrid , but also internally with the cup , which may end up being the bigger danger for his political career and for his prospects of winning another regional election on a pro-independence platform .
the small cup party had ousted puigdemont s predecessor as catalan president , artur mas , in 2015 .
it refused to back the mainstream independence coalition , junts pel si , unless mas stepped down .
if puigdemont backs down and says we tried but this is not working , unilateral secession isn t doable , i don t think cup will support him again , said eurasia analyst federico santi .
he said puigdemont s party was already sliding in opinion polls .
in the final hour before puigdemont stood up in the regional parliament to announce that he was suspending the independence push , he also made it clear to those in his political circle that their voices were not the only ones that mattered .
i am talking to the world , he told them when pressed for an explanation , according to two people who were present .
some in the room said they suspected he had taken a phone call from a senior eu figure in brussels , though the heads of the two main eu political institutions , jean-claude juncker and donald tusk , said it was not them .
one eu official , however , said there was reason to believe that an emotional personal appeal tusk had made publicly to puigdemont a couple of hours before he was due to speak had weighed on the catalan leader s decision .
puigdemont has always considered world opinion as crucial to catalan independence : as a journalist in the 1990s , he traveled europe to research media impressions of catalonia and wrote a book , cata ... que ?
( cata ...
what ? ) .
a supporter of the european union , he switches easily from catalan to spanish , french or romanian , the native language of his wife , whom he met at the catalan news agency he founded .
the president made a speech which was very much addressed to eu institutions and governments , a catalan government source said on condition of anonymity .
puigdemont also made clear that he considered it would be spain s responsibility if it rejected his offer of dialogue .
several neighboring countries criticized spain s use of force to disrupt catalonia s oct. 1 independence referendum , which had been banned by madrid .
hundreds were injured when police used batons and rubber bullets on voters .
the crackdown , though , fired up independence supporters and hardened expectations among puigdemont s base that he would unilaterally declare independence in parliament .
when he didn t , supporters watching his speech on large screens outside the assembly buried their heads in their hands , some wept , and they rolled up their catalan flags and went home .
inside , the recriminations were well underway .
some lawmakers in puigdemont s junts pel si coalition said they , too , had only been informed of his tactic at the 11th hour , though the spokesman for puigdemont s party denied this .
the government source said catalan companies leaving the region in the days before his speech had also weighed on puigdemont s mind .
several firms , including catalonia s two major banks , moved their legal headquarters to other parts of spain .
some anxious catalan depositors traveled to neighboring regions to open bank accounts there .
jordi alberich , director of barcelona-based business association cercle d economia , met puigdemont on oct. 7 .
he seemed to be very conscious of the consequences of a unilateral declaration of independence , alberich said .
he was very worried about companies fleeing .