london ( reuters ) - british finance minister philip hammond said on wednesday the value of a transitional brexit deal would decline rapidly if talks to agree it drag into next year , but said it was too soon to spend money on contingency plans .
negotiations on the terms of britain s exit from the european union have made slow progress before a march 2019 deadline .
talks on a transition period have not even begun .
and while hammond thinks it s too early to begin enacting contingency plans for a failure to reach an agreement , eu diplomats and officials are putting renewed focus on preparing for a legal limbo after march 2019 .
their efforts have intensified as brexit negotiations stall on issues like the bill britain must pay to leave and the future of northern ireland s land border with the eu .
if progress does not pick up , hammond said , a transition agreement will rapidly diminish in value .
it is self-evident to me ... that a transitional arrangement is a wasting asset .
it has a value today .
it will still have a very high value at christmas , early in the new year , hammond said .
but as we move through 2018 its value to everybody will diminish significantly .
and i think our european partners need to think very carefully about the need for speed in order to protect the potential value to all of us of having an interim period .
british prime minister theresa may has set out plans to seek a transition period after march 2019 with a set time limit .
during that period , britain wants to operate under the same rules as it currently does to provide certainty for businesses while allowing new arrangements to be put in place .
business leaders have repeatedly called for clarity on the trading conditions they will face during the transition period and beyond .
some - including banks in london s financial sector - are making arrangements to move overseas to ensure continued access to the eu market .
hammond said lack of direction to talks was hurting business investment and consumer confidence , and one of his top advisors said international banks would make decisions to move in the first three months of 2018 .
britain had hoped eu leaders would agree to start talking about the future at a summit next week .
but european council president donald tusk poured cold water on that idea on tuesday , saying he hoped it could happen in december .
hammond called on the eu to change their approach , warning of the possibility of a bad-tempered breakdown in talks which would see eu countries acting against their own interest .
we have made the running in this and we really need our european union partners to engage ... we are not asking them to sign up .
we are not asking them to write blank cheques .
we are simply asking them to start talking to us , he said .
the limited progress in brussels has drawn calls from some british lawmakers to walk away from the talks and start preparing for a clean break with the bloc .
hammond is considered one of the most pro-eu members of prime minister theresa may s cabinet , and pro-brexit lawmakers and campaigners have accused him of trying to water down or even halt britain s exit .
he said the government was planning for all possibilities , including britain s leaving with no agreement on the terms of its departure or how the two would build a new relationship .
he said 250 million pounds ( $ 330 million ) was being spent on planning for all scenarios .
but he rejected the idea that britain should begin putting no deal contingency arrangements in place , including a suggestion from a member of his own party that the government should start spending money to beef up border and customs capabilities .
some are urging me to spend money simply to send a message to the eu that we mean business .
i think the eu knows that we mean business , hammond said .
i don t believe we should be in the business of making potentially nugatory expenditure until the very last moment when we need to do so .
however , he warned that he would have to start spending in 2018 if there was no clear prospect of a transitional deal .
there will be some areas where we need to start spending money in the new year if we can t tell ourselves that we are moving steadily and pretty assuredly toward a transition agreement , he said .
( $ 1 = 0.7573 pounds )