maybe the left became a bit too optimistic after america put a radical community organizer in the white house .
perhaps they overplayed their hand .
until now , democrats have been able to quietly organize , and for the most part , the media helped to make americans believe that everything they did was for the common good .
thanks to black lives matter and the radical organizations who fund them , the curtain has been pulled back , and america is starting to see the ugly truth about the democrats who support this ugly , hateful and divisive movement .
will the woman who has spent her whole life plotting and scheming for this moment be taken down by her own party ? as a student radical during the black panthers era , hillary clinton gravitated to the company of anti-cop activists .
at yale , she helped edit a law journal that depicted police officers as racist pigs and ran numerous articles in defense of cop-killers.during her law school stint , she spent free moments offering assistance to the lawyers for black panthers who had killed a federal agent .
she monitored the bobby seale trial in new haven , hoping to catch the prosecutors out in mistakes that could later trigger an appeal.she also hobnobbed with the radical chic social set , going to cocktail parties with the lawyers for the black panthers .
through one of those events , she met robert treuhaft and jessica mitford , two stalinists from california whom historians have established collaborated with the soviet union as members of the american communist party.robert treuhaft ran a law firm in california , and hillary spent one of her summers doing a legal internship at his firm in oakland .
treuhaft thought that she might object to his red ties .
but at the time she didn t care .
in her autobiography , however , she was embarrassed enough about the association to try and minimize her work there : i spent most of my time working for mal burnstein researching , writing legal motions and briefs for a child custody case .
treuhaft s firm was notorious not only for its red associations but also its unapologetic defense of cop-killers .
that hillary would devote a summer to working for such creepy subversives reveals the depth of her radical instincts .
it is not hard to imagine her signing off on cartoons in the yale review caricaturing cops as pigs conjuring up the foulest racist thoughts as they walked the streets.this ideology creeps into hillary s remarks , even at moments when she is straining to appear irenic .
in her speech to an african methodist episcopal church in philadelphia last week , she uncorked the claim that implicit bias exists even in the best police departments .
while claiming to detest profiling , hillary gives herself the right to profile good police officers as racist .
she adds implicit to dilute the insult and to build herself up as the omniscient central planner who will reorganize police departments so perfectly that not even implicit racism will shape their policies .
how these central planners are immune to the implicit racism hillary sees everywhere is never made clear .
she says it exists across society but somehow it doesn t touch her.the upshot of this ideology is that as long as police officers arrest minorities for committing crimes they will fall under suspicion and face resistance .
they can only escape the charge of racism by abdicating their duties .
hillary doesn t want to reform police departments but castrate them .
her cop-bashing these days is more circumspect and subdued than it was in the 1970s , but it is no less ideologically crass .
she is no longer romanticizing the black panthers , but she is romanticizing their heirs .
even after a jury found that trayvon martin had died after trying to smash george zimmerman s head into cement , hillary still casts him , as she did last week , as a cherubic angel struck down by society s sinister forces .
white americans , she said , need to do a better job of listening when african americans talk .
if they did , she said , they would understand why black people say a prayer when their baby goes to a store to buy iced tea and skittles .
american spectatorif there is to be a social explosion every time an incident occurs , like the deaths of trayvon martin , shot while beating a neighborhood watch coordinator , and michael brown , shot in ferguson after trying to grab a cop s gun , america is going to be permanently polarized.and there is no doubt where the majority will come down , and who will be the near-term beneficiary.monday , donald trump declared himself the law and order candidate , and added : america s police are what separates civilization from total chaos and destruction of our country as we know it .
and clinton ?
on friday , she said , i m going to be talking to white people .
i think we re the ones who have to start listening .
prediction : if black lives matter does not clean up its act , obama and clinton will have to throw this crowd over the side , or the blm will take her down .
real clear politics