rome ( reuters ) - the u.n. refugee agency is seeking to open a refugee transit center in tripoli early next year to resettle or evacuate as many as 5,000 of the most vulnerable refugees out of libya each year , a senior u.n. official said on friday .
it is a small fraction of the total number of libya s migrant population , estimated at as many as 1 million , but would be a welcome outlet for the 43,000 refugees that the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) estimates are now trapped in libya .
we hope to have the ( written ) authorization soon , roberto mignone , the unhcr s representative in libya , told reuters in rome .
the u.n.-backed tripoli government has already approved the project verbally , he said .
the center , where migrants will be able to come and go as they please , will be in a former immigration police training facility .
once refurbished , it will be able to temporarily accommodate as many as 1,000 refugees and could be running by early 2018 , mignone said .
italy has become the main migrant route to europe since an agreement between the eu and turkey shut down smuggling through greece last year , but arrivals have fallen sharply since july , when an armed group clamped down on departures .
with the backing of the european union , italy has financed , trained and equipped by the tripoli-based coast guard .
with a national election due early next year , italy is also promising tens of millions of euros to prime minister fayez al-seraj and municipal governments to put a stop to smuggling .
this strategy has drawn criticism from humanitarian groups that point to the dire conditions inside state detention centers , where mignone said some 6,000 now are held , and in the much more numerous camps where smugglers hold migrants , often extorting them or forcing them to labor for free .
italian interior minister marco minniti has said he is depending on the u.n. refugee and migration agencies to improve conditions for refugees and migrants now trapped in libya .
we can t be the only solution , mignone said , also because libya remains very dangerous and international staff still have very limited access to the country .
there are still many risks for international staff , he said .
a month-and-a-half ago , there was an attack on a u.n. convoy 30 km ( 19 miles ) from tripoli with bazookas and machine guns .
it was a miracle that the worst was avoided .
some 1,200 of the most vulnerable refugees which includes women , children , the sick or disabled and the elderly have already been released from detention centers at the request of the unhcr , and about 800 more should be let out soon , mignone said .
while the unhcr hopes to resettle many of them , it is a lengthy process .
many countries do not have a permanent diplomatic presence in tripoli , further complicating matters .
so the agency will seek to evacuate most of them , mignone said , to emergency transit centers in romania , slovakia or even costa rica , where they will have more time to apply for resettlement .
the agency is currently working to open another emergency transit center in niger , he said .