tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - hondurans spilled into the streets of the capital on monday night , banging pots and pans and joining rebel police in defiance of a curfew imposed after a presidential election that was heavily criticized by the organization of american states .
some police officers abandoned their posts and joined carnival-like demonstrations that erupted across the city hours after night fell and the curfew was supposed to have begun .
a statement issued in the name of the national police said the officers were upset with the government over a political crisis that was not their responsibility .
our people are sovereign , said a member of the elite cobra riot police , reading the statement .
we can not confront and repress their rights .
authorities finished counting votes on monday after a week of increasingly widespread criticism about the nov. 26 election , with organization of american states ( oas ) lending credence to opposition claims the government manipulated the results to ensure a win .
the tight margin , along with the irregularities , errors and systematic problems that have surrounded this election , does not allow the mission to be certain about the results , said former bolivian president jorge quiroga , heading the oas election observation mission in the central american country .
electoral authorities said president juan orlando hernandez won 42.98 percent of the vote , compared with opposition challenger salvador nasralla s 41.39 percent , based on 99.96 percent of ballot boxes tallied .
however , authorities refrained from declaring a winner , with nasralla s center-left opposition alliance demanding a wide recount of nearly a third of votes , a request backed by the oas and european union election observers .
lending more support to that view , a leader of rebellious cobra riot police told reporters the country wanted a vote-by-vote recount to clarify the results , and called on the armed forces to come out in support of the police protest .
the alliance , which claims that results sheets from ballot boxes were altered , is expected to formally contest the results .
president hernandez , who has been praised by the united states for his crackdown on street gangs , also refrained from calling himself the winner on monday , despite claiming victory several times since the election .
i make a call for peace , for brotherhood , for sanity , for national unity , he told reporters .
in a striking sign of support for hernandez , 49 , the u.s. state department cleared the way for honduras to receive millions of dollars in u.s. aid two days after the election , certifying that the government has been fighting corruption and upholding human rights , a document seen by reuters showed .
the government was struggling to contain the fallout from the chaos on monday evening .
even former tv star nasralla joined a crowd of boisterous supporters , jumping up and down in a tan suit while flashing peace signs and joining a chant of the dictatorship will fall , a video posted on twitter showed .
the additional powers granted to the army and police including the nighttime curfew from friday were intended to stem the protests and have led to more than a thousand arrests .
up to 12 people have been killed in the protests or during the curfew .
tens of thousands peacefully took to the streets on sunday in a show of force for the opposition .
the police revolt began when more than 200 members of the cobras refused to carry on battling protesters , saying it was tantamount to taking sides .
nasralla has repeatedly called on the security forces to ignore orders .
we are rebelling , said one of the policemen , who covered his face in a ski mask and declined to give his name .
we call on all the police nationally to act with their conscience .
they soon had the support of other units , with reports that their protests had spread to other cities .
the police also said they were angry about the death of two colleagues shot while they were enforcing the curfew on sunday night , an attack a spokesman said was unrelated to the election protests .
two civilian protesters were killed in the capital overnight , their relatives said , although authorities did not confirm the deaths .
the oas called for peaceful protests , said politicians must not incite violence and that security forces must respect human rights .
last week , at least three people were killed as soldiers broke up protesters blockades .
one police source and local reports said five more had been shot dead in the north of the country on friday .
the deaths have not been confirmed by authorities .
early last week , nasralla , a 64-year-old former sportscaster and game show host , appeared set for an upset victory , gaining a five-point lead with more than half of the ballots tallied .
the counting process suddenly halted for more than a day and began leaning in favor of hernandez after resuming .
opposition leaders on monday showed a sample of their own records of polling that did not match with the tribunal s. venezuelan president nicolas maduro accused the united states of backing vote fraud in honduras , while the u.s. embassy on monday called for a transparent , impartial , and opportune election result .
honduras struggles with violent drug gangs , one of world s highest murder rates and endemic poverty , driving a tide of its people to migrate to the united states .