manila ( reuters ) - the philippines has assured vietnam of a fair and thorough investigation into the deaths of two of its fishermen during a sea chase incident at the weekend , during which warning shots were fired by a navy ship .
two crew died and five were arrested on saturday about 30 miles ( 48 km ) off pangasinan , northwest of manila , after the navy corvette encountered vietnamese vessels deep in the philippines 200 nautical mile exclusive economic zone , according to its foreign ministry .
foreign secretary alan peter cayetano made the assurance to his vietnamese counterpart in new york on the sidelines of the united nations general assembly .
we would like to offer our sympathies over the unfortunate loss of life and give you our assurance that we will conduct a fair and thorough investigation into this matter , philippine foreign ministry spokesman robespierre bolivar told reporters on monday , quoting cayetano .
the philippines and vietnam have been close diplomatic allies when it comes to the south china sea , most of which is claimed by china .
malaysia , brunei and taiwan also have claims .
on monday , vietnam s foreign ministry said it had received information from the philippines and was investigating .
vietnam protested violence against fishermen of any kind , it added , asking the philippines to notify it soon of the official results and to take serious measures if there were violations by philippine authorities , the statement said .
the philippines assured vietnam the detained fishermen would be well treated .
according to the initial philippine investigation , the navy ship spotted the six vietnamese vessels by their bright fishing lights .
the boats sped away and the navy gave chase , but the corvette was then rammed by one fishing boat , the navy said , prompting sailors to fire warning shots .
when the vietnamese boat was caught , the crew surrendered and two fishermen were found dead .
investigators noticed bullet holes in the boat s stockroom , but did not say if they were from the navy s guns .