hanoi ( reuters ) - vietnam called on cambodia on tuesday to guarantee the legal rights of vietnamese migrants living there after the cambodian government said it would revoke the invalid documents of 70,000 immigrants , most of them ethnic vietnamese .
anti-vietnamese sentiment is widespread in cambodia and has often been used as a tool by opponents of prime minister hun sen , who came to power during vietnam s occupation of cambodia after it drove out the genocidal khmer rouge regime in 1979 .
vietnam s foreign ministry hopes cambodia will take appropriate measures to guarantee the legal and legitimate rights of ethnic vietnamese in the country , ministry spokeswoman le thi thu hang said in a statement .
we hope that while people are waiting for their legal documents to be completed , they will be able to maintain a stable life and continue contributing to cambodia s socio-economic development , she added .
last week cambodian immigration authorities said they would seize documents issued improperly to 70,000 people , most of them ethnic vietnamese , but they have not threatened their forcible removal .
responding to vietnam , cambodia vowed to ensure respect for legal and human rights in its enforcement of immigration laws .
we won t enforce it like the one done by the pol pot regime , said interior ministry spokesman khieu sopheak , referring to the leader of the khmer rouge movement responsible for the deaths of an estimated 1.8 million cambodians in the 1970s , and which targeted vietnamese , among other groups .
ethnic vietnamese have settled in what is now cambodia for hundreds of years , particularly during the 19th and 20th century period when both were part of french possessions overseas .
more arrived when vietnam occupied cambodia after ousting the khmer rouge and before the 1990 withdrawal of its forces .
political tension has been rising in cambodia ahead of a general election next year in which prime minister hun sen aims to extend his 32-year rule .
the arrest of his main rival and a threat to ban the main opposition party have provoked western condemnation .