mandra , greece ( reuters ) - greeks voiced despair and disbelief on thursday after a flash flood killed at least 15 people and left hundreds homeless , with many blaming a system that allowed houses to be built on dried up river beds .
in the towns of nea peramos and mandra west of the capital athens , crumpled cars and mangled furniture lay on roads coated in the thick mud left behind by a raging torrent that smashed through homes on wednesday morning .
we are ruined .
my tavern and my house are gone , said paraskevas stamou , a restaurant owner in mandra .
everything is gone , the road is gone , the water is still flowing and we were flooded again last night and this morning .
we are expecting another downpour tonight .
it s like god hates us , he told reuters .
to escape the lethal floodwaters , residents took desperate measures .
we had nowhere to sleep .
we slept on the roof , we found carpets to cover ourselves , said a man in mandra whose house was gutted by the flood but remained standing .
between sobs , his mother added : everything went .
we don t have anyone to help us .
i don t have help from anyone .
elderly people wandered the streets in muddied clothing , looking bewildered .
what i am concerned about is the indifference - there was no one there by our side to say , take courage .
i didn t want anything else , nothing , said mandra resident maria kriada .
did anyone ask me if i had any water to drink ?
if i had any food to eat ?
if i had somewhere to sleep ?
no one came to say this .
bad weather continued on thursday .
officials said they were waiting for conditions to improve before giving a clearer picture of the damage .
five people were still missing .
flags flew at half-mast from state buildings and the acropolis on thursday as the government declared three days of national mourning .
newspapers expressed anger .
a crime , was the headline in ta nea daily , superimposed on a picture of a woman being comforted next to an overturned car .
the deeds of man , wrote the leftist avgi , referring to unlicensed constructions .
experts blamed haphazard construction which the natural path for water runoff obstructed , and soil erosion on a mountain range hit by fires .
both towns were built along an old motorway linking athens to the peloponnese city of corinth .
as building crept closer to the road , streams that would have drained runoff from the nearby pateras mountains were blocked .
of course the state wasn t prepared ... we can not compete with nature , said christos zeferos , head of the research center for atmospheric physics and climatology academy of athens , adding that climate change meant people should expect more weather-related disasters .
we should be prepared for more frequent , and different phenomena , he told reuters .
many of the victims were elderly .
the youngest was a 36-year old truck driver who called his mother as the floodwaters rose around his lorry .
the line went dead soon afterwards .