tokyo ( reuters ) - japan s oxford-educated crown prince , naruhito , looks set to bring a more global outlook to the ancient imperial institution while carrying on emperor akihito s legacy of promoting peace and reconciliation with asia when he ascends the throne in 2019 .
prime minister shinzo abe s cabinet on friday signed off on an april 30 , 2019 date for the octogenarian akihito s retirement - the first abdication by a japanese monarch in two centuries .
akihito , who turns 84 on dec. 23 , has spent much of his nearly three decades on the throne trying to heal the wounds of a war fought in his father hirohito s name and highlighting the needs of the vulnerable in society .
he said in august 2016 that he feared age would make it hard to fulfil his duties .
as an oxford-educated scholar and well traveled crown prince , naruhito can draw on a wealth of international experience in carrying out the duties his father pioneered , said jeffrey kingston , director of asian studies at temple university japan .
naruhito , 57 , is an advocate for environmental causes , and has taken part in international conferences on clean water .
certainly , on environmental issues , he s very passionate , said shihoko goto , a senior associate for northeast asia at the washington-based wilson center .
he is also very concerned about women s rights ... the idea of empowering women and giving them a position of dignity that goes beyond their place in the traditional world .
naruhito defied palace officials to marry masako owada , a harvard- and oxford-educated diplomat who has suffered from stress-related illness brought on by the demands of palace life and pressure to bear a royal heir .
at one point , he shocked the public with his blunt defense of his wife from criticism and pressure , drawing a rebuke from his younger brother and sorrowful remarks from his father .
masako s daughter , 16-year-old aiko , can not inherit the males-only throne .
a one-off law allowing akihito to abdicate was enacted in june , but did not address the controversial issue of female succession - a matter that is becoming increasingly pressing as the royal family shrinks and ages .
akihito has only one grandson , 11-year-old prince hisahito .
how masako , 53 , copes with the role of empress will be closely watched .
my hope is that ... she will be able to express herself and embrace some of the things she wants to do and be at the forefront of imperial diplomacy , the wilson center s goto said .