sofia ( reuters ) - the bulgarian orthodox church has taken a step towards possible eventual recognition of macedonia s orthodox church , a rapprochement that echoes a warming of relations between the governments of the two balkan neighbors .
however , the move is unlikely to be welcomed by other orthodox churches such as those of serbia and greece , in a region where religious identity is often closely tied up with nationalist passions and politics .
the macedonian orthodox church was formed when the country was part of communist yugoslavia but has never been recognized by other orthodox churches due to a long-standing dispute over its independence from the serbian orthodox church , with which it was previously formally united .
this month , however , the macedonian church sent an official request to bulgaria s 1,100-year-old orthodox church asking it to become its symbolic mother church .
bulgaria has close linguistic , cultural and historic ties with macedonia .
in a statement on monday the bulgarian orthodox church said that aware of its sacred duty ... ( it was ) taking all necessary steps to establish the canonical status of the macedonian church .
we must accept the outstretched hand of macedonia , bulgaria s orthodox patriarch neofit said .
this is the least ( we can do ) because they are our brothers .
the move comes three months after the prime ministers of bulgaria and macedonia signed a friendship treaty in a move designed to end years of diplomatic wrangling and boost macedonia s european integration .
the bulgarian church s holy synod , its top executive body , will consult with other eastern orthodox churches , including those of russia and greece and serbia , before announcing its final decision , it said .
the eastern orthodox church is the second largest christian denomination worldwide with more than 250 million members , but unlike the roman catholic church it has no supreme leader comparable to the pope but instead is composed mainly of de facto national churches , each led by a patriarch .
there was no immediate response on monday from the orthodox church in serbia , greece or elsewhere to the bulgarian move , but they are unlikely to be positive .
greece is locked in a long-running dispute with macedonia over the country s name , which is also the name of a northern greek province , and athens has blocked the skopje government s attempts to join the european union and nato .
russia s orthodox church , by far the biggest worldwide , is unlikely to do anything that might compromise moscow s strong ties with serbia .
moscow is also opposed to macedonia s plans to join nato and the eu .
but bulgaria s orthodox church could unilaterally recognize macedonia s church , a move sure to cheer bulgarian nationalists .
the bulgarian church must recognize the macedonian ( church ) , bulgarian defence minister krasimir karakachanov , co-leader of the united patriots party , a junior partner in the centre-right coalition government in sofia , said on monday .
the two brotherly churches speak without a translator and use the same church books , he added , alluding to the close linguistic links .
bulgarian nationalists regard the macedonian language as a dialect of bulgarian .