washington ( reuters ) - senate banking committee chairman richard shelby , fresh off his primary victory in alabama , signaled on wednesday that he may soon end his moratorium on some of the 16 obama administration financial nominees awaiting panel confirmation .
the stalled nominees include those for two federal reserve board governors , two securities and exchange commissioners , a u.s. export-import bank board member needed to approve large financing deals and the u.s. treasury ’ s top anti-terrorist finance official .
banking committee democrats and some policy analysts had speculated that shelby , 81 , might be more willing to break the logjam once he defeated a 33-year-old tea party-backed primary challenger who had tried to make an issue of his age and long tenure in washington .
shelby returned to washington for a senate vote on wednesday afternoon , but reuters could not reach him in the capitol .
his spokeswoman , torrie matous , said that the five-term senator now “ intends to address a number of issues throughout the year including some nominations. ” she added that he would likely begin announcing some hearing plans next week .
in alabama on tuesday , shelby easily defeated four challengers to take 65 percent of the vote , enough to avoid a runoff election in april .
in a campaign atmosphere dominated by republican presidential front-runner donald trump ’ s anti-establishment message , shelby did the opposite , running on his experience and emphasizing his “ power base in washington , d.c. ” earlier this week , democrats on the banking committee urged shelby to “ stop obstructing ” the nominations .
one of the most acute problems is for the export-import bank , which can not approve loans or guarantees above $ 10 million without senate confirmation of a third board member —effectively locking it out of deals for boeing commercial aircraft or major power equipment made by general electric conservatives , including shelby , had waged a major campaign to close the trade bank last year , idling it for more than five months before congress voted to renew its charter .
the fed nominees , former community banker allan landon and university of michigan economist kathryn dominguez , would restore the central bank ’ s board to its full capacity of seven members .
many had written off their chances of being confirmed , in part because of the testy relationship between congress and the fed , which has opposed republican bills it says would curb its independence .
shelby had previously said that he would not move the 16 nominees until the obama administration named a fed vice chair for supervision , a position created by the dodd-frank financial reform law .