buenos aires ( reuters ) - one of the 44 crew members on board the argentine submarine that is missing in the south atlantic is eliana maria krawczyk , who came from a landlocked province to become the country s first female submarine officer .
in a facebook video posted in january by the defense ministry , krawczyk discussed her experience of being the first woman in a traditionally male space .
she said that she aspired to become the commander of a navy submarine one day .
if you think about being underwater , navigating , and being the only woman , it is strange , but at the same time it is exciting and very challenging , she said in the video .
any woman that wants to can do it .
krawczyk , 35 , was born in the northeastern province of misiones and joined the navy in 2004 , after responding to an advertisement online .
she rose to become the master-at-arms aboard the ara san juan , which went missing last week .
she graduated from argentina s submarine and diving school in 2012 as the first female officer and always loved her job working at sea , according to her sister silvina krawczyk .
it is like she was born for this , silvina told reuters .
she really likes to do what she does in the navy .
hopes of discovering the ara san juan received a setback on monday when the navy confirmed that failed satellite calls traced to the area on saturday did not come from the submarine .
with rough seas and high winds hampering the search for the 34-year-old vessel , a navy spokesman said the german-built submarine had surfaced and reported an electrical problem before it disappeared 268 miles ( 432 km ) off the coast .
they are working very hard to find them , said silvina krawczyk who , like many relatives of the missing crew members , was camped out at a naval base in the coastal city of mar del plata , awaiting updates on the search and rescue mission .
besides just the faith one has to maintain in these situations , i truly trust that they are going to find them , silvina said .
the pioneering submariner had been aboard the ara san juan - the newest of the three operated by the argentine navy - when it made the same trip from ushuaia , the southernmost city in the world , to mar del plata last year without incident , her sister said .
the voyage normally takes around a week , but modest delays due to poor weather are not uncommon .
the submarine left ushuaia on nov. 13 .
it is the first time that something like this has happened , said silvina , who herself is a machinist in argentina s merchant marines .
at the entrance to the mar del plata base , locals hung signs with messages in support of the crew members and their families on a chain-link fence .
strength for argentina .
we trust in god .
we are waiting for you , read one inscribed on a celestial blue-and-white argentine flag hanging on the fence .