we live near this once great tourist destination of hamtramck , a city with a vibrant nightlife , authentic polish food and a city where the beer flowed freely .
all that was special about this unique little welcoming enclave just outside of the depressed detroit neighborhoods surrounding it , is about to change dramatically karen majewski was in such high demand in her vintage shop on a recent saturday afternoon that a store employee threw up her hands when yet another visitor came in to chat .
everyone wanted to talk to the mayor about the big political news.earlier this month , the blue-collar city that has been home to polish catholic immigrants and their descendents for more than a century became what demographers think is the first jurisdiction in the nation to elect a majority-muslim council.it s the second tipping for hamtramck ( pronounced ham-tram-ik ) , which in 2013 earned the distinction becoming of what appears to be the first majority-muslim city in the united states following the arrival of thousands of immigrants from yemen , bangladesh and bosnia over a decade.in many ways , hamtramck is a microcosm of the fears gripping parts of the country since the islamic state s attacks on paris : the influx of muslims here has profoundly unsettled some residents of the town long known for its love of dancing , beer , paczki pastries and the pope.majewski , whose family emigrated from poland in the early 20th century , admitted to a few concerns of her own .
business owners within 500 feet of one of hamtramck s four mosques can t obtain a liquor license , she complained , a notable development in a place that flouted prohibition-era laws by openly operating bars .
the restrictions could thwart efforts to create an entertainment hub downtown , said the pro-commerce mayor.and while majewski advocated to allow mosques to issue calls to prayer , she understands why some longtime residents are struggling to adjust to the sound that echos through the city s streets five times each day .
there s definitely a strong feeling that muslims are the other , she said .
it s about culture , what kind of place hamtramck will become .
there s definitely a fear , and to some degree , i share it .
saad almasmari , a 28-year-old from yemen who became the fourth muslim elected to the six-member city council this month , doesn t understand that fear .
i don t know why people keep putting religion into politics , said almasmari , who received the highest percentage of votes ( 22 percent ) of any candidate .
when we asked for votes , we didn t ask what their religion was .
hamtramck s exceedingly low home prices and relatively low crime rate have proved especially attractive to new immigrants , whose presence is visible everywhere .
most of the women strolling joseph campau avenue wear hijabs , or headscarves , and niqabs , veils that leave only the area around the eyes open .
many of the markets advertise their wares in arabic or bengali , and some display signs telling customers that owners will return shortly gone to pray , much in the same way polish businesses once signaled that employees had gone to mass.many longtime residents point to 2004 as the year they suspected that the town s culture had shifted irrevocably .
it was then that the city council gave permission to al-islah islamic center to broadcast its call to prayer from speakers atop its roof .
the polish people think we were invading them , said masud khan , one of the mosque s leaders , recalling that time in an interview earlier this month .
we were a big threat to their religion and culture .
now their days are gone .
the mosque , which attracts about 500 people for its friday prayer services , has purchased a neighboring vacant limestone building in the heart of the city that once was a furniture store .
the mosque s leaders plan to put a minaret a spire on the building and use it to continue broadcasting a call to prayer five times a day.the private sale enraged city leaders , including the mayor , who sees the area as key to commercial growth .
mosque leaders estimate that the 20,000-square-foot building will hold up to 2,000 people once the renovation is finished next year.the town s transformation caught mike bugaj off guard .
when the hamtramck native left to join the air force in 1972 , the city was widely referred to as little warsaw .
when he returned from the military in 1995 , the muslims were here , said bugaj , who is of polish and native american descent.the new majority muslim council has bugaj worried that old traditions , like the polish festival and fat tuesday s paczki day , soon will be wiped away.he and other residents are concerned about what they would want to change , that they could mistreat women , said bugaj , who wore feather earrings and a t-shirt with wolves on it .
don t come over to america and try to turn people to your way of thinking .
wayne little , who has been a pastor for nearly 40 years at corinthian baptist church , said many of the city s african american residents are also waiting to see whether the new muslim-majority city council will represent their interests .
they are clannish and stick together .
.
.
.
the jury is out on them .
little said.the discord intensified in the weeks before the election , beginning when several senior citizens living in an apartment complex complained about the volume of the 6 a.m. call to prayer from a nearby mosque.susan dunn , who was on her fifth unsuccessful run for city council , raised the issue before the governing body .
i have my own rights , as well , she said while baking her son s birthday cake in her kitchen .
i m not a hater .
it wasn t a calculated move .
at one point as she spoke , a mosque close to dunn s house began broadcasting the call to prayer .
you try reading a book in your back yard while your dog is barking to that , dunn said , clearly exasperated .
via : creeping sharia