riyadh/moscow ( reuters ) - the leaders of saudi arabia and russia , the world s biggest oil exporters , are expected to discuss cooperation on oil production and differences over syria and iran on thursday during the first visit to moscow by a reigning saudi monarch .
a slew of investment deals , including on a liquefied natural gas project and petrochemical plants , could also be signed during king salman s trip and plans for a $ 1-billion fund to invest in energy projects are likely to be finalised .
the visit , including talks in the kremlin with president vladimir putin , reflects a rapid deepening of ties between russia and saudi arabia , driven by a mutual need to stem a drop in global oil prices .
the two countries helped secure a deal between opec and other producers to cut output until the end of march 2018 , but back competing sides in syria s civil war .
riyadh supports rebels fighting president bashar al-assad s forces while russian troops and iranian militias have sided with assad .
this leaves moscow aligned with saudi arabia s arch-rival iran , whose influence riyadh fears is growing in the region .
the saudis want help on iran , and russia wants trade and investment , said mark n. katz , an expert on russia-middle east relations at george mason university .
in the saudi mind , they re definitely linked and the russians are going to try to separate these .
billboards have been erected on the road from the airport to central moscow welcoming king salman in arabic and russian .
his son , prince mohammed bin salman , visited in may just before his elevation to crown prince , and in 2015 the countries sovereign wealth funds agreed to $ 10 billion in investments .
a business forum will include speeches by top ministers and the heads of state-owned energy giants saudi aramco and gazprom as well as a presentation of saudi s vision 2030 reform program , which aims to end the kingdom s dependence on oil .
moscow sees the trip as a payoff for its two-year-old intervention in syria and recognition of its growing middle east clout .
even 12 months ago , riyadh was highly critical of russia s involvement in syria and the relationship looked as frozen as ever , said chris weafer , senior partner at economic and political consultancy macro-advisory ltd. today that has changed 180 degrees .
both countries now see political and economic advantages from a closer , albeit pragmatic , relationship .
this visit is intended to make sure it stays on track .
discussion of syria is likely to focus on what the country will look like once islamic state is defeated , assad s future , what peace talks between saudi-backed opposition activists and damascus can achieve and the creation of new de-escalation zones .
the king may also seek assurances that iran will not have a permanent role in syria .
kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov said moscow hoped the king s trip would breathe life into a relationship with huge potential and was interested in maintaining dialogue with riyadh about the middle east and syria in particular .
any discussion of the oil market and the efficacy of moves to prop up prices by cutting supply will be closely watched .
the oil price fall in the last three years has overstretched both producers budgets , making an extension of joint cuts beyond march 2018 more likely .
moscow said last month it had discussed with riyadh extending the deal but no specific decisions had been made ahead of a nov. 30 producers meeting in vienna .
russian energy minister alexander novak said in an interview broadcast on monday that the planned $ 1-billion fund to invest in energy projects was part of efforts to strengthen cooperation in oil , gas , electricity , renewable energy and other projects .
russian firms are also discussing deals with saudi aramco , such as providing drilling services in saudi arabia , and russian oil giant rosneft s interest in crude trading , he added .
russian economy minister maxim oreshkin said on tuesday investors were interested in a nuclear energy plant saudi arabia wants to build and saudis would be offered investment opportunities including in shipping company sovcomflot .
a russian energy source said a memorandum of understanding ( mou ) was expected to be signed between novatek and saudi arabia on a liquefied natural gas ( lng ) project , known as arctic lng-2 , that aims to start up in the 2020s .
he said details were still being discussed .
russia would like saudi arabia to become a shareholder in the project but the source said there were also other roles the kingdom could take .
saudi aramco and saudi basic industries corp ( sabic ) is expected to sign an mou with russia s biggest petrochemical firm sibur to examine opportunities for building petrochemical plants in the two countries .