mexico city ( reuters ) - mexican leftist andres manuel lopez obrador has an 11-percentage point lead ahead of next year s presidential election , according to an opinion poll taken in the last week , giving him a sizeable advantage even after new rivals formally entered the race .
the former mexico city mayor lopez obrador has vowed to combat inequality and corruption , but some international investors are concerned about suggestions that he might reverse parts of the government s 2013-14 energy legislation .
the poll , carried out and financed by mexican public opinion firm parametria , was provided exclusively to reuters ahead of wider publication later on tuesday .
it was taken between dec.14 and dec.17 .
it found that 31 percent of those asked who they would vote for if the election were today would choose lopez obrador , followed by former finance minister jose antonio meade , seeking nomination for the ruling institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) , on 20 percent .
ricardo anaya , former leader of the center-right national action party ( pan ) was third on 19 percent , the poll said .
anaya resigned this month to pursue the presidency in an alliance with the center-left party of the democratic revolution ( prd ) .
the parametria poll also included potential independent candidates , former first lady margarita zavala and nuevo leon governor jaime rodriguez , giving them 10 percent and 2 percent respectively .
of the 800 people surveyed , 18 percent answered none of the listed candidates , did not know or did not reply .
the parametria poll is the first conducted since lopez obrador joined up with the conservative social encounter party ( pes ) , sparking worries among his progressive backers .
but the controversial alliance appears to have had little immediate effect on his advantage .
the poll shows lopez obrador slightly further ahead than a survey by mexican newspaper el universal published in early december that gave him an eight-point lead .
a survey by pollster mitofsky , also from early december , showed a much closer race , with lopez obrador on 23 percent of the vote , followed by anaya with 20 percent support and meade with 19 percent .
lopez obrador unveiled his planned cabinet last week , including tapping a moderate u.s.-trained economist for finance minister and splitting the posts evenly between women and men .
the parametria poll was conducted face-to-face and has a margin of error of 3.5 percentage points .
mexican political parties have until march to formally register candidates .