moscow ( reuters ) - a russian court was told on tuesday that a close ally of president vladimir putin personally handed the country s then economy minister $ 2 million in cash inside a lockable brown bag as part of an elaborate bribery sting .
former economy minister alexei ulyukayev is on trial on charges of extorting the $ 2 million bribe from igor sechin , the head of state-owned oil company rosneft , in exchange for ulyukayev approving a business deal .
in the courtroom , a state prosecutor read out the transcript of a secret recording of a late-night meeting between sechin and ulyukayev on nov. 14 last year at the rosneft offices in moscow , when prosecutors say the money was handed over .
sechin , who was cooperating with law enforcement officials , was wearing a wire to gather evidence .
ulyukayev says he was framed after having been lured to what he said was an innocent meeting to discuss rosneft .
the case has thrust into the open simmering tensions between rival kremlin clans a spectacle rarely seen in public in the 17 years since putin first became president .
sechin , one of putin s closest lieutenants , is part of a powerful faction in the kremlin that favors greater state control over the economy .
they have clashed with economic liberals in the government , a group that included ulyukayev , whose arrest is seen as weakening the latter group s hand .
in the transcript read out in court on tuesday , sechin is quoted asking someone to bring some tea and a little basket with sausage , a reference to a gift he gave ulyukayev .
in another fragment read out by the prosecutor , sechin is cited as telling ulyukayev : sorry it took a while .
i was on a business trip and going here and there while putting together the amount .
consider the mission accomplished .
there you go take it .
and this key just in case .
and take the basket too .
the funds were handed over inside a lockable brown bag along with a key and the basket , the state prosecutor said .
when agents from russia s federal security service swooped on ulyukayev as he emerged from the meeting , the minister told agents that the bag he was carrying in the boot of his car contained some good wine given to him by sechin , a state prosecutor told the court .
when agents opened the bag with a key which ulyukayev said sechin had given him , they found 200 bundles of $ 100 bills , the prosecutor said .
the basket was also found in the boot .
ulyukayev s hands were also found to be contaminated with a tracing agent that the bag had been marked with , the prosecutor said .