brussels ( reuters ) - theresa may s constructive spirit won a cautious welcome from the european union on friday , though the british prime minister s keynote brexit speech raised more questions than answers for some and they want more details next week .
the speech shows a willingness to move forward , as time is of the essence , the eu s chief brexit negotiator michel barnier said in a lengthy statement , adding that may s specially staged event in renaissance florence chimed with the spirit of europe .
echoing reactions from diplomats and officials involved in the negotiations who spoke privately to reuters , barnier said it was a step forward that may said british courts would protect eu citizens in britain based directly on a new eu-uk treaty , not on british law , and would take future eu case law into account .
but as with vaguer comments about the eu budget , in which may said the other 27 countries would not be left out of pocket over the eu financial cycle ending in december 2020 , barnier stressed that he wants to hear a precise negotiating position when he meets his british counterpart on monday .
similarly , he repeated the eu position on refusing talks on what happens after brexit in march 2019 until britain makes significant progress in agreeing its divorce terms .
may for the first time spelled out her request for a transition period of about two years after brexit , during which britain would stay in the eu s single market .
barnier reiterated that the other 27 could consider the request but again insisted that britain could not keep all the benefits of eu membership while relinquishing obligations .
may s allies in brussels talked up the significance of a speech she chose to deliver in florence to drive home a message of future cooperation with britain s european neighbours .
we can only hope that the eu takes what the prime minister has said seriously , and sees that it is time to move forward , said the pro-brexit leader of her conservative party s group in the european parliament , syed kamall .
i hope that the clarity provided today will allow for real progress at the next round of negotiations .
however , comments by the german leader of the centre-right group in the eu legislature , an ally of chancellor angela merkel , demonstrated the scepticism felt toward britain by some of europe s main powers : in substance , may is bringing no more clarity to london s positions .
i am even more concerned now .
guy verhofstadt , the brexit coordinator for the european parliament which must ratify any treaty , called may s speech more realistic but warned against cherry picking eu favours during the transition .
his demand that britain forgo controls on eu immigration during any transition and go on making budget payments beyond 2020 will jar with may s pro-brexit supporters .
nonetheless , one senior official handling brexit for an eu government said two phrases from may on expatriates rights and britain s financial obligations marked a real step forward .
that is quite something , the official said .
let s see what that means in the concrete negotiations .
those two elements are among three in which progress toward a deal is a criterion for eu leaders to approve the opening of talks on future trade terms .
the third , the new eu-uk land border on ireland , remains a conundrum and may said nothing new .
another senior official handling brexit for a big member state said may s speech should help create a more positive atmosphere in the negotiations , when brexit secretary david davis arrives in brussels on monday for a new week of talks .
may will meet the other 27 leaders in estonia on thursday and friday and hopes they could authorise barnier to launch trade talks as early as an oct. 19-20 summit in brussels .
the real problematic issue that remains to be resolved is the financial settlement , said konrad szymanski , the eu affairs minister of poland , a major beneficiary of eu subsidies that could be hard hit by the loss of britain s annual contributions .
may said other states should not pay more or receive less over the remainder of the current budget plan .
barnier said he was ready to discuss the concrete implications of this pledge .
the european commission has estimated that britain might owe something like 60 billion euros ( $ 70 billion ) on leaving in march 2019 .
about a third of that , eu officials say , would be down to making britain pay its roughly 10-billion-euro annual contribution for the remaining two years 2019 and 2020 of the eu s current , seven-year budget programme .
however , were britain to remain in the single market , which would entail payments into eu programmes , that money some 20 billion euros would no longer come under the divorce bill .
britain has argued that it will owe very little on leaving , countering eu demands that it go on paying for many years after brexit to cover much longer-term commitments previously made .
an eu official told reuters : what may said goes further than what the british government has said so far .
but ... it is not clear until when they would be willing to pay .