united nations ( reuters ) - u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres on wednesday called on authorities in myanmar to end violence against the majority-buddhist country s rohingya muslims and acknowledged the situation there is best described as ethnic cleansing .
the humanitarian situation in myanmar was catastrophic , guterres said , and called on all countries to do what they could to supply aid .
i call on the myanmar authorities to suspend military action , end the violence , uphold the rule of law and recognize the right of return of all those who had to leave the country , guterres said at a news conference .
pressure has been mounting on myanmar to end violence that has sent about 370,000 rohingya muslims fleeing to bangladesh , with the united states calling for protection of civilians and bangladesh urging safe zones to enable refugees to go home .
asked if the situation could be described as ethnic cleansing , guterres replied : well i would answer your question with another question : when one-third of the rohingya population had to flee the country , could you find a better word to describe it ?
the secretary-general also said he has spoken to aung san suu kyi , myanmar s national leader , several times .
this is a dramatic tragedy .
people are dying and suffering at horrible numbers and we need to stop it .
that is my main concern , he said .
suu kyi canceled a trip to the upcoming u.n. general assembly to deal with the crisis , her office said on wednesday .
the u.n. security council is to meet on wednesday behind closed doors for the second time since the crisis erupted .
british u.n .
ambassador matthew rycroft said he hoped there would be a public statement agreed by the council .
the government of myanmar , also known as burma , says its security forces are fighting rohingya militants behind a surge of violence in rakhine state that began on aug. 25 , and they are doing all they can to avoid harming civilians .
the government says about 400 people have been killed in the fighting , the latest in the western state .
the u.n. s top human rights official earlier this week denounced myanmar for conducting a cruel military operation against the rohingya , branding it a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .