paris ( reuters ) - two years after militants killed 130 people in coordinated attacks across paris , france officially ended a state of emergency , replacing it with the introduction of a new security law which critics say undermines civil liberties .
the new anti-terrorism law , effective from wednesday , gives police extended powers to search properties , conduct electronic eavesdropping and shut mosques or other locations suspected of preaching hatred .
some dread that now that we are out the state of emergency there could be a drop in vigilance , it is the opposite , french prime minister edouard philippe told journalists during a short visit to police officers guarding the eiffel tower in paris .
the level of threat is high everywhere in the world , he said , referring to the attack in new york on tuesday where a pickup truck driver killed eight people .
the new legislation transposes some of the measures contained in the state of emergency rule into law , although with some modifications .
one measure will allow the interior ministry , without approval from a judge , to set up large security perimeters in case of an identified threat , restricting movement of people and vehicles and with power to carry out searches inside the area .
conservative politicians warn the regulations are not going far enough while human rights groups and members of the left fear police misconduct .
france has become so addicted to the state of emergency that it is now injecting several of these abusive measures into ordinary law , human rights watch said before parliament backed the legislation last month .
france s human rights watchdog , an independent body , has said it is concerned about breaches of rights of muslims .
the french council of the muslim faith , the official interlocutor with the state in the regulation of muslim religious activities , said it would remain vigilant about the bill s implementation .
however , the concerns expressed by such rights groups have had little resonance with the public so far .
a poll conducted in early october showed more than 80 percent of support for the bill .
the government says the state of emergency has helped intelligence agencies to thwart more than 30 attacks .
president emmanuel macron said on tuesday islamist militancy remained the biggest security threat to france .