the hague ( reuters ) - the organization that identified tens of thousands of victims from the balkan wars of the 1990s opened a new global headquarters in the netherlands on tuesday from where it will take on new cases around the world .
the international commission on missing persons ( icmp ) , established after the 1995 srebrenica genocide , will use the latest dna technology to identify bodies and give families of the missing closure .
there are millions of reported cases of missing persons worldwide , with as many as a million in iraq , tens of thousands in syria and lebanon and many more from colombia to the philippines .
the numbers are staggering , said icmp head kathyrne bomberger .
moving here increases the perception that we are a global organization and understand that the issue of missing persons itself is a huge global problem that isn t just in the western balkans .
the icmp , which has identified 20,000 remains and provided evidence in 30 criminal trials , will continue to work with war crimes courts in the hague , including the genocide trial of former bosnian serb general ratko mladic , who will hear a verdict next month .
the advanced application of dna technology , which has now made it possible to use samples from distant family members to create comparable dna profiles , could also be used to help identify undocumented migrants .
we are now on the brink of a new level of being able to roll out this possibility to missing migrants , including the 10,000 children missing in europe , she said .
normally when people go missing from conflict or human rights abuses they are never found .
the icmp has been asked by italy to help identify around 8,000 bodies of migrants who drowned trying to get to europe , but it does not yet have the funding .
one family member the organization has helped find closure is ingrid gudmundsson .
the 72-year-old grandmother lost her pregnant daughter linda and 1-year-old granddaughter mira when the 2005 indian ocean tsunami hit the khao lak resort in thailand .
everything changed in my life , she said in an interview ahead of the opening .
what does a mother do when her family is missing on the other side of the earth ?
her granddaughter mira was too young to have dental records , so she provided the laboratory with a toy from which a dna profile was compiled .
it was very important to get them identified , all of them , she said , recalling the agony of weeks when they were missing .
now i have them together in the same place .