gaza/cairo ( reuters ) - rival palestinian factions hamas and fatah signed a reconciliation deal on thursday after hamas agreed to hand over administrative control of gaza , including the key rafah border crossing , a decade after seizing the enclave in a civil war .
the deal brokered by egypt bridges a bitter gulf between the western-backed mainstream fatah party of palestinian president mahmoud abbas and hamas , an islamist movement designated as a terrorist group by western countries and israel .
palestinian unity could also bolster abbas s hand in any revival of talks on a palestinian state in israeli-occupied territory .
internal palestinian strife has been a major obstacle to peacemaking , with hamas having fought three wars with israel since 2008 and continuing to call for its destruction .
hamas s agreement to transfer administrative powers in gaza to a fatah-backed government marked a major reversal , prompted partly by its fears of financial and political isolation after its main patron and donor , qatar , plunged in june into a major diplomatic dispute with key allies like saudi arabia .
they accuse qatar of supporting islamist militants , which it denies .
israel viewed the palestinian accord warily , saying it must abide by previous international agreements and terms set out by the quartet of middle east peace mediators - including the recognition of israel and the disarming of hamas .
israel will examine developments in the field and act accordingly , said a statement from prime minister benjamin netanyahu s office .
thousands of palestinians took to the streets across gaza on thursday in celebration of the unity pact , with loudspeakers on open cars blasting national songs , youths dancing and hugging and many waving palestine and egyptian flags .
egypt helped mediate several previous attempts to reconcile the two movements and form a power-sharing unity government in gaza and the west bank , where abbas and the fatah-led palestinian authority ( pa ) are based .
hamas and fatah agreed in 2014 to form a national reconciliation government , but the deal soon dissipated in mutual recriminations with hamas continuing to dominate gaza .
the legitimate government , the government of consensus , will return according to its responsibilities and according to the law , fatah delegation chief azzam al-ahmed said at the signing ceremony in cairo .
he said the unity government would run all institutions without exception , including all border crossings with israel and in rafah , gaza s only access point with egypt .
the agreement calls for abbas s presidential guard to assume responsibility of the rafah crossing on nov. 1 , and for the full handover of administrative control of gaza to the unity government to be completed by dec. 1 .
analysts said the deal is more likely to stick than earlier ones , given hamas s growing isolation and realization of how hard gaza , its economy hobbled by border blockades and infrastructure shattered by wars with israel , was to govern and rebuild .
deeper egyptian involvement , believed to have been backed by saudi arabia and other arab states , also helped cement the deal .
we in hamas are determined and are serious this time and just like all other times ... we have dissolved the administrative committee ( shadow government ) ... we have opened the door to reaching this reconciliation , saleh arouri , the head of hamas negotiators in cairo , said after the signing ceremony .
delegations from the two rivals have been in talks in cairo this week to work out the details of the administrative handover , including security in gaza and at border crossings .
key was the rafah crossing , once the gateway to the world for the 2 million people packed into the small impoverished territory .
fatah said it should be run by the presidential guards , supervised by the european union border agency , eubam , instead of the hamas-linked employees now deployed .
eubam rafah maintains readiness to redeploy to the rafah crossing point when the security and political situations will allow , said mohammad al-saadi , press officer for the eu coordinating office for palestinian police support .
any decision on eubam deployment would be taken in conjunction with the palestinian authority and israel s government , he said in a statement .
some 3,000 fatah security officers are to join the gaza police force .
but hamas would remain the most powerful armed palestinian faction , with around 25,000 well-armed militants .
both rivals hope the deal s proposed deployment of security personnel from the pa to gaza s borders will encourage egypt and israel to lift tight restrictions at frontier crossings - a step urgently needed to help gaza revive a war-shattered economy .
another major issue in talks on the deal was the fate of 40,000 to 50,000 employees hamas has hired in gaza since 2007 , a thorny point that helped crash the 2014 unity accord .
under the deal , these employees will receive 50 percent of what their pa salary would be - or equivalent to what they are paid now by hamas - pending vetting of their professional qualifications .
hamas and fatah are also debating a potential date for presidential and legislative elections and reforms of the palestine liberation organization , which is in charge of long-stalled peace efforts with israel .
the last palestinian legislative election was in 2006 , when hamas scored a surprise victory .
that sparked the political rupture between hamas and fatah , which eventually led to their short civil war in gaza .