geneva ( reuters ) - an independent u.n. human rights investigator said on wednesday that he had information about an inmate being tortured at the u.s. guantanamo bay detention facility , despite washington banning enhanced interrogation techniques almost 10 years ago .
the u.s. department of defense denied the allegation , saying there was no credible evidence to support it .
nils melzer , the u.n. special rapporteur on torture , said he had information that ammar al-baluchi - accused of being a co-conspirator in the 9/11 attacks on the united states - was being subjected to treatment that is banned under international law .
his torture and ill-treatment are reported to continue , a statement from the u.n. human rights office said , without giving details of the source of melzer s information .
in addition to the long-term effects of past torture , noise and vibrations are reportedly still being used against him , resulting in constant sleep deprivation and related physical and mental disorders , for which he allegedly does not receive adequate medical attention , it said .
major ben sakrisson , a pentagon spokesman , said the allegation was not true .
these claims have been investigated on multiple occasions in the past and no credible evidence has been found to substantiate his claims , he said .
the prison , which was opened by president george w. bush to hold terrorism suspects captured overseas after the sept. 11 , 2001 attacks came to symbolize harsh detention practices that opened the united states to accusations of torture .
his successor barack obama ended the use of enhanced interrogation techniques via executive order in january 2009 , and reduced the inmate population to 41 , but fell short of fulfilling his promise to close the jail .
president donald trump asked congress earlier this year for funds to upgrade the jail , having said during his electoral campaign that he wanted to load it up with some bad dudes .
citing a 2014 senate investigation , the u.n. statement said al-baluchi was said to have suffered relentless torture for three-and-a-half years in cia black sites before being moved to guantanamo , where he had been in a severely restricted-access facility at guantanamo bay for more than a decade .
al-baluchi , a kuwaiti-born pakistani citizen also known as abdul aziz ali , is the nephew and alleged co-conspirator of khalid sheikh mohammed , the accused mastermind of the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks .
melzer said the ban on torture and ill-treatment was one of the most fundamental norms of international law and could not be justified in any circumstances , and called for prosecution of u.s. officials who had carried out torture .
by failing to prosecute the crime of torture in cia custody , the u.s. is in clear violation of the convention against torture and is sending a dangerous message of complacency and impunity to officials in the u.s. and around the world , melzer said in the statement .
he said he had renewed a long-standing request to visit guantanamo bay to interview inmates , but he and his predecessors in the role had consistently been denied access .
a spokesman for the u.s. state department said that the u.s. constitution prohibits cruel and unusual punishment and requires humane conditions of confinement , including that of solitary confinement .
we support the work of the u.n. special rapporteurs and the united states has a long history of engaging constructively on matters within mandates of the special rapporteurs , he said .