this social media campaign against the gap is a great example of how the black lives agitators are using resources like twitter to intimidate and threaten individuals , colleges and even large corporations like gap .
you can t blame these blacktivists for using white guilt as a weapon to game the system , as a means to gain an advantage over everyone else ( hispanics and asians included ) .
the real question is , when is someone going to be brave enough to stand up and say enough of this manufactured hate !
the ad for gap s latest collaboration with ellen degeneres is awash with pleasing blue hues , from the kid models navy outfits to the talk show host s denim jacket.but the shades that really caught people s attention were on the children s skin .
the commercial s stars were three white girls and a black girl.https : //youtu.be/gdxxbqdfwmethat , in itself , wasn t a problem .
in the days following the campaign s launch last week , what drew ire from commentators online was the seeming passivity of the african american girl .
while the other girls eagerly fielded degeneres s questions about their troupe le petite cirque , she sat silent .
while the white girls were highlighted performing solo acrobatic tricks , she seemed to appear only in reference to the others balancing on someone s knees or with her arm wrapped around someone s waist.at least , this was the interpretation of those who were angered by the ad .
and they were angered , most of all , by a photograph that showed the white girls standing in all manner of complex poses while the black girl s arms dangled idly at her sides , her head a cushion upon which another white girl rested an elbow.this imagery sparked the usual chain of reactions online .
those who were offended minced no words in expressing their outrage , and they were promptly reprimanded by those who thought they were overreacting.so @ gap decides to use the only black girl in this campaign as a prop .. we see you !
pic.twitter.com/widb8axk5u artsysneakergirl ( @ bamaintrovert ) april 3 , 2016that ad certainly is n't suggesting that * black * girls `` can do anything , '' @ gapkids .
it 's incredibly distasteful to your black consumer base .
stacia l. brown ( @ slb79 ) april 3 , 2016many critics zeroed in on the caption gap had used to introduce the campaign : meet the kids who are proving that girls can do anything .
the root s kirsten west savali articulated the essence of the distress : while all of the girls are adorable , and indeed , all of them should grow up to be and do anything , it becomes problematic when the black child is positioned to be a white child s prop .
what race agitators at the root neglected to mention is that the white girl and the black girl whose head her arm resting upon are actually sisters !
@ theroot girl with arm resting on her shoulder is her sister she did n't talk in video because she was 2 shy .
everyone needs to calm down .
brooke smith ( @ iam_brookesmith ) april 3 , 2016they also neglected to post the photo from the gap s ad campaign from last year : the company apologized tuesday .
as a brand with a proud 46 year history of championing diversity and inclusivity , we appreciate the conversation that has taken place and are sorry to anyone we ve offended , gap spokeswoman debbie felix said in a statement to fortune.the offensive image will be removed , but the campaign will move forward , the company said .
via : washington post