madrid ( reuters ) - imprisoned former vice-president of catalonia oriol junqueras and three other jailed members of his erc party will abide by a ruling giving madrid control over the region , their defense lawyer said on tuesday .
junqueras and seven other former members of the catalonia regional cabinet were jailed on nov. 2 pending trial , accused of sedition , rebellion and misappropriation of funds after the local government declared independence from spain .
catalonia s secession drive has tipped spain into its worst political crisis in decades and prompted madrid to sack the catalan government , led by carles puigdemont , and call a regional election for dec. 21 .
the acceptance of madrid s rule over the region could prompt the supreme court to overrule the decision to hold the defendants in custody while they await trial , and release them in time to campaign for the election .
all four jailed erc members - junqueras , former foreign affairs chief raul romeva , justice affairs head carles mundo and work chief dolors bassa - have been named as candidates in the election .
the defendants did not agree with the application of article 155 , which stripped the regional government of its power after the secessionist ruling , but accepted it , their lawyer said in a statement to the supreme court .
my charges accepted , and accept , the application of 155 ... but have done so from a position of deep political and judicial discrepancy , the lawyer said .
the lawyer added that the statement does not mean that they renounce their political convictions .
former leader of catalonia puigdemont , who has been in self-imposed exile in belgium since declaring independence , said on saturday the election would be most important in the region s history .
turnout for the election is expected to reach a record 80 percent as the deeply divisive issue of the region s secession prompts participation from both sides .
less than a quarter of catalans want to continue with a plan to claim independence from spain , according to a poll published in el pais newspaper on monday .
however , the same poll showed the vote evenly split between pro- and anti-independence parties in the upcoming regional election .