( reuters ) - a colorado lawmaker is trying to outlaw marijuana-laced gummy candies that resemble children ’ s treats , the latest effort by a u.s. state to address the complexities and unintended consequences of pot legalization .
in 2014 colorado became the first state to allow the sale of marijuana for recreational use , and it has grown to be a billion dollar industry in the state .
the measure by state representative dan pabon , a democrat from denver , would prohibit edible marijuana to be sold in the form of an animal , human or fruit , common shapes for gummy candies favored by young children .
“ right now in colorado , there are no distinguishing characteristics between the gummy bear that contains marijuana and one that does not , ” palon said .
the appeal of edible marijuana products to children has become a concern in the few u.s. states that have legalized pot in recent years .
in washington state , where legal pot has been on sale for about 18 months , regulators recently tightened the rules on edible products made with cannabis , said rick garza , director of the washington state liquor and cannabis board .
the new restrictions outlawed brightly colored marijuana lollipops and other sweets deemed to be particularly attractive to children , gar said .
numerous children in colorado were hospitalized after becoming critically ill as a result of ingesting edible marijuana products after pot became legal there in 2014 , and lawmakers have already moved once to toughen the rules .
but democratic governor john hickenlooper has urged the legislature to do more , saying in his state of the state address in january that pot-laced edibles look too much like “ products kids can find in the candy aisle. ” “ back in the day , candy cigarettes desensitized kids to the dangers of tobacco - and today , pot-infused gummy bears send the wrong message to our kids about marijuana , ” hickenlooper said .
pabon ’ s bill , submitted on thursday , directs the state ’ s marijuana regulatory agency to develop more detailed guidelines on how enforcing the ban on marijuana candies shaped like humans , animals or fruit would work .
voters in four u.s. states and the district of columbia approved ballot measures to legalize marijuana for recreational use by adults in recent years .
numerous others allow medicinal use .
advocates have pushed for similar referendums in a half-dozen other states , including california , massachusetts and maine .
in maine , a proposed legalization referendum advanced on friday when a judge overruled a state official ’ s decision invalidating some of the signatures needed to get the initiative on the ballot .