new york ( reuters ) - democrat hillary clinton held a five percentage point lead over republican rival donald trump , according to a reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on monday , down only slightly since the fbi said last week it was reviewing new emails in its investigation of the former secretary of state .
some 44 percent of likely voters said they would support clinton , while 39 percent said they would support trump , according to the oct. 26-30 survey .
clinton had held a 6 point advantage over trump in the five-day tracking poll last thursday .
other polls have shown clinton ’ s lead slipping more sharply .
real clear politics , which averages the results of most major polls , shows that clinton ’ s lead has declined from 4.6 points on friday to 2.5 points on monday .
federal bureau of investigation director james comey told congress in a letter made public on friday that his agency was looking into new emails that may be connected to clinton , who had been probed by the fbi over her use of a private server and how she handled classified information while america ’ s top diplomat .
the fbi has revealed very little to the public about the new emails under investigation , except that they were uncovered during an unrelated investigation into the estranged husband of a top clinton aide .
in july , comey concluded that clinton and her staff were “ extremely careless ” with their handling of classified information , but that there was not enough evidence to bring criminal charges .
on friday , comey told congress , “ we don ’ t know the significance of this newly discovered collection of emails. ” in a separate poll that included alternative-party candidates , 43 percent supported clinton , while 37 percent supported trump , 6 percent supported libertarian candidate gary johnson and 1 percent supported jill stein of the green party .
the polling determines likely voters according to a number of factors including voting history , registration status and stated intention to vote .
it assumes that 60 percent of eligible americans will vote .
the result of the 2016 election will vary greatly depending on how many voters actually cast a ballot .
currently , clinton leads trump in both high and low turnout scenarios , according to the latest poll .
her advantage holds at 5 points if 55 percent of eligible voters participate , and it rises to 6 points if 70 percent of americans cast a ballot .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english in all 50 states .
it included 1,264 people who were considered likely voters under the assumption that 60 percent of eligible voters would participate .
the poll has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .