monrovia ( reuters ) - former soccer star george weah won the first round of liberia s presidential election with 38.4 percent of the vote , 10 points ahead of vice president joseph boakai who will face him in a run-off next month , the electoral commission said on thursday .
liberians are slowly waking up to the prospect of the only african ever to win fifa world player of the year and the ballon d or replace nobel peace prize winner ellen johnson sirleaf as their leader .
weah , 51 , has served as a senator from the opposition congress for democratic change since 2015 , after returning home from an international soccer career to immerse himself in politics .
as a political novice in 2005 he lost to johnson sirleaf in a presidential election .
the official final results showed boakai , representing johnson sirleaf s ruling unity party , had won 28.8 percent of the vote , putting the two frontrunners comfortably ahead of a large field of mostly minor candidates .
lawyer charles brumskine , who says the vote was rigged despite observers calling it fair , came third with 9.6 percent .
king george , as weah s supporters call him , is wildly popular among the youth and the disenfranchised , especially in the shanties of the rundown seaside capital monrovia .
many of them feel they have not benefited from liberia s post-war recovery , a sentiment that has counted against boakai .
but weah has so far been light on policy and will face a tough time meeting high expectations in a difficult economic climate of low prices for the commodities that are liberia s main exports .
johnson sirleaf , a former finance minister who worked for citibank and the world bank during years in exile after fleeing liberia during a coup , was awarded the 2011 nobel for shoring up peace after a 15-year civil war that ended in 2003 .
many liberians credit her with creating the conditions that allow this election to bring liberia s first democratic transfer of power for seven decades .
but she has not managed to effectively tackle corruption or lift millions out of poverty .
an ebola outbreak ravaged the economy and a drop in the price of iron ore only made things worse .
poor roads still leave most of rural liberia stranded during the rainy season , and few liberians have grid power outside the main cities .