much to the dismay of mainstream media journalists , donald trump jr. released all email communication regarding his meeting with russian lawyer natalia veselnitskaya today on twitter .
meanwhile , russian lawyer natalia veselnitskaya has told nbc news that she met with donald trump jr. to discuss sanctions , that she did not have any kremlin connections , and that she did not hand over information about hillary s campaign.she confirmed her meeting with donald trump jr. was about russian adoptions in the us.but is there more to natalia veselnitskaya than meets the eye ?
who is she ?
does she have ties to obama and the democratic party ?
was the meeting with donald trump jr. a set up ? according to the gateway pundit : the law firm where veselnitskaya is listed as managing partner , kamerton consulting , is based in a moscow suburb and does not even have a website.a staff member at kamerton told the associated press veselnitskaya was unavailable for comment on monday.her office in moscow may be a shell .
there is no working phone , email or website.russian president vladimir putin s spokesman dmitry peskov said monday that the kremlin is unaware of a meeting between trump s senior staff and veselnitskaya and does not know who that is .
peskov said , no , we don t know who that is and obviously we can t monitor all meetings russian lawyers hold both in russia and abroad .
now this natalia veselnitskaya was sitting with obama s ambassador to russia michael mcfaul during a foreign affairs committee hearing , 8 days after cold-contacting trump jr. in trump tower.here s a shot showing who appears to be natalia veselnitskaya , sitting behind from the june 14 , 2016 congressional hearing on russia and the ukraine.natalia veselnitskaya photo : more that looks like emin agalarov sitting next to natalia veselnitskaya .
he was mentioned in donald trump jr s statement this morning .
emin helped set up the meeting with veselnitskaya.veselnitskaya was also connected to fusion gps , the dnc opposition research firm that produced the fraudulent and discredited trump dossier.so why was veselnitskaya hanging out with obama officials just days after her meeting with donald trump jr. ? and why was veselnitskaya given a privileged seat up front during the congressional hearing ?