in their desire to push hillary clinton across the finish line , the mainstream media and rino pundits continue to ignore that one little important factoid ; like the massive turnout for trump in almost every state during the primaries .
they also intentionally ignore the parallels between ronald reagan and donald j. trump going into the general election .
most americans however , are unaware of the tricks our media plays so it s up to us to make sure we share these facts and inform friends , family , neighbors and co-workers about the truth .
a new reuters poll has many republicans worried about the outcome of the 2016 presidential race and many on the democratic side ready to pop the champaign corks.the poll shows presumptive democratic nominee hillary clinton leading by a shocking 14 percent over her republican rival donald trump : 47 percent to 33 percent.unfortunately there s one problem with the poll .
it is heavily skewed.the gateway pundit reports that of reuters 1,201 respondents , 626 were democrats and only 423 were republicans.in other words , 52 percent of reuter s respondents were democrats and only 35 percent were republican a huge 33 % advantage for democrats ! according to allenbwest.com , reuters isn t the only misleading presidential poll .
a new abc news/ washington post survey found voters preferred hillary 51 percent to 39 percent .
in that sample , 36 percent of respondents were democrats and only 24 percent were republicans.the skewed polls are made less believable by the fact that republican turnout in 2016 is likely to be higher than in previous years .
as npr noted in march , republicans far outstripped democrats in primary turnout , due in part to the insurgent nature of the donald trump candidacy .
hannity.comit s not just the leftist media who is beating the drum of doom for trump , while ( falsely ) pushing the narrative that he can t beat crooked hillary in the general election .
flashback : you hear the establishment types talk about it nearly every day on the fox news channel.for his part , donald trump says he has not even started on hillary clinton.the elites also worried about ronald reagan s chances back in march 1980 .
ronald reagan was down 15 points in the polls in march .
here is the map showing how many states he won in the general election compared to jimmy carter who was polling at 15 points ahead of trump : the csmonitor reported , via free republic : the nation s republicans are working against the clock to answer two key questions : can conservative ronald reagan possibly attract enough independent and democratic votes to win in november ? an if he is likely to lose , has former president gerald ford time enough to challenge him for the gop nomination ? the consensus among political experts is that time has probably already run out for gerald ford , though he still appears the stronger choice to beat jimmy carter in november.but some experts caution : don t count ronald reagan out as a national candidate for the fall .
he is not , they say , a mcgovern or a goldwater fringe candidates who led their parties to one-sided defeats in 1972 and 1964 .
intellectuals don t want to take him seriously , but he does well with working-class voters .
he would take the west , challenge president carter in the south , and do well in the pivotal midwest states like ohio and illinois , whose southern regions titled toward carter in 1976 , they say.back in march 1980 the establishment the establishment said the same thing about ronald reagan.they said he could never defeat jimmy carter.he was too divisive .
gateway pundithere are a few inconvenient facts you won t see in the mainstream media : the republican party started the year with 17 bona fide candidates for president .
this was more candidates than any major party in history.trump has more wins than any other republican or democrat candidate in this year s race with 36 .
he also has more primary wins with 33 and leads all candidates in percent of overall wins and in percent of primary wins.trump surpassed the number of delegates needed to win the republican nomination for president a couple weeks ago.this may be more delegates than any other republican candidate and a higher percentage of delegates than any republican or democrat candidate in the race.trump received 13,406,108 votes to date in the elections according to www.thegreenpapers.com.as a result trump has more votes than any candidate in republican history.trump shattered the previous record by 1.4 million votes and that was with 17 candidates in the racegeorge w. bush had 12 million votes in 2000 .
the republican party also set a party record this year in pre-convention state election turnout with over 28 million votes to date which is 139 % of the record high voter turnout in 2008 .
this increase in votes can be attributed to donald trump.via : gateway pundit