havana ( reuters ) - cuba said it would welcome president barack obama to havana later this month , but the communist government had no intention of changing its policies in exchange for normal relations with the united states .
in a long editorial on wednesday in communist party newspaper granma and other official media , cuba demanded washington cease meddling in its internal affairs and said obama could do more to change u.s. policy .
the white house brushed off the piece and defended the president ’ s trip next month as an opportunity to engage both with cuba ’ s government and its citizens .
obama will visit on march 20-22 , 15 months after he and cuban president raul castro agreed to end more than five decades of cold war-era animosity .
they have restored diplomatic ties , and obama has relaxed a trade sanctions and travel restrictions , leading republican opponents and some of the president ’ s fellow democrats to question whether washington was offering too much without reciprocation from havana .
but the editorial made it clear that cuba still has a long list of grievances with the united states , starting with the comprehensive trade embargo .
obama wants to rescind the embargo but republican leadership in congress has blocked the move .
cuba also objected to u.s. support for its political dissidents , whom some americans consider champions of human rights but whom the cuban government views as an unrepresentative minority funded by u.s. interests .
“ ( the united states ) should abandon the pretense of fabricating an internal political opposition , paid for with money from u.s. taxpayers , ” the nearly 3,000-word editorial said .
white house spokesman josh earnest told reporters that obama ’ s “ long agenda includes visiting with political opposition of the cuban government and standing up for , in a very tangible way , the universal human rights of the cuban people. ” obama visit will be only the second by a u.s. president and the first since the 1959 revolution led by fidel castro that overthrew a pro-american government .
the editorial said cuba no one should assume cuba had to “ renounce any of its principles or cede the slightest bit in its defense ” to do so .
the two countries have also negotiated greater cooperation on law enforcement and environmental issues and agreed to resume scheduled commercial flights and postal services .
obama has removed cuba from a list of state sponsors of terrorism .
the editorial acknowledged obama had taken positive steps but criticized their “ limited nature and the existence of other regulations and intimidation caused by the overall blockade that has been in force for more than 50 years . ”