jerusalem ( reuters ) - israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu is lobbying world powers to prevent further setbacks to iraqi kurds as they lose ground to baghdad s army , israeli officials say .
israel has been the only major power to endorse statehood for the kurds , partly , say analysts , because it sees the ethnic group - whose population is split among iraq , turkey , syria and iran - as a buffer against shared adversaries .
iraqi armed forces retook the oil-rich kirkuk region this week , following a sept. 25 referendum on kurdish independence that was rejected by baghdad , delivering a blow to the kurds statehood quest .
israeli officials said netanyahu raised the iraqi kurds plight in phone calls with german chancellor angela merkel last week and with russian president vladimir putin on wednesday .
it has also come up in his contacts with france and the israeli national security adviser , meir ben-shabbat , has been discussing the matter with trump administration officials in washington this week , the officials said .
a netanyahu government official , who declined to be named , given the sensitivity of israel-kurdish ties , suggested israel had security interests in kurdistan , given its proximity to israel s enemies in tehran and damascus .
this ( territory ) is a foothold .
it s a strategic place , the official said without providing further detail .
he said israel wanted to see iraqi kurds provided with the means to protect themselves , adding : it would be best if someone gave them weaponry , and whatever else , which we can not give , obviously .
israel has maintained discreet military , intelligence and business ties with kurds since the 1960s , in the absence of open ties between their autonomous region in northern iraq and israel .
netanyahu s recent lobbying has focused on kurdish ambitions in iraq , where the central baghdad government has grown closer to israel s foe iran .
the issue at present is ... to prevent an attack on the kurds , extermination of the kurds and any harm to them , their autonomy and region , something that turkey and iran and internal shi ite and other powers in iraq and part of the iraqi government want , netanyahu s intelligence minister , israel katz , told tel aviv radio station 102 fm on friday .
it was not clear to what extent netanyahu s outreach may have been solicited by the kurdish regional government ( krg ) in northern iraq , which shies away from public engagement with israel , worried about further alienating arab neighbours .
the united nations has voiced concern at reports that civilians , mainly kurds , were being driven out of parts of northern iraq retaken by iraqi forces and their houses and businesses looted and destroyed .
the prime minister is certainly engaging the united states , russia , germany and france to stop the kurds from being harmed , katz said .
another israeli official , speaking to reuters on condition of anonymity , framed netanyahu s efforts as a moral imperative .
they ( kurds ) are a deeply pro-western people who deserve support , he said .