( reuters ) - jagmeet singh , an ontario provincial lawmaker and practicing sikh , was elected on sunday as leader of canada s left-leaning new democrats , becoming the first non-white politician to head a major canadian political party .
the 38-year-old lawyer , whose penchant for colorful turbans and tailor-made three-piece suits made him a social media star , was elected on the first ballot to lead the new democratic party into the 2019 federal election against prime minister justin trudeau s liberals .
thank you , new democrats .
the run for prime minister begins now , singh tweeted .
singh secured 54 percent of the vote , defeating three rivals to become the new head of the ndp , succeeding thomas mulcair .
the results of the vote , conducted online and by mail , were announced at a party meeting in toronto .
the toronto-area politician , who led in fundraising since joining the race last may , had been touted by supporters as someone who could bring new life to the party , which has struggled since the death of charismatic former leader jack layton in 2011 .
singh s profile was boosted in early september after a video went viral showing him calmly responding with words of love to a heckler who interrupted a campaign event to accuse him of wanting to impose islamic shariah law in canada .
his skill , in being able to diffuse the situation , it understandably appealed to a lot of people who ended up supporting him , said christopher cochrane , a professor of political science at the university of toronto .
cochrane added that singh s ability to connect both with young people and ethnic minorities would make him a force to reckon with when competing against trudeau in 2019 .
trudeau congratulated his new political rival on twitter on sunday , saying : i look forward to speaking soon and working together for canadians .
the ndp is the third largest party in the federal parliament , with 44 of 338 seats .
the party lags well behind the centrist liberals and right-leaning conservatives in political fundraising this year , according to elections canada data .
singh will now focus on rallying supporters and targeting center-left voters who helped propel trudeau s liberals to a decisive victory in 2015 .
there are hurdles ahead .
singh does not have a seat in the federal parliament and will have to win one in a special election .
he also needs to persuade voters that his party can form a government , although it has never held power federally .
there are also questions over whether he will have success in quebec , canada s mainly french-speaking province , where overt signs of faith are frowned upon .