this is out of control !
is there anything more un-american than telling high school students they aren t allowed to cheer u.s.a. !
at a sporting event because they may offend someone from another nation ? please call the wisconsin interscholastic athletic association in stevens point , wi phone ( 715 ) 344-8580 let them know how you feel about their decision to prevent students from chanting usa !
in the united states of america ! the wussification of wisconsin has begun.last month the state s governing body for high school athletics declared that chanting u-s-a , u-s-a , is unsportsmanlike behavior.the wisconsin interscholastic athletic association also directed schools to stop fans from booing , or chanting air ball , season s over , fundamentals , scoreboard , and over-rated .
any action directed at opposing teams or their spectators with the intent to taunt , disrespect , distract or entice an unsporting behavior in response is not acceptable sportsmanship , the wiaa wrote in an email obtained by the post-crescent .
student groups , school administrators and event managers should take immediate steps to correct this unsporting behavior .
i should point out that a spokesman for the wiaa told television station wisc that the sportsmanship guidelines are a point of reference and not a requirement .
it s up to each school or district to create their own sportsmanship conduct policies and enforcing them with appropriate consequences , the spokesman told the television station .
wisconsin s football stadiums , basketball arenas and wrestling mats have become safe spaces for the perpetually-offended generation.vince lombardi must be rolling over in his grave.oh , you should see the 40-page sportsmanship manual complied by the fragile snowflakes at the wiaa.take , for example , the section that frowns on booing of any kind .
if errors in judgment is ( sic ) made , all are human and we must accept that .
individuals do the best to execute in a way they ve been trained , the wiaa wrote.they also took issue with the na na na na hey hey hey goodbye song .
they called it taunting and disrespectful .
the wiaa found the u-s-a chant to be problematic , too along with any acronym of derogatory language or innuendo .
their guidelines became national news after a high school basketball player got in trouble for posting a profane message about the sportsmanship rules on her twitter account.april gehl , an honor s student and basketball standout at hilbert high school , suggested the wiaa should ( let me put this delicately ) eat excrement.based on national media coverage , her opinion was shared by many .
nevertheless , april was suspended for five games .
her family does not plan on appealing the decision.paul ackley is the athletic director at mcfarland high school .
he told wisc that he supports the recommendations .
if a kid gets an answer wrong on the white board , they re not going to start chanting , you can t do that , he said .
this is not division i athletics .
this is an extension of the classroom and it s education-based .
what in the name of bear bryant is going on wisconsin ? granted , you don t want the children hollering out profanities and running around the gym buck-naked .
but , these guidelines are not so much about sportsmanship as they are about political correctness.we re talking about high school basketball .
it s not a croquet match .
via : fox news