benghazi , libya ( reuters ) - east libyan forces said they had launched air strikes on islamic state fighters after the militants made incursions south and east of their former coastal stronghold of sirte .
the jihadist group has grown bolder in recent weeks , setting up temporary checkpoints , attacking local forces , and taking over a village mosque to lead prayers during the muslim holiday of eid al-adha , libyan officials say .
the increased activity has raised concern that islamic state could regroup around sirte , from where it was driven out in december by local forces and a u.s. air campaign .
most militants were killed in the nearly seven-month battle , but an unknown number fled into the desert to the south and west .
sirte lies at the center of libya s mediterranean coastline , on the dividing line between regions controlled by rival libyan factions .
forces loyal to eastern-based commander khalifa haftar said they had carried out air strikes on sunday against militants in the area of ain taqrift , between sirte and the town of zillah , 306 km ( 190 miles ) to the south east .
the area is close to oil fields previously damaged by islamic state attacks .
both haftar s libyan national army ( lna ) and forces from the port city of misrata , which led the campaign in sirte last year , say they are mounting frequent patrols to monitor islamic state movements in areas under their control .
the lna and misratan brigades have been on opposite sides of a conflict that developed after the nato-backed uprising that toppled libyan strongman muammar gaddafi in 2011 .
islamic state exploited the turmoil to establish a foothold in libya , taking complete control of sirte in 2015 and using it as a base for hundreds of foreign fighters .
both the main loose alliances in libya have accused each other of allowing islamic state space to operate in order to advance their own military ends .
misratan forces , which aligned themselves with the u.n.-backed government in tripoli , have complained of receiving little support as they try to prevent the jihadists regrouping .
islamic state militants have stepped up their presence in several settlements east of sirte , said ibrahim mlaitan , head of security for sirte municipality .
that included entering a local mosque to preach a sermon last friday , he said .
they set up checkpoints that last just for 10 minutes and then leave .
they have been moving around freely in and out of these towns , and in the desert too , mlaitan said .
eastern military officials denied reports that islamic state had taken control of one of the villages , um qandeel , but a military source acknowledged that the militants had set up checkpoints there during fleeting night visits .
the terrorist organization daesh ( islamic state ) from time to time tries to enter the coastal areas from the desert regions and they carry out kidnappings of civilians , and we are conducting surveillance on them , said lna spokesman ahmed al-mismari .