wow !
did hannity go too far with cruz or did he not go far enough ? gop presidential candidate texas senator sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) and talk radio and fox news channel host sean hannity engaged in a testy exchange over the delegate process on hannity s radio show on tuesday.hannity began the interview by asking , i think the number one question on the minds of republicans right now is what is going on with the delegates .
for example , if you can explain to people that your campaign , that you have every right , within the rules , to talk to candidates , that are pledged on a first ballot , to candidate a or candidate c , you being candidate b .
and that tell us what that process is .
cruz answered that isn t what people are concerned about , and are instead concerned about policy issues and beating democratic candidate former secretary of state hillary clinton .
cruz further stated that the media loves to obsess about process .
this process , and this whining from the trump campaign is all silly .
it s very , very simple .
https : //youtu.be/en5jpy8szjuhannity then cut in to say , i m on social media , with millions of people .
i have 550 radio stations .
and i have the top-rated cable in my hour , all across the board .
and i am telling you , that people are telling me , that they find this whole process confusing .
he further stated that this wasn t a process question .
it s an integrity of the election question .
and everybody s asking me this question .
so , i want i m giving you an opportunity to explain it .
cruz responded , sean , the only people asking this question , are the hardcore donald trump supporters .
hannity again cut in to ask , senator , why do you this ?
every single time you you ve got to stop .
every time i have you on the air , and i ask a legitimate question , you try to throw this in my face .
i m getting sick of it .
i ve had you on more than any other candidate , on radio and tv .
so , if i ask you , senator , a legitimate question to explain to the audience , why don t you just answer it ?
cruz then said , sean , can i answer your question without being interrupted ?
cruz then talked about the results in utah , north dakota , wisconsin , colorado , and wyoming , all of which cruz has won .
he added , over 1.3 million people voted in those 5 states .
we won all 5 .
all of this noise and complaining and whining has come from the trump campaign , because they don t like the fact that they ve 5 elections in a row , that republicans are uniting behind our campaign .
so , they re screaming , on drudge , and it s getting echoed , this notion of voterless election .
it is nonsense .
they are making it up .
over 1.3 million people voted .
we won landslides in all 5 .
cruz continued , now , there is a second component , beyond the elections , which is the individual delegates are elected by the people .
donald trump s campaign does not know how to organize on the grassroots .
and so , when the delegates are elected , conservative activists , real conservative activists show up , and they elect delegates , and we are winning those elections over and over and over again .
the donald trump campaign doesn t know what they re doing .
they don t show up .
in colorado , the donald trump team was handing out flyers asking their supporters to vote for a slate of delegates , they included cruz delegates on their slate .
they just they didn t even know how type up a piece of paper without getting it wrong .
in washington state , when washington state elected their delegates , three days before the election , the donald trump campaign , in a panic , realized washington state was getting ready to elect their delegates .
they sent out an emergency email to their washington supporters , but they screwed up , and sent it to their washington , dc supporters , instead of their washington state supporters .
i can not help that the donald trump campaign does not seem capable of running a lemonade stand .
elections are won by voters and grassroots activists showing up and voting for the candidate they support .
via : breitbart news