what many people have been predicting throughout the course of this election may be starting to come to fruition , but it s still early , so nothing is for certain.what s that prediction ?
that republicans help hillary clinton win by voting for her over donald trump.according to targetsmart , who is known for their political data , clinton has an eight point lead in florida among early voters.breaking : @ _targetsmart/ @ williamandmary fl poll : hrc 48 djt 40early voters from fl sos : 55 38likely voters , have n't voted yet : 42 43 targetsmart ( @ _targetsmart ) november 2 , 2016tom bonier , targetsmart ceo , appeared on the last word with lawrence o donnell on msnbc to share the news of this polling .
the most surprising finding being that clinton has 28 % of registered republican voters voting for her.bonier said : we see this race as an eight point spread in favor of secretary clinton .
48-40 .
which really is challenging the conventional wisdom of what we ve seen so far .
i will say , in what we re seeing , as been noted on your show and elsewhere on the network , a lot of the vote in florida has already been cast and elsewhere .
as of this morning , over 3.6 million votes have been cast , and so , what s unique about this survey is our ability to actually poll people who have voted and see where they are .
there s been a lot of analysis of who s voted by party , but really no sense given of how they re voting.really what s fueling , honestly , this somewhat surprising eight percent margin for secretary clinton is the fact that she s performing incredibly strongly with registered republican voters .
so , what we re seeing in this survey is winning 28 % of registered republicans who have already cast a ballot in florida .
this certainly doesn t look too good for trump , but it s still early and the election is still a week a way , so who s really to know .
but it s definitely looking good for clinton thus far .
watch here:28 % of gop early voters in florida voted for # hillaryclinton & she has an 8 point lead in early voting ! # imwithher # lastword pic.twitter.com/znik7ueyee khary penebaker ( @ kharyp ) november 2 , 2016featured photo by drew angerer/getty images