nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s supreme court on wednesday criticized the election board for failing to verify official results of last month s presidential election before announcing them , but did not find any individual at the board responsible for the failings .
the court was offering a detailed ruling as to why it annulled the aug. 8 election and ordered a fresh presidential vote within 60 days .
the sept. 1 decision was the first of its kind in africa .
the election board had said incumbent president uhuru kenyatta won the contest by 1.4 million votes , but opposition leader raila odinga challenged the result in the supreme court .
he says the previous two elections were also stolen from him .
kenya is a key western ally in a region often shaken by violence .
its status as a diplomatic , trade and security hub for east africa means the court s ruling and preparation for the fresh election , now scheduled for oct. 17 , are being closely watched for signs of instability or violence .
on monday , the french technology company supporting the election said it would be nearly impossible to be ready for that date .
the court s sept. 1 ruling identified some procedural problems , but the key finding against the election board on wednesday was that officials had announced results before being able to verify them .
kenya used two parallel systems : a quick electronic tally vulnerable to typos and a slower paper system designed as a verifiable , definitive back-up .
the official results were based on the electronic tally before the paper results were fully collated , the judges said .
the system was designed that way after a disputed 2007 presidential vote sparked violence that killed around 1,200 people and displaced some 600,000 more .
if elections are not seen to be free and fair , they can trigger instability .
we do not need to look far for examples , said chief justice david maraga .
the board overseeing the 2017 vote did not have all the tally forms when it announced results , and some forms lacked security features like water marks , signatures or serial numbers , which calls their authenticity into question , the court said , adding there was no evidence of individual wrongdoing .
though the petitioner claimed various offences were committed by the issues of the first respondent , that is the iebc ( elections board ) , no evidence was placed before us to prove that allegation , maraga said .
we are therefore unable to impute any criminal intent or culpability .
odinga has said he will not take part in the repeat election if several demands , including the sacking of senior staff at the election board , are not met .
judge philomena mwilu said the forms should have been quickly available for inspection , noting officials said thousands of forms from polling stations were still unavailable four days after the official results were announced .
the ( board ) can not therefore be said to have verified the results , she said .
it is an inexcusable contravention ... of the election act .
she also censured the board s refusal to comply with court orders to open its computer servers , saying it meant that opposition claims of hacking or manipulation might be true .
noncompliance or failure by the board to do as ordered must be held against it , she said .
but although the tallying process was questioned , voter registration , identification and voting all appeared to have been conducted in accordance with the law , she said .
opposition claims against kenyatta were largely dismissed .
maraga said the opposition had failed to show evidence kenyatta had campaigned using state resources or undue influence .
two judges read lengthy dissenting opinions and accused their four colleagues who issued the majority judgment of misinterpreting the law and other failings , including not paying attention to the evidence and judicial limits .
as judges spoke , police used tear gas to disperse groups of rival political supporters holding demonstrations outside the supreme court .
the election re-run has divided kenya , with many opposition supporters celebrating it and the president and some members of the ruling party criticizing it harshly .
after the majority decision was read , deputy president william rut tweeted : evidently a supreme coup on sovereign will of the people was executed on basis of technicalities against their verdict captured in ballots .
on tuesday , the chief justice told a news conference that judges were getting threats and the police were not offering adequate protection , an allegation that the chief of police denied .