prague ( reuters ) - the anti-establishment ano party that won the czech parliamentary election may form a minority government if other parties remain opposed to forming a coalition , ano chief andrej babis said on friday .
the ano won 29.6 percent in last weekend s vote , nearly three times as much as the runner-up centre-right civic democrats , but fell short of a majority in parliament , a fractious chamber of nine parties .
ano s stance against immigration and corruption in mainstream parties , pledges to bring effective government and a centrist economic program drew voters away from parties that dominated czech politics from the end of communism , echoing a swing to anti-system and anti-immigrant parties across europe .
babis has held talks with the eight other parties holding parliamentary seats but was spurned by all apart from the far-right , anti-european spd , not his preferred coalition partner .
if we are rejected everywhere , we will try a minority government , babis , a billionaire businessman , told the www.idnes.cz website , part of a media group he owned until it was shifted to a trust fund this year .
and we will come with an agenda that partially meets the programs of all parties .
babis has however also set more rounds of talks with all parties , and said he would wait to see how the situation develops after the new parliament first convenes on nov. 20 .
ano has 78 of the 200 seats in parliament .
most parties shun babis because he faces charges of fraud .
police say he hid ownership of a farm and conference center near prague in 2008 so it could qualify for a 2 million euro eu subsidy that was only meant for small business .
he denies any wrongdoing and says the charges were politically motivated .
babis s agrofert group , placed in a trust fund earlier this year , spans over 250 companies in chemicals , food , farming and media around central europe including germany .
forbes puts his net worth at $ 4 billion .
the mix of business , media and political power , plus his domineering style and wish to simplify parliamentary procedures , have prompted accusations that he is a threat to democracy .
he denies this , saying he only wants to move the country forward .
pledges not to join a babis-led cabinet were at the heart of most parties pre-election agendas , making any turnaround tough despite positions similar to ano on policies like infrastructure investment , tax cuts and greater government transparency .
babis again sought to dispel fears he would be anti-european fanned by his opposition to adopting the euro currency and deeper european integration , and the possibility his cabinet could lean on eurosceptic votes from the spd camp .
i see no reason why we should leave the european union .
europe is a project thanks to which we have peace , free movement of people , goods , capital and services , he told friday s daily pravo .
babis added , however , that the eu needed to better protect its external borders against inward migration and draw lessons from britain s decision to quit the eu largely over sovereignty and immigration issues .