former white house chief strategist stephen k. bannon left the white house today and has already returned as executive chairman of breitbart news , where he will continue to go to war for president trump.unfortunately for the left , steve bannon will continue to go to war for trump against his opponents , he just won t be conducting the war from the white house anymore .
there are very few conservatives in america who really know how to beat the left at their own game .
conservatives need someone like steve bannon more than ever right now .
fortunately for us , he doesn t plan to walk away from the fight .
josh caplan reports that bannon will continue his fight for trump from the outside after his exit from the white house today.full statement : bannon says he s going to war for trump after white house exit pic.twitter.com/e61m6bb74o josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) august 18 , 2017 if there s any confusion out there , let me clear it up : i m leaving the white house and going to war for trump against his opponents on capitol hill , in the media , and in corporate america , bannon told bloomberg news friday in his first public comments after his departure was announced.bannon led the evening editorial meeting at breitbart , where he resumed his role as executive chairman , the website said in a statement .
a person who was on the call said bannon called on the group to hunker down and work like never before to advance conservative causes .
bloomberg the populist-nationalist movement got a lot stronger today , said breitbart news editor-in-chief alex marlow .
breitbart gained an executive chairman with his finger on the pulse of the trump agenda .
breitbart news ceo and president larry solov agreed .
breitbart s pace of global expansion will only accelerate with steve back , said solov .
the sky s the limit .
bannon joined the trump campaign on august 17 , 2016 nearly one year ago to the day of his return to breitbart .
he submitted his intention to leave the white house on august 7 of this year .
white house chief of staff john kelly and steve bannon have mutually agreed today would be steve s last day , said white house press secretary sarah huckabee sanders friday afternoon .
we are grateful for his service and wish him the best .
breitbart