( reuters ) - atlantic city , the distressed new jersey gambling hub , should consider privatizing its fire-fighting services and convention center and find ways to make more money off its drinking water utility , the city ’ s emergency manager said in an updated fiscal rescue plan .
the report comes one year after governor chris christie appointed kevin lavin as emergency manager .
lavin ’ s report , which also calls for additional layoffs , follows an initial assessment last march .
new jersey taxpayers have so far spent $ 2.62 million on lavin and his team of accountants , restructuring lawyers and a mediator , according to invoices obtained and reviewed by reuters through public records requests .
“ i ’ m glad the emergency manager has , after spending millions of dollars in no-bid contracts and wasting months of time , concluded what we all know : that atlantic city government is broken and needs to be fixed immediately , ” senate president steve sweeney said in a statement .
sweeney is now pushing for a full state takeover of atlantic city operations that would strip elected officials of nearly all power .
lavin said in a statement that over the past year his office and city stakeholders have “ kept the city from falling into financial ruin ” by tackling a $ 100 million budget deficit .
“ unfortunately , our momentum has been stalled by parochial politics that continue to inhibit progress , all to the detriment of the taxpayers of atlantic city , ” he said .
“ many of the most critical and financially important issues need to be addressed urgently. ” he said the city should consider privatizing the entertainment and sports arena boardwalk hall and should regionalize municipal services , including police .
the city is facing tough odds .
its school district is projecting a budget deficit of up to $ 55 million in fiscal 2017 .
atlantic city also has at least $ 190 million of casino tax appeals and other unbonded debt .
in part because of that , the city ’ s “ ability to raise public funds in order to repay the unbonded debt is highly unlikely , ” the report said the report found that the city does not qualify for “ adequate ” financing under the state ’ s qualified bond act , which it used in the past to issue bonds because its credit rating is at junk status .
mayor don guardian said in a statement he would review the report .
“ i fully recognize that much work still needs to be done to fix the problems that have accumulated over the past 30 years , ” he said .