kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysian prime minister najib razak vowed on friday to use every means to protest against u.s. president donald trump s recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital , a tough stand likely to win him support among muslim voters .
najib has been embroiled in a graft scandal over a state-run fund , and has faced unprecedented criticism from former ruling party stalwarts , making the support of members of the muslim , ethnic malay majority vital in a general election next year .
we will continue to fight on this issue , using every available means , through political and diplomatic channels , through discussion and prayer , until one day , god willing , jerusalem belongs to the palestinian people , najib told a rally of about 1,500 in the administrative capital of putrajaya .
he said he would not sacrifice the sanctity of islam despite his friendship with trump .
najib visited the white house in september .
it is our first duty as muslims to uphold the religion .
if jerusalem is a sacred land for muslims , then it is upon us to free it from the grasps of zionists , najib said .
najib and his ruling party have been burnishing their islamic credentials with the aim of boosting their chances in the general election , which must be held by mid-2018 .
about 60 percent of malaysia s population is ethnic malay muslim , with most of the rest ethnic chinese and ethnic indian .
najib , who did not mention the election in his speech at the rally , is hoping to win a third term despite the multi-billion dollar corruption scandal at 1malaysia development berhad ( 1mdb ) that has dogged his premiership for two years .
u.s. attorney-general jeff sessions this month described the scandal at the sovereign fund set up by najib as the worst form of kleptocracy .
the u.s. department of justice has filed several lawsuits to seize more than $ 1.7 billion in assets believed to have been stolen from 1mdb .
sessions did not identify any officials he thought were corrupt .
najib , who served as chairman of 1mdb s advisory board , has consistently denied any wrongdoing at the fund , and malaysia s attorney-general has cleared him of any wrongdoing .
the ruling party united behind najib at a conference this month , letting him stand unopposed in a party leadership contest due next year .
a rebounding economy and currency have also helped him improve his image .
four years ago , the ruling party crept back into power despite losing the popular vote and registering its worst ever election performance .
this time , the challenge is coming from the veteran former prime minister mahathir mohamad , who gave up the premiership in 2003 after 22 years in power and had been najib s mentor .
mahathir , the chairman of the opposition coalition , last week called trump an international bully and a villain for his recognition of jerusalem .
mahathir said on twitter the friday rally could only be meaningful if it results in the bn government acting against donald trump and the united states , referring to the ruling barisan nasional coalition .
malaysia was one of the 128 countries that defied trump on thursday and voted in favor of a united nations general assembly resolution calling for the united states to drop its recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital .