bangkok ( reuters ) - the bones and ashes of thailand s late king bhumibol adulyadej were brought to their final resting places on sunday , the fifth and last day of an elaborate funeral ceremony that drew hundreds of thousands of mourners to the streets of bangkok .
king bhumibol , the world s longest reigning monarch when he died last year at the age of 88 , ruled thailand from shortly after world war two and was revered as a stabilizing figure through coups , protests and natural disasters .
the $ 90 million royal funeral drew mourners clad in black from across the country to bangkok , where king bhumibol was cremated on thursday in an elaborate gold crematorium built for the ceremony outside the grand palace .
( interactive graphic tmsnrt.rs/2lewzcq ) over 19 million thais - more than a quarter of the 69 million population - participated in ceremonies by presenting symbolic sandalwood flowers to be burned at temples and crematorium replicas across the country , according to the government .
on sunday , the late king s bones were moved to the chakri throne hall , where royal relics are kept within the grand palace in a ceremony that involved senior monks from temples across the country .
his son , new king maha vajiralongkorn , led the religious rite .
on sunday evening , princess sirivannavari nariratana led the final royal procession on horseback to the wat rajabopidh and wat bovoranives temples where her grandfather s ashes were placed in keeping with a ceremony steeped in religious symbolism and tradition .
mourners , some in tears , were gathered outside the temples .
i will always have him stored in my heart .
whether as pictures , however old and torn , the memory of him will always be kept in my heart , said chalermporm prabutr , 72 .
wat rajabopidh was built by the late king s grandfather , king chualalongkorn , and houses the remains of other royals including the late king s father , prince mahidol and the princess mother , srinagarindra .
some of the late king s ashes were also be laid at wat bovoranives , the temple where he entered the monkhood in 1956 after his grandmother s death , a custom for buddhist males after the death of a relative .
wat bovoranives is also the center of the more austere strain of thai buddhism founded by the late king s great grandfather , king mongkut .
many thais have worn black for the past year in mourning for king bhumibol .
the military government has told people to wear bright clothes from monday , when the mourning period formally ends .