for months now , the right and some on the left have been politicizing the fact that hillary clinton , like virtually all people who have been in positions of power , gets paid to speak for large audiences .
clinton earns large paychecks for the speaking engagements around $ 200k a piece , much of which has been donated to the clinton foundation .
so why doesn t anyone talk about the fact that donald trump made far more in speaking fees for a company that is essentially a pyramid scheme ? well , to be fair , the right-wing daily caller is talking about it.trump s presidential financial disclosure , which was released on wednesday by the federal election commission , shows that he has been paid $ 450,000 each for three speeches given on behalf of acn inc. , a north carolina-based multi-level marketing company .
the celebrity and real estate billionaire spoke most recently at acn s annual convention which was held in charlotte in february.trump first became involved with acn in 2006 .
in 2009 and 2011 , company executives appeared on the mogul s nbc reality show , celebrity apprentice .
during one of those episodes , a video phone acn was selling was a featured product.like all multilevel marketing companies , acn ( american communications network ) is more about recruiting people people who have to pay $ 499 just for the privilege of selling products plus an annual fee and training expenses .
that s all kind of standard , but robert fitzpatrick , who runs the website called pyramid scheme alert , says acn is one of the worst .
they don t seem to care about sales at all , but they do care about offering false hope and trump is part of that.i ll let this video tell you more : here s another : there are negative reviews all over the internet about acn .
while they have an a+ rating with the better business bureau , that s only after the bureau had to field 203 complaints over the last three years.it s doubtful trump cares .
trump sells his name to anything that might give him a profit .
trump university should be enough to show that trump is a scam artist and a fraudster .
the fact that trump chose to get in bed with a multilevel marketing company with dubious , at best , ethics , says all we need to know about the man who could be president.featured image via jonathan bachman/getty images .