ian jackson : people have been slightly concerned about the trail and as your last guest pointed out it s very decentralized.ed henryy : uh-huh .
when you say slightly concerned , that doesn t sound to me like there s widespread allegations or more importantly evidence of some sort of fraud .
so is this giving jill stein supporters some sort of false hope ? jackson : well , i [ pause ] there s we re [ pause ] trying to find what the count is and [ pause ] i m not sure it s false hope .
it s trying to find the truth behind the numbers .
there has been these allegations by computer scientists but as your last guest pointed out , it was using different systems and using that , being engineers , um , i m a software engineer and we like our little [ pause ] models , but unless you actually count and check it , you don t know whether it s just a thoughy well , they used something different or if there s something to it.and you mentioned your show is all about finding truth.henry : let s find that truth .
my next question is , our last guest , who you cited several times , craig gilbert , also said , accurately , that in 2000 and 2004 the margin was even closer in the presidential race and there was no recount .
so what s your case tonight ? jackson : [ pause ] well , the case [ pause ] tonight , you can see that there that was [ pause ] a real contentious election [ pause ] , and , based on that there are people that have expressed concerns .
so , it s best to find the truth and go through the process .
and obviously people have been willing to put up millions of dollars [ pause ] to find out and count the ballots again.henry : okay , so final question : if you really want to get at the truth can we get at another truth which is that it appears that jill stein has raised about $ 5 million for a recount that may or may not happen for fraud that may or may not have happened .
if there s nothing found here and if there s not even a recount will you pledge tonight that you and others in the green party believe that that money should be refunded , so this is not just money being raised on false hope ? jackson : well , we re exploring that i m only treasurer for the green-rainbow party .
we re certainly going if it doesn t get used , we re certainly going to discuss with our donors what their desire is for that money .