( reuters ) - the kansas senate gave final approval on tuesday to a bill expanding eligibility for medicaid under the federal affordable care act ( aca ) even though the measure faces a likely veto by republican governor sam brownback .
the 25-14 senate vote followed the house ’ s 81-44 passage of the bill last month , with the vote totals falling short of veto-proof margins in both republican-controlled chambers .
in a tweet on monday , melika willoughby , the governor ’ s spokeswoman , said instead of addressing the health care needs of vulnerable residents in a sustainable way , the legislature was choosing to expand “ a failing entitlement program. ” “ to expand obamacare when the program is in a death spiral is not responsible policy , ” she tweeted .
after legislation to replace and repeal the act championed by former president barack obama was pulled in the u.s. house last week , president donald trump warned obamacare would collapse .
the replacement bill pushed by house speaker paul ryan would have ended the aca ’ s expansion of medicaid , the federal and state funded insurance program for the poor and disabled .
kansas was not among the 31 states as of 2016 that had opted to expand medicaid with the federal government footing much of the cost under obamacare .
with the aca ’ s enhanced federal funding , kansas ’ expansion effective jan. 1 , 2018 would cost the state an estimated $ 31 million in fiscal 2018 , which begins july 1 , and $ 67 million in fiscal 2019 with the addition of more than 180,000 recipients , according to estimates cited in a legislative report on the bill .
without enhanced federal matching funds , the state ’ s costs would balloon to $ 465 million by fiscal 2019 .
kansas is already struggling with a structural budget deficit largely due to tax cuts enacted in 2012 .
in addition , the state supreme court ruled earlier this month that kansas was underfunding public schools in violation of a state constitutional requirement for adequacy .