tokyo ( reuters ) - japan formally decided on tuesday it would expand its ballistic missile defense system with u.s.-made ground-based aegis radar stations and interceptors in response to a growing threat from north korean rockets .
a proposal to build two aegis ashore batteries was approved by prime minister shinzo abe s cabinet .
the sites without the missiles will likely cost at least $ 2 billion and are not likely to be operational until 2023 at the earliest , sources familiar with the plan told reuters earlier .
north korea s nuclear missile development poses a new level of threat to japan and as we have done in the past we will ensure that we are able to defend ourselves with a drastic improvement in ballistic missile defense , japanese minister of defence itsunori onodera told reporters after the cabinet meeting .
the decision to acquire the ground version of the aegis missile-defense system , which is already deployed on japanese warships , was widely expected .
north korea on nov. 29 tested a new , more powerful ballistic missile that it says can hit major u.s. cities including washington , and fly over japan s current defense shield .
that rocket reached an altitude of more than 4,000 km ( 2,485 miles ) , well above the range of interceptor missiles on japanese ships operating in the sea of japan .
north korea says its weapons programs are necessary to counter u.s. aggression .
the new aegis stations may not , however , come with a powerful radar , dubbed spy-6 , which is being developed by the united states .
without it , japan will not be able to fully utilize the extended range of a new interceptor missile , the sm-3 block iia , which cost about $ 30 million each .
a later upgrade , once the u.s. military has deployed spy-6 on its ships around 2022 , could prove a costly proposition for japan as outlays on new equipment squeeze its military budget .
initial funding will be ring-fenced in the next defense budget beginning in april , but no decision has been made on the radar , or the overall cost , or schedule , of the deployment , a ministry of defence official said at a press briefing .
japan s military planners also evaluated the u.s.-built thaad ( terminal high altitude area defense ) system before deciding on aegis ashore .
separately , minister of defence itsunori onodera said this month japan would acquire medium-range cruise missiles it can launch from its f-15 and f-35 fighters at sites in north korea , in a bid to deter any attack .
the purchase of what will become the longest-range munitions in japan s military arsenal is controversial because it renounced the right to wage war against other nations in its post-world war two constitution .