as 21wire said last year , the russian hacking , or russiagate story was a political hoax from the start .
what this story can now demonstrate , is that for the last 18 months , the entire mainstream media has been promulgating a highly politicised , and relentless campaign of fake news designed to implicate russia in an imaginary scandal .
leading the pack are former papers of record the new york times and the washington post , flanked by america s premier broadcast tv propaganda outlet cnn.last week , we revealed how powerful politicians in washington had pressured facebook executives to come up with any evidence to support the democratic party s theory of russian meddling , demonstrating clear collusion between the obama administration and silicon valley corporation facebook , with the goal of fabricating a scandal in order to scapegoat vladimir putin and the russians for the electoral collapse of hillary clinton last november.as a result , us-russian relations have been sacrificed at the altar of petty partisan politics and a failing deep state agenda.it certainly begs the question : with so much at stake , why would washington and msm lie and risk pushing global tensions closer to a world war level confrontation ?
if they are prepared to lie about this , what else are they prepared to lie about ? consortium news exclusive : the u.s. mainstream media is determined to prove russia-gate despite the scandal s cracking foundation and its inexplicable anomalies , such as why russia would set up a facebook puppies page.by robert parrywhat is perhaps most unprofessional , unethical and even immoral about the u.s. mainstream media s coverage of russia-gate is how all the stories start with the conclusion russia bad and then make whatever shards of information exist fit the preordained narrative.for instance , we re told that facebook executives , who were sent back three times by democratic lawmakers to find something to pin on russia , finally detected $ 100,000 worth of ads spread out over three years from accounts suspected of links to russia or similar hazy wording.these facebook ads and 201 related twitter accounts , we re told , represent the long-missing proof about russian meddling in the u.s. presidential election after earlier claims faltered or fell apart under even minimal scrutiny.in the old days , journalists might have expressed some concern that facebook found the ads only under extraordinary pressure from powerful politicians , such as sen. mark warner , d-virginia , the vice chairman of the senate intelligence committee and a leading legislator on the tech industry .
but today s mainstream reporters took warner s side and made it look like facebook had been dragging its heels and that there must be much more out there.however , it doesn t really seem to matter how little evidence there is .
anything will do.even the paltry $ 100,000 is not put in any perspective ( facebook has annual revenue of $ 27 billion ) , nor the 201 twitter accounts ( compared to twitter s 328 million monthly users ) .
nor are the hazy allegations of suspected links to russia subjected to serious inspection .
although russia is a nation of 144 million people and many divergent interests , it s assumed that everything must be personally ordered by president vladimir putin.yet , if you look at some of the details about these $ 100,000 in ads , you learn the case is even flimsier than you might have thought .
the sum was spread out over 2015 , 2016 and 2017 and thus represented a very tiny pebble in a very large lake of facebook activity.but more recently we learned that only 44 percent of the ads appeared before americans went to the polls last november , according to facebook ; that would mean that 56 percent appeared afterwards.facebook added that roughly 25 % of the ads were never shown to anyone .
for 50 % of the ads , less than $ 3 was spent ; for 99 % of the ads , less than $ 1,000 was spent .
so , as miniscule as the $ 100,000 in ad buys over three years may have seemed , the tiny pebble turns out really to be only a fraction of a tiny pebble if the russians indeed did toss it into the 2016 campaign.what about the puppies ? we further have learned that most ads weren t for or against a specific candidate , but rather addressed supposedly controversial issues that the mainstream media insists were meant to divide the united states and thus somehow undermine american democracy.except , it turns out that one of the issues was puppies.as mike isaac and scott shane of the new york times reported in tuesday s editions , the russians who posed as americans on facebook last year tried on quite an array of disguises .
there was even a facebook group for animal lovers with memes of adorable puppies that spread across the site with the help of paid ads .
now , there are a lot of controversial issues in america , but i don t think any of us would put puppies near the top of the list .
isaac and shane reported that there were also supposedly russia-linked groups advocating gay rights , gun rights and black civil rights , although precisely how these divergent groups were linked to russia or the kremlin was never fully explained .
( facebook declined to offer details .
) at this point , a professional journalist might begin to pose some very hard questions to the sources , who presumably include many partisan democrats and their political allies hyping the evil-russia narrative .
it would be time for some lectures to the sources about the consequences for taking reporters on a wild ride in conspiracy land.yet , instead of starting to question the overall premise of this scandal , journalists at the new york times , the washington post , cnn , etc .
keep making excuses for the nuttiness .
the explanation for the puppy ads was that the nefarious russians might be probing to discover americans who might later be susceptible to propaganda .
the goal of the dog lovers page was more obscure , isaac and shane acknowledged .
but some analysts suggested a possible motive : to build a large following before gradually introducing political content .
without viewing the entire feed from the page , now closed by facebook , it is impossible to say whether the russian operators tried such tactics .
[ seriously , this is what the new york times is passing off as journalism now ] the joe mccarthy of russia-gatethe times then turned to clinton watts , a former fbi agent and a top promoter of the new mccarthyism that has swept official washington .
watts has testified before congress that almost anything that appears on social media these days criticizing a politician may well be traceable to the russians continue this story at consortium newsread more russiagate news at : 21st century wire russiagate filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv