paris ( reuters ) - president donald trump s hawkish new approach towards tehran , coupled with banking worries and domestic political turbulence in both countries , are causing growing uncertainty over iran s $ 36 billion deal to buy airliners from boeing , airbus and atr .
iranair s decision to buy a total of 200 aircraft from the two giants and franco-italian turboprop maker atr marked the zenith of a 2015 pact between tehran and world powers to renew trade in exchange for placing curbs on iran s nuclear activity .
iranair says its $ 16.5 billion deal with boeing is the biggest with a u.s. company since the 1979 islamic revolution .
such high stakes make the deals a prominent target for critics of detente in both washington and tehran , and experts say that could further frighten off european banks and others whose reluctance to provide finance is already a major obstacle .
trump struck a blow against the nuclear agreement with iran on friday choosing not to certify that tehran is complying with the deal and warning he might ultimately terminate it .
his iran strategy angered tehran and put washington at odds with other signatories of the accord - britain , france , germany , russia , china and the european union - some of which have benefited economically from renewed trade with iran .
while trump did not pull the united states out of the agreement , he gave the u.s. congress 60 days to decide whether to reimpose economic sanctions on tehran that were lifted under the pact .
even without such sanctions , the fate of the aircraft deals depends on u.s. administration approval .
several people involved in the airliner deals fear they have become too big to cancel but too sensitive to implement fully beyond a limited number of jets for which iran has the funds to pay for in cash without foreign loans .
i don t see who would be willing to provide financing for iran with such a negative groundswell in the united states , said consultant and former aviation banker bertrand grabowski .
that raises immediate concerns for boeing as it prepares to start building 15 long-range , twin-engined 777-300er jets , originally due for delivery to iran from next april .
the fate of those aircraft - part of a total order for 80 jets - is seen affecting jobs as boeing tries to put a floor under declining production of one of its most profitable models .
for the 777s it seems increasingly difficult now , a western banker said .
unexpected hurdles have arisen on the iranian side too .
financial sources say boeing has already had to push iran back in the queue for jets because it has yet to receive a deposit .
for now , boeing can manage by juggling deliveries with other airlines .
but a complete breakdown of the iranair order could put new pressure on 777 production .
u.s. exports are not the only ones at stake .
although the european union backs the nuclear deal , the export of any western aircraft to iran depends on permits from the u.s. administration because of the number of u.s. parts .
that means airbus could get caught in the crossfire between boeing and congressional critics who want the whole deal axed , something likely to deepen tensions over iran with europe .
iran has so far imported nine aircraft : three from airbus and six from turboprop maker atr .
losing the rest of iran s business would hit airbus s order book hard because it took the risk of booking all 100 iranian plane sales last december to help beat boeing in their annual order race .
boeing has not yet formally posted its orders .
because the airbus and boeing deals are so interconnected , with approvals passing through washington , all eyes are now on how trump s administration will treat the high-profile plane deals while kicking the broader nuclear issue to congress .
iran s foreign minister mohammad javad zarif said on saturday any negative move would be considered a violation of the 2015 nuclear pact between tehran and world powers .
industry sources say washington has so far issued licenses for aircraft sales to iran until the end of the decade , after which they must be renewed .
based on estimated delivery plans , that effectively opens the door to the 15 boeing 777s and 30-40 airbus jets , they said .
airbus and boeing declined to comment on delivery schedules .
one source said a possible outcome was that the status quo would remain in place regarding licenses already issued , because of the political and legal consequences of revoking them , but that it would become harder to extend or obtain new ones .
if so , the fate of the second part of the iranair deals could be pushed beyond the next u.s. election in 2020 , even if the nuclear pact survives scrutiny in congress until then .
and other airlines , like aseman airlines which has ordered 30 boeing jets and may want to buy turboprops , face an uncertain wait for u.s. approval .
a boeing spokesman said boeing and iranair continue to work on implementing the contract .
airbus declined to comment .
in tehran , the aircraft deals remain center-stage as iranian hard-liners seek to exploit the latest dispute with washington to weaken domestic rivals who are open to the west .
for iran it is important that the deal remains intact ... the failure of the ( plane ) deals will be a major blow for us , said a senior iranian official .
their collapse will have a domino effect on other deals and potential foreign investors .