ted cruz has no interest in playing mr nice guy with obama or his willing accomplices in the fbi , dhs or his doj it s been over a week since the largest terror attack on american soil in 15 years , yet nobody in congress has successfully steered the discussion to the actual source of our perilous security situation .
the obama administration is covering up all connections of the orlando shooter to known islamic terrorists with the help of the muslim brotherhood advising dhs and the fbi .
yet , all republicans and democrats want to discuss is guns .
that is about to change.on tuesday , june 28 , sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) , who chairs the judiciary subcommittee on oversight , agency action , federal rights and federal courts , will conduct a hearing investigating the willful blindness on the part of the relevant law enforcement agencies to domestic islamic terror networks .
the subject of the hearing is willful blindness : consequences of agency efforts to deemphasize radical islam in combating terrorism .
senators on the committee now have an opportunity to expose the muslim brotherhood influence within dhs and the fbi , their invidious countering violent extremism agenda , and their hand in covering up counter-terrorism investigations.senator cruz hinted at the agenda he plans to pursue at this hearing in an op-ed for conservative review earlier this week : president obama s politically correct reluctance to attribute the terrorist threat we face with radical islam hobbles our ability to combat it by discouraging counterterrorism agents from taking radical islam into account when evaluating potential threats .
the examples of fort hood , boston , san bernardino , and orlando demonstrate the harmful consequences of this administration s willful blindness.just yesterday , attorney general loretta lynch announced at a press conference that the motives of the orlando jihadist might never be known and that our most effective response to terror is unity and love .
this comes on the heels of the government s attempt to redact any mention of islamic rhetoric in the 911 call and dhs releasing another internal document scrubbing all references to islamic terror .
just this week , the council on american-islamic relations ( cair ) , a front group for hamas , was allowed to sit in on fbi interviews with members of the fort pierce mosque .
the fbi was supposed to cut ties with cair , and doj was supposed to prosecute them in 2009 following the holy land foundation trial , in which cair was implicated as a co-conspirator , yet they are granted full access to fbi counter-terrorism investigations .
how can republicans let this stand for one day ?
worse , they are validating the democrat premise by obsequiously holding vote after vote on the non sequitur of gun control while our own government is willfully allowing islamic terrorist sympathizers to operate freely within dhs and sabotage all investigations that would have prevented these attacks.this hearing will likely focus on which figures within the federal government worked to squelch any research connecting the dots between local muslim brotherhood officials , these individual terrorists , and foreign terror networks .
senators on the committee now have an opportunity to expose the muslim brotherhood influence within dhs and the fbi , their invidious countering violent extremism agenda , and their hand in covering up counter-terrorism investigations .
they can demonstrate how the federal government has hamstrung local law enforcement by refusing to cooperate and share information regarding jihadists living in their communities.most importantly , this is the first opportunity to finally change the narrative from the false discussion about guns , which has nothing to do with islamic jihad .
hopefully , this committee hearing will be the beginning of a concerted effort for the legislative branch to actually engage in some critical oversight of the perfidious actions within the top echelons of federal law enforcement .
the fact that gop leaders in the house and senate are not pushing multiple hearings and legislation dealing with this issue is scandalous , but unfortunately , not unexpected .
via : conservative review