london ( reuters ) - britain will not offer a figure or a formula for how much it believes it owes the european union , brexit minister david davis said on sunday , after the eu demanded that london spell out its approach to the final bill to unblock talks .
with no movement in the negotiations to unravel more than 40 years of union , britain may miss a december deadline to move the talks to a discussion of future trade ties , which businesses say is vital for them to make investment decisions .
both sides are frustrated by the lack of progress , and last week the eu negotiator , michel barnier , said britain had two weeks to spell out how far it would honour its obligations to break the deadlock .
but davis told sky news the eu had agreed britain would not need to offer a number or a formula for the financial deal when london accepted the bloc s schedule for the talks - first a discussion about the divorce and second , about future ties .
in every negotiation , each side tries to control the timetable .
the real deadline on this is , of course , december , davis said , referring to the next eu summit , taking place in brussels on dec. 14-15 , when britain hopes the bloc will launch the next phase of the talks .
( british taxpayers ) would not want me to just come along and just give away billions of pounds .
so we ve been very , very careful , and it s taking time and we will take our time to get to the right answer .
prime minister theresa may says she can not offer a figure for the financial settlement until her government knows what the future relationship will be .
but she also does not want to inflame brexit campaigners who have suggested britain walk away .
james dyson , the billionaire inventor of the bagless vacuum cleaner and a brexit supporter , said he did not blame the government for the lack of progress .
the problem is with the people we are negotiating with .
i think that demanding billions and billions to leave is quite outrageous , and demanding it before we ve negotiated anything is outrageous , dyson told the bbc .
so i would walk away .
the so-called brexit bill is not the only difficult hurdle in the talks so far .
the two sides must also reach agreement on the uk border with eu member ireland - something that irish officials say is still a long way off .
irish prime minister leo varadkar said he would not threaten to use a veto on the brexit talks at this stage , but dublin has called on london to go beyond its promise that a hard border between ireland and northern ireland will not return .
both britain and the eu say they are ready for a no deal - a message reiterated by the bloc s barnier in the french weekly journal du dimanche , where he also called on britain to detail which financial commitments it would honor .
theresa may has committed to paying the contributions of 2019 and 2020 , as well as other commitments , without specifying which ones , barnier told journal du dimanche .
the european taxpayer should not pay the price of a decision made ... by the united kingdom .