harrisburg , pa. ( reuters ) - republican state senators in pennsylvania failed to muster enough votes on wednesday to oust attorney general kathleen kane , who is facing criminal charges for allegedly leaking secret grand jury material .
all but one of the senate ’ s 30 republicans voted to remove kane , a democrat , from office because her law license has been suspended , falling four votes short of the two-thirds majority required .
the chamber ’ s 18 democrats , as well as one republican , opposed the move .
“ it is simply not appropriate to take this action , ” said senator judy schwank , a democrat who served on the committee that examined kane ’ s removal .
“ it is an outrage against voters ’ right to choose their elected officials. ” kane has been in legal hot water ever since her indictment last summer for allegedly passing grand jury information to a reporter as part of a personal feud .
the pennsylvania supreme court suspended her law license last fall .
wednesday ’ s debate in the senate focused on whether kane could continue to function as attorney general without a license to practice law .
unlike impeachment , which targets officeholders who have committed crimes and requires action by both legislative chambers , removal is aimed at incompetent but law-abiding officials and requires only senate action .
the process had not been used since 1891 .
“ when you have a suspended law license , you can not do anything ! ” said senator john gordner , the republican who chaired the removal committee , during wednesday ’ s three-hour debate .
but others , notably democratic former governor edward rendell , who served eight years as district attorney of philadelphia , previously testified at hearings that a license was not essential .
rendell said that in a large district attorney office , the job is mainly about making managerial decisions , not practicing law .
kane has claimed her indictment was brought in response to her efforts to release thousands of explicit or offensive e-mails circulated by former prosecutors in her office , including those who prosecuted penn state sexual predator jerry sandusky , and two members of the state supreme court , among others .
“ today is a good day for all those who share my desire to restore confidence in our judges and prosecutors and integrity to our system of justice , ” kane said in a statement after the vote .
she could still face removal efforts .
the state house of representatives voted separately on wednesday to begin an impeachment inquiry , while senate republicans used a procedural maneuver that allows them to call for another removal vote if circumstances change .