copenhagen ( reuters ) - twelve migrants , apparently from north africa , have been sailing to and fro on a danish passenger ferry between istanbul and odessa for the last seven weeks locked in four cabins , with no country willing to take them .
according to the danish dfds ferry operator , turkey and ukraine both refuse to accept the men , who have been violent and threatening suicide .
there has been a tendency to violence and aggressions and they have threatened to jump overboard ... so there is no alternative to locking them inside the cabins , a dfds spokesman told reuters on thursday .
dfds has hired turkish guards and invited authorities from the united nations aboard to question the men of which they believe at least six are moroccans and four algerian .
the origin of the remaining two is still unknown .
the danish foreign ministry has opened negotiations with turkey , ukraine and , since the ferry is sailing under the lithuanian flag , with vilnius .
the problem can be solved .
all it takes is a quick decision from ankara or kiev , a source in the danish foreign ministry with knowledge of the negotiations told reuters .
a spokesman for the ukrainian border service said the men wanted to go from turkey to romania but got on the wrong ferry and ended up in ukraine , where they can not be taken in because they do not have documents .
the problem is that turkey doesn t want to take them , but turkey should take them because they sailed from turkey , he said , adding that in accordance with the bilateral agreement , the country that delivered these people should take them back .
that s why they ve been cruising about on that ferry , he said .
a turkish foreign ministry official said the case was being followed with all related institutions .
dfds suspected that the young men , in spite of various security measures , boarded by hiding in a trailer that was loaded onto the ferry .
according to the ferry operator , the best solution would be if ukraine or turkey agreed to take the migrants , or to get final confirmation as to where the men are from , so they can be sent back to these countries .
it is completely unsound that we should handle thi , dfds said .
this is a situation the border controls should handle , not a transportation company .