beirut ( reuters ) - iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif made an appeal for greater regional cooperation on tuesday after returning to tehran from a two-day visit to oman and qatar .
zarif s visit came with qatar in the midst of a row with fellow gulf cooperation council members saudi arabia , bahrain and the united arab emirates .
together with egypt , they accuse qatar of supporting terrorism , a charge it denies .
we have repeatedly suggested a system of dialogue in the persian gulf , but unfortunately this has not been acknowledged by some countries , who see their future through tension , pressure and imposing on neighbors , zarif said , according to state media .
qatar calls the economic boycott a siege aimed at neutering an independent foreign policy it says promotes peaceful regional reform and fighting terrorism .
another point of contention between qatar and its fellow gcc members is its relationship with the islamic republic .
zarif said on tuesday that the economic pressure regional neighbors have put on qatar in recent months has brought about closer economic ties between doha and tehran , state media reported .
zarif s discussions in oman and qatar also focused on ending the conflict in yemen as well as the situation in iraq and syria , where iran is supporting the government of president bashar al-assad while qatar has funded some armed opposition groups .
with attention to the situation in syria and that in the past , we had differences with qatar ; we need to have more dialogue , zarif said , according to state media .
but the political will exists to have a broader dialogue with all countries about ending the suffering of the syrian people .
the qatari government announced it is restoring diplomatic ties with tehran in august .
qatar recalled its ambassador to tehran in january last year after saudi arabia cut ties with the islamic republic , accusing it of failing to protect its embassy in tehran and consulate in mashhad against demonstrators who had ransacked them .
the demonstrators were protesting saudi arabia s execution of a prominent shi ite muslim cleric convicted on terrorism charges .