paris ( reuters ) - french public sector workers went on strike on tuesday against president emmanuel macron s plans to cull jobs and toughen pay conditions , forcing airlines to cancel hundreds of flights and disrupting school activities .
civil servants , teachers and nurses marched through cities across france , from toulouse in the south to strasbourg in the east , before the day s biggest rally in paris .
it is the first time in a decade that all unions representing more than 5 million public workers have rallied behind a protest call .
turnout is an important indicator of public appetite for protest against macron s social and economic reforms , which the former investment banker says are needed to unlock economic growth and put public finances on a more sustainable footing .
as in other recent demonstrations , the number of protesters appeared low .
while unions said some 400,000 people turned out across the country , the interior ministry put the figure at 209,000 .
the economy ministry said some just 14 percent of state civil servants had been on strike and just 9.5 percent in local administration .
protests last month against labor law reform that were led by private sector unions failed to persuade macron to change policy course , but the french labor movement has traditionally been more muscular in the public sector .
we want to make our voices heard after months and months of attacks against the public sector and its workers , said mylene jacquot , head of the civil servants federation at the moderate cfdt , france s biggest trade union .
in particular , we want to force the government to make good on its promise regarding our spending power .
strike notices were lodged in schools , hospitals , airports and government ministries over plans to ax 120,000 jobs , freeze pay and reduce sick leave compensation .
the civil aviation authority said 30 percent of flights at airports nationwide had been canceled but there was no disruption on the rail network .
the ministry of education said fewer than one in five teachers were on strike .
macron , 39 , has come under fire in recent days from political opponents and the unions for treating workers with contempt after he was recorded describing a group of workers at a struggling factory as kicking up a bloody mess .
that misstep came weeks after he called those who resisted reform slackers .
as crowds gathered near paris s place de la republique , protesters held aloft a placard with portraits of macron , his prime minister and finance minister reading : the ones kicking up the bloody mess .
minor scuffles broke out between protesters and security services .
eight people were arrested , the police said in a statement .
unions have been divided over macron s reforms so far , with only the communist party-rooted cgt spearheading street demonstrations against the loosening of employment laws .
in lyon , force ouvriere union boss jean-claude mailly said he would not support the cgt s call for the labor law decrees to be scrapped after weeks of negotiations between government and unions .
but he said there would be other battles to fight with a united front .
there are other issues ahead : unemployment insurance , pension reform , the matter of public services , mailly said .