phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodian prime minister hun sen has pulled back from a threat to close a human rights group founded by the detained opposition leader kem sokha , a pro-government website said on saturday .
the move follows a visit by hun sen to cambodia s main ally china and comes as the veteran leader is under fire from western donors for a crackdown on the opposition .
the rights group , the cambodian center for human rights , was founded in 2002 by kem sokha , who was arrested in september and charged with treason for an alleged plot to take power with american help .
the government decided to keep ( cchr ) so it continues to serve human rights activities in cambodia , and as a result of the ministry of interior s finding , there are no illegal acts , hun sen was quoted as saying by freshnews .
kem sokha has rejected the charges against him , which the opposition calls a ploy to ensure hun sen extends his more than three decades in power at next year s election .
kem sokha s party , the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) , was dissolved on nov. 16 by the supreme court , acting at the government s request .
in response to the crackdown , the united states has stopped funding for the election and the european union has raised a potential threat to cambodia s duty free access if it does not respect human rights .
the statement was released as hun sen held a two-day ceremony at the famed angkor wat temple to pray for peace and stability in cambodia .
he sat beside his wife bun rany and pressed his hands together while buddhist monks chanted prayers .
mu sochua , a deputy to kem sokha who fled the crackdown in cambodia , said the nation s deep divisions could not be healed in one ceremony .
peace for cambodia can not be achieved through just a ceremony .
peace is about full respect of human rights , freedoms , liberties and rule of law , mu sochua told reuters .
chak sopheap , executive director of the rights group cchr , said she and other staffs were incredibly relieved by the news .
with this investigation out of the way , we can get back to focusing on our core mission , the work of promoting respect for human rights in cambodia , chak sopheap said in a facebook post .