ankara ( reuters ) - iran s revolutionary guards are ready to help rebuild syria and bring about a lasting ceasefire there , chief commander mohammad ali jafari said , adding that disarming lebanon s hezbollah is out of the question , state tv reported on thursday .
regional tensions have risen in recent weeks between sunni muslim monarchy saudi arabia and shi ite iran , whose rivalry has wrought upheaval in syria , iraq , yemen and bahrain .
saudi arabia has accused the heavily armed iran-backed hezbollah of helping houthi forces in yemen and playing a role in a ballistic missile attack on the kingdom earlier this month .
iran and hezbollah both denied the claims .
iranian state television quoted jafari as saying : hezbollah must be armed to fight against the enemy of the lebanese nation which is israel .
naturally they should have the best weapons to protect lebanon s security .
this issue is non-negotiable .
iran denies giving financial and military support to the houthis in the struggle for yemen , blaming the deepening crisis on riyadh .
iran only provides advisory and spiritual assistances to yemen ... and this help will continue , he said .
jafari also praised the success of iranian allies across the region , hailing a resistance front from tehran to beirut and calling on riyadh to avoid confronting this grouping .
we directly deal with global arrogance and israel not with their emissaries ... that is why we do not want to have direct confrontation with saudi arabia , he said .
the term global arrogance refers to the united states .
leaders of russia , turkey and iran agreed on wednesday to help support a full-scale political process in syria and announced an agreement to sponsor a conference in the russian black sea resort of sochi to try to end syria s civil war .
the guards are ready to play an active role in establishing a lasting ceasefire in syria ... and reconstruction of the country , jafari said .
iran has signed large economic contracts with syria , reaping what appear to be lucrative rewards for helping tehran s main regional ally president bashar al-assad in his fight against rebel groups and islamic state militants .
in meetings with the ( iran ) government , it was agreed that the guards were in a better position to help syria s reconstruction ... the preliminary talks already have been held with the syrian government over the issue , jafari said jafari repeated iran s stance on its disputed ballistic missile work , saying the islamic republic s missile program is for defensive purposes and not up for negotiation .
the program was not part of the 2015 nuclear deal with western powers under which iran agreed to curb its nuclear program in exchange for the lifting of some sanctions .
iran will not negotiate its defensive program ... there will be no talks about it , he said .
( french president emmanuel ) macron s remarks over our missile work is because he is young and inexperienced .
macron said earlier this month that tehran should be less aggressive in the region and should clarify the strategy around its ballistic missile program .