vienna ( reuters ) - an austrian former finance minister went on trial on tuesday accused of bribery and embezzlement in one of the biggest corruption cases in the country s recent history .
karl-heinz grasser and 15 former high-ranking politicians , managers and bankers are charged in connection with the privatization of state housing company buwog in 2004 .
grasser , 48 , was one of austria s most popular politicians and became the country s youngest finance minister in 2000 when he was appointed aged 31 to serve in a coalition between the conservatives and the far right freedom party .
he is accused of embezzling part of a commission for the sale of 60,000 federal apartments .
he denies the accusations and said in a television interview on monday he was glad the trial was starting so he could prove his innocence .
defense lawyers say the case is politically motivated at a time when conservatives and the far-right are working to form a government to replace a coalition led by social democrats .
investigators spent eight years gathering evidence and working on an indictment that runs for more than 800 pages .
it says he under-priced the biggest ever sale of state-owned flats .
the tender came down to two bidders and the contract was awarded to a financial consortium that offered just 1 million euros ( $ 1.2 million ) more than its competitor .
after the sale , millions of euros in commissions flowed to two grasser associates suggesting insider dealing , according to prosecutors .
grasser , who is married to socialite fiona swarovski , the heir of the swarovski crystal manufacturers , says he is a victim of prejudice from the media and the judiciary .
the trial is the latest to stem from the tenure of chancellor wolfgang schuessel who took power in 2000 .
others have concerned the telecoms and real estate sectors .
the court rejected a petition by grasser s defense lawyer manfred ainedter to remove the chief of the four judges , marion hohenecker , due to conflict of interest because of tweets critical of grasser sent by her husband who is also a judge .