moscow/geneva ( reuters ) - u.n. special envoy on syria staffan de mistura said on thursday he would take part in the latest round of syrian peace talks in the kazakh capital astana on friday , with a month to go before he hopes to break the deadlock in political talks in geneva .
de mistura s geneva peace process reached deadlock this month , missing what said was a golden opportunity to close out almost seven years of war .
blaming intransigence on both sides , he told the u.n. security council he would start 2018 with a proposal to involve a wider constituency in constitutional and electoral reform , since the warring sides were stuck .
he said on thursday he planned to hold the next round in geneva in the second half of january .
i am planning to go to astana just after this meeting , de mistura said in moscow at the start of syrian talks with russian foreign minister sergei lavrov and russian defence minister sergei shoigu .
u.n. timetables routinely slip , but the presence of many of the global power elite at the world economic forum in the swiss resort of davos on jan. 23-26 could also create some political momentum .
forces loyal to president bashar al-assad have made big gains on the ground since russia joined the war in late 2015 , but the fighting shows no sign of ending conclusively .
de mistura s humanitarian adviser jan egeland said that although fewer people were now under siege or out of reach of humanitarian aid , 2017 had defied expectations by being worse than 2016 in many respects , and fewer aid convoys were going in .
in december we haven t reached a single soul ( in besieged areas ) , egeland told reporters in geneva .
he hoped astana might bring a cessation of hostilities in the rebel-held enclave of eastern ghouta , where assad s forces are besieging almost 400,000 people .
u.n. aid convoys are waiting for syria s government to give them a green light .
food prices have risen eightfold since august , egeland said .
495 people were on the priority lists for medical evacuations .
that number is going down .
not because we are evacuating people , but because they are dying .
russia , iran , china , egypt , algeria and iraq could all bring their influence to bear , he said .
if we are going to get out of this quagmire it is because there will be political agreements , really .
so i hope that out of the astana meetings in the next couple of days we will have some kind of impulse for a change on the humanitarian side .