madrid ( reuters ) - spaniards lined the streets of madrid and barcelona on thursday and national flags hung from balconies across the capital as unionists used a public holiday to demonstrate unity in the face of moves by catalonia to declare independence .
the wealthy region s intention to break away has plunged spain into its worst political crisis since an attempted military coup in 1981 , with madrid threatening to sack the catalan government if it goes ahead .
madrid s customary military parade marking the anniversary of explorer christopher columbus s arrival in the americas on behalf of the spanish crown took place in a city already festooned with flags hung by spaniards in a display of unity .
we came with the whole family to celebrate the day of spain and ... living in a free country ... and to support the security forces of the state and the government after this complicated situation we have been living in these past days , said madrid resident carlos alvaro .
tension remains high between the central government and catalonia after the region s leader signed a symbolic declaration of independence on tuesday , citing the results of an oct. 1 referendum which had been declared illegal by madrid .
catalan government chief carles puigdemont has stopped short of moving a motion of independence in the regional parliament , disappointing many of his own supporters .
prime minister mariano rajoy has given puigdemont eight days to drop his push for independence or face the suspension of its political autonomy .
if puigdemont does not respond in time or confirms a will to secede , rajoy can impose rule from madrid , an option enshrined in article 155 of the 1978 constitution .
ask for dialogue and they answer you by putting the 155 on the table .
understood , puigdemont tweeted late on wednesday .
uncertainty remains over what article 155 , which has never been invoked before , would mean in practice .
i can t tell you exactly what the measures are , foreign minister alfonso dastis told france s cnews tv channel .
article 155 ... can be fine-tuned , and that s certainly what the government will do , dastis said .
political analysts expect rajoy s next step would be to call a snap regional election to plot a path out of the crisis .
king felipe presided over the madrid parade , which included almost 4,000 military and police officials .
last week , in a rare intervention , he accused catalan secessionist leaders of shattering democratic principles and dividing their society .
people also gathered in central barcelona , the catalan capital , where a police crackdown during the banned oct. 1 vote exacerbated the crisis .
el mundo newspaper reported 65,000 turned out on thursday , at least 10 times more than on last year s national holiday , but only a fifth of the crowd that turned out to oppose independence last weekend , calling themselves the silent majority .
puigdemont said 90 percent of voters in the referendum backed secession , but turn-out was only 43 percent .
polls conducted beforehand had suggested around 40 percent support for independence .
thursday s demonstrations were mostly peaceful , but city police intervened to stop a scuffle in central barcelona when demonstrators threw chairs and cafe tables .
around 100 far-right activists set fire to the striped and starred catalan flag .
financial markets watching the situation in the euro zone s fourth-largest economy breathed a sigh of relief and the euro climbed when puigdemont signed the symbolic declaration rather than formally announcing a split on oct. 10 .
genoveva cabrera , a 63-year-old demonstrating for unity in barcelona on thursday said : i am with spain , with the civil guard ( police ) , i am a democrat , i am catalan , i am spanish , i am european .