beirut ( reuters ) - top lebanese druze politician walid jumblatt on saturday called on saudi arabia to enter dialogue with iran and said that the kingdom s modernization plans could not work while riyadh was engaged in a war in yemen .
lebanon was thrust back onto the frontline of a regional power tussle this month between saudi arabia and iran .
the two regional powers back competing factions in iraq , syria , lebanon and yemen , the last of which has become a central arena of the proxy battle .
a settlement at minimum with the islamic republic ( of iran ) gives us in lebanon more strength and determination to cooperate to enforce the policy of disassociation , jumblatt wrote in a tweet on saturday .
disassociation is widely understood in lebanon to mean its policy of staying out of regional conflicts , which hariri has been stressing since his resignation , a reference to hezbollah whose regional military role is a source of deep concern in saudi arabia saudi policy of confronting iran more aggressively around the region has been spearheaded by crown prince mohammed bin salman , who is also attempting to push through difficult and extensive internal reforms .
saudi arabia has played an important role in lebanon in the past , helping to broker the end of its civil war in 1990 and contributing to reconstruction afterwards .
but the extent of its role in the nov. 4 resignation announcement by prime minister saad al-hariri has been widely debated in lebanon and led some lebanese to fear that riyadh sought to destabilize their country .
addressing saudi arabian crown prince mohammed bin salman , jumblatt said : the challenges are tremendous and the modernization of the kingdom is an islamic and arabic necessity but this mission can not be successful while the yemen war continues .
the druze are a minority religious sect present in syria , israel , the palestinian territories and lebanon .
the saudi-led coalition has been targeting the iran-aligned houthi movement since 2015 , after the houthis seized parts of yemen including the capital sanaa , forcing president abd-rabbu mansour hadi to flee .
on wednesday , the coalition said it would allow aid in through the red sea ports of hodeidah and salif , as well as u.n. flights to sanaa , more than two weeks after blockading the country .
enough of the destruction and siege in yemen and enough of the human and material drain on the kingdom s people and resources , jumblatt said .
let the yemeni people choose who it wants and you , your excellency the prince , be the judge , the reformer , and the big brother as your ancestors were .
jumblatt also said it is very difficult to stop the war unless issues are overcome and discussions are held with iranians .
on friday , jumblatt criticized the way hariri had been treated by some saudi circles , the first time he has appeared to direct blame at riyadh over hariri s resignation this month .
lebanese officials say saudi arabia put hariri under effective house arrest in riyadh and forced him to declare his resignation on nov. 4 .
saudi arabia has denied holding hariri against his will or forcing him to resign .