beijing/seoul ( reuters ) - traditional friendship between china and north korea represents valuable wealth for their people , china said after its special envoy met a high-ranking north korean official , but there was no mention of the crisis over north korea s weapons .
song tao , who heads the ruling chinese communist party s international department , is visiting pyongyang to discuss the outcome of the recently concluded communist party congress in china , at which president xi jinping cemented his power .
in a brief statement dated friday but reported by chinese media on saturday , the international department said song , who is there representing xi , reported to north korean official choe ryong hae the outcome of the congress .
song and choe also talked about relations between their parties and countries , the department said .
they said that the traditional friendship between china and north korea was founded and cultivated by both countries former old leaders , and is valuable wealth for the two peoples , it said .
both sides must work hard together to promote the further development of relations between the two parties and two countries to benefit their two peoples .
the department made no mention of north korea s nuclear or missile programs , which are strongly opposed by china .
the north s official kcna news agency said song informed choe about china s 19th national congress in detail , and stressed china s stance to steadily develop the traditionally friendly relations between the two parties and countries .
song arrived on friday but it is not clear how long he will be in north korea .
china has repeatedly pushed for a diplomatic solution to the crisis over north korea s development of nuclear weapons and missiles to carry them , but in recent months it has had only limited high-level exchanges with north korea .
the last time china s special envoy for north korea visited the country was in february last year .
song s trip comes just a week after u.s. president donald trump visited beijing as part of an asia tour , where he pressed for greater action to rein in north korea , especially from china , with which north korea does 90 percent of its trade .
the influential state-run chinese tabloid the global times said in an editorial that it was unwise to expect too much from his trip , saying his key mission was to inform north korea about the party congress in beijing .
song is not a magician , the newspaper said .
the key to easing the situation on the peninsula lies in the hands of washington and pyongyang .
if both sides insist on their own logic and refuse to move in the same direction , even if song opens a door for talks , the door could be closed any time .
it is not clear whether song will meet north korea s youthful leader kim jong un .
kim and president xi exchanged messages of congratulations and thanks over the chinese party congress , but neither leader has visited the other s country since assuming power .
song s department is in charge of the party s relations with foreign political parties , and has traditionally served as a conduit for chinese diplomacy with north korea .
china s new special envoy for north korea , kong xuanyou , who took up his position in august , is not believed to have visited the country since assuming the job .