william stanford nye or bill nye is an american comedian , actor , writer and science educator .
bill nye initially started working as a mechanical engineer and later turned to hosting television shows .
bill nye has a net worth of $ 6.5 million.he has acquired his wealth and fame mainly because of the television show bill nye the science guy that was produced jointly by disney and pbs .
the show aired for almost four years .
it was aired first in 1993 , and it continued till late 1998.nye also attended sidwell friends in dc , the same elite private prep school as the obama girls .
nye was honored with a doctorate by the johns hopkins university , and he also received an honorary doctor of science degree in 2011 from the willamette university.the american mirror bill nye the science guy is gaining a new reputation as bill nye the eugenics guys after a recent episode on this netflix show bill nye saves the world .
nye tackled the subject of overpopulation during the show s season finale on tuesday , and hosted a panel discussion that included the question : should we have policies that penalize people for having extra is in the developed world ?
nye , a high-profile climate change activist , posed the question after panelist travis reider of johns hopkins university alleged that the average nigerian emits .1 metric tons of carbon annually.watch : https : //youtu.be/ehmtn6gaioqthe nazi s also believed in killing children to further their cause .
it s actually called eugenics : from 1933 to 1945 , nazi germany carried out a campaign to cleanse german society of individuals viewed as biological threats to the nation s health .
enlisting the help of physicians and medically trained geneticists , psychiatrists , and anthropologists , the nazis developed racial health policies that began with the mass sterilization of genetically diseased persons and ended with the near annihilation of european jewry .
with the patina of legitimacy provided by racial science experts , the nazi regime carried out a program of approximately 400,000 forced sterilizations and over 275,000 euthanasia deaths that found its most radical manifestation in the death of millions of racial enemies in the holocaust.rachel snow , chief of population development for the united nations , intervened .
i would take issue with the idea that we do anything to incentivize fewer children or more child .
it s justice and human rights , she said .
people should have the number of children they want and the timing of children and if some families have five or six children , god bless them , i mean , that s fine .
but most people end up with fewer .
another panelist , montefiore medical center director of family planning nerys benfield , pointed out that poor and minority women would be disproportionately impacted by policies that penalize parents for extra kids .
these people , in the name of climate change , are beginning to sound an awful lot like the eugenicists of the early 20th century , danjantube posted in the comments of a youtube clip of the show .
disturbing .
others attacked nye and netflix on twitter .
this might be the darkest show netflix has ever streamed , chris morgan tweeted .