tokyo ( reuters ) - with no platform , no party leader and not even a formal name , a nascent political party linked to popular tokyo governor yuriko koike is preparing for a snap election that japanese prime minister shinzo abe is expected to call for next month .
koike , 65 , is a former ruling party lawmaker often mentioned as a possibility to become japan s first female premier .
in a tokyo metropolitan assembly election in july , she adeptly exploited voters longing for a viable alternative to abe s conservative liberal democratic party in handing the ldp an historic defeat .
now her allies hope to use koike s political star power and reformist message to replicate that success nationally in the lower house .
skeptics say achieving that could be tough and a more likely outcome is her new group stays a tokyo-based force .
koike , a media-savvy former tv announcer who defied the ldp to run for governor last year , has said she s focused on her current job , including preparing for the 2020 tokyo olympics , although she has not ruled out returning to parliament .
there are unexpected things and expected things , and while watching the situation , i want to consider what is best for tokyo and the nation , she told reporters on wednesday when asked if she d run for parliament s lower house .
she also dodged a question as to whether she would lead the new party formally .
koike s allies had planned to launch the new party by year s end but were caught off guard by abe s decision , expected to be officially announced next monday , to call an oct. 22 general election .
we are working on the party s policies , a name and by-laws , goshi hosono , a former environment minister who is among those working to launch the new party , told reporters this week .
hosono , 46 , is one of several lawmakers who have bolted the struggling opposition democratic party , disappointed by its failure to capitalize on voter distaste for suspected cronyism scandals and perceived arrogance that sent abe s ratings tumbling in july .
abe s support has since recovered to about 50 percent .
koike ally masaru wakasa , a former prosecutor who recently left the ldp , last month launched a political group called nippon first ( japan first ) but it has not registered as a party or picked a name .
many voters are dissatisfied with both the long-ruling ldp and the democrats , a mixed bag of conservatives and liberals whose image was tarnished by their rocky time in power from 2009 to 2012 .
independents have stayed home in droves in the four national elections since 2012 , when abe returned to office .
forty-five percent of respondents to a yomiuri newspaper poll this month backed no party more than the 40 percent who supported the ldp .
only 5 percent favored the democrats .
forty-one percent expressed hopes for a koike party .
but turning those hopes into votes is not guaranteed .
wakasa told reporters the embryonic party aims to run more than 60 candidates , including 25 in tokyo .
it won t have formal support from the ldp s coalition partner , the komeito , which backed tokyo citizens first candidates in july s tokyo poll .
candidates will likely include former and incumbent lawmakers and political novices who heard koike lecture at wakasa s cram school for would-be lawmakers last weekend .
wakasa has said the new party will be conservative .
some expected members favor revising the post-war constitution s pacifist article 9 - a controversial but cherished goal of abe .
wakasa has suggested an amendment to create a unicameral legislature , an idea which might not resonate with most voters .
the question is , how would a new party differentiate itself from the ldp , akihisa nagashima , a former democrat who may join the group , told reuters earlier this year .
japan has seen numerous new parties over the decades .
most fizzled .
koike herself entered politics in the now-defunct japan new party , whose leader morihiro hosokawa headed an anti-ldp ruling coalition in the early 1990s that soon crumbled .
she joined several new opposition parties before turning to the ldp .
political analysts said early forecasts were risky and much depended on media coverage and whether koike heads the party or surprises by running for parliament .
the latter is seen as unlikely given a possible voter backlash for abandoning her post as tokyo governor .
i don t think ( the new party ) will live up to all the fuss , said nihon university professor tomoaki iwai .
the ldp currently has 288 seats in the 475-member lower house , while the komeito has 35 , giving them a two-thirds super majority .
the democrats have 88 seats .
reforms enacted last year will cut the number of seats to 465 from 475 .