monrovia ( reuters ) - liberian former soccer star george weah and vice president joseph boakai were comfortably ahead in partial presidential election results announced on saturday , and look set to contest a run-off next month .
weah and boakai lead the 20-candidate field to succeed nobel peace prize winner ellen johnson sirleaf in what would be liberia s first democratic transfer of power in more than 70 years .
weah received 39.2 percent of roughly 1.2 million ballots cast in nearly three-quarters of polling stations , ahead of boakai , who had 29.6 percent of the vote , the commission said .
charles brumskine , a lawyer , was a distant third with 9.7 percent .
the final certified results from tuesday s poll must be announced by oct. 25 , although provisional results from the remaining precincts are expected in the coming days .
the commission said that ballots would be re-cast in two polling places in nimba county due to irregularities , although that measure only concerns a few thousand votes .
weah became the first non-european to win the european player of the year award in 1995 , the same year he picked up the african and world player of the year awards .
he finished runner-up to johnson sirleaf in a 2005 election that helped draw a line under years of civil war that killed hundreds of thousands of civilians .
he has been a senator for the opposition cdc party since 2014 .
boakai , the former head of liberia s petroleum refinery company and agriculture minister , has served as liberia s vice president since 2006 and represents the ruling unity party .
brumskine has said the vote was marred by fraud and that he would request a re-run .
however , he has yet to produce evidence of cheating and international observers said they saw no major problems .
johnson sirleaf s 12 years in office have seen the consolidation of liberia s post-war peace and the quadrupling in size of the national economy .
however , many liberians complain about poor public services and widespread corruption and say they are eager for a new president .
weah s strong first-round performance drew mixed reactions on the streets of monrovia , the capital .
one woman held a small radio close to her ear as the latest results were read out by the state broadcaster .
we will see a new president now come next year , she said .
our son weah will be the next president .
standing nearby , a man in his late 50s , cyrus s. mulbah , had a different view .
it will be a sad mistake if this country goes in the hands of weah and his people , he said this is not a football field .