more manufactured news that exposes the hate our leftist media has for republicans even for those who haven t been in office in years.the boston globe set heads scratching tuesday after the newspaper published a story on former republican presidential candidate mitt romney s whereabouts during the senate health care vote.the former massachusetts governor is now a private citizen removed from the debate to repeal and replace obamacare .
but the globe wrote a story highlighting romney s daughter-in-law s instagram post showing he was jetskiing at the time .
while the senate debated health care , mitt romney was waterskiing , read the original headline , which was later updated to read , romney , long out of the political fray , takes to the water .
it s been a contentious week in washington , the globe wrote .
one republican who appears to be unbothered by all the political tumult ?
that would be mitt romney .
the piece , which appeared to criticized romney for ignoring a debate that had nothing to do with him , earned internet scorn .
wfbafter the boston globe got destroyed on social media , they changed their headline to this : romney , long out of the political fray , takes to the water guys.i found it .
the dumbest story of all time .
https : //t.co/y21anjwocp peter j. hasson ( @ peterjhasson ) july 26 , 2017uhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh what was he supposed to be doing ?
i my dead gay son ( @ bennnnnnewsome ) july 26 , 2017twitter user @ hale_razor likened the boston globe s idiotic question to asking where bill belicheck was during the vote ? and belichick was watching game film .
what 's your point .
razor ( @ hale_razor ) july 26 , 2017twitter user @ bennnnnnnewsome asked what romney was supposed to be doing during the health care vote .
he also reminded the boston globe that mitt romney is not part of the us senate with his second tweet : like , he does n't work there , right ?
i my dead gay son ( @ bennnnnnewsome ) july 26 , 2017this twitter user @ olegzeltser referred to the boston globe as a fish rag or a wrapper for dead fish , and reminded them of their hypocrisy for ignoring obama s never-ending vacations while he was actually serving as our president : https : //twitter.com/olegzeltser/status/890194766859821056for anyone who doesn t know , the romney family grew up spending their summers on the water in canada .
mitt romney is actually a pretty darn good water-skier .
here s a video of romney slalom-skiing when he was governor of massachusetts :