baked alaska is a former liberal who wrote for the ultra-liberal buzzfeed publication .
he s now a conservative activist and trump supporter who regularly attends pro-trump and free-speech rallies to document the violence from the left , and to show his support for his fellow conservatives.baked alaska attended the charlottesville rally this weekend to peacefully show his support for free speech and was met , not surprisingly , by violence from leftist thugs .
the type of violence he encountered however , wasn t your run of the mill george soros funded antifa gang violence , it was more like the kind of violence you see in the middle east by muslim extremists .
baked alaska was walking down the sidewalk filming the activities at the protest , he was met by protestors screaming , black lives matter !
within seconds of encountering this very large group of protesters , baked alaska can be heard screaming that he was sprayed with pepper spray in the eyes.as it turns out , baked alaska was actually sprayed in the eyes with acid.shorty after the incident , baked alaska tweeted about the horrific act of violence committed against him : hospital has sent me to the er , i was told there 's a large possibility i 'll have permanent eye damage .
keep me in your prayers thank you fam baked alaska ( @ bakedalaska ) august 13 , 2017here is one of baked alaska s friends updating his supporters on his condition .
apparently throwing acid in an innocent person s eyes wasn t enough for the left , baked alaska s friend @ millennial_matt exposed the thousands death threats they , and their families have been receiving after attending the charlottesville , va rally in support of free speech : @ millennial_matt has made a statement on # charlottesville pic.twitter.com/ndwubnoy7a m me br l e 2 ( @ memebrulee2 ) august 13 , 2017here s a picture of baked alaska in the hospital giving the thumbs up to his supporters .
he is still unable to see in this picture : i ca n't see how do i look ?
pic.twitter.com/sks0briq1w baked alaska ( @ bakedalaska ) august 13 , 2017baked alaska tweets about coming together and trying to understand each other peacefully shortly after leftists threw acid in his eyes : we must come together as a country and try to understand each other peacefully .
we ca n't continue to scream nazi or sjw back & forth .
baked alaska ( @ bakedalaska ) august 13 , 2017here are some of the responses from the left to baked alaska s tweet , explaining to his followers that he may have suffered permanent eye damage : https : //twitter.com/emilymmxx/status/896909105490567168https : //twitter.com/garbagetaint/status/896852067448483841baked alaska replied to responses from the hateful leftists here : the amount of people rejoicing that i likely have permanent eye damage is very disgusting .
the real hateful people are being exposed .
pic.twitter.com/g4xfymapgv baked alaska ( @ bakedalaska ) august 13 , 2017