sacramento , calif. ( reuters ) - california governor jerry brown warned on thursday of near-apocalyptic water shortages if his $ 15 billion plan to divert water from a northern california river for use elsewhere gets bogged down in political and environmental disputes .
the plan to remove water north of the sacramento-san joaquin river delta , the fragile source of much of the state ’ s drinking water , is opposed by many environmentalists , but brown insisted it was crucial in shoring up water supplies in the drought-plagued state .
“ if we don ’ t have the project , the delta will fail , water will not be available and california will suffer devastating economic consequences , ” brown , a democrat , told a meeting of water regulators and utility executives in sacramento to discuss the state ’ s progress in stabilizing its water system .
the plan calls for digging a pair of tunnels under the delta .
they would carry water from the sacramento river to the state ’ s agricultural breadbasket as well as cities in the central and southern parts of america ’ s most populous state .
the governor ’ s proposal , which must go through an environmental review and permitting process , has reignited california ’ s century-old water wars , sparked when los angeles siphoned water from the owens valley north of the city to slake the thirst of the growing southern california metropolis .
opponents have said the plan will imperil salmon , trout and the endangered delta smelt , damage the delta ’ s role as a center for water recreation and sport fishing , and could ultimately reduce the availability of drinking water for northern california cities .
brown , who has backing from labor , utilities , moderate democrats and many republicans , has said the project will protect the delta while ensuring an adequate water supply .
but opponents said the project would harm the ecosystem .
“ how will the delta ever recover if freshwaters are never allowed to flow through it , even in rainy seasons , ” said barbara barrigan-parrilla , director of the restore the delta group .
backers estimate construction would take at least 10 years after the necessary approvals are received , barring lawsuits and other actions to try to slow the project .