hodeidah , yemen ( reuters ) - smiling and sitting down to bread and milk with her family , yemeni teenager saida ahmed baghili is barely recognizable a year on from the photo of her emaciated frame that came to symbolize the country s humanitarian crisis .
baghili now weighs 36kg ( 80 lb ) , according to her father , more than triple the 11kg she weighed last october when reuters first met her at the al-thawra hospital in sana a , where she was undergoing treatment for severe malnutrition .
there the 19-year-old was unable to talk , let alone carry her ghostly , skeletal frame , which is now stronger after weeks of specialist care and time at home .
saida s body got better because she s eating better , but she s still having trouble swallowing , her father ahmed baghili said at their home in hodeidah this month .
she can only eat milk , biscuits and juice .
baghili s plight reflects that of many families in the arabian peninsula s poorest country , where a two-and-a-half-year war between a saudi-led arab coalition and the iran-allied houthi movement has claimed 10,000 lives .
a quarter of the 28 million population are starving , according to the united nations , with half a million children under the age of 5 severely malnourished and at least 2,135 people killed by cholera .
ahmed baghili is only able to supply the basics for his family of 10 , who live in a parched village on the red sea coast .
saida , whose illness began before the war , is able to help her father tend to a farmer s cattle in exchange for milk , with their income boosted by ahmed making deliveries on his motorcycle and donations from humanitarian organizations .
however , he says he doesn t have enough money to send saida for further treatment and still fears for her health .
her last appointment with a doctor was in december .
we re worried she might relapse and then we wouldn t be able to do anything because we have nothing .
we don t have the transportation fee , we don t have the fee for anything , he said .
click on reut.rs/2gxejkk to see a related photo essay