madrid ( reuters ) - spain s high court said on tuesday it had granted a u.s. request to extradite russian citizen peter levashov , who is accused of u.s. hacking offences including operating a network of infected computers used by cyber criminals .
levashov , 36 , was arrested while on holiday in barcelona in april .
u.s. prosecutors have accused him of running the kelihos botnet , a network of more than 100,000 infected devices used by cyber criminals to distribute viruses , ransomware , phishing emails and other spam attacks .
u.s. prosecutors are seeking a 52-year jail sentence against levashov , who denies the charges against him .
the spanish court said levashov had three days to lodge an appeal against the extradition decision .
levashov , who is fighting extradition , told the madrid court last week that he had worked for president vladimir putin s united russia party for the last 10 years , russia s ria news agency reported .
he told the court that investigators in the united states would torture him for information about his political work if he was sent there to face the charges .
if i go to the u.s. , i will die in a year .
they want to get information of a military nature and about the united russia party , ria quoted him as saying .
i will be tortured , within a year i will be killed , or i will kill myself .
the spanish court ruling said that levashov s lawyers had also alleged a political motivation behind the u.s. request for his extradition and that the real reason behind it may be that he was a programmer who might have hacked the u.s. elections .
u.s. intelligence agencies have concluded that the kremlin orchestrated a wide-ranging influence operation that included email hacking and online propaganda to discredit democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton and help donald trump , a republican , win the white house last november .
the kremlin denies the allegations .
the spanish court dismissed all the arguments put forward by levashov and his lawyers against extradition .
nothing has been proven with respect to the allegations about political motivation and neither ... has the potential infringement of the accused s right to life or of his physical integrity , the court ruling sad .
in an eight-count indictment handed down by a federal grand jury in connecticut in april , levashov was charged with causing intentional damage to a protected computer and wire fraud .
russia has lodged its own request for levashov s extradition from spain , ria reported .