president obama , who as a candidate once urged supporters to bring a gun to the knife fight of his campaign , on tuesday decried vicious rhetoric from republican presidential candidates.here is a great compilation of obama s top 5 hits on his opponent ( 50 % of america ) .
can you imagine the comments that haven t been recorded , like at the recent meeting with black lives matter terrorists who were invited guests of barack obama s , coincidentally just prior to the organized chicago trump rally riots ? during the annual friends of ireland luncheon at the u.s. capitol , mr. obama told a bipartisan group of lawmakers that he is more than a little dismayed about what s happening on the campaign trail lately .
never one to miss out on the opportunity to bash his enemies our very un-statesman like community organizer in chief took the opportunity when speaking in front of the prime minister of ireland to not talk about relations with ireland , but instead , to bash donald trump .
he made it clear to this group who has absolutely nothing to do with our elections , that he is watching his every move trump makes and will use every opportunity , no matter how inappropriate , to damage his reputation .
probably the most sickening and dishonest part of this video is when obama begrudgingly tells speaker of the house , paul ryan ( r ) that , i know you are a great father and a great husband and that , we can have political debates without turning on each other at the 7:45 mark : we have heard vulgar and divisive rhetoric aimed at women and minorities at americans who don t look like us , or pray like us or vote like we do , mr. obama said in an obvious reference to republican presidential front-runner donald trump .
we ve seen misguided attempts to shut down that speech , however offensive it may be .
in response to those attempts , we ve seen actual violence , and we ve heard silence from too many of our leaders .
as he has increasingly in recent days , mr. obama lamented any effort to spread fear or encourage violence , or to shut people down when they re trying to speak , or turn americans against one another .
as a citizen who will still be leading this office , i will not support somebody who practices that kind of politics , the president said.but as a candidate for the white house in 2008 , mr. obama was no stranger to violent rhetoric .
he encouraged the notion that he was a product of chicago s particularly tough brand of politics.at a campaign event in philadelphia in june 2008 , mr. obama told supporters , if they bring a knife to the fight , we bring a gun .
because from what i understand , folks in philly like a good brawl .
i ve seen eagles fans .
later that year , as polls showed a close race between mr. obama and republican nominee john mccain , mr. obama urged a crowd of about 1,500 at a campaign rally in elko , nevada , to get confrontational in their community for him .
i need you to go out and talk to your friends and talk to your neighbors , mr. obama said .
i want you to talk to them whether they are independent or whether they are republican .
i want you to argue with them and get in their face .
the president on tuesday seemed to be referring to such comments of his own when he remarked , all of us can recall some intemperate words that we regret .
certainly , i can .
and while some may be more to blame than others for the current climate , all of us are responsible for reversing it .
via : washington times