geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations human rights chief said on monday that venezuelan security forces may have committed crimes against humanity against protesters and called for an international investigation .
but venezuela s foreign minister defended the record of the government of president nicolas maduro , rejecting the allegations as baseless .
venezuela has been convulsed by months of demonstrations against the leftist president who critics say has plunged the oil-rich country into the worst economic crisis in its history and is turning it into a dictatorship .
my investigation suggests the possibility that crimes against humanity may have been committed , which can only be confirmed by a subsequent criminal investigation , zeid ra ad al hussein told the u.n. human rights council .
he said the government was using criminal proceedings against opposition leaders , arbitrary detentions , excessive use of force and ill-treatment of detainees , in some cases amounting to torture .
last month , zeid s office said venezuela s security forces had committed extensive and apparently deliberate human rights violations in crushing anti-government protests and that democracy was barely alive .
there is a very real danger that tensions will further escalate , with the government crushing democratic institutions and critical voices , zeid said .
the opposition , which boycotted the election for the constituent assembly , has accused electoral authorities of inflating turn-out figures for the july 30 vote .
however , foreign minister jorge arreaza told the geneva forum : we have now selected the national constituent assembly , this is the true expression of our citizens will .
it will have the powers to draw up a new constitution .
the opposition in venezuela is back on the path of rule of law and democracy , we will see dialogue emerging thanks to mediation of our friends , he said .
arreaza accused protesters of using firearms and home-made weapons against security forces , but noted that the last death was on july 30 .
our country is now at peace , he added .
venezuela is among the 47 members of the council , where it enjoys strong support from cuba , iran and other states .
diego arria , who was venezuela s ambassador to the united nations in new york from 1991 to 1994 , told a separate geneva event organized by activists and action group un watch that venezuela should be referred to the prosecutor of the international criminal court .
i am convinced that the killing in the streets equates to crimes against humanity , he said .
the hague-based court defines such crimes as including torture , murder , deprivation of liberty , sexual violence and persecution , he said .
julieta lopez , aunt of opposition leader leopoldo lopez who remains under house arrest after three years in a military jail , said abuses continued .
there is no right to express a different political opinion without being threatened , beaten or imprisoned , she told the same event .