yangon ( reuters ) - at the end of an illustrated book written for children in myanmar , a much-loved village teacher who has planted many trees and a beautiful garden tells his students that the time has come for him to leave them .
oh students , he says .
i won t be here but you will still have the trees to give you fruit and shade and take care of you every year .
so you will remember me and not be so sad .
the author of the gardener was wa lone , one of two reuters journalists who were arrested in yangon last week and accused of violating the country s colonial-era official secrets act .
wa lone , 31 , and kyaw soe oo , 27 , had worked on reuters coverage of a crisis that has seen some 650,000 rohingya muslims flee from a fierce military crackdown on militants in the western state of rakhine .
they have not been seen for a week .
the gardener is one of a series published by the third story project , a venture co-founded by wa lone that produces books in burmese , other myanmar languages and english and distributes them free to children across the country .
on the project s website , wa lone says the aim was to promote tolerance and harmony in an increasingly multicultural and diverse world .
lack of understanding has led to conflicts between different communities and finally destroyed peace and stability , he wrote .
i love every third story book because they address important issues for future generations .
in wa lone s story , which also carries a message of the importance of protecting the environment , the teacher scatters seeds from his bicycle on the journey to school and years later they have grown into huge trees .
he also plants a garden with his students and , there , he tells them stories .
he leaves them one day to help another village , where all the trees had been cut down and there was no fruit , water or shelter for the people and animals .
the last page of the story shows a figure in the distance and the words : the teacher said goodbye to his students and rode his old bicycle down the road toward the other village .