singapore ( reuters ) - one of the contenders to be singapore s next leader , cabinet member chan chun sing , on monday said he and his colleagues had an obligation to be ready to take on the job .
in rare comments about succession by a public official , chan said whoever took over was unlikely to drastically change the government s policy direction .
all of us have to be prepared to do the job when called upon , chan , a former army chief , told journalists at a foreign correspondents association of singapore briefing , when asked if he would like the job of prime minister .
in singapore , leadership is a responsibility to be borne , not a position to be sought , he said , citing a comment previously made by transport minister khaw boon wan .
chan , 47 , who holds the title of minister in the prime minister s office , is one of a handful of men mentioned as potential successors to prime minister lee hsien loong , who has said he is ready to step down in a couple of years .
singapore news media have cited chan as one of a number of contenders to succeed lee .
lee , who is the eldest son of singapore s founding father lee kuan yew , has said the new leader is probably already in the cabinet , but a clear choice has yet to emerge .
deputy prime minister tharman shanmugaratnam , also mentioned as a potential successor , has repeatedly said he does not want the job .
the singapore media and political analysts say finance minister heng swee keat and education minister ong ye kung are also in contention .
questions about succession in the wealthy southeast asian city state - which has been governed by the people s action party since independence in 1965 - came into focus when lee , who has twice survived cancer , took ill during a televised speech last year and stumbled at a podium .
doctors subsequently said there were no serious concerns .
lee kuan yew s successor , goh chok tong , was identified at least five years in advance while the current leader , who first entered politics in 1984 , was also groomed for the position long before he took office in 2004 .
chan entered politics in 2011 after serving more than two decades in the singapore army , retiring as a major-general .
( this story has been corrected to make it clear that chan was talking about his colleagues as well as himself )