another situation like the bundy ranch land grab has arisen in texas the blm ( bureau of land management ) is claiming 600 acres of ken aderholt s land and is saying his deed to the land is no good .
mr. aderholt has been a rancher on this property since 1941 !
the best hope for mr. aderholt is if he puts up a big stink like mr. bundy did when people rallied for him .
ken aderholt was born in harrold , texas , and grew up on the state border.aderholt s family has been running cattle on land near the red river since 1941 .
it has been running through generations and handed on down to me , aderholt said.his hope was that his two boys would be able to carry on the family business and tradition .
they come down here a lot and play , aderholt explained .
they help with the cattle and help building fences .
they are very interested in hanging round here and helping me out .
but his land could soon be in the hands of the bureau of land management .
aderholt , like many other red river property owners , has been told that the land his family has owned for over 70 years is no longer his .
the blm is saying we should have never had a deed to it .
that texas should have never produced that deed , aderholt said.however , the second generation rancher isn t giving up his land without a fight .
kauz-tv : newschannel 6 now | wichita falls , txaderholt said the only land the blm does have a right to is along the gradient boundary .
it varies , the way the water washes and cuts into different properties , but it has always been just a little slither of property , aderholt said.according to the bureau of land management , the true boundary is about half a mile inland , or roughly 600 of aderholt s 1,250 acres.aderholt s house is located inside the 600 acres the blm wants to claim .
while he s been notified the land could be taken , he has not been told what the u.s. government plans to do with it .
it is a land grab , aderholt emphasized .
as far as i am concerned , this is private property , said aderholt.via : newschannel6now