beijing ( reuters ) - communist party members should study contemporary capitalism but must never deviate from marxism , chinese president xi jinping said , offering a clear signal there will be no weakening of party control weeks ahead of a key congress opening .
the party brooks no challenge to its rule , and xi has overseen a sweeping crackdown on civil society since assuming power almost five years ago , tightening the party s grip over the internet , media and security infrastructure , and locking up rights lawyers and dissidents .
speaking at a study session of the politburo , one of the party s elite ruling bodies , xi said that while times are changing and society is developing , the basic tenets of marxism remain true , state news agency xinhua said late friday .
if we deviate from or abandon marxism , our party would lose its soul and direction , xi said .
on the fundamental issue of upholding the guiding role of marxism , we must maintain unswerving resolve , never wavering at any time or under any circumstances .
xi said the party should better integrate the basic tenets of marxism with the reality of contemporary china and learn from the achievements of other civilizations to create and develop marxism , xinhua said .
xi also asked party members to study contemporary capitalism , its essence and patterns , the report added , without elaborating .
china has transformed its economy since it began landmark reforms in the late 1970s , and is now the world s second-largest economy .
private firms are now supported and encouraged , but the state-owned sector remains a major driver of growth and investment , though some industries like iron and steel are suffering from worryingly high levels of over-capacity .
xi said the party must continuously develop socialism with chinese characteristics , continuously enhance china s comprehensive national strength and fully demonstrate the advantages of china s socialist system .
next month s party congress , which opens on oct. 18 , will see xi further cement his grip on power and usher in a new generation of senior leaders .