buenos aires ( reuters ) - the bodies of five argentine men killed in a truck attack in new york city last week arrived at their hometown of rosario on monday .
a police escort accompanied the bodies of the men as they were transported from buenos aires ezeiza international airport in a motorcade to rosario , argentina s third-largest city .
other officers on horseback saluted as the cars carrying the victims passed through the streets of buenos aires early in the morning .
the motorcade reached a funeral home in rosario several hours later .
the victims are hern n ferruchi , diego enrique angelini , hern n diego mendoza and ariel erlij , all 48 , and alejandro dami n pagnucco , 49 .
the five , who were businessmen or architects , were among eight people killed on tuesday in the truck attack as they rode bicycles on a pedestrian path in lower manhattan along the hudson river .
the argentines were part of a group of 10 friends who had traveled to new york to celebrate the 30th anniversary of their high school graduation .
uzbek immigrant sayfullo saipov , 29 , was charged in a federal court on wednesday with driving the truck down the bike trail , crushing pedestrians and cyclists , in support of islamic state .
argentine president mauricio macri and first lady juliana awada joined new york city mayor bill de blasio at the site of the attack on monday , where they laid flowers and paid tribute to the victims .
terrorism does not distinguish or limit countries , nor nationalities , macri said .
argentines confirm that we want to be part of this battle , that we all have to give in this world to coexist in peace and with love .
macri is in new york for a previously planned trip to meet with investors and business executives .
de blasio said the five argentines visit to new york was an affirmation about all that is good about life .
we live 5,000 miles apart , but we feel a tremendous sense of unity and a deep connection right now , de blasio said .
rosario mourned for three days after the deadly attack .
the victims high school , where administrators said lifelong friendships are common among students , is counseling students and observing a weeklong mourning period .
friendship moves the world , said 65-year-old rosario resident adriana sorzoli , and i am very sad .