brussels ( reuters ) - european union nations , now unfettered by britain s decision to quit , achieved a 70-year-old ambition on thursday to integrate their defenses , launching a pact between 25 eu governments to fund , develop and deploy armed forces together .
european council president donald tusk deemed the move bad news for our enemies .
first blocked by the french parliament in the 1950s and later by britain , which feared creation of an eu army , the pact aims to end the squandering of billions of euros by splintered defense policies .
it is also aimed at lowering europe s heavy reliance on the united states .
more than half a century ago , an ambitious vision of the european defence community was created but what was missing was the unity and courage to put it into practice , tusk , who chairs eu summits , said of the failed 1950s attempt .
the dream was at odds with reality .
today this dream becomes reality , he said in a speech in front of eu leaders and military personnel from each of the 25 countries involved .
denmark , which has an opt out from eu defense matters , and malta , were the only eu countries not to sign up , along with brexiting britain .
french president emmanuel macron , whose election victory in may gave new impetus to efforts to revive defense cooperation after britons voted in 2016 to leave the bloc , hailed concrete progress .
dutch prime minister mark rutte said the pact would make the eu more agile abroad and would support nato .
the pact , called permanent structured cooperation , or pesco , is meant as a show of unity and a tangible step in eu integration , diplomats said , particularly after britain s decision to leave .
caught off guard by russia s crimea annexation in 2014 and facing threats ranging from state-sponsored computer hackers to militant attacks , eu governments say the pact is justified by eu surveys showing most citizens want the bloc to provide security .
eu governments proved unable to act as a group in the 1990s balkan wars and relied on u.s.-led nato to stop the bloodshed on their doorstep .
in libya in 2011 , a franco-british air campaign ran out of munitions and equipment and was again forced to turn to the united states , in what is considered an enduring embarrassment for the eu , a major economic power .
u.s. president donald trump s criticism of low european defense spending , a host of divisions on foreign policy , and trump s warnings to allies that they could no longer rely on the united states if they did not pay up , have also played a role .
it s sad that we needed donald trump to give us a boost , but whatever , it is the right outcome , said former german foreign minister joschka fischer , who as minister backed nato s intervention in kosovo in 1999 but opposed the 2003 iraq war .
unlike past attempts at european defense integration , nato backs the project , but nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg , who attended part of the summit , warned against duplication .
twenty-two eu countries are also members of nato .
there has to be coherence between the capability developments of nato and the european union .
we can not risk ending up with conflicting requirements from the eu and from nato to the same nations , he told reporters .
forces and capabilities developed under eu initiatives also have to be available for nato because we only have one set of forces , stoltenberg said .
issues remain about financing future eu missions .
an eu defense fund , with money from the european commission for the first time , still needs to be approved , although a pilot phase is already underway for defense research .
in one irony noted by eu diplomats , british prime minister theresa may , who attended the summit , was left seeking a way into the project now that it was an actuality .
a 1998 anglo-french eu defense accord is considered the genesis of thursday s agreement .
in a possible compromise on pesco , britain may be able to join in later on , but only on an exceptional basis if it provides funds and expertise .
britain and france , both nuclear-armed , are europe s two biggest military powers , and in 2010 set up a combined joint expeditionary force to cement long-standing ties in defense .
we do face a number of threats across europe , may said .
i m very clear that although the british people took a sovereign decision to leave the eu , that does not mean that we were going to be leaving our responsibilities in terms of european security , she told reporters .