johannesburg ( reuters ) - zimbabweans living in south africa hope the move by the military to seize power from president robert mugabe will end corruption , abuse of power and economic hardships , even though uncertainty remained as to who was in charge .
zimbabwe s military seized power early on wednesday saying it was targeting criminals around mugabe , 93 , who has ruled zimbabwe since independence in 1980 .
several million zimbabweans have fled the country , mostly to south africa , after the economy shrank by more than a third from 2000 to 2008 following the collapse of the agriculture sector .
unemployment rose to over 80 percent .
many in the diaspora said they were happy to see change back home at last .
i think it s a step in the right direction for a political situation which was now a joke , kevin mpofu , 28 , said .
the arrests that have happened so far are a celebration for many zimbabweans tired of the corruption and abuse of power .
a 30-year-old zimbabwean working as a marketing officer in south africa who gave his name as billy said it was about time but it might be 20 years too late .
he worried that one strongman might follow another : it may be hard in future to remove that person as well .
we might have another 37 years ahead of us of a single person .
the main goal of the generals appears to be preventing mugabe s wife grace , 52 , from succeeding him .
the military stepped in after mugabe sacked his presumed successor , vice president emerson mnangagwa , last week .
mnangagwa s unexpected downfall followed months of sometimes vitriolic attacks by grace mugabe , who used national rallies organized by zanu-pf youths to attack her party rivals .
we have suffered way too long under mugabe , and ironically to some point grace mugabe is our hero .
if it wasn t for her big mouth and her big ego this situation would not have happened , said 36 year-old mbangeni nyathi , johannesburg-based spokesman for tajamuka , a pressure group calling for change in zimbabwe .
we are not sure who is in charge but we are ready for any kind of change .
our hope is for the military to pave way for free and fair elections , he added .
zimbabwe s economy briefly stabilized from 2010-2014 when mugabe was forced to accept a power-sharing government with the opposition , but since then the recovery has unraveled .
a chronic shortage of dollars has led to long queues outside banks and imported goods are running out .
asked if he would return to zimbabwe if the economy was revived , billy said : definitely , there is no place like home .