beirut ( reuters ) - france said on wednesday that lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri , who lebanon s president says is being held hostage by saudi arabia , will visit france with his family in coming days .
hariri travelled to riyadh on nov. 3 before abruptly resigning in a televised statement a day later .
he has stayed in riyadh and top lebanese officials and senior politicians close to hariri have told reuters he was forced to quit .
hariri and saudi arabia have both denied he is being held in riyadh or was coerced to resign .
hariri has said he will return to lebanon in the next few days to formally submit his resignation .
the crisis has thrust lebanon onto the frontline of a middle east contest for power pitting a saudi-led bloc against iran and its allies , including the lebanese shi ite group hezbollah .
french president emmanuel macron said in a statement that he had invited hariri to france after speaking to him and saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman .
the invitation is to visit for a few days and is not an offer of political exile , macron said , speaking in germany .
we will not accept ( hariri ) remaining a hostage whose reason for detention we do not know , lebanese president michel aoun said in a statement .
foreign minister gebran bassil , the head of aoun s political party , said the situation was not normal but that beirut wanted good relations with riyadh .
aoun has said he will not accept hariri s resignation until he returns to lebanon to formally tender it and explain his reasons , which hariri has said he will do in the coming days .
saudi arabia has long been considered hariri s main external supporter .
aoun is a political ally of lebanon s hezbollah , a powerful shi ite muslim group with close ties to iran .
lebanon s coalition government was formed last year through a political deal that made aoun president , hariri prime minister , and included members of hezbollah in the cabinet .
saudi arabia last week accused lebanon of having declared war on it because of hezbollah s role in other arab countries .
it regards hezbollah as a terrorist organisation .
riyadh s main ally , the united states , has struck a different tone , continuing its support for lebanon including military aid .
the european union has also repeatedly stated its support for lebanon , which hosts 1.5 million syrian refugees .
in an interview on sunday night with a television station he owns , hariri warned of economic sanctions against lebanon and of a threat to the livelihoods of hundreds of thousands of lebanese workers living in saudi arabia and its gulf allies .
nothing justifies hariri s lack of return for 12 days .
we therefore consider him detained , aoun said .
he added that lebanon had confirmed that hariri s family were under detention in their house in saudi arabia and were searched whenever they entered or left it .
speaking in italy , foreign minister bassil said : we will continue all steps ... for this problem to be solved in a brotherly way through good relations that we want to have with the kingdom of saudi arabia .
he added , however : if saudi arabia has a problem with iran or with hezbollah , they have to solve it with iran , not with lebanon and not with all the lebanese .
hariri wrote on twitter that he was perfectly fine and would return , god willing , to dear lebanon as i promised .
on wednesday he said he would return in a couple of days but that his family was staying in saudi arabia , calling it their country .
hariri holds saudi nationality and his family fortune is based on the construction company - saudi oger - built by his father rafik al-hariri , who served twice as lebanese prime minister and was assassinated in 2005 .
okab sakr , a member of parliament for hariri s future movement , told reuters he had spoken on wednesday to hariri and that he told him neither he nor his family were being held .
on tuesday , european union foreign policy chief federica mogherini said after meeting bassil in paris that she expected hariri and his family to return to lebanon soon .
sources from across lebanon s political spectrum have said hariri struck a more compromising tone in his sunday interview than in his resignation statement , when he bitterly attacked iran and hezbollah .
the sources said this represented a retreat by riyadh attributable to western pressure .
on wednesday , aoun said riyadh had not responded to arab countries who tried to secure hariri s return so he had asked the international community to help .
french foreign minister jean-yves le drian arrives in riyadh late on wednesday and is due to discuss lebanon with saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman and meet hariri on thursday , a french diplomatic source said .
france has close relations with lebanon , which was under french control between the world wars , and with hariri , who has a home in france and spent several years in the country .