detroit ( reuters ) - former u.s. presidential candidate mitt romney attacked 2016 republican front-runner donald trump as “ a fraud ” on thursday and urged primary voters to keep the outspoken new york billionaire from getting the nomination , paving the way for possible horse trading at a party convention in july .
in an unusually harsh speech , party elder romney warned that former reality tv star trump would likely lose to possible democratic candidate hillary clinton in the nov. 8 election if he becomes the republican nominee .
trump ’ s rise has split the republican party between mainstream figures like romney , and trump supporters who complain the party does not reflect their concerns about illegal immigration , the slow economic recovery and what they see as america ’ s diminishing role in the world .
that split widened when romney , the party nominee in 2012 , urged republican primary voters to vote tactically in different states to back trump ’ s opponents and block his path to the nomination .
“ here ’ s what i know .
donald trump is a phony , a fraud , ” said romney , 68 , who did not endorse any candidate .
“ i would vote for marco rubio in florida , for john kasich in ohio , and for ted cruz or whichever one of the other two contenders has the best chance of beating mr. trump in a given state , ” he said .
rubio is a u.s. senator from florida and kasich is the ohio governor .
by calling for targeted voting , romney was setting up the possibility of a contested convention when republicans gather in cleveland in mid-july to select their nominee for the november election to succeed democratic president barack obama .
that could create a pathway to deny trump the 1,237 delegates needed for nomination .
the last republican convention to go beyond one ballot was in 1948 when thomas dewey was nominated .
“ i think the governor is just being realistic about where things stand and advocating a potential strategy that could stop the trump nomination , ” said former romney spokesman ryan williams .
republican strategist scott reed said he doubted the last-ditch tactical voting suggestion would work .
“ no one will be playing the targeted voting game .
there ’ s too much anger and distrust , ” reed said .
trump , 69 , has made his party ’ s establishment uneasy with his abrasive tone and policy positions , including plans to build a wall on the u.s.-mexican border , deport 11 million illegal immigrants and temporarily bar muslims from entering the country .
more than 90 republican national security leaders have signed a scathing open letter opposing trump and his stance on many foreign policy issues .
romney ’ s speech in utah was the spearhead of a mainstream republican attempt to rein in trump after he won most states in this week ’ s republican super tuesday nominating contests and took a step toward earning the nomination .
the address came hours before trump and his rivals shared a stage in detroit at 9 p.m. est for a debate hosted by fox news .
trump leads many polls for primaries in the remaining states , including in major ones like florida on march 15 , dampening prospects of derailing him .
the party establishment ’ s strategy risks backfiring by further energizing trump ’ s supporters , many of them white , blue-collar voters .
“ if only romney talked like this four years ago about obama ... or trump , ” conservative political commentator michelle malkin said on twitter .
“ too freaking late and too freaking lame. ” trump dismissed the former massachusetts governor who lost to obama four years ago .
“ mitt is a failed candidate .
he failed .
he failed horribly .
he failed badly , ” trump told a rally in maine .
romney decided on his own to give the speech , which he wrote himself .
romney said trump ’ s economic policy would sink america “ into prolonged recession , ” mocked trump ’ s ego , and called him a “ con man. ” “ a business genius he is not , ” romney said .
david axelrod , a former senior adviser to obama , called the romney speech a “ break glass ” moment he had not seen since 1964 , when republicans abandoned their candidate barry goldwater .
axelrod noted thousands of republicans had already voted for trump in primary elections .
“ i wonder about tactic of calling them fools , ” axelrod wrote on twitter .
( additional reporting by doina chiacu , eric beech , warren strobel , jonathan landay and matt spetalnick in washington ; writing by steve holland , roberta rampton ; editing by alistair bell and peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .