vienna ( reuters ) - austria s shift to the right in a parliamentary election has paved the way for young conservative star sebastian kurz to become the next leader and opened a path for the resurgent far right to return to power .
the people s party , which named 31-year-old foreign minister kurz its leader only in may , secured a clear victory on sunday with a hard line on immigration that left little space between it and the anti-islam freedom party ( fpo ) .
but kurz was still well short of a majority and only two other parties won enough seats to give him control of parliament in a coalition .
an alliance with the fpo is far from certain , but it is the most likely outcome .
that prospect prompted guarded expressions of concern from european leaders including germany s angela merkel , who said the fpo s strong showing was a big challenge for other parties in austria .
kurz has been careful to avoid saying which coalition partner he might favor .
he has said any partner must be pro-european , without saying whether that rules out the fpo , which is critical of the bloc but no longer argues against membership .
the ( election ) result is above all a clear victory for the european union , it is a clear victory for us as a pro-european force , kurz told reuters .
his party s manifesto calls for a smaller european commission and a streamlined eu that focuses on core competences such as internal trade and securing the bloc s external borders .
but he declined to be drawn on specific plans .
austria was a gateway into germany for more than a million people fleeing war and poverty in the middle east and elsewhere during europe s migration crisis which began in 2015 .
it also took in more than one percent of its population in asylum seekers that year .
many voters feel the country was overrun then .
austria s shift to the right came after german voters last month punished merkel s open-door policy for migrants , pushing her conservative bloc to its worst showing since 1949 and putting the far-right afd party in parliament .
the fpo was founded by former nazis in the 1950s and went from minnow to political heavyweight in the 1990s under the charismatic joerg haider , who praised hitler s employment policies .
it was one of the first far-right parties to enjoy mainstream success in europe since world war two .
when the fpo went into government in 2000 with the conservative party kurz now leads , the rest of the european union reacted with outrage and imposed sanctions on austria .
the fpo is now a sister to france s national front and the afd .
though on course to be one of the world s youngest leaders , kurz is a relative veteran in government .
he entered cabinet as a secretary of state for integration six years ago and has been foreign minister for the past three .
he made immigration his core issue , arguing against his own coalition government s decision to throw open austria s borders in lock step with merkel s germany during the migration crisis .
that helped cement his reputation as a polished straight talker and make him the country s most popular politician .
kurz called an end to a coalition with the social democrats , prompting sunday s election , and the two sides are at loggerheads , making a tie-up with the fpo more likely .
the race between the fpo and chancellor christian kern s social democrats was too close to call after sunday s count , leaving it to postal ballots roughly a sixth of all votes cast to tell them apart .
the bulk of those ballots were expected to be counted on monday .
the fpo was ahead on sunday but pollsters projections showed postal ballots swinging the vote against it , as they did in last year s close-fought presidential election .
with most postal votes counted , the social democrats had taken the lead and were ahead by 2,540 votes , with both parties on 26.6 percent , interior ministry data showed on monday night .
we are not yet in the phase of coalition talks , said kurz , adding that he would await thursday s final result .
if the fpo had came second , it would have improved its odds of going into government with kurz , since the social democrats would only consider a coalition of losers with the fpo if the far-right party were the junior partner .
in june the social democrats lifted a self-imposed ban on coalitions with the fpo that had been in place for 30 years , implicitly recognizing the difficulty of forming governments without a party on course to secure more than 26 percent of sunday s votes .
after decades in parliament , the freedom party has sought to become increasingly mainstream , purging its ranks of overt anti-semitism and even openly courting jewish voters , with limited success .
world jewish congress president ronald lauder , who was the u.s. ambassador to austria from 1986 to 1987 , called for the fpo to be kept out of government .
it is sad and distressing that such a platform should receive more than a quarter of the vote , lauder said in a statement .