sao paulo ( reuters ) - former brazilian president luiz inacio lula da silva should be cleared of any wrongdoing in one of several corruption cases pending against him in federal court due to a lack of evidence , prosecutors said on friday .
the federal prosecutors said in a statement that former senator delcidio amaral had lied about lula , as one of the country s most popular politicians is known , as part of a plea-bargain agreement .
his testimony was key to lula s legal entanglements , the statement added , saying amaral himself should be put on trial for perjury .
amaral has accused lula of working with billionaire financier andre esteves to buy the silence of a top executive at petroleo brasileiro , the state-controlled oil company , about alleged corrupt acts committed by lula .
the obstruction of justice case is one of five for which lula is still expected to go on trial in federal court .
the prosecutors also recommended that charges against esteves , the founder , former chief executive officer and largest shareholder in investment bank grupo btg pactual sa , be dropped .
lula s legal team , in a written statement , welcomed the prosecutors statement as just and said it proved he never acted to obstruct justice .
amaral s lawyer eduardo marzagao denied that his client had lied , however .
the former president was convicted in july in a separate case and sentenced to 9-1/2 years in prison for accepting 3.7 million reais ( $ 1.18 million ) worth of bribes from engineering firm oas sa [ oas.ul ] .
that ruling marked a stunning fall for lula , a founder of the workers party , and a serious blow to his chances of a political comeback .
the former union leader , who remains free pending an appeal , won global praise for policies to reduce inequality in brazil .
the verdict represented the highest-profile conviction yet in a sweeping corruption investigation that has rattled brazil for more than three years , revealing a sprawling system of graft at top levels of business and government .
more than 100 powerful business and political figures have been found guilty since the anti-graft push began in early 2014 .
brazil s lower house of congress voted last month to reject a corruption charge against current president michel temer for allegedly taking bribes , sparing him from facing a possible supreme court trial that could have ousted him from office .
more corruption charges are expected to filed in the coming weeks against temer , rodrigo janot , brazil s prosecutor general , has said .