seoul ( reuters ) - propaganda fliers presumed to be from north korea and calling u.s. president donald trump a mad dog have turned up across central seoul , including near the presidential blue house , according to posts on social media and people who found them .
death to old lunatic trump !
reads one poster , with a north korean soldier with rifle in hand , crushing what looks to be trump s head with his tongue dangling out of his mouth .
near the soldier s head is the line : complete obliteration .
another poster shows trump with the body of a dog being decapitated by an axe .
blood is shown splattered on the axe in the poster , which states : let s behead mad dog trump for the future of a peaceful and warless world and mankind !
both were in color .
it is not difficult to find north korean propaganda posters in south korea , usually flown by balloon over the highly fortified demilitarized zone .
military images and anti-u.s. threats are common in north korea propaganda as pyongyang demands the united states cease what it says is its preparations for invasion .
but the new series of fliers posted recently on twitter and other social media target trump specifically .
trump last month , in a speech to the united nations , threatened to totally destroy north korea if needed to defend itself and allies and called the north s leader kim jong un a rocket man on a suicide mission .
i am pretty sure it came from north korea by balloon , since the prevailing winds during october have been from north to south and we ve been getting reports of others finding them throughout seoul , said chad o carroll , managing director of nk news , a seoul-based news subscription service , who found the leaflets while jogging in central seoul .
in an apparent jab at trump s u.n. speech , one of the propaganda posters featured trump standing behind a podium with a rocket in his mouth painted with the words totally destroy north korea .
again , trump is depicted as a dog with a human face and labeled as mad dog trump .
men in suits with surprised looks on their faces are shown in the poster saying he s gone completely insane and if we let him be , there will be war .
reclusive north korea , which has carried out a series of nuclear and missile tests in defiance of u.n. sanctions , and the rich , democratic south are technically still at war because their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce , not a peace treaty .
the north regularly threatens to destroy the south and its main ally , the united states .