chicago ( reuters ) - chicago mayor rahm emanuel proposed a fiscal 2018 budget on wednesday that he said eschews “ fiscal smoke and mirrors , ” but critics said vestiges of those practices remain .
in his annual budget speech to the city council , emanuel said the spending plan is free of what he called any “ budget gimmick ” like so-called scoop and toss , which extends maturities on existing bonds to provide budget relief , for the first time since he took office .
“ every single bad financial practice we inherited in 2011 has now been eliminated from the budget , ” he said .
the $ 10 billion budget , which includes $ 3.77 billion for operations , relies on $ 94 million in savings from a future bond refinancing under a new debt structure .
a chronic structural budget deficit and an unfunded pension liability that totaled $ 35.76 billion at the end of 2016 have led to low credit ratings and increased borrowing costs for the nation ’ s third-largest city .
the mayor ’ s budget accelerates savings from a plan approved by the city council this month to refinance up to $ 3 billion of sales tax revenue and general obligation bonds through a new entity at lower interest rates .
the new sales tax securitization corp will be assigned chicago ’ s state-collected sales tax revenue and will pledge that money to pay off the refinanced bonds .
bond investors will have a statutory lien shielding the debt from municipal bankruptcy , which is not allowed under illinois law .
carole brown , chicago ’ s chief financial officer , said the city will realize more savings from the debt refinancing in fiscal 2018 , which begins on jan. 1 , than in 2019 .
“ but we ’ ll expect to show savings annually until we ’ ve amortized all the debt , ” she added .
one critic , alderman john arena , said the new debt structure - which he opposed - could end up extending the life of some bonds by as much as 40 years .
“ our fear is that ( emanuel is ) making the claim of moving scoop and toss out of the way we do business but really moving it over to that special entity , ” he said .
brown acknowledged that to achieve level debt service on the corporation ’ s bonds , maturities on existing bonds may change .
“ it is possible we won ’ t 100 percent match maturity for maturity , ” she said .
the budget counts on $ 50.3 million in revenue growth , $ 19.35 million in spending cuts , as well as other measures to address a $ 114.2 million structural gap and more than $ 87 million in new spending for additional police hires and reforms .