berlin ( reuters ) - half a year ago , the political stars seemed perfectly aligned for a deep reform of the european union and its euro currency .
emmanuel macron had won the french presidency on a promise to relaunch europe .
and angela merkel , on track to win a fourth term as german chancellor , looked ready to embrace his bold vision , telling an audience in bavaria that it was time for europe to take its fate into its own hands .
following the collapse of german coalition talks , however , the prospects for a meaningful leap forward in european cooperation , driven by newly minted governments in berlin and paris , look dimmer than ever .
political uncertainty has crossed the rhine , said jean pisani-ferry , an economist and academic who helped write macron s election program .
europe has gotten used to having a strong german government with clear positions .
that is something we may not have for some time .
germany now faces months of political limbo which will narrow an already tight window for agreeing reforms of euro zone governance and eu defense and asylum policies .
should germany be forced to hold new elections , its partners may have to wait until next summer for a government to take form .
by then , europe will be entering crunch time in its brexit negotiations with britain , preparing for sensitive discussions on a long-term eu budget and gearing up for the election of a new european parliament .
euro zone leaders were due to begin a six-month discussion on closer integration of their 19-nation currency bloc next month at a special summit in brussels .
now that debate seems likely to be delayed and officials say the chances of reaching any conclusions by june 2018 , as proposed by european council president donald tusk , are slim .
things will go on hold until there is a formal acting german government , one euro zone official said .
at this stage i don t see what steps the leaders could take in december or june for deepening euro zone integration when there is a german government without a mandate .
another casualty could be the completion of an eu pact on closer defense cooperation , known as pesco .
berlin and paris had hoped to sign it into law at a regular eu summit next month .
now diplomats involved in eu foreign policy say that may be overly ambitious .
germany has also been a driving force behind eu efforts to reform its asylum policies in the wake of the 2015 refugee crisis .
those discussions , pitting countries like italy and greece against poland and hungary , were already bogged down .
without a new government in berlin , there is next to no hope of a breakthrough .
we have so many things we need to do urgently that slowing us down is not good for europe as a whole , frans timmermans , a former dutch foreign minister who is deputy head of the european commission , told cnn .
he played down the risks , however , saying : it might slow us down a little bit but i don t think it would take europe off course , whatever happens .
perhaps the only pressing issue which will not be significantly affected by the political uncertainty in germany is brexit , where there is a broad political consensus among german parties .
that means that merkel , who will remain in place in a caretaker capacity until a new coalition is formed , should have sufficient room to maneuver in talks that , in any case , are being led by the european commission and its chief negotiator michel barnier .
still , hopes that the two political earthquakes of 2016 britain s decision to leave the eu and the election of u.s. president donald trump might shock european capitals into bold reforms , once elections in the netherlands , france , germany and austria were out of the way , are fading .
even before the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) walked out of coalition negotiations with merkel s conservatives and the greens in the early hours of monday , doubts were rising about whether she would have the flexibility to meet macron halfway as head of an awkward three-way jamaica alliance .
now that those talks have collapsed , she would appear to have three options : convince the social democrats ( spd ) to enter another right-left grand coalition ; form a minority government with the greens or the fdp ; or take the risk of new elections .
so far the spd leadership has shown no signs that it will go back on its pledge to go into opposition .
on monday , merkel appeared to rule out a minority government .
so unless something changes , a new election could be the only way forward .
that would probably not take place before march or april , around the same time that italy is due to hold elections which could also result in a hung parliament .
crucially , polls suggest that a new german election would not give merkel more coalition options than she had coming out of the sept. 24 vote .
indeed , if voters blamed her conservatives for failing to form a government the first time around , she could emerge even weaker than she is now .
that would be a further blow to german political stability and to macron s european ambitions .