bratislava ( reuters ) - slovakia s prime minister , president and parliament speaker pledged on monday to keep to a pro-european path , a day after its czech neighbors became the latest central european ex-communists to elect a populist taking a hard line on the eu .
czech billionaire andrej babis s ano party won the vote that punished traditional parties .
babis said on saturday his party was pro-european but he is cool to adopting the euro single currency and resists deeper integration in the eu .
with the election of babis , the czechs join the poles and hungarians in electing leaders who emphasize national interest and say they are skeptical of greater integration with europe .
far right parties critical of brussels have also scored successes in recent weeks in austria and germany , notably in germany s former communist east .
i never dared to comment on the domestic political situations in other countries , but i am glad that slovakia has become a pro-european island in this region , slovakia s prime minister robert fico said on monday .
he said it was unintentional but apt timing that the pro-eu foreign policy declaration , which he backed along with president andrej kiska and parliament s speaker andrej danko , appeared on the morning after the czech vote .
in power for nine of the past 11 years , fico has clashed with brussels himself on many occasions .
but he also likes to boast that he increased slovakia s clout by bringing it into the euro zone in 2009 when its richer czech neighbors kept their own currency .
in recent months , since the election of emmanuel macron in france gave a boost to pro-europeans across the bloc , he has embraced the eu more ardently , saying he aims to steer into a core europe , even if neighbors want to stay on the fringes .
fico , too , is battling a rise in anti-eu sentiment in his country of 5.4 million .
but slovakia , with a small economy driven by exports of cars and electronics to other eu states , has more to lose from alienating brussels than its bigger and more self-sufficient neighbors .