dubai/paris ( reuters ) - saudi arabia s decision to lift its ban on women driving cars may help to restore autos sales growth in a market dented by the economic fallout from weak oil prices , handing an opportunity to importers of luxury cars and sport utility vehicles .
carmakers joined governments in welcoming the order by saudi arabia s king salman that new rules allowing women to drive be drawn up within 30 days and implemented by june 2018 , removing a stain on the country s international image .
congratulations to all saudi women who will now be able to drive , nissan said in a twitter post depicting a license plate bearing the registration 2018 grl .
bmw , whose x5 suv is the group s middle east top-seller , also saluted the move .
mid-range brands currently dominate the saudi market , with toyota , hyundai-kia and nissan together commanding a 71 percent share of sales .
that market has shrunk by about a quarter from a peak of 858,000 light vehicles in 2015 to an expected 644,000 this year , reflecting the broader economic slowdown .
but the rule change adds almost 9 million potential drivers , including 2.7 million resident non-saudi women , merrill lynch has calculated .
we expect demand to rise again on news that women will be allowed to drive , said a senior executive at jeddah-based auto distributor naghi motors - whose brand portfolio includes bmw , mini , hyundai , rolls royce and jaguar land rover models .
the arrival of women drivers could lift saudi car sales by 15-20 percent annually , leading forecaster lmc automotive predicts , as the kingdom s car density of 220 vehicles per 1,000 adults rises to about 300 in 2025 , closing the gap with the neighboring united arab emirates .
a middle- to upper-class saudi family typically has two vehicles , one driven by the man of the house and a second car in which a full-time chauffeur transports his wife and children .
the rule change could spell bad news for some of the 1.3 million men employed as chauffeurs in the kingdom , including a large share of its migrant workforce , while boosting upscale car sales as households upgrade for their new drivers .
the move to allow women to drive is set to benefit the entire market , lmc analyst david oakley said .
but we might expect to see a disproportionately positive impact on super-premium brands .
luxury brands including lamborghini ( vowg_p.de ) and bentley are about to launch suvs - a vehicle category that has proved popular among women and already accounts for more than one in five cars sold in saudi arabia .
welcoming the announcement , british-based aston martin said it was well timed for the arrival of the james bond-associated sports car maker s dbx model , due in 2019 .
the suv crossover boom across all segments has been powered by women , spokesman simon sproule said .