washington ( reuters ) - white house advisers and trump administration officials will meet on thursday to discuss whether the united states should remain in the paris climate agreement , a white house official said on wednesday .
the meeting , which will include member of the national economic council and cabinet officials such as environmental protection agency administrator scott pruitt and energy secretary rick perry , was scheduled for 1:30 p.m. edt ( 1730 gmt ) after being postponed earlier this month .
the administration is expected to make a decision on whether to remain a party to the deal by the time leaders of the group of seven wealthy nations meet in late may , but members of president donald trump ’ s inner circle are divided on whether to stay or go .
the accord , agreed by nearly 200 countries in paris in 2015 , would limit planetary warming in part by slashing carbon dioxide and other emissions from the burning of fossil fuels .
as part of the deal , the united states under trump ’ s predecessor president barack obama committed to reducing its emissions by between 26 and 28 percent below 2005 levels by 2025 .
during the 2016 presidential election campaign trump described climate change as a hoax that was stifling policies to improve economic growth and said he would consider “ cancelling ” the paris agreement .
he later said he was open to staying if the u.s. got better terms .
trump ’ s advisers have taken different positions on the decision .
pruitt joins trump adviser steve bannon in opposing the paris agreement .
trump ’ s other close advisers , daughter ivanka trump and husband jared kushner have sided with secretary of state rex tillerson , who said the u.s. should remain part of the agreement .
perry has said it would be best to remain but renegotiate the terms .
george david banks , in charge of international energy issues at the white house national economic council , has been receiving feedback from publicly traded coal and oil companies on the paris decision .
some major coal companies , including cloud peak energy , have said it would be in their company ’ s global interest for the u.s. to stay in the pact .
[ l5n1hc5nc ] meanwhile , other global companies , ranging from bp to microsoft to general mills to walmart sent a letter to trump on wednesday urging the president to keep the u.s. in the agreement to protect their competitiveness .