ankara ( reuters ) - a sacked turkish professor who has been on hunger strike for almost nine months and is barely half her original weight said on wednesday she had appealed a court ruling that linked her to a banned far-left group and handed her a six-year jail sentence .
nuriye gulmen , 35 , lost her job as a literature professor during large-scale purges of universities , the civil service , judiciary and military following last year s failed coup against president tayyip erdogan .
after going on hunger strike and staging protests against the purges , gulmen was arrested in may and last week a court convicted her of being a member of the outlawed militant leftist dhkp-c group , a charge she denies .
however , the court also ordered her release pending an appeal and she has vowed to continue her hunger strike until she gets her job back .
we will take ( the appeal ) all the way up , and then to the european court of human rights .
there is no evidence linking me to the dhkp-c , apart from some secret witnesses testimony , gulmen told reuters in her apartment in the capital ankara .
on the 273rd day of a diet of sugar and salt solutions , water and herbal tea , gulmen weighs only 34 kilograms , barely half her weight when she started the hunger strike , but she said she remained optimistic .
i am not sick , i don t need to be hospitalized .
i am carrying out a hunger strike of my own will .
i was completely isolated at the intensive care unit , although i rejected any treatment , said an emaciated-looking gulmen .
surrounded on her patient bed by hand sanitizers and surgical masks to avoid contracting an infection , gulmen said the turkish state feared those ready to protest against its post-coup purges , in which more than 150,000 people have lost their jobs and some 50,000 jailed .
our sit-in protest was creating waves and i was detained because the government was having nightmares that it would widen into a gezi-scale protest , gulmen said , referring to an earlier wave of anti-government protests in turkey in 2013 .
the government wants absolute surrender .
you can commit suicide for all they care , but they don t want you to raise your voice , added gulmen , who describes herself as a leftist .
the ankara court said gulmen was staging her hunger strike on the orders of the militant dhkp-c group , which is classed as a terrorist organization in turkey .
she denies any link .
no one can stay hungry on the orders of others .
it s impossible to carry on unless it s coming from inside you .
no one melts their bodies on ( somebody else s ) orders , she said .
gulmen said she found strength and courage on bad days from a book about bobby sands , an irish republican army ( ira ) member , who died in 1981 on the 66th day of his hunger strike against prison conditions in northern ireland .
turkish authorities accuse u.s.-based muslim cleric fethullah gulen and his supporters of organizing the july 2016 coup attempt .
gulen condemned the coup and denies involvement .
human rights groups and the european union have said erdogan is using the crackdown on suspected gulen supporters to stifle dissent in turkey .
many leftists and others have also been caught up in the purges .
erdogan and his government deny they are trying to muzzle opponents and say the clampdown is necessary in view of the security challenges turkey faces .