harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwean president robert mugabe s wife grace has sued a belgium-based businessman for failing to deliver a $ 1.35 million ring she ordered for a wedding anniversary , state media reported on wednesday .
grace , 52 , an influential figure in mugabe s ruling zanu-pf party and seen as a potential successor to her husband , is nicknamed gucci grace for her reputed dedication to shopping .
but she and her 93-year-old husband have kept their assets under wraps despite frequent local private media reports on grace buying properties in zimbabwe and south africa .
the herald , a government-controlled newspaper , reported that grace was suing businessman jamal hamed after a deal to have hamed supply the first lady with a diamond ring turned sour .
grace s spokeswoman olga bungu could not be reached for comment on wednesday while her lawyer wilson manase , who filed the papers at the high court , was said to be attending court .
in court papers seen by the herald , grace said she had in 2015 ordered the ring for her 20-year wedding anniversary last year but hamed failed to deliver and refunded her only $ 120,000 .
the first lady asked the high court to attach properties and three companies owned by hamed in harare , the herald said .
hamed told reuters from belgium that he had not been served with the court papers .
his harare-based lawyer , beatrice mtetwa , said she had not seen the papers .
we have not received anything at all and i am not in harare to be served any claim or false allegations , hamed said .
in zimbabwe , at least 8 out of 10 potential workers are unemployed .
the average national monthly income is $ 200 and news of the million-dollar ring was immediately greeted with scorn on social media .
mugabe , who says he leads a frugal life , and grace own a dairy company and several farms near harare .
the two have never responded to media reports that they own several properties .
last year , hamed accused grace of seizing his harare properties following the dispute and asked the high court to intervene .
he then said grace had threatened her if he ever returned to zimbabwe .
grace , through her lawyer manase , denied all the accusations .