manila ( reuters ) - mutual praise , warm handshakes and even an impromptu love song at a lavish dinner suggest u.s. president donald trump and philippine leader rodrigo duterte want a fresh start after the biggest breakdown in u.s.-philippine ties in years .
their meeting on monday during a summit of asian leaders in manila was arguably the most anticipated of the three-day event and went off well , with duterte s aides talking up the rapport the two had , and trump boasting of his great relationship with the similarly mercurial philippines leader .
it came a little over a year after duterte announced his separation from the united states and sought new alliances with china and russia .
angered by barack obama s criticism of his war on drugs , he told the then-u.s. president to go to hell , shocking american businesses and a philippine military heavily reliant on the help of the pentagon .
central to the rapprochement this week was duterte holding his tongue , and trump not expressing concern about duterte s centerpiece policy - the crackdown on drugs that has killed thousands of filipinos .
tensions and damage inflicted during the obama administration has somehow been repaired , looking at the executive relationship , it has essentially been normalized , said richard javad heydarian , an author and a political science professor at manila s de la salle university .
the modus operandi is , trump doesn t openly criticize duterte s war on drugs and duterte tones down his direct attacks on the u.s .
even with trump in the white house , duterte had repeatedly railed at the hypocrisy of his country s former colonial ruler .
he has accused washington of treating the philippines like a dog and said he would not visit the united states , because it was lousy .
but there was none of duterte s trademark hostility this week and some indications that both countries had taken a calibrated approach to ensure the two leaders hit it off .
contrary to traditional seating protocol for a summit of the association of south east asian nations ( asean ) , the two were seated next to each other at sunday s gala dinner .
duterte sang a hit filipino love song at that event , and joked it was on the orders of the u.s. commander-in-chief .
although duterte s fallout with obama was acrimonious , the fissures between the two long-term allies did not run deep , with joint programs across various sectors largely intact .
that included dozens of annual joint military exercises over the past year .
this year , the philippines military relied on u.s. technical support in its biggest-ever urban battle , ending a five-month occupation of a southern city by rebels loyal to islamic state .
there were no signs of an exodus of american business under duterte either , with $ 353 million of investments from the united states recorded in the first eight months of this year , compared to $ 90 million in the same period in 2016 , according to the philippines central bank .
there were conflicting accounts of what was discussed between trump and duterte on monday , however .
a white house spokeswoman said human rights was talked about , in the context of the drugs war .
duterte s spokesman , harry roque , said that was not the case , although duterte had explained his anti-drugs campaign to trump , who nodded and seemed to be in agreement .
the relationship appears to be very warm and very friendly , getting very candid , roque said .
they have similar feelings toward former u.s. president barack obama .
duterte had said last week he would tell trump to lay off if he talked about human rights .
but according to a senior white house official , duterte raised the issue himself .
he had an explanation and he pre-emptively brought it up , the official said , estimating duterte did 90 percent of the talking .
the two leaders agreed to further strengthen the decades-old defense alliance between them , one that duterte had previously threatened to abort .
heydarian , the professor , however said that even with improved ties , trump would be powerless to stop moves by duterte to diversify foreign relations beyond the united states to include china and russia , and tap them for anything from loans and infrastructure to rifles and jeeps .
i don t think that the trump-duterte convivial hobnob will ever be enough to change duterte s strategic orientation , he said .
we have stopped the hemorrhaging of the alliance , but it will never go back to being special and sacred as it was before duterte came to power .