wake up world !
there is a movement by the left to remove god from our lives .
when one of the most popular and beloved stars in the world start referring to beyonce as jesus christ maybe it s time to start paying attention to the celebrities your kids are listening to or paying to see in concert .
some might call the suggestion that beyonce and her racist husband jay z have ties to the illuminati and satan worship movement over-the-top , while many may see some cause for concern over allowing their children to support these trashy celebrities .
and we haven t even touched upon her most recent super bowl appearance where beyonce , dressed in black panther militant attire debuted the racist , cop-bashing song from her new album.pop singer adele made some amazing and blasphemous comments while performing at the forum in copenhagen , denmark on tuesday as she stopped mid-show to give a shout-out to beyonce .
beyonc is the most inspiring person i ve ever had the pleasure of worshipping , she wrote .
her talent , beauty , grace and work ethic are all in a league of their own .
i appreciate you so much !
thank god for beyonc x. ye shall make you no idols nor graven image , neither rear you up a standing image , neither shall ye set up any image of stone in your land , to bow down unto it : for i am the lord your god .
leviticus 26:1 ( kjv ) adele went on to refer to beyonce as jesus christ , but only after inserting one of the foulest expletives deleted you could possibly imagine in the middle of the lord s name .
nice to know what adele thinks of the same jesus that lets her breathe his air , and allows her to wake up every day.before her concert , adele posted a photo to instagram showing her hugging a poster of beyonc , and wrote that she was speechless , presumably over the singer s latest album.beyonce freely admits being possessed by a spirit she calls sasha fierce , and has mentioned her time and again in interviews over the span of multiple years .
watch the video below for a graphic look at the demonic spirits that guide beyonce and her golden career.you be the judge : this is the type of godless trash that your kids are exposed to each and every day of their lives .
you can t stop them from listening to it when they are outside your home , but you can use it as an opportunity to teach your kids what blasphemy is , and why they should never do it.adele got it right , though , when she said thank god for beyonce referring to the little g god of this world , otherwise known as satan .
it is he that brings you the adoring crowds , the cheering fans , the drugs , booze , sex and the incredible riches you now enjoy so much.via : nowtheendbeginsbesides being a racist , her godless side and her attraction to our godless president all makes sense :