pope francis has joined democrat legislators , along with a handful of rino s and local mayors to work hand-in-hand with obama to push immigration from mexico and south america to the us .
every player in this scheme has their own agenda .
of course , obama has only one desire , and that is to fundamentally transform america .
democrat legislators are working to secure a dependent voting base .
the rino s ( republicans in name only ) are beholden to large corporations , whose only goal is to secure cheap labor .
finally , local mayors want the federal funding that comes with placement of each immigrant in their communities .
besides the obvious charitable aspect , what s in it for pope francis ?
what s in it for the catholic church ?
many catholics ( myself included ) are wondering why we pass the collection basket more than once several times throughout the year to help subsidize churches , schools and orphanages in mexico and south america if the ultimate goal is to bring them here ?
make no mistake , pope francis is interjecting himself into the 2016 presidential election by walking with illegal aliens on the mexican side of the border who want to get into the us.this is a direct assault by the catholic church on donald trump and any other republicans ( including the governor of texas ) who say they want to close the us border with mexico.yesterday , in ciudad juarez , one of the most violent cities in the western hemisphere thanks to the drug cartels , the pope walked up a ramp covered in flowers toward a cross erected in memory of migrants who have perished trying to reach the united states just a stone s throw away , according to reuters.the pope then blessed three more small crosses , at which shoes of migrants who died were laid .
we can not deny the humanitarian crisis , pope francis intoned .
each step , a journey laden with grave injustices : the enslaved , the imprisoned and extorted ; so many of these brothers and sisters of ours are the consequence of trafficking in human beings injustice is radicalized in the young ; they are cannon fodder , persecuted and threatened when they try to flee the spiral of violence and the hell of drugs .
then there are the many women unjustly robbed of their lives .
he concluded , let us together ask our god for the gift of conversion , the gift of tears , let us ask him to give us open hearts like the ninevites , open to his call heard in the suffering faces of countless men and women .
no more death !
no more exploitation !
they are not refugees !
people escaping poverty or crime are not legally refugees , but the pope and the no borders left are purposefully confusing the terminology .
they want all migrants-on-the-move to be called refugees who are then entitled to protection and welfare .
why stop at the mexican border ?
what about the iraqi christian population that s been almost completely wiped out ?
why is the pope standing on the mexican border demanding we open the flood gates in the name of charity , while tens of thousands of christians are being slaughtered in the middle east ? where is the outcry from the pope as the catholic charities/u.s .
conference of catholic bishops ( cc/usccb ) are being paid billions to bring mostly muslim immigrants , who are being vetted by the corrupt un to the us from the middle east , and strategically seeding them across the united states ?
the following map provided by the office of refugee resettlement identifies where the primary nine volags operate within america and where their affiliate sites are located : here is the list of charities who work with the us department s refugee resettlement program : cws church world service ecdc ethiopian community development council hias hebrew immigrant aid society irc international rescue committee lirs lutheran immigration and refugee services cc/usccb catholic charities/u.s .
conference of catholic bishops uscri u.s. committee for refugees and immigrants emm episcopal migration ministries wri world relief inc.additionally , there are 350 subcontractors in 190 cities affiliated with the nine main refugee volags and the chart below lists the amount of money awarded by the federal government to these contractors since 2008.as you can see the amount of money that has been awarded to these non-governmental organizations is enormous with the total since 2008 amounting to over $ 4 billion.simpson notes that because they are non-governmental organizations ( ngos ) , they can and do lobby for advantageous changes to law and build allies in congress and the bureaucracy , all fertilized by an open spigot of taxpayer dollars .
from this point , as an american , you should be absolutely stunned at what is going on behind the scenes without your knowledge nor your input in regards to the fact that your taxpayer money along with your elected officials are undermining your security by allowing these organizations operate without any oversight .
the push by fourteen senate democrats for 65,000 refugees along with the eighty-four mayors is only the beginning though , as seventy-two house democrats have also joined this coalition.in letter on september 11 , 2015 , initiated by rep. david cicilline ( d-ri . )
and signed by seventy-one democrats , they urge obama to resettle over three times the 65,000 refugees initially pushed for by the senate democrats back in may .
the house democrats cite refugee council usa , just as the fourteen senators did , and recommend that the united states resettle a minimum of 200,000 refugees by the end of 2016 , including 100,000 syrian refugees .
neglecting the fact that the fbi has stated that they have no way of properly vetting the 2,500 syrian refugees that we ve already accepted , it further goes to show how little these senators , representatives , mayors , and volags care about the repercussions of admitting 100,000 into our country.in her book , refugee resettlement and the hijra to america , ann corcoran explains that refugee resettlement has become a major money-maker for what can only be described as the religious left , whose goal is to change the demographic make-up of the 180-plus cities and towns in which they presently work .
corcorans statement perfectly describes exactly what is happening as push for more and more refugees comes solely from the left .
whether it be mayors , senators , or representatives in the house , they re all seeking to change the demographic make-up of the united states by forcing the taxpayers to subsidize their own destruction.watch ann corcoran s powerful video explaining how the faith-based charities are working with the us state department to flood our nation with mulsim refugees here : there is plenty of blame to go around when it comes to the willful destruction of the greatest and most generous nation on earth .
ann corcoran of the refugee resettlement watch has generously provided us with the list of democratic senators , mayors and representatives who make up the coalition which has urged for the destruction of our country via the acceptance of hundreds of thousands of refugees .
if your elected official is on this list , ann highly suggests you contact them and moreover do what you can to make sure they are never elected into office again.link to the senate letter signed by 14 democrats on may 21 , 2015 can be found here.link to the house letter signed by 72 democrats on september 11 , 2015 can be found here.link to the list of 84 mayors who are members of the cities united for immigration action can be found here .