ankara ( reuters ) - ankara s relations with nato ally germany , hit by a deepening row , are expected to improve alongside a general upturn in ties with the eu early next year , boosting turkish export and tourism prospects , an adviser to president tayyip erdogan told reuters .
i expect more calm with germany after the sept. 24 ( german ) election .
i expect tensions to ease , cemil ertem , erdogan s chief economic adviser , said in an interview on tuesday .
turkish-german ties have come under pressure since erdogan launched a crackdown after a failed coup last year .
germany has criticized mass arrests , refused to extradite people turkey says were involved in the putsch and demanded the release of around a dozen german citizens arrested in recent months .
turkey s relations with the european union will be rapidly repaired from the first quarter of 2018 .
i think turkey s exports to the eu will increase further , ertem said .
the improvement in eu relations would also lead to a very good year for tourism in 2018 , he said .
the number of european tourists visiting turkey has declined due to security concerns over the last couple of years .
the economy would grow around 5.5-6 percent this year and around 5-7 percent next year , he said .
ertem dismissed concern about the level of the lira currency after another presidential adviser , bulent gedikli , said a stronger lira put exports at risk and called for the central bank to take action .
given that we implement a floating rate regime , it is wrong to say that the exchange rate is low or dangerous .
the market can make a very rapid correction , he said , adding he was fine with the lira level set by the market .
ertem said the central bank was maintaining tight monetary policy and its use of an interest rate corridor enabled it to rapidly adjust the average cost of funding , rather than just depend on changes to the policy rate .
in this sense we should leave behind debate about whether the central bank will cut rates or not , he said .
everyone wants low interest rates , the real sector , banks , the tcmb and the political side , he said , but added it was a matter for the central bank to deal with the market reality .
he said turkey would continue to make use of its credit guarantee fund and may seek to focus its allocation on high-tech and intermediate goods producers .
in march the government raised the size of the fund , which guarantees loans to small and medium-sized enterprises , more than tenfold to 250 billion lira ( $ 70 billion ) .
the government will also take measures to ease inflationist pressures caused by the immediate goods imports and may provide serious support to turkish producers of such goods , he said .