london ( reuters ) - a man accused of being part of a plot to kidnap a british model in milan should be extradited from britain to italy , a london judge ruled on friday .
model chloe ayling , 20 , has told italian police she was lured to a photo shoot in milan in july , abducted and held captive for six days .
her lawyer said the plot was to sell the model for sex in an online auction unless a ransom was paid .
in a ruling at london s westminster magistrates court , judge paul goldspring said polish-born michal herba , 36 , the brother of the model s alleged kidnapper , should be extradited to face charges in italy .
i find that the request is both proportionate and in compliance with your convention rights and is not an abuse of process .
i therefore order your surrender , goldspring said .
herba s lawyer george hepburne scott said there was no evidence against his client , who denied any involvement and would appeal against the ruling .
the main suspect in the case , herba s brother lukasz , 30 , was arrested by italian police in august .
british police arrested michal in central england shortly afterwards .
florence iveson , the prosecutor acting on behalf of the italian authorities , said the two brothers were accused of abducting , kidnapping and detaining ayling between july 11 and 17 and demanding a ransom of 300,000 euros ( $ 352,000 ) .
since returning to britain , ayling has given a number of media interviews in which she said she was drugged , gagged , bound , stuffed into a bag , put into the boot of a car and driven to a village near turin in northwest italy .
she also denied suggestions the kidnapping was a hoax after it was reported she had gone on a shopping trip with her alleged captor .
herba s lawyer had told the extradition hearing on monday that there was reason to suspect the case was a publicity stunt .
there were a unique set of anomalies in the case which may lead to the conclusion that the italian authorities have been duped and that their process had been abused , he said .
after the verdict on friday , the lawyer said herba had offered to give evidence to italian investigators via videolink but this had been rejected .
this case has attracted unprecedented media attention is being played out in the media across the globe , hepburne scott said .
the world has become fascinated with the riddle and mystery of this case .
to many it is an enigma ; to michael herba it is simply a nightmare .
herba has seven days to launch an appeal to london s high court .