melbourne ( reuters ) - australia s embattled conservative prime minister malcolm turnbull has shaken off speculation about the security of his leadership , declaring on sunday he will lead his coalition government into the next election in 2019 .
turnbull , who has faced a horror run in recent weeks , losing his one-seat majority and being called to stepdown before christmas , said that he runs the government and that his party s policies would soon be converted into public support .
i have every confidence that i will lead the coalition to the next election in 2019 and we will win it , turnbull told sky news television .
i am very confident we will be able to see a disciplined approach to teamwork within the coalition .
three australian prime ministers have been ousted by their own parties since 2010 .
turnbull s confidence has been bolstered by the stunning by-election victory of his former deputy prime minister , barnaby joyce , who easily cruised to victory on saturday night with a huge 65 percent primary vote .
barnaby was kicked out of parliament just over one month ago because he held dual citizenship with new zealand , a status he has since rescinded .
under australia s constitution dual citizens are banned from the national parliament .
barnaby s win restores turnbull s slim one-seat majority in parliament and turnbull , who is struggling with record low opinion polls , has claimed the victory as a vote of confidence in his performance .
turnbull has been under sustained attack for much of the year over issues including same sex marriage and the scandal-plagued banking sector , and has failed to end widespread disquiet within his coalition about his future as leader .
on friday , the conservative deputy premier of new south wales state john barilaro called for turnbull to step down as a christmas gift to the nation .
the comment came just days after turnbull was forced into an embarrassing policy reversal and called a royal commission into the country s banking and financial sector amid mounting political pressure .
turnbull has failed to stem a flow of disgruntled voters away from his conservative coalition to far-right parties and the fragility of his government has been exacerbated by a dual citizenship crisis which is forcing a number of lawmakers , like barnaby , to recontest seats .
one of those by-elections for the blue-ribbon conservative electorate of bennelong in sydney on dec. 16 could see turnbull again lose his majority in parliament if the opposition labor achieves a surprise win .