ankara ( reuters ) - turkey s president said on wednesday it was time for the eu to make up its mind whether it wants his country to join the bloc , a day after germany s angela merkel vowed to push her eu partners to consider suspending or ending its accession talks .
merkel had sharpened her rhetoric in the build-up to this month s german national vote and said on sunday turkey should not become a member .
ankara has accused her of indulging in populism .
the eu needs to take a step now .
either they will keep their promises and open the road for full membership ... or come out and say they do not want to continue with turkey , president tayyip erdogan told a meeting of his ruling ak party in ankara .
erdogan said turkey had not abandoned its strategic goal of eu membership .
but he has long signaled that his country has run out of patience with the eu over its languishing accession bid , launched in 2005 , and the impasse has been brought into focus by a sharp deterioration in turkey s ties with germany .
i am telling them : come out and say this bravely and do what is necessary .
bravely , erdogan said .
instead of this courage , there is a two-faced approach to halt the turkey-eu full membership talks .
this is politically unethical .
germany s frustrations are focused on the detention of 11 german citizens , four of them with dual citizenship , in turkey on political charges .
turkey accuses germany of harboring plotters behind the 2016 coup attempt .
erdogan on wednesday reiterated a call on germany s voters of turkish descent not to back enemies of turkey , among whom he has previously named merkel s christian democrats , the sdp and greens .
he also repeated an accusation , which has infuriated berlin , that german politics were reverting to the country s nazi past .
they get offended by my nazi comparisons , but you are doing that .
i am not calling you nazis , i am depicting the situation .
this situation is nazism , fascism and you are doing it , he said .
ahead of the april referendum on boosting his powers , erdogan repeatedly lashed out at germany and other european countries , accusing them of nazi-like tactics for banning his ministers from speaking to rallies of turkish voters abroad .