so bill clinton wants a third term so much that he s coming out to battle trump .
bringing bill clinton in to fight hillary s battles could be a double edged sword .
she might gain some momentum but it s hard to believe that trump won t come after them with some zingers .
the problem with the zingers is that they might earn hillary some sympathy from the voters .
i say that she should fight her own battles but don t you know bill would love to be sitting in the white house a year from now a new and more combative phase of hillary clinton s presidential campaign opens next month when she sends her husband out to stump for her in important early states.waiting for him will be businessman donald trump , the republican front-runner.the former president has been a low-key figure since mrs. clinton entered the race for the democratic nomination in april , offering private advice and helping her raise money at closed-door fundraisers .
in january , the campaign intends to showcase him in public forums in iowa and new hampshire , two states where the front-runner is locked in a tight race against vermont sen. bernie sanders.speaking to supporters recently , mrs. clinton described her husband as a secret weapon .
throwing mr. clinton into the mix could further escalate the rhetoric between the trump and clinton campaigns .
in the 2008 presidential race , the former president would bristle at criticism directed at his wife and got in hot water when he suggested barack obama s victory in the south carolina primary was less significant because of the large african-american vote.this past week saw back-and-forth volleys over whether comments mr. trump made about mrs. clinton were sexist .
he said mr. obama schlonged her in the 2008 race and said her brief absence from a recent democratic debate stage , when she was reportedly using the restroom , was disgusting .
in an interview with the des moines register , mrs. clinton said mr. trump has demonstrated a penchant for sexism .
that drew a response from mr. trump on twitter : hillary , when you complain about a penchant for sexism , who are you referring to .
i have great respect for women .
in capital letters he then wrote , be careful !
asked what mr. trump meant , his campaign manager , corey lewandowski , said : mr. trump speaks for mr. trump and his tweets speak for themselves .
and he s very clear about what those tweets say .
another trump spokeswoman , katrina pierson , suggested in an interview with cnn that the trump campaign intends to make mr. clinton s behavior an issue should mrs. clinton pursue this point .
mr. clinton , during his presidency , paid $ 850,000 to settle a sexual harassment case brought by paula jones stemming from an encounter when he was governor of arkansas .
his affair with then-white house intern monica lewinsky led to his impeachment by the u.s. house in 1998 .
he was acquitted by the senate the following year .
hillary clinton has some nerve to talk about the war on women and the bigotry toward women when she has a serious problem in her husband , ms. pierson told cnn .
representatives for mr. clinton and the clinton campaign declined to comment.mrs .
clinton holds a commanding lead among democrats nationally , but polling shows the contests in iowa and new hampshire are up for grabs .
losses in both states could potentially alter the dynamics of a race she is dominating.in a conference call with supporters this past week , clinton campaign chairman john podesta said that mrs. clinton was in a dog fight in new hampshire.via : wsj