well , we ve known this was coming even with opposition to close gitmo obama has wanted to close gitmo since elected and has pushed for it repeatedly .
recently , he s been releasing prisoners at a fast pace not good because 30 % of those released rejoin the jihadi cause of terrorism .
yes , out president is putting his desire to fulfill a campaign promise over the safety of the american people.the pentagon is expected to submit to congress tuesday president barack obama s plan to shutter the u.s. military prison at guantanamo bay.the president , who campaigned in 2009 to shut down the u.s. naval facility in cuba , is hoping to make good on his promise , which is sure to ignite a partisan battle on capitol hill.pentagon spokesman navy capt .
jeff davis said the obama administration will meet the tuesday deadline for sending congress a proposal for closing the facility , which still houses 91 detainees .
the plan is to submit to congress what our thoughts are on the issue and what we see is a way ahead necessary to achieve the closure of guantanamo and to specifically point out the need for legislative relief , davis told the hill.according to davis , the white house s plan is to transfer away as many detainees , and bring the remainder to the u.s. , a step that is opposed by many in congress , particularly within the republican party.for many years , lawmakers have banned any transfer of detainees into the united states .
in addition , they have placed restrictions on transfers to other countries , insisting that gitmo detainees pose a threat to national security.however , some in congress , including arizona sen. john mccain ( r ) , have said they are open to the possibility of bringing detainees into the u.s. as long as the president submits a plan by feb. 23.the pentagon began its search for u.s. sites where detainees could be held .
those locations include federal facilities in colorado , south carolina and kansas.other lawmakers , though , are opposed to the plan .
today s news reports indicate that the president is doubling down on a dangerous plan to close guantanamo a move that i will continue to fight in the senate , sen. kelly ayotte ( r-n.h. ) said monday in a statement.congressional approval is likely the only way in which obama could achieve his goal of closing the cuban facility.read more : the blaze