new york ( reuters ) - donald trump gained on hillary clinton among american voters this week , cutting her lead nearly in half despite a string of women accusing him of unwanted sexual advances and the furor over his disputed claims that the election process is rigged , according to a reuters/ipsos poll released on friday .
the survey also showed that 63 percent of americans , including a third of republicans , believe the new york real estate mogul has committed sexual assault in the past , though the republican presidential candidate has denied the recent accusations .
clinton , the democratic former secretary of state , led trump 44 percent to 40 percent , according to the oct. 14-20 poll , a 4-point lead , with the nov. 8 election fast approaching .
that compared with 44 percent for clinton and 37 percent for trump in the oct. 7-13 poll released last week .
clinton ’ s lead also shrank in a separate four-way poll that included alternative party candidates : 43 percent supported her , while 39 percent supported trump , 6 percent supported libertarian candidate gary johnson , and 2 percent supported jill stein of the green party .
support for clinton had been mostly rising in the seven-day tracking poll since the last week of august , when the candidates were about tied .
the latest reading showed that trump ’ s deficit narrowed to what it was before a video surfaced on oct. 7 featuring him bragging about groping and kissing women .
several women have since accused him of making unwanted sexual advances in separate incidents from the early 1980s to 2007 .
trump has denied the allegations , calling them “ totally and absolutely false. ” the latest poll included a separate series of questions that asked people what they thought of trump ’ s conduct around women .
it found 63 percent of american adults , including 34 percent of likely republican voters , agreed with the statement “ i believe donald trump has committed sexual assault in the past. ” reuters contacted a few of the poll respondents who said they felt that trump had “ committed sexual assault ” but were still supporting his candidacy .
their answers were generally the same : whatever trump did with women in the past is less important to them than what he may do as president .
“ i ’ m embarrassed that our country can ’ t come up with better candidates , to be honest with you , ” said evelyn brendemuhl , 83 , of hope , north dakota .
but “ he ’ ll appoint more conservative judges , and she ’ s ( clinton ) pro-abortion , and i ’ m not for that. ” gary taylor , 59 , a republican from colorado said his support stemmed mostly from a desire to see “ something different than the last eight years ” in the white house .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english in all 50 states .
it included 1,640 people who were considered likely voters , given their voting history , registration status and stated intention to vote .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points , meaning results could vary by that much either way .
the poll questions on trump ’ s unwanted sexual advances scandal were asked of 1,915 american adults , including 546 likely republican voters .
it had a credibility interval of 3 percentage points for all adults and 5 points for republican voters .