( reuters ) - democracy works inc , a non-partisan , non-profit group trying to encourage more americans to take part in elections , said on wednesday it is joining forces with starbucks corp , spanish-language television network univision and others in an attempt to boost u.s. voter turnout to 80 percent by 2020 .
the project , called the turbovote challenge , comes during one of the most contentious and unpredictable u.s. presidential races in many years , marked by strong participation in both republican and democratic primary elections and caucuses .
democracy works , which aims to create “ a more representative and inclusive democracy , ” said voter turnout had not been above 80 percent since 1888 .
an estimated 57.5 percent of eligible citizens voted in the 2012 presidential election , according to the bipartisan policy center .
the project ’ s other founding partners include lodging web service airbnb , arizona state university , the fusion tv network , ride-sharing company lyft , news company mic , online music service spotify , email newsletter theskimm , retailer target corp , mall operator westfield corp , shared workspace provider wework and the video game voters network .
the parties will promote voter registration and encourage participation in local and national elections , among other things .
starbucks chief executive howard schultz , who previously has weighed in on u.s. politics , government gridlock and social issues , said the dysfunction and polarization he first spoke about two years ago has only worsened .
“ we must do everything we can to reclaim and reimagine the american dream , ” schultz said at starbucks ’ annual meeting in seattle on wednesday .
univision anchor jorge ramos made headlines this political season for being one of the first high-profile journalists to publicly challenge republican presidential candidate donald trump .
“ univision is committed to informing and empowering hispanic , millennial and multicultural audiences to reach their full potential in the united states , ” univision chief executive randy falco said in a statement .