monrovia ( reuters ) - former soccer star george weah was set to win the first round of a presidential election in liberia after the elections commission said on sunday he was leading with 39 percent of votes and less than 5 percent of precincts still to be counted .
he will face vice president joseph boakai , who was in second place with 29.1 percent , in a second round poll next month .
boakai was more than 280,000 votes ahead of the third placed candidate , lawyer charles brumskine , on 9.8 percent .
the final certified results from tuesday s poll must be announced by oct. 25 .
but with more than 1.5 million votes counted so far and 95.6 percent of polling stations having reported , it was mathematically impossible that brumskine could move into second place .
turnout based on votes counted so far was nearly 75 percent .
a total of 20 candidates competed in last week s poll seeking to succeed nobel peace prize winner ellen johnson sirleaf in what would be liberia s first democratic transfer of power in more than 70 years .
weah and boakai had both predicted outright victory in the first round .
supporters at weah s headquarters in the capital monrovia crowded around cars listening to the results broadcast on the radio and voiced frustration as it became clear that a second round of voting was unavoidable .
we need to be calm .
but we are worried that they are going to cheat us .
we feel disenchanted from 2005 and 2011 .
people say no second round because of the desire they have , weah supporter luke harris , 31 , said .
weah , a national hero in liberia , became the first non-european to win european soccer s player of the year award in 1995 , the same year he picked up the african and world player of the year awards .
he finished runner-up to johnson sirleaf in a 2005 election that helped draw a line under years of civil war that killed hundreds of thousands of civilians .
he was the vice-presidential candidate on a ticket with winston tubman , who lost to her six years later .
officials from both weah and boakai s campaigns said they would accept the result .
we are disappointed that there is going to be a run off .
we had anticipated that we would win in the first round .
but we will accept it and go with it , said mohammed ali , spokesman for boakai s ruling unity party .
even before sunday s results announcement , both campaigns had already begun courting other candidates , seeking their support in the run-off .
ali confirmed that boakai s campaign had met with fourth placed candidate alexander cummings and ex-warlord-turned-senator prince johnson , who was in fifth place .
johnson said he had also been contacted by weah .
brumskine has denounced the vote , claiming it was plagued by fraud and called for a new election though international observers gave the poll a clean bill of health .
the vote will be re-run in two polling places in nimba county on tuesday , however , due to irregularities , although that measure only concerns a few thousand votes .