dubai ( reuters ) - a detained saudi billionaire who led the collapsed saad group is seeking to repay part of a multi-billion dollar debt to creditors under a deal that could allow his release , people familiar with the matter told reuters .
the businessman , maan al-sanea , was detained in october in the kingdom s eastern province for unpaid debts , and has since been in a civil detention center in the city of khobar , according to several sources .
reemas group , a financial consultancy hired by saad group , has outlined a proposed settlement covering $ 4 billion in debt .
in an email sent by reemas to creditors , of copy of which reuters has obtained , it suggests that they would get more of their money back than under a court-enforced liquidation of the company , albeit over a longer period .
at the height of his success , al-sanea held investments in a number of large companies , including a 3.1 percent stake in british-based bank hsbc bought in 2007 .
that year , when his net worth was estimated at over $ 10 billion , he was ranked by forbes as one of the world s 100 richest men .
but al-sanea s fortunes turned in 2009 , when his business collapsed under heavy debts , unleashing a series of long-running legal disputes .
al-sanea was detained a few weeks before crown prince mohammed bin salman launched a crackdown on corruption in which dozens of saudi princes and businessmen are being held .
however , there is no indication that al-sanea s case is linked with this campaign , as he was detained by the saudi authorities for unpaid debts rather than alleged graft .
sources told reuters that al-sanea has access to a telephone to speak to his legal team and advisers , and has been trying to organize the debt settlement with the help of some members of his family .
a source at the ministry of justice in riyadh said al-sanea could be released if his debts with creditors are settled .
khobar general court could not immediately be reached for comment .
reemas group , which has branches in khobar and bahrain , said in the email that 34 financial institutions had obtained court judgments in the case worth 15.7 billion riyals ( $ 4.19 billion ) .
we have contacted 90 percent either directly or via their local representative over the past few days .
they have welcomed the idea , and we are yet to receive their preliminary consent in order to proceed with the next step , said the email , which was sent to other creditors last month .
reemas said in the email that rather than auctioning off saad group s assets under the liquidation process , they would be moved into a special purpose vehicle , with creditors owning the new company .
the initiative would protect the ( assets ) from substantial reduction in value and enhance the debt coverage ratio to reach at least 20-25 percent , it said .
reemas group did not immediately respond to a reuters request for comment .
saad group , once one of the largest business conglomerates in the gulf , collapsed under the weight of its debts in 2009 along with the family-owned saudi conglomerate ahmad algosaibi and brothers ( ahab ) .
since then , the two groups have been battling each other in the courts , with creditors seeking to recover billions of dollars .
ahab said it had yet to approached about the proposed debt settlement .
we are happy to engage in the dialogue and feel we should be included and if we re not included we will pursue all avenues available to us , said simon charlton , ahab s chief restructuring officer and acting chief executive .
the debt settlement efforts , sources said , came after an entity established by the supreme judicial council in saudi arabia , called the joint directorate of enforcement at the general court in al-khobar ( jdek ) , took over al-sanea s personal assets and began a liquidation process for saad group .
the proposed settlement suggests creditors would recover the funds over a five-year period .
two sources said that according to the debt recovery path indicated by jdek , they would get only 6 to 8 cents in the dollar but more quickly , over a period of one to three years .
according to the terms of the settlement , the special purpose vehicle would be supervised by a steering committee headed by saudi arabia s arab national bank .
arab national bank did not respond to a reuters request for comment .
two of the sources familiar with the matter confirmed that a consensual and speedy settlement would show al-sanea is serious about repaying creditors and could potentially accelerate his release .