we all know by now that hillary clinton will morph into whatever she needs to be to win votes to get back to the white house .
here s exhibit 1 on just how far she ll go while speaking to a group of donors last february , hillary mocked bernie sanders supporters and admitted the free college and free healthcare are just a ploy to win the votes of millennials the intercept had this to say about clinton s flip flopping : clinton has been inconsistent in the past about espousing political labels .
she has at times touted herself as stalwart liberal .
for instance , she said last july : i take a backseat to no one when you look at my record in standing up and fighting for progressive values .
but a few months later , she told a group in ohio : you know , i get accused of being kind of moderate and center .
i plead guilty .
audio of clinton mocking bernie supportersclinton : some are new to politics completely .
they re children of the great recession .
and they are living in their parents basement .
they feel they got their education and the jobs that are available to them are not at all what they envisioned for themselves .
and they don t see much of a future .
i met with a group of young black millennials today and you know one of the young women said , you know , none of us feel that we have the job that we should have gotten out of college .
and we don t believe the job market is going to give us much of a chance .
so that is a mindset that is really affecting their politics .
and so if you re feeling like you re consigned to , you know , being a barista , or you know , some other job that doesn t pay a lot , and doesn t have some other ladder of opportunity attached to it , then the idea that maybe , just maybe , you could be part of a political revolution is pretty appealing .
so i think we should all be really understanding of that and should try to do the best we can not to be , you know , a wet blanket on idealism .
we want people to be idealistic .
we want them to set big goals .
but to take what we can achieve now and try to present them as bigger goals .