taipei ( reuters ) - the wife and mother of detained taiwanese rights activist lee ming-che were due to arrive in china on sunday to attend his subversion trial on monday , taiwan s mainland affairs council said in a statement , calling for lee s safe return home .
lee , a community college teacher and pro-democracy and human rights activist , went missing during a march visit to china .
authorities later confirmed he had been detained , straining already-tense ties between the mainland and the self-ruling island .
authorities at the intermediate people s court of yueyang city , in the central province of hunan , said monday s trial on suspicion of subversion of state power would be an open hearing .
chinese courts have video-streamed or live-blogged increasing numbers of proceedings in recent years as part of a push towards judicial transparency however , rights activists say that in sensitive cases , holding open hearings is a tool for authorities to demonstrate state power and that usually the defendant has agreed to an outcome .
on saturday , lee s wife , lee ching-yu , asked during a news conference that supporters forgive her husband if he says something in court which disappoints them , as he might be required to give testimony against his own free will .
on sunday she declined to comment to a large media contingent as she checked into her flight at taipei songshan airport , where she was to fly to changsha , in hunan province , via shanghai .
taiwan s mainland affairs council said it would do everything in its power to facilitate lee s safe return .
our government s approach to this case has been predicated on preserving our country s dignity while ensuring lee ming-che s safety , it said .
lee s case has strained relations between taipei and beijing , which have been particularly tense since president tsai ing-wen , leader of taiwan s independence-leaning democratic progressive party , took office last year .
beijing regards the island as a breakaway province and it has never renounced the use of force to bring it back under mainland control .