mexico city ( reuters ) - u.s. commerce secretary wilbur ross wants more than 70 percent of north american content in vehicles built in the united states , canada and mexico under a renegotiated nafta trade deal , the head of canada s largest private sector union said on friday .
jerry dias , national president of unifor , told reporters he suggested in a recent meeting with ross that the level be raised to 70 percent from the current 62.5 percent , and that the u.s. commerce secretary suggested a more aggressive level .
ross has long advocated strengthening the rules of origin for the auto industry as a way to bring back automotive production from asia and other non-nafta countries .
negotiations to revamp the north american free trade agreement are in their second round this weekend in mexico city , where rules of origin are expected to be discussed .
u.s. negotiators , however , may not reveal specific rules of origin targets until later rounds , according to auto industry lobbyists .
in fairness to wilbur , he was more aggressive than i was , dias said of ross desired north american content level .
dias said he thought that a 70 percent rule would be a step in the right direction for an industry whose jobs have migrated from the united states and canada to mexico , and would help shift production of some automotive electronics and other parts from asia and europe back to north america .
a spokesman for ross in washington could not immediately be reached for comment .
dias said tougher nafta rules of origin would only be a small part of restoring manufacturing jobs , and that far stronger labor standards were needed to boost wages in mexico that are far below those in the united states and canada .
he said he agreed with u.s. president donald trump s threat to terminate nafta if it can not be improved enough .
nafta has been a disaster for workers in canada , mexico and the united states .
so when he threatens to walk away from it , that s ok .
so now we need to reconfigure how we fix things , he said .
at the same time , dias said that trump was not an ally of unions , describing him as batshit crazy .