moscow ( reuters ) - russia accused the west on thursday of whipping up hysteria over large-scale military exercises underway in eastern europe and denied charges that they were being conducted with a lack of transparency .
the exercises , codenamed `` zapad '' , or `` west '' , started on thursday and will last until sept. 20 .
they are being conducted on military ranges in belarus , western russia , russia 's exclave of kaliningrad and in the baltic sea .
( for graphic , click tmsnrt.rs/2iikjeu ) we reject complaints of these exercises not being transparent , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov told a conference call with reporters .
we believe that whipping up hysteria around these exercises is a provocation .
it is a normal practice for any country to hold such exercises .
everything is being held in line with international law , peskov said .
russian president vladimir putin may visit one of the stages of these drills , he said .
nato is closely watching the exercises and says they are larger than the 12,700 servicemen moscow has publicized , actually numbering some 100,000 troops , and involve firing nuclear-capable ballistic missiles .
russia s defense ministry reiterated on thursday that the exercises are of a purely defensive nature and are not a threat to any third country or group of countries .
but nato officials say the drills will simulate a conflict with the u.s.-led alliance intended to show russia s ability to mass large numbers of troops at short notice in the event of a conflict .
in a statement , the pentagon said that while russia and belarus had taken some steps towards providing transparency , there were concerns about the official estimate of troop numbers .
we urge russia to share information regarding its exercises and operations in nato s vicinity to clearly convey its intentions and minimize any misunderstandings , lieutenant colonel michelle baldanza , a pentagon spokeswoman , said in a statement .
in response to this uncertainty , the u.s. has built a joint , persistent rotational presence of air , land , and sea presence in the region to support our allies , she added .
amid allegations about moscow s aggressive ambitions from its post-communist neighbors , russia s defense ministry has said that it does not intend to use the drills as a springboard to attack lithuania , poland or ukraine .
moscow says it is the west that threatens stability in eastern europe , because nato has put a 4,000-strong multinational force in the baltics and poland .
russia s defense ministry said the current drills involve some 7,200 troops from belarus and 5,500 from russia , up to 70 aircraft and helicopters , up to 680 units of military hardware , including 250 tanks , up to 200 artillery pieces , multiple rocket launchers and mortars , and up to 10 warships .