caracas ( reuters ) - laughing at their own tribulations , venezuelan theatergoers have been enjoying a new satire about a senior official who broke with president nicolas maduro and fled the socialist-ruled country in a boat .
former chief state prosecutor luisa ortega has been one of the protagonists in this year s political crisis in venezuela , denouncing rights abuses and corruption before finally going into hiding and moving to colombia in mid-august .
dressed in a blonde wig and ortega s trademark office suit , actress mercedes benmoha recreates some well-known scenes - and imagines others - in a 15-minute show called the prosecutor , which is proving popular at a small venue in a mall .
benmoha , who happens to be a lawyer like her subject , acts out a news conference and an imaginary phone call with ortega s nemesis , state election board head and diehard maduro ally tibisay lucena .
she also recreates the once-powerful ortega s attempt to re-enter her office after authorities fired her and security forces surrounded the building .
jokes fly about corruption , maduro , and ortega s own precipitous fall from power .
we use humor as a defense mechanism , benmoha , 35 , told reuters on friday night , minutes before going on stage for her sellout show .
it s our way to survive , to breathe , to entertain ourselves but also to reflect .
venezuelans have had little to laugh about this year .
a fourth year of recession and runaway inflation have pummeled households , with shortages and hunger widespread .
months of opposition-led protests led to about 130 deaths and thousands of injuries .
having first fled to aruba in a speedboat , ortega has been traveling round latin america denouncing the maduro government , which in turn has accused her of corruption .
while venezuela s opposition has applauded her stance against maduro , activists also remember she was until recently a pillar of the socialist government and that her office had spearheaded its jailing of political foes .
benmoha , who co-wrote the script for her show , said she watched more than 800 videos of ortega to study her gestures and mannerisms .
but with her subject still making news almost daily , the play is regularly updated .
when the show started in early august , a producer actually invited ortega , but she was never able to attend .
after ortega left the country , however , one of her assistants sent a lady justice statue that had been in her office .
now , it adorns a caracas stage every night .