geneva ( reuters ) - a u.s.-funded famine survey said on tuesday that thousands of yemenis could die daily if a saudi-led military coalition does not lift its blockade on the country s key ports .
the warning came a day after the international committee of the red cross ( icrc ) said 2.5 million people in yemen s crowded cities had no access to clean water , raising the risk that a cholera epidemic will spread .
using the internationally recognized ipc 5-point scale for classifying food security , the famine early warning systems network ( fews net ) said that even before the current blockade , 15 million people were in crisis ( ipc phase 3 ) or worse .
therefore , a prolonged closure of key ports risks an unprecedented deterioration in food security to famine ( ipc phase 5 ) across large areas of the country , it said .
it said famine is likely in many areas within three or four months if ports remain closed , with some less accessible areas at even greater risk .
in such a scenario , shortages of food and fuel would drive up prices , and a lack of medical supplies would exacerbate life-threatening diseases .
thousands of deaths would occur each day due to the lack of food and disease outbreaks , said fews net , which is funded by the u.s. agency for international development .
famine remained likely even if the southern port of aden is open , its report said , adding that all yemeni ports should be reopened to essential imports .
the united nations has said the saudi-led coalition must allow aid in through hodeidah port , controlled by the houthis , the saudis enemies in the war in yemen .
u.n. humanitarian agencies have issued dire warnings about the impact of the blockade , although u.n. officials have declined to directly criticize saudi arabia .
jan egeland , head of the norwegian refugee council and a former u.n. aid chief , was blunt in his criticism , however .
us , uk & other allies of saudi has only weeks to avoid being complicit in a famine of biblical proportions .
lift the blockade now , he wrote in a tweet .
last year saudi arabia was accused by then u.n. secretary general ban ki-moon of exerting unacceptable undue pressure to keep itself off a blacklist of countries that kill children in conflict , after sources told reuters that riyadh had threatened to cut some u.n. funding .
saudi arabia denied this .