atlanta ( reuters ) - things were not looking too good a year ago for georgia ’ s top elections officer as he tried to stitch together a mega-presidential primary in the u.s. south .
efforts to bring alabama and arkansas online had stalled .
tennessee was threatening to defect .
but georgia secretary of state brian kemp kept working the phones , arguing that a bloc of southern states all voting on march 1 was the only way to make u.s. presidential candidates pay attention to the region .
eventually key state leaders came around and their effort seems to have paid off .
candidates have campaigned more in the south this election year in an effort to woo a group of states voting early on so-called super tuesday than kemp can recall seeing in any contemporary primary .
and the seven states holding contests in the region appear poised to play a pivotal role in selecting the republican and democratic nominees for the nov. 8 race .
“ in years past , we ’ ve been an afterthought , ” kemp said at the georgia state capitol in atlanta last week .
“ that ’ s certainly not the case this year. ” elections officials nationally are watching how the concurrent races in the south play out on tuesday , and are talking about possibly replicating the strategy in other parts of the country to win a greater say in the primaries .
kemp has dubbed the coordinated southern races that he ’ s orchestrated the “ sec primary ” - or southeastern conference primary - after a regional college athletic conference .
“ this represents an attempt to introduce primary reform , ” said kay stimson , spokeswoman for the national association of secretaries of state , which for years has urged holding regional primaries that would rotate around the nation .
“ brian kemp took the ball and ran with it , ” she added .
it was not easy .
a year ago , kemp stood in his statehouse office fretting that bills to set the primary date in alabama and arkansas were not going to pass .
an alabama state party chair was worried her state would get lost in a big group , he said , but kemp argued that alabama would still be better off by voting when it was early enough to matter .
in arkansas , the bill to change the primary date did not pass until it was included in a special legislative session .
kemp even feared trouble in tennessee after his counterpart there said there was a rumor circulating that the “ sec primary ” states were thinking about moving back by a week .
“ no , ” kemp replied .
“ our coalition is holding together. ” “ waffle house ” v. “ sec ” primary kemp , 52 , a boots-wearing small business owner who drives a chevrolet suburban with more than 430,000 miles on it , jokes he could have dubbed his effort the “ waffle house primary , ” for a restaurant chain prevalent in the region .
but athletics jumped out as a common passion for the southern states he helped to bring together : alabama , arkansas , georgia , oklahoma , tennessee , texas and virginia .
four other states , from alaska to vermont , also hold contests to award delegates on super tuesday .
kemp ’ s plan to concentrate attention on the south did not initially excite alabama ’ s john merrill , who had other priorities as that state ’ s newly elected elections chief .
but after hearing the then secretary of state from iowa - which holds the country ’ s first nominating contest - talk about how voters there would never back a candidate they had not met eight times , he rallied bipartisan support .
“ do you know just how few times anybody in alabama has ever had the privilege to interact with a presidential candidate on a personal basis , let alone do it more than once ? ” merrill said .
candidates began showing up once the regional primary was in place .
a rally for republican billionaire businessman donald trump drew as many as 30,000 people to a football stadium in mobile , alabama in august , for example .
the primaries in the politically conservative south got a boost in significance this year from the size and unpredictability of the republican presidential field .
on the democratic side , the region ’ s large concentrations of african-american voters are seen as a test of former secretary of state hillary clinton ’ s and u.s .
senator from vermont bernie sanders ’ appeal with a key democratic voting bloc .
while the south has not seen such a coordinated effort in decades , it is not the first time the states have tried to gang up .
yet in 1988 , when the region almost entirely held primaries on march 8 , votes were split among democratic candidates and the contest left the south to be settled elsewhere .
a number of states eventually walked away from the plan .
“ the experience in 1988 was not one that the powers-that-be at the time really wanted , ” said josh putnam , a lecturer in political science at the university of georgia .
nonetheless , other regions are eyeing the southern model .
washington state secretary of state kim wyman failed last year to persuade several neighboring states to coordinate their primaries but plans another push in the next cycle .
“ we could have a pac-12 , ” she joked , referring to a pacific coast-oriented college athletic conference .
“ or at least get some of the western states to go on the same day , so candidates might actually come and visit us and campaign . ”