dublin ( reuters ) - ireland is not ruling out seeking special post-brexit arrangements for itself and northern ireland as a fallback option in the negotiations on britain s departure from the eu , prime minister leo varadkar said on wednesday .
ireland has proposed that britain and the eu reach a bespoke customs union partnership to eliminate the risk of a hard border returning between it and northern ireland , which will be the uk s only land frontier with the eu after its departure .
varadkar said this remained eu-member ireland s position in the negotiations being led by brussels but that it of course has fallback positions if things don t work out .
we re determined to secure a customs union partnership and a free trade agreement or area between britain and ireland when it comes to the post-brexit scenario , varadkar told parliament .
we certainly don t rule out seeking special arrangements for ireland and northern ireland but that s not our negotiating position or preference by any means .
the irish border is one of three formidable issues brussels wants broadly solved in the first stage of negotiations with britain before talks on a future trading relationship can start .
it is particularly sensitive given the decades of violence in northern ireland , a british province , over whether it should be part of the united kingdom or ireland .
around 3,600 people were killed before a 1998 peace agreement .
fifty-six percent of northern irish voters voted remain in the brexit referendum last year , split roughly between pro-eu irish nationalists and more eurosceptic pro-british unionists .
but both sides fear a re-hardening of the border , with its likely hammer effect on the economy , could reignite violence .
britain has said there should be no immigration checks or border posts along the 500-km ( 300-mile ) frontier post-brexit .
but brussels and dublin say london has failed to explain how it would square this objective with its stated intention to leave the eu s customs union .
with close trading links to britain , ireland s economy is also widely considered the most exposed in the eu to any future trade barriers , and varadkar said dublin did not want to sacrifice or give up its free trade with britain at this stage .
an analysis by ireland s finance ministry showed last month that 11 of the 15 eu goods most exposed to britain are irish exports , highlighting the extreme vulnerability to brexit of some irish firms .
however a special arrangement that kept northern ireland in the customs union would raise the prospect of checks being required on goods moving between it and britain , a proposal firmly opposed by pro-brexit unionists in the province .
the leader of the democratic unionist party ( dup ) , which props up the conservative government in the british parliament , reiterated on tuesday that there could not be any barriers between northern ireland and the rest of the uk .