politically correct racism condoned by the left and fueled by obama , his administration , the media and radical educators ( disclaimer : mrctv linked to a facebook event that has since been removed .
an archive of the event can be viewed here .
) an organized protest at cornell university supporting racial equality has been canceled after a black student group complained about the lack of people of color in the planning and attendance of the event , which appears to have been organized by a white student.the group also stated that although the members appreciate the solidarity and interest of our allies , the organization would like to address prejudice in [ their ] own way .
they then suggested that individuals who would like to show support for black causes should ask in advance for the organization s approval.thursday morning , a facebook event was created for a # concernedstudent1950 protest that would take place on friday at noon .
people immediately expressed outrage at the event.ad feedback the event creator , who appears to be a white man on his facebook profile , was accused of mocking the struggles of our communities and creating an event to promote himself .
some facebook commenters called the event creator a troll .
cornell student and alleged huffington post writer paola mu oz wrote : are you f * * king kidding me ?
being an ally is not about starting events because * now * it s actual racism racism takes on different forms , such as through microaggressions , cultural appropriation , people wearing poc caricatures for halloween ; bull sh * t that ultimately others us that you and so many other folxs poked fun at .
mu oz went on to claim the event creator has posted classist sh * t and use [ s ] humor to dilute our pain .
she called the event a complete mockery .
mu oz requested the student group black students united at cornell university post on the page and cancel the event.black students united at cornell university posted , we , black students united , would like to point out the lack of people of color in the planning and attendance of this protest .
the organization continued , while we appreciate the solidarity and interest of our allies across campus , we would like to be able to address prejudice on this campus and campuses like it in our own way .
black students united at cornell university noted they would like individuals to ask their permission before creating events .
in the future , please ask how you can support us before organizing on your own .
with that in mind , we would appreciate the cancellation [ sic ] of this event .
in response to the comment by black students united at cornell university , the event creator posted an update canceling the event .
he wrote , thank you for calling me out on my ignorance .
via : mrctv