erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - jalal talabani , whose presidency of post-saddam iraq symbolized the resurgence of the country s long-oppressed kurdish people , was brought home on friday and borne to his burial through streets crowded with tens of thousands of mourners .
iraqi and kurdish tv showed the iraqi airways plane which carried talabani s coffin from germany , where he died on tuesday at the age of 83 , landing in sulaimaniya , his home city in northern iraq .
a 21-gunshot salute was given for the coffin , draped in the red , white and green kurdish flag stamped with a golden sun .
a military band played the iraqi national anthem , mawtini ( my nation ) , and chopin s funeral march .
the kurdish flag on the coffin triggered a wave of protests on media close to shi ite political groups which support the iraqi government .
al-etejah tv interrupted its broadcast because the coffin was not draped by the iraqi flag .
the plane that brought the body home was given special exemption from a ban on international flights to the kurdish region imposed a week ago by the iraqi government , in retaliation for a kurdish referendum on independence .
talabani , a veteran leader of the kurdish struggle for self-determination , became iraq s president in 2005 , the first person to hold the job after the overthrow of dictator saddam hussein in a u.s.-led invasion .
although the presidency has few real powers , the decision to give it to a member of the kurdish minority symbolized unity for iraq under a constitution intended to share power among ethnic and religious groups .
executive authority lies in the hands of a prime minister from the shi ite arab majority .
talabani stepped down as president in 2014 after a long period of treatment following a stroke in 2012 .
his successor , fuad musam , also a kurd , presided over the ceremony at the airport on friday .
prime minister haider al-abadi , who is demanding that the autonomous kurdistan regional government ( krg ) cancels the outcome of last week s independence vote , did not come to the funeral .
interior minister qasim al-araji represented the central government .
the government delegation protested strongly because the iraqi flag wasn t put on mam jalal s coffin , even though the national anthem was played , said a government spokesman in a statement .
talabani is affectionately known as mam , the kurdish for uncle .
holding pictures of talabani and waving the green flags of his patriotic union of kurdistan ( puk ) party , tens of thousands gathered along the airport road and around sulaimaniya grand mosque , where the prayer for the dead was held .
the funeral procession of a dozen suvs struggled to make its way through the dense crowd from the mosque to his grave on a hill overlooking sulaimaniya , near the talabani family home .
the dabashan hill was covered with people as he was laid to rest in early evening .
at the airport ceremony , kurdish regional government leader masoud barzani , talabani s rival for decades in the movement for self-rule , sat between president masum and talabani s widow hero .
iranian foreign minister javad zarif , the highest-ranking foreign official in attendance , repeated tehran s assertion that the independence vote was a strategic mistake , iranian media said .
talabani had been too ill to express his views about the independence referendum .
his puk party gave it only lukewarm support .
unlike barzani , talabani had good ties with iran and the iranian-backed shi ite groups that effectively rule in baghdad .
the baghdad government , iran and turkey all strongly opposed the referendum .
washington , an ally of the kurds for decades , had also urged them not to hold it .
kurdish media and social media were rife with complaints about the flight ban imposed by baghdad , which , they said , had prevented larger international participation at the funeral .
born in 1933 in what was then a monarchy ruled under the british mandate , talabani studied law at baghdad university , joined the kurdistan democratic party ( kdp ) in 1946 and by his mid-twenties was a lieutenant to the independence movement s patriarch , mullah mustafa barzani , masoud barzani s father .
he split from the kdp and formed the puk in 1974 , drawing support from the urban elite and from the small kurdish shi ite community .
he regarded himself as a modern , socialist , urban alternative to the tribal authority wielded by the elder barzani .
talabani s harshest lesson came in 1988 when iraq gassed kurdish towns near the iranian border during an iranian-puk offensive in the waning days of the iran-iraq war .
in a brutal campaign , iraqi forces killed tens of thousands of kurdish civilians and uprooted many more from their homes .
talabani s puk has remained the most powerful political force in his home city of sulaimaniya , while barzani s kdp dominates the regional capital erbil .
one of talabani s sons , qubad , is deputy prime minister of the kurdish regional government .