manila ( reuters ) - around 300 protesters clashed with security on wednesday at a manila hotel where an annual mining conference was being held , demanding that mineral extraction be halted due to the environmental destruction caused .
the rally comes a day after president rodrigo duterte declared he s supporting a ban on open-pit mining in the southeast asian nation , a move that could constrict supply from the world s top nickel ore exporter .
words are not enough , he must act on it , lawyer aaron pedrosa of sanlakas ( one force ) , an activist political group that was among the protesters , told reporters .
we are here to express our opposition to mining in our country and the failure of mining companies to rehabilitate mining areas , pedrosa said .
anti-mining protests are a fixture at mining industry events in the philippines .
some of the protesters , clad in business suits , managed to get past hotel security and into the lobby where they held up placards denouncing mining .
outside the hotel , other protesters , including those from tribal communities , chanted and held streamers saying stop mining plunder and no to large-scale mining .
the hotel was locked down for at least an hour .
mining is a contentious issue in largely underexplored philippines following past examples of environmental mismanagement .
in 1996 , for instance , a tailings leak at canadian-owned marcopper mining corp s copper mine in marinduque contaminated rivers .
the sector contributes less than 1 percent to the economy , with only 3 percent of the 9 million hectares identified by the state as having high mineral reserves being mined , according to government data .
last month , lawmakers allied with duterte filed a bill seeking to ban mining in watershed areas and exports of unprocessed ores .
the bill would also require miners to get legislative approval before operating .
the move comes after a 10-month mining crackdown led by former environment secretary regina lopez , who ordered the closure or suspension of 26 of the country s 41 mines and banned open-pit mining .
lopez failed to be confirmed in her post by lawmakers and was replaced in may by roy cimatu , a former soldier who has so far not reversed any of her previous measures .
gerard brimo , president of top philippine nickel ore producer nickel asia corp , said the industry would like to show duterte old mines that have been rehabilitated , including open pits .
open-pit extraction is allowed under a philippine mining law and is widely used in the country where most ore is near the surface and low grade .
if you want minerals and metals ... that s the reality .
that s the case in the philippines as it is all over the world .
but the other reality is that it can be rehabilitated .