the purge continues the nyc mayor has just opened a can of worms so big that it ll be hard to control it .
he wants to review all symbols of hate on city property then leave it to his panel of experts to decide what stays and what goes .
this should be interesting .
isn t this subjective ?
someone might think one thing is a symbol of hate but not another .
where does this purging end ? mayor de blasio said late wednesday that the city will conduct a 90-day review of all symbols of hate on city property in the wake of violence sparked by white supremacist groups in charlottesville , virginia over the weekend.a 32-year-old woman was killed and more than a dozen people were injured when a vehicle slammed into a group of counter-protesters on saturday , and two state troopers died when the helicopter from which they were monitoring events suddenly crashed.opposition to the removal of a statue of confederate army general robert e. lee was at the heart of rallies by white nationalists and kkk members in charlottesville this year.new york city officials said they re putting together a panel of relevant experts and community leaders who will define the criteria and make recommendations for which items to remove.experts ?
who says ? meanwhile in the east villagethe south is rising in the east village.residents are seeing red over a pair of confederate flags hanging in the window of an east 8th street apartment building , following the deadly white power rally in virginia this week.the flags have been hanging in the fifth-floor window of the building near the corner of avenue d for months , but anger is boiling over in the aftermath of the weekend s carnage with neighbors pelting rocks and bricks at the window wednesday morning .
they re scary , we don t know who we are dealing with in the neighborhood .
i feel uncomfortable because that represents evil .
i see the protests in the news and i come home and see this , said local louise abddhal , 56 , as a chorus of others yelled at the window.residents had turned a blind eye to the offensive banners in the past , but started getting mad after saturday s rally in charlottesville , where a neo-nazi fatally mowed down counter-protester heather hayer .
it s been there forever and no one said anything .
now it s going crazy .
virginia is bringing more light and attention too , said longtime resident janet brown .
.the dixie-head has changed the flags around several times there was a neo-nazi one for awhile , according to brown and he now has two israeli flags and an american flag between the confederate ones.but the baffling collection is just making residents angrier .
he is a jew with a confederate flag !
are you kidding me ?
said one neighbor , who wouldn t give his name .
confederate flags in the window , bro !
that is a bunch of racists .
right here in the avenue , bro !
in the hood !
this sh-t is real .
he is looking to start a f ing riot .
the building s property manager said he s aware of the flags and is trying to get the resident to take them down.footage of a man throwing rocks and screaming expletives at the windows on wednesday morning shows police arriving and telling him to stop but witnesses say cops didn t make any arrests.via : nyp