a legacy of hate and division from an unapologetic and arrogant president who promised to transform the united states of america .
and so it goes , america s first black president has successfully divided our nation , pitting american against american , while elevating those who break the law over those who risk their lives to protect our neighborhoods and communities .
he has offered cover for those who illegally entered our country , while ignoring the danger he poses to our national security by allowing unvetted immigrants into our country from nations who hate us .
yet unbelievably , while america burns , the left is arguing we need to elect our first female president to carry out his dangerous and destructive legacy .
sorry , but we ll pass news flash : president obama didn t learn anything in eight years in the white house .
and he s proud of it.sadly , this is the only promise obama kept to the american voters : as obama admitted in an interview with new york magazine : if you go back and you read speeches i made when i was running for the us senate in 2003 , or if you go back further and you look at statements i made when i was on the harvard law review , my worldview is pretty consistent .
the comment was a point of pride , which makes it doubly tragic .
once the smartest man in the room , always the smartest man in the room.never mind that the world is on fire , that america is polarized , angry and scared .
or that obamacare is a sick patient , that the economy is growing at a snail s pace and that many cities are racial war zones.it s not obama s fault .
none of it .
he would do it all again.with voters fixated on his successor , obama is fixated on his legacy .
a large part of his effort on the way out the door is explaining what he did , and insisting that what he did was right .
always.there s no news there , but there is some valuable insight from the ways he defends the indefensible .
let it be a warning to donald trump and hillary clinton about the pitfalls of the power they are seeking.if nothing else , the winner should take the oath of office next january armed with the knowledge that hubris is the common thread in obama s many failures.for example , the president says his secret sauce was that he trusted my judgment but didn t trust the noise out there , meaning republicans , talk radio , cable tv and pretty much everybody else who didn t agree with him.at some point , he said , he concluded his critics were not even trying to be fair-minded in their assessments or recommendations , and he found that liberating because he could ignore them.whether it was enforcing his red line in syria , which he didn t , or substituting executive orders for congressional action , he expressed no regret .
he was right and everybody else was wrong.it s a remarkable notion , yet plainly a trend when government is the largest special interest , one that uses and abuses its power to look out for itself .
especially under liberals , it only admits failure to demand more power.this is no small feat .
consider that way back in the reign of george w. bush , it was universally accepted that a president ought to be held accountable for national problems .
a war that didn t work out as planned , a natural disaster or an economic one all fell on the head of the occupant of the oval office.but obama and his apologists cleverly reversed the dynamic .
now the american public is to blame when things go wrong.it s because people are deplorables or some other ignorant form of life that leads them to resist wise choices government makes for them .
if only the people were smart enough and honest enough to understand how lucky they are , the country would be better off.throughout this interview and others , it is clear that obama is leaving office with both his worldview and his prejudices firmly intact .
recall that during the 2008 campaign , talking to donors in san francisco , he said that white working-class people in pennsylvania and places like it were falling behind economically and they get bitter , they cling to guns or religion or antipathy toward people who aren t like them .
that s the most quoted part of his remarks , but the rest of it was equally snobbish : those same people , he said , also cling to anti-immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations .
imagine if obama had listened to those people , instead of shutting them out as noise .
imagine if he had seen their problems as legitimate , instead of seeing them as backwoods bigots.but he didn t , and so he leaves the country more bitterly divided than when he began .
and , as i have said before , trump s rise through his focus on immigration and trade are a big part of obama s legacy .
via : nyp