washington ( reuters ) - the pentagon ’ s next five-year budget proposal seeks over $ 13 billion in funding for a new submarine to carry nuclear ballistic missiles , plus orders for more boeing co ( ba.n ) and lockheed martin corp ( lmt.n ) fighter jets , according to sources familiar with the plans .
the plan also shifts the navy ’ s strategy for a new carrier-based unmanned drone to focus more on intelligence-gathering and refueling than combat strike missions , said the sources , who were not authorized to discuss it publicly before the budget ’ s release .
u.s. defense secretary ash carter plans to map out his spending priorities for the $ 583 billion 2017 defense budget on tuesday ahead of the official budget release on feb. 9 .
the pentagon ’ s plan will also underscore the need to fund all three legs of the u.s. strategic deterrent “ triad ” - a new air force bomber , a replacement for the ohio-class submarines that carry nuclear weapons , and new nuclear-armed intercontinental ballistic missiles , said one of the sources .
the navy ’ s proposed fiscal 2017 budget will fund procurement of materials for the new submarines that take a long time to acquire , with funding for construction of the first full new submarine to follow in fiscal 2021 , said one of the sources .
over the next five years , the navy would spend over $ 4 billion on research and development of the new submarines , plus over $ 9 billion in procurement funding , the sources said .
general dynamics corp ( gd.n ) has the lead role on the new submarine to replace the current ohio-class of submarines , together with huntington ingalls industries inc ( hii.n ) .
boeing would receive well over $ 1 billion in new aircraft orders as it seeks to extend production at the company ’ s st. louis facility .
the navy will request funding for two boeing f/a-18e/f super hornets as part of the fiscal 2017 war budget , and 14 in the fiscal 2018 budget , said one of the sources .
navy officials also will likely add a request for 12 more boeing super hornets to their annual list of “ unfunded priorities ” for fiscal 2017 , said one of the sources .
those moves are aimed at filling a shortfall in the number of strike fighters available on aircraft carriers , given delays in the lockheed f-35 fighter jet program and longer-than-expected repair times for current boeing f/a-18 jets .
the five-year budget plan calls for lockheed to sell a total of 161 f-35 fighter jets to the navy and marine corps - 64 c-model jets that take off and land on aircraft carriers and 97 b-model jets , which can take off from shorter runways and land like a helicopter , according to one of the sources .
the proposal also narrows the mission of a new drone to be built by the u.s. navy , the sources said .
to reflect the change , the navy plans to rename the new drone program the carrier-based air refueling system , or cbars , instead of the unmanned carrier-launched airborne surveillance and strike ( uclass ) program , said one of the sources .
the drones would have an initial limited strike capability , but more could be added in coming years , the sources said .
boeing , lockheed , northrop grumman corp ( noc.n ) , which makes the unmanned , unarmed x-47b plane that has been tested on u.s. carriers , and privately held general atomics spent tens of millions of dollars to prepare for the previous tender .
but the program was put on hold in 2014 pending a pentagon-wide review of intelligence and surveillance programs .