the left has been organizing for decades , and george soros has been funding them .
from the chaos of occupy wall street to black lives matter , wherever there is chaos and anarchy in america , george soros and the democrat party are usually behind it .
there have been reports for several years of voter fraud efforts , in which it has been suggested that george soros is involved .
this is just another example of his involvement in a scheme to effect the results of our elections in america by using his vast global network a new campaign , touted as the october surprise that will end trump , is seeking to mobilise a secret swing state of more than 8 million mostly unregistered global citizens and progressive americans living abroad to vote in the u.s. election.the 8 million americans abroad almost never vote .
this dead easy tool can fix that but only if we make it famous : https : //t.co/z4l7lekdub avaaz ( @ avaaz ) september 13 , 2016the initiative was launched in london in the united kingdom on wednesday by avaaz , a registered u.s. charity and one the world s largest and most powerful activist groups linked to globalist billionaire george soros .
campaigners toured from the university college london down to parliament blasting bruce springsteen s born in the usa while chanting don t vote trump from an open top bus.while illegal for registered u.s. charities to work with or for presidential candidates , a spokeswoman for avaaz denied any connection to the hillary campaign when quizzed .
campaigners with avaaz however , were recorded shouting , vote for hillary !
during the demonstration.a huge 88 per cent of americans living abroad did not register to vote in the last presidential election , and avaaz points out that this massive untapped voting block is much more likely to be progressive because 56 per cent of us [ in the uk ] have masters degrees and overwhelmingly donated to democratic candidates in the last three presidential primaries.does anybody really believe this get out the vote effort is to register legal american citizens ?
this effort has fraud written all over it .
and with only a little over a month to go before our general election , where is the manpower to pour through all of these new incoming registrations going to come from ?
if i didn t know better , i d think george soros and hillary planned to to overwhelm our system with last minute foreign votes that can t be properly vetted before the election kinda like their muslim refugees the view for the top of the @ avaaz stop trump battle bus in london .
american music , balloons , flags & chanting @ lbc pic.twitter.com/slstfdqti3 rachael venables ( @ rachaelvenables ) september 21 , 2016 avaaz has created the world s first , global , citizen s get-out-the-vote drive , ms. alexander added .
the more people that share it on facebook , the more americans abroad will see it , and the more we will be able to stop the global threat of trump .the group chose london for the launch as the uk has the largest concentration of us expats outside of north america , and at the event several americans registered to vote before the media to prove how easy it is with avaaz s new tool .
for months , the world has sat on the sidelines , horrified by trump s hate .
now , global citizens have a way to fight back , emma ruby-sachs , deputy director of avaaz added.the charity s website encourages people to email potential u.s. voters in other countries , giving them a template that reads : 8 million americans abroad could defeat trump if they vote !
i wanted to make sure you saw this new overseas registration tool that makes voting dead-easy .
it literally takes a few minutes : ) .their efforts don t stop in the uk , they are also putting out a call to mexicans to register to vote .
who will be checking the validity of millions of votes coming in at the last minute ?
from their register to vote for hillary campaign in mexico:1 million americans in mexico can stop # trump 's wall !
# gringosavotar campaign kicks off sun 9/25 in mexico city : https : //t.co/q68fjjjk7d pic.twitter.com/6tv7ces8cy avaaz ( @ avaaz ) september 21 , 2016english : over 1 million us citizens live in mexico , and their participation in this election is key to stopping trump and his beautiful wall .
this sunday we re meeting at the angel de la independencia on paseo de la roma , in the heart of mexico city , to spread the word and register us voters on site.there will be music , great people , and media .
come take a picture of yourself in front of a massive artistic model of trump s wall to say : # gringosavotar united against trump !
rsvp and share widely with friends.if you are a us passport holder and want to register to vote there on site , make sure to bring a scanned copy of your passport with you .
us voters in mexico can also register directly here : www.avaaz.org/gringosavotarsomething tells me if johnny cash were alive today , he would not approve of these clowns using his music to promote the destruction of america in a foreign land : via : breitbart news