beirut ( reuters ) - saad al-hariri , who quit as lebanese prime minister in a weekend broadcast from saudi arabia , has been held under house arrest in the kingdom , a pro-hezbollah daily said on tuesday citing unnamed sources .
hariri s office and saudi-owned media said he flew to the uae , a saudi ally and fellow gulf monarchy , on tuesday .
aides to hariri , lebanon s most influential sunni politician and a close saudi ally , have denied claims that he was detained .
lebanese newspaper al-akhbar , which is aligned with the shi ite militant group and political movement hezbollah , said hariri was placed under house arrest hours after arriving in riyadh last friday and had remained in detention since .
on monday , saudi foreign minister adel jubeir dismissed as nonsense allegations that the kingdom forced hariri to resign , and said he was free to leave at any time .
speculation in lebanon over hariri s status continued even after saudi media showed him meeting with king salman and reported him leaving for the uae .
hariri s resignation has thrust lebanon back onto the frontline of the rivalry between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran that has also wrought upheaval in syria , iraq , yemen and bahrain .
the coalition government , which hariri s shock resignation collapsed , included iran-backed hezbollah .
his declaration came as saudi arabia undertook an anti-corruption purge in which royals , ministers and investors have been arrested as the putative next king tightens his grip on power .
in a dramatic escalation of the crisis , saudi arabia accused lebanon on monday of declaring war because of aggression by hezbollah .
hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah accused riyadh last week of forcing hariri to step down , and said there were legitimate questions over whether he had been detained .
the al-akhbar newspaper said that a saudi security team had been supervising hariri , citing unnamed sources close to him .
the prime minister , whose family made their fortune in the saudi construction industry , had very limited access to his phones , it said on tuesday .
fouad siniora , a former prime minister and senior member of hariri s political party , said hariri would return to lebanon .