beirut ( reuters ) - saad al-hariri will return to lebanon from saudi arabia within two days , he said on tuesday , 10 days after his shock resignation as prime minister in a broadcast from riyadh .
his abrupt resignation on nov. 4 sent lebanon spinning into political crisis and back onto the front line of the middle east power struggle between sunni muslim saudi arabia and shi ite iran .
iran s ally hezbollah holds major sway in lebanese politics .
it has long been a foe of hariri but is part of the coalition government he formed last year and called for his return .
in his resignation he made bitter attacks on both iran and hezbollah , and top lebanese officials and politicians close to hariri have said saudi arabia coerced him to resign , dictated his statement and have held him under house arrest .
riyadh and hariri have both denied that .
hariri is a political ally of riyadh and holds saudi nationality .
he cited a fear of assassination and hezbollah s sowing strife in the arab world as his reasons for stepping down .
riyadh and hariri both oppose hezbollah s military role in syria , fighting alongside president bashar al-assad , and what they allege is its participation in yemen s civil war alongside the houthi group against a saudi-led coalition .
hezbollah denies having a role in the yemen conflict .
lebanese president michel aoun has said he will not accept hariri s resignation until he returns to beirut to formally submit it .
analysts say when hariri does so , members of parliament will nominate him to serve as prime minister once again , and aoun will ask him to form a new government .
that would open the door to a long period of political talks like those which preceded the formation of the national unity government that made hariri prime minister a year ago .
hariri is expected to call on aoun to convene political dialogue on key issues facing lebanon , chiefly on reaffirming the tiny country s policy of staying out of regional conflicts and hezbollah s role in conflicts outside lebanon s borders , senior political sources say .
any attempt to keep hezbollah out of the government , in line with saudi wishes , will torpedo the talks , political sources say .
riyadh regards hezbollah as a terrorist group .
hariri warned on sunday in his first interview since resigning of possible gulf arab sanctions against lebanon and of the risk to the livelihoods of the 300,000-400,000 lebanese in the gulf .
lebanese foreign minister gebran bassil said in paris on tuesday that any punitive sanctions by saudi arabia on lebanon would impact the region and syrian refugees in the country .
bassil is a member of president aoun s political party .
he said hariri needed to return to lebanon to prove he was free .
after hariri s resignation , saudi arabia accused the lebanese government of declaring war on it because of hezbollah s pivotal role in lebanese politics .
however , riyadh s western allies have struck a tone different from that of saudi arabia , appearing to throw their weight behind both hariri and the lebanese state , whose army is a major recipient of u.s. aid .
the european union high representative federica mogherini said on tuesday after a meeting with bassil that she expected hariri and his family to return to lebanon in the coming days .
on twitter , hariri said he was well but that his family was staying in saudi arabia .
sources across lebanon s political divide have said hariri struck a more compromising tone in his interview than in his resignation statement , at one point holding out the possibility of rescinding his decision to quit .
they say this represents a retreat by saudi arabia , attributing it to western pressure .
the maronite patriarch bechara boutros al-rai , head of lebanon s biggest christian community , met hariri and saudi king salman and crown prince mohammed in riyadh on tuesday .
saudi al-arabiya television quoted him as saying he supported the reasons for hariri s resignation .
his comments reflect the views of some politicians in lebanon s divided maronite community but not president aoun .
echoing saudi demands , mps from hariri s future movement called for a u.n. resolution from 2006 that demanded all militias in lebanon disarm to be respected .
hezbollah is the only lebanese group with a militia , and says it needs weapons to secure lebanon from israel .
hezbollah s lebanese opponents have long demanded it disarm .
lebanese politicians have previously held talks on hezbollah s arsenal as part of a dialogue on a national defense strategy , but have never seriously discussed disarming it .