tokyo ( reuters ) - emperor akihito will hand over all public duties to his heir after retiring in what will be japan s first abdication in nearly two centuries , the monarch s younger son said , responding to worries a former emperor might weaken his successor s status .
japan s constitution defines the emperor as a symbol of the state and the people , without political power .
his duties include shinto religious ceremonies and constitutionally-defined tasks , such as the opening of parliament .
the octogenarian akihito s 29-year reign has also been marked by travels to domestic disaster sites to cheer survivors , and overseas to soothe the wounds of a war fought in the name of his father , emperor hirohito , who was considered divine until japan s defeat in world war two .
some experts , recalling past examples when ex-emperors kept their influence , had feared the former monarch s existence would undercut the symbolic status of his heir , crown prince naruhito .
the emperor all along has intended to pass all his public duties including state acts to the next emperor , naruhito s younger brother , prince akishino , said in remarks published to mark his 52nd birthday on thursday .
even if there are concerns about dual authority , if that expression is appropriate , i can clearly say that it is impossible , he added .
a law enacted in june allows akihito , who turns 84 on dec. 23 , to step down , but details have yet to be worked out .
a special panel will discuss possible dates on friday , with the cabinet to make a final decision .
the abdication is expected to take place in 2019 .
akihito , who has had heart surgery and treatment for prostate cancer , said in rare remarks last year that he feared age might make it hard to fulfill his duties .
akishino , who is next in line to the throne after the 57-year-old naruhito , said he wanted his father to rest after retiring .
i hope the emperor will spend relaxing time as much as possible after the abdication , he said .
akishino said he was willing to take on the crown prince s duties as much as possible after naruhito ascends the throne but would need to consult his older brother .
this is unprecedented , so there are many things i can not imagine , he said .
akishino s 11-year-old son , prince hisahito , is the emperor s only grandson and will be second in line to the throne after the abdication .
naruhito s daughter , princess aiko , who turns 16 on friday , can not inherit the males-only throne .