albany , n.y. ( reuters ) - new york ’ s state assembly on tuesday overwhelmingly voted to legalize mixed martial arts fights , effectively ending the last remaining statewide ban on the combat sport in the united states .
governor andrew cuomo has already said he would sign the measure , which previously passed the state senate .
mixed martial arts features kicking , punching , wrestling and other maneuvers that can leave the combatants bloodied and sometimes unconscious .
lawmakers passed the legislation by a 113-25 vote after more than three hours of debate , with forceful speeches from both opponents and supporters of the bill .
assemblyman danny o ’ donnell , an openly gay democrat who represents part of new york city and is the brother of actress rosie o ’ donnell , compared the sport to “ gay porn. ” he suggested the competitions might be susceptible to corruption .
ellen jaffee , a democrat from a new york city suburb , called the sport “ barbaric ” and said it is harmful to women because it distorts the image of masculinity .
but assembly majority leader joseph morelle , also a democrat , said millions of fans deserve the chance to watch professional bouts in new york and argued that regulations would make the sport safer .
the legislation came after years of obstruction from former assembly speaker sheldon silver , who opposed the sport and refused to allow a vote .
but silver was convicted of federal corruption charges last year and replaced as speaker by carl heastie , a co-sponsor of the bill .
mma fights are expected to generate $ 135 million a year for the state ’ s coffers , according to a 2013 study by the sport ’ s major promoter , ultimate fighting championship ( ufc ) .
arenas throughout new york would benefit , and madison square garden in new york city is particularly well suited to stage the competitions , the bill ’ s sponsors said .
cuomo has already penciled in $ 3 million in revenue from ticket sales and cable fees in his proposed budget for the next fiscal year .
the new york state athletic commission would have to set regulations after the governor signs the bill .
fans would have to wait until at least the fourth quarter of 2016 before seeing any bouts in the state .
ufc is owned by brothers lorenzo and frank fertitta of station casinos , a las vegas-based hotel-casino chain , through parent company zuffa llc [ zuffa.ul ] .
the company had sued new york state over the ban , calling it unconstitutional .