phnom penh ( reuters ) - the united states renewed a call for cambodia s government to release the country s main opposition leader kem sokha from prison , after parliament voted to change election laws that would re-distribute his party s seats if it was dissolved .
the government is seeking to dissolve kem sokha s cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) , arguing he and his party sought to topple the government , a move which would help prime minister hun sen extend his 32-year rule at the next election in 2018 ..
the u.s. state department said washington was deeply concerned by parliament s passage of the amendments and if ratified would effectively disenfranchise the millions of people who voted for the cnrp in the 2013 and 2017 elections .
genuine competition is essential to democracy and to the legitimacy of the 2018 national elections , u.s. state department spokesperson heather nauert said in a statement released in cambodia on tuesday .
we urge government officials to consider the serious implications of their recent actions .
we renew our call that the leader of the cnrp , kem sokha , be released from prison .
a spokesman for cambodia s ruling party said the u.s state department s statement was weak and cambodia was on the right track to towards a free and fair election next year .
their tone is lighter .
before , they would bully so this means we are on the right path towards democracy and rule of law , sok eysan , a parliamentarian from hun sen s ruling cambodian people s party ( cpp ) , told reuters .
cambodia s national assembly voted on monday to change election laws to re-distribute seats to other parties in parliament within seven days of a party being dissolved .
lawyers from the interior ministry filed a lawsuit on oct. 6 to demand the dissolution the cnrp , after kem sokha was charged with treason following his sept. 3 arrest .
the government has said cnrp conspired with foreign advisors to topple the government , citing a 2013 video clip showing kem sokha talking about a plan to take power with the help of americans .
half of opposition figures fled abroad in september and early october as hun sen moves to tighten his grip on power by silencing critics in the lead-up to the national election .
mu sochua , deputy president of the opposition cnrp , who fled cambodia earlier this month in fear of arrest , called on political parties to only contest the 2018 election if it is free and fair .
all conditions for free fair and inclusive elections must be met , mu sochua told reuters .
any party that want to compete to win cpp must only do so if these conditions are met .