liberal logic 101 the new superintendent for detroit s public schools said he will recommend the school district no longer authorize charter schools and focus instead on improving its conventional schools , according to the detroit free press .
we have to get it right with traditional public schools and our focus , our energy , our resources need to be on that , superintendent nikolai vitti told the free press.hechinger report since 1994 , there has been an extreme decline in detroit public schools enrollment : 73 percent .
this has had a huge impact on the financial stability of the district and the performance of its remaining schools .
however , the expansion of charter schools is just one reason for the decline in enrollment .
during that same time , the overall population in the city declined by 33 percent .
in addition , the district lost a considerable number of students to inter-district choice programs with neighboring school districts , which enroll more students statewide than charter schools.fortherecord says : two charter schools authorized by detroit s public schools were rated as the best in the state , according to a report card published by the mackinac center for public policy .
the report card examined michigan s middle and elementary schools and adjusted their rankings to reflect the impact of students economic background.detroit s martin luther king jr. education center academy was the top rated elementary and middle school in the state .
ross/hill academy was the second-best.ironically , detroit s public schools have been rated as the worst large urban school district in the country .
in 2009 , 2011 , 2013 and 2015 , the national assessment of education progress did assessments and detroit was rated as the worst in each time.washington examiner according to a highly regarded study , in just one year michigan charter school students earn an additional two months of learning gains over their traditional public school counterparts .
for detroit , charter students get an additional three months of learning in math and reading when compared to their traditional school peers.most michigan charter schools are authorized by state universities , and most conventional public school districts do not authorize any charters .
detroit is an exception , having authorized 14 charters .
michigan capitol confidential