sydney ( reuters ) - australian prime minister malcolm turnbull said on tuesday nine war ships set for construction in 2020 will be fitted with long-range anti-missile defense systems to counter the threat of rogue nations .
australia s proposed frigates will use aegis combat systems , produced by lockheed martin , in conjunction with saab australia technology , turnbull said .
tensions in the region have spiked considerably in recent months as north korea conducted a series of tests of its medium- and long-range ballistic missiles , some of which flew over japan , as well as its sixth nuclear test on sept. 3 .
pyongyang , which ultimately wants to target the u.s. mainland with a nuclear-tipped ballistic missile , has said its missiles could strike australia .
recent events in our region have proven that australia s future frigates must be equipped to defend australia from the threat of medium- and long-range missile attacks , turnbull said in a speech in sydney .
work on the frigates is set to begin in 2020 , with bae systems , navantia and fincantieri all competing for the a $ 35 billion ( $ 27.39 billion ) contract .
turnbull said the decision to award the missile defense system contract allows the three bidders enough time to incorporate aegis technology into their bids .
australia is expected to announce the winner of the frigate contract in early 2018 .
the decision to fit the frigates - also a cornerstone of australia s plan to counter an expected rise in submarine activity in the region - suggests canberra will use the ships in a dual capacity .
the missile defense will protect australia s forward based forces and in a coalition scenario , said euan graham , director of the national security program at the lowy institute , an australian think-tank .
countering submarines requires vessels that move freely in the region , in contrast to static vessels used for detecting missiles .
the decision to use the aegis ballistic missile defense systems brings australia in line with u.s. , japanese and korean vessels , allowing international cooperation , vice admiral tim barrett , australia s navy chief , told reporters in sydney .
the choice of the aegis system allows australia to plug into the u.s. alliance .
they will be able to share data from vessels and potentially aircraft , said graham .
the frigates will be the next major component of australia s plan to increase defense spending by a $ 30 billion to be worth a $ 195 billion , or 2 percent of gdp , by 2021-2022 as canberra seeks to protect its strategic and trade interests in the asia-pacific .
australia selected french naval contractor dcns last year to build its fleet of 12 submarines , ahead of other offers from japan and germany , one the world s most lucrative defense contracts .