johannesburg ( reuters ) - cyril ramaphosa , the new leader of south africa s governing anc party , said on thursday he aims to stamp out corruption and pursue a policy of radical economic transformation that will speed up expropriation of land without compensation .
ramaphosa , a 65-year-old union leader who became a businessman and is now one of south africa s richest people , is likely to become the country s next president after elections in 2019 , because of his party s electoral dominance .
his promise to fight rampant corruption and revitalize the economy has been hailed by foreign investors .
this conference has resolved that corruption must be fought with the same intensity and purpose that we fight poverty , unemployment and inequality , ramaphosa said in his maiden speech at the close of a five-day party meeting where he was elected .
we must also act fearlessly against alleged corruption and abuse of office within our ranks , he said in the early hours of thursday after a long delay .
ramaphosa , who is south africa s deputy president , was elected the new leader of the african national congress ( anc ) on monday , succeeding president jacob zuma as party head after zuma s presidency became tainted with corruption allegations .
ramaphosa s narrow victory over former cabinet minister and african union commission chairwoman nkosazana dlamini-zuma , 68 , is seen as a pivotal moment for the anc , which launched black-majority rule under nelson mandela s leadership 23 years ago but is now deeply divided with its image tarnished .
ramaphosa paid tribute to zuma in his speech , saying the anc would be united despite a fractious campaign .
zuma had backed his ex-wife dlamini-zuma for anc s top job .
however , investors are concerned that ramaphosa may not be able to push through policy changes because the anc s top decision-making group , known as the top six , was split down the middle , with three politicians apiece drawn from ramaphosa s camp and that of dlamini-zuma .
analysts warned that the division of the party presidency , held by ramaphosa , and the state presidency in zuma s hands , could lead to policy uncertainty or paralysis .
mr. zuma , for instance , still occupies south africa s presidency a cohabitation that may cause a period of policy uncertainty , capital economics africa economist john ashbourne said in a note .
expectations that ramaphosa would win the anc race had pushed the rand to 12.5200 per dollar on monday , its firmest since march 27 , when a cabinet reshuffle by zuma rocked markets and triggered credit ratings downgrades to junk .
the rand weakened on tuesday , but firmed on wednesday as investors continued to digest how much clout ramaphosa wields .
victory for ramaphosa , but not a loss for zuma , said geoff blount , managing director at bayhill capital .
zuma has faced allegations of corruption since he became head of state in 2009 , but has denied any wrongdoing .
the president has also faced allegations that his friends the wealthy gupta businessmen wielded undue influence over his government .
zuma and the guptas have denied the accusations .
ramaphosa alluded to these allegations in his speech , saying , at the state level we must confront the reality that critical institutions of our state have been targeted by individuals and families , through the exercise of influence and the manipulation of governance processes and public resources .
he said this had weakened the state-owned enterprises in africa s most industrialized economy .
south africa , the continent s traditional powerhouse , has had lethargic growth over the last six years and the jobless rate stands near record levels .
ramaphosa also had a warning for corporate executives .
we must investigate without fear or favor the so-called accounting irregularities that cause turmoil in the markets and wipe billions off the investments of ordinary south africans , he said .
south african furniture retailer steinhoff , has been embroiled in a scandal over accounting irregularities , which have wiped more than $ 10 billion off its market value over the past two weeks .
ramaphosa also said he would aim to expedite job creation , improve the lackluster economy and speed up the transfer of land to black people .
two decades after the end of apartheid , the anc is under pressure to redress racial disparities in land ownership where whites own most of the land .
this conference has resolved that the expropriation of land without compensation should be among the mechanisms available to government to give effect to land reform and redistribution , ramaphosa said .
he said the land transfers would be speeded up under the radical economic transformation program , a vague anc plan to tackle racial inequality .