barcelona ( reuters ) - barcelona s mayor has asked for reassurances that municipal staff would not face legal action or lose their jobs if they helped to organize an oct. 1 referendum on catalonia seceding from spain .
however , some of the region s nearly 1,000 mayors have already said they would go ahead with the vote , despite it being declared illegal by madrid .
having originally offered to allow premises across the city to be used as polling stations , barcelona mayor ada colau has asked the catalan government for further reassurances that civil servants involved would be protected , her office said .
we support the right to participate and protest completely but we will repeat what we have said many times before : we will not put at risk institutions or civil servants , barcelona s deputy mayor , gerardo pisarello , said on friday .
catalonia s parliament voted on wednesday to hold an independence referendum on oct. 1 , setting up a clash with the spanish government that has vowed to stop what it says would be an illegal vote .
polls in the northeastern region show support for self-rule waning as spain s economy improves .
but the majority of catalans do want the opportunity to vote on whether to split from spain .
as of friday night , 674 of catalonia s 948 municipal districts had informed the government of their intention to allow city spaces to be used for the vote , according to the municipal association for independence ( ami ) .
in a video posted on twitter , the mayor of the cerdanyola municipality tore in half a letter from the constitutional court warning of the legal repercussions of participating in the referendum to applause from the crowd watching .
pro-independence groups protested on friday outside the offices of several mayors across catalonia who announced they would not allow municipal spaces to be used for the vote .
on saturday , spanish police searched the offices of a weekly newspaper in the town of valls in search of ballot papers , according to newspaper la vanguardia .
on friday , the civil guard police searched a printing company near tarragona , reportedly in search of materials to be used in the independence vote .
spain s civil guard police was unavailable for comment but a court statement said the searches were related to charges brought by the public prosecutor in relation to the referendum .