( reuters ) - donald trump raised $ 1.7 million from donors and loaned his white house campaign $ 7.5 million in april as he moved closer to becoming the republican nominee for president , according to documents filed with the u.s. federal election commission ( fec ) on friday .
the new york businessman had loaned his campaign a total of $ 43.5 million as of the end of april , the filings showed .
more recently , he has made moves to build up his fundraising operation with an eye toward the nov. 8 general election .
trump became the republican party ’ s presumptive nominee in early may , when both of his rivals dropped out of the race .
trump self-funded much of his primary run , but he has said he will not rely as heavily on his own money for the general election , when he will face the democratic nominee .
both people seeking the democratic nomination have raised more than trump .
hillary clinton , the party ’ s front-runner , brought in $ 26.4 million in april , including funds from a joint fundraising effort with the democratic party .
an outside super pac supporting her campaign raised $ 8.6 million .
a super pac is a fund-raising group that must operate separate from political campaigns but can raise unlimited sums .
u.s .
senator bernie sanders , clinton ’ s rival for the democratic nomination , raised $ 26.9 million in april .
he has disavowed super pacs .
trump has criticized them too , though a long-time republican operative in may joined one super pac backing the real estate mogul .
in may , trump hired investor steven mnuchin as his national finance chairman and entered a joint fundraising deal with the republican national committee that will allow donors to write much bigger checks .
friday ’ s fec filings do not reflect these moves , but they show that trump ’ s fundraising dipped in april , after he brought in about $ 3 million and loaned himself $ 11.5 million in march .
he also spent less in april , $ 9.4 million compared with $ 13.8 million a month earlier , when more states held nominating contests .
trump spent $ 2.6 million on advertising in april , less than half the $ 6.3 million he spent in march .
by comparison , sanders spent $ 17.3 million and clinton spent $ 9.3 million on advertising in april .
trump ’ s consulting and payroll spending also dropped about 30 percent to a total $ 1.7 million in april , even as he added experienced political staff .
at the end of march , he hired veteran republican strategist paul manafort .
trump ended april with $ 2.4 million on hand , after starting the month with $ 2.1 million at the ready .