fashion designer donna karan is standing by harvey weinstein and has suggested his alleged victims may have been asking for it by the way the women act and dress.during a red carpet interview at the cin fashion film awards on sunday , the dkny creator was asked to weigh in on the scandal hours after the disgraced film mogul was fired from his company.unlike many hollywood stars and celebs , karan did not condemn the 65-year-old , who has been accused of sexually harassing multiple women over the span of decades , and instead pointed the finger at his accusers.she told a reporter : i think we have to look at ourselves .
obviously , the treatment of women all over the world is something that has always had to be identified .
certainly in the country of haiti where i work , in africa , in the developing world , it s been a hard time for women .
to see it here in our own country is very difficult , but i also think how do we display ourselves ?
how do we present ourselves as women ?
what are we asking ?
are we asking for it by presenting all the sensuality and all the sexuality ?
and what are we throwing out to our children today about how to dance and how to perform and what to wear ?
how much should they show ?
karan s comments are striking as a legend in the fashion world and having designed women s clothing for decades .
her comments come as many of weinstein s former friends , including judi dench and meryl streep , have denounced the producer based on the bombshell allegations.she added that she knows weinstein s wife georgina chapman and described the couple as wonderful people .
when asked whether hollywood has been busted , she replied with a smile : i don t think it s only harvey weinstein.after karan s report circulated online , rose mcgowan one of weinstein s alleged victims , and a vocal opponent of the producer online called her deplorable .
in a tweet on sunday , mcgowan posted a screenshot of this dailymail.com article with the message donna karan you are a deplorable .
aiding and abetting is a moral crime .
you are scum in a fancy dress .
mcgowan also tweeted this image of herself in her 20 s when weinstein allegedly sexually assaulted her.last year , she tweeted under the hashtag # whywomendontreport with the message because my ex sold our movie to my rapist for distribution .according to the new york times report that initiated weinstein s downfall this week , mcgowan sued the producer in the 1990s but settled out of court for $ 100,000 .
daily mail