why is the news just breaking that former trump campaign manager paul manafort s home was raised by the fbi on july 26th ?
why would wapo release this info now ?
while we have serious questions about the timing of this pseudo breaking and developing news , we have more serious questions on why none of the obama criminals have also been treated to a raid by the fbi ?
fbi agents raided the virginia home of paul manafort , president trump s former campaign chairman in late july , taking documents and other materials related to the * investigation into russia s meddling in the 2016 election , the washington post reported .
* after one entire year of investigations , they have nothing ! armed with a search warrant , federal agents went to manafort s alexandria home during the predawn hours of july 26 one day after he met voluntarily with members of the senate intelligence committee.the search warrant seems to indicate that investigators may have had reason to believe manafort could not be trusted to turn over all of the records requested in response to a grand jury subpoena , the post reported , citing people familiar with the special counsel investigation.special counsel robert mueller has cranked up the intensity and legal pressure on manafort on a series of unrelated investigations into various aspects of his personal and professional life.as a lobbyist and political consultant in the 1980s , manafort worked with international clients including two dictators.washington post presumes to know why the fbi would raid manafort s home but we still see nothing implicating him in any crime .
he was trump s campaign manager for a brief time and had his own past dealing with international clients .
this shouldn t be a blip on the radar of the investigation connecting anything to president trump ! washington post reported : in many ways , manafort is squarely in the crosshairs of the russia-trump collusion investigation : his brief tenure as the head of trump s campaign happened as concerns about russia s meddling in the 2016 election were heating up , he s got high-level connections to russia in his own right , and he s got a whole host of scrutinized financial dealings that could make him a useful tool for investigators seeking cooperation.we d love to have input on this delayed reporting that has been the big story weeks after !
strange , very strange ! fox news even got in on the act : remember that this happened on july 26th ! this banner was at the top of the fox news website !