berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel and her conservative bavarian allies meet the leader of the centre-left social democrats ( spd ) on wednesday to start exploring the possibility of governing together .
the two groups have ruled in a grand coalition for the last four years , but the spd had vowed to go into opposition after voters rewarded it with its worst-ever post-war election result .
the collapse of talks on a three-way coalition forced the spd to re-consider in the interests of political stability .
the conservative bloc and spd are likely to clash over healthcare , immigration , europe , work regulations and pensions .
the spd wants to introduce citizen insurance , to end the differences between germany s private and public systems which , it argues , cater for the rich and poor respectively .
the spd wants everyone to be insured in the same way via citizen insurance .
however , conservatives , including merkel , have rejected this , saying switching to one healthcare system would decrease market competition and lead to worse healthcare .
the spd wants to stabilize pensions at 48 percent of the average wage by 2030 , to be financed from reserves in the pension fund in the next few years .
it aims to raise the contribution rate faster from 2024 .
the total cost of the spd s proposal will amount to 19.2 billion euros ( $ 22.55 billion ) in 2030 .
the conservatives want to first form a commission to debate what is necessary to do .
the two parties agree in broad terms on a pro-europe agenda for germany , but the spd wants deeper integration than the conservatives .
spd leader martin schulz has called for closer eu integration , with the aim of achieving a united states of europe by 2025 .
this goes too far for merkel s conservatives .
[ l8n1o90iu ] last october , merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) agreed with her conservative bavarian allies , the christian social union ( csu ) , to put a number on how many people germany would accept per year on humanitarian grounds .
the spd rejects such a cap .
the two parties also disagree on the suspension of family reunifications for asylum seekers who were granted humanitarian protection in germany .
the spd is against a conservative plan to extend a suspension for reunifications which will expire in march 2018 .
the two blocs are also at odds on the repatriation of syrian refugees accused of crimes .
[ l1n1nz1li ]