santiago ( reuters ) - a coalition of chilean leftist parties on thursday challenged presidential contender alejandro guillier to clarify his social and economic policies , withholding the outright endorsement sought by the center-left candidate .
beatriz sanchez , the flagbearer for the hard-left frente amplio coalition , also criticized conservative ex-president sebastian pinera , the frontrunner , and called him a step back for the country , in a statement issued after a party meeting .
pinera and guillier will face off in a dec. 17 runoff vote after placing first and second respectively in the first round of the election on nov. 19 .
sanchez , who campaigned on a promise to tax mining companies and the super-rich in order to boost social spending , finished just two percentage points behind guillier .
her stronger-than-anticipated performance spooked markets and ensured the bloc will have influence , both in congress and over campaigning for the second round .
we are not the owners of anyone s vote , so we call on our supporters to make their voices heard in this second round , and to vote according to their own convictions and analysis , sanchez said on national television .
she challenged guillier to clarify his positions on her bloc s priorities , including overhauling the country s highly privatized pension system , forgiving the student loans of university graduates and re-writing chile s dictatorship-era constitution .
this isn t about negotiating with us .
it s about negotiating with those who overwhelmingly support these changes in our society , she said .
guillier did not immediately respond to the demands of the frente amplio .
but winning over sanchez s 1.3 million voters is seen by guillier s camp as essential in triumphing over pinera .
guillier said at a campaign event on monday that he would need everyone s support to advance .
he has offered to forgive the debt of 40 percent of the country s poorest university students and said he remained open to rewriting chile s constitution , both policies intended to appeal to leftist voters .
but guillier must walk a fine line , as a too-sharp turn to the left could push more moderate voters - historically a large and potent voting bloc in chile - to pinera .
both candidates would keep in place the top copper exporter s longstanding free-market economic model , but pinera has promised investor-friendly policies to turbocharge growth , while guillier wants to press on with outgoing president michelle bachelet s overhaul of education , taxes and labor laws .