manila ( reuters ) - there is a strong likelihood philippine president rodrigo duterte will lift a suspension on police from his war on drugs , his spokesman said on thursday , a move likely to alarm activists who accuse police of committing murder under the guise of drug busts .
amid international concern over the staggering death toll and several killings of youngsters , president rodrigo duterte last month suspended police anti-narcotics operations for a second time and put the country s undermanned drugs enforcement agency , pdea , in charge .
presidential spokesman harry roque reiterated duterte s concern expressed last week that the drugs problem could intensify and gains might be lost with the philippine national police ( pnp ) sidelined .
a decision will soon be made , roque told a regular briefing .
that s the president s call .
if he thinks it ( the war on drugs ) must be returned ( to the pnp ) then it must be , the pdea has been given enough time .
he added : effectively he has manifested already a decision to return it to the pnp .
close to 4,000 mostly urban poor filipinos have been killed in what police say are anti-drug operations .
human rights groups and political opponents say executions of drug users and small-time peddlers have been widespread , but police insist those killed were all dealers who put up violent resistance .
police have rebuffed criticism and cite 117,000 arrests as proof that their policy is to preserve life .
they also deny links to at least 2,000 mysterious street killings of drug users .
roque said duterte knew the police had flaws and would not tolerate abuses , but he still believed in them .
he suspended police in january and reinstated them five weeks later , arguing that drugs were pouring back to the streets .
it is unclear why he removed them again on oct. 11 .
his directive was to bring order to the campaign , but in angry , at times incoherent speeches , he suggested he was trying to appease the international community .
duterte last week oversaw his biggest international summit yet but there was no known challenge from other leaders to his war on drugs , including from u.s. president donald trump .
the volatile duterte did , however , lash out afterwards about canadian prime minister justin trudeau , calling it an insult that he should express his concern to him .
phelim kine , deputy director of human rights watch in asia , said people should brace for more bloodshed and called again for a united nations-led international investigation .
until that happens , the number of victims denied justice and accountability will likely only continue to grow , he wrote in a web posting .