jerusalem ( reuters ) - president donald trump announced on wednesday that the united states recognizes jerusalem as the capital of israel and that it will move its embassy to the holy city .
in doing so , trump is breaking with longtime u.s. policy and potentially threatening regional stability , despite warnings from western and arab allies .
why is president trump planning to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital and move the embassy there ?
there has long been pressure from pro-israel politicians in the united states to move its embassy from tel aviv to jerusalem , and trump made it a signature promise of his campaign during the 2016 presidential election .
it is a decision that will likely be popular with many conservative and evangelical christians in his political base .
many of them support political recognition of israel s claim to the city .
vice president mike pence and david friedman , the ambassador to israel appointed by trump , are thought to have pushed hard for both recognition and embassy relocation .
why does jerusalem play such an important role in the middle east conflict ?
religion , politics and history .
jerusalem is a city that is sacred to three of the great monotheistic faiths : judaism , christianity and islam , and each has sites of great religious significance there .
it has been fought over for millennia by its inhabitants , by invading romans , crusaders , ottomans and the british empire , and by the modern states of israel and its arab neighbors .
israel s government regards jerusalem as the eternal and indivisible capital of the country , although that is not recognized internationally .
palestinians feel equally strongly , saying that east jerusalem must be the capital of an eventual palestinian state .
the city even has different names .
jews call it jerusalem , or yerushalayim , and arabs call it al-quds , which means the holy .
but the city s significance goes beyond the two parties most immediately involved .
at the heart of jerusalem s old city is the hill which is known to jews across the world as har ha-bayit , or temple mount , and to muslims internationally as al-haram al-sharif , or the noble sanctuary .
it was home to the jewish temples of antiquity but all that remains of them above ground is a restraining wall for the foundations built by herod the great .
known as the western wall , this is a sacred place of prayer for jews .
within yards of the wall , and overlooking it , are two muslim holy places , the dome of the rock and the al-aqsa mosque , which was built in the 8th century .
muslims regard the site as the third holiest in islam , after mecca and medina .
the city is also an important pilgrimage site for christians , who revere it as the place where they believe that jesus christ preached , died and was resurrected .
what is the city s status now and does any other country have an embassy in jerusalem ?
when british rule ended in 1948 , jordanian forces occupied the old city and arab east jerusalem .
israel captured east jerusalem from jordan in the 1967 middle east war and annexed it in a move not recognized internationally .
in 1980 the israeli parliament passed a law declaring the complete and united city of jerusalem to be the capital of israel , but the united nations regards east jerusalem as occupied , and the city s status as disputed until resolved by negotiations between israel and the palestinians .
other countries have had embassies in jerusalem in the past , but moved them out of the city some years ago .
the king of jordan retains a role in ensuring the upkeep of the muslim holy places .
what is likely to happen next ?
has jerusalem been a flashpoint before ?
tensions are running high in jerusalem , and violence has erupted before over matters of sovereignty and religion .
in 1969 an australian messianic christian tried to burn down the al-aqsa mosque .
he failed , but caused damage .
so charged was the middle east s political climate - just two years after the six day war - that there was fury across the arab world .
in 2000 , the israeli politician ariel sharon , then opposition leader , led a group of israeli lawmakers onto the temple mount/al-haram al-sharif complex .
palestinians protested , and there were violent clashes that quickly escalated into the second palestinian uprising , also known as the al-aqsa intifada .
deadly confrontations also took place in july this year after israel installed metal detectors at the entrance to the complex following the killing of two israeli policemen there by arab-israeli gunmen .
in recent days , palestinian factions have called for protests , and arab leaders across the middle east have warned that a unilateral american move could lead to turmoil , and hamper u.s. efforts to restart long-stalled israeli-palestinian peace talks .