white people the only lives that don t matter .
imagine the outrage if he were taking a victory lap over a study showing muslims dying in increasing numbers citing a study that shows middle american whites are dying in increasing numbers , like a twisted and bitter eugenicist , serial-plagiarist fareed zakaria doesn t even attempt to contain his glee .
by painting those who are supposedly dying as useless , drug-addicted ragers , he paints a picture of a weak , angry , and ultimately stupid ethnic group getting what it deserves.if this were any other group , zakaria would not be using the pages of the washington post for a victory dance .
instead , he would be launching an emotional blackmail campaign to cure this epidemic with hundreds of billions of federal dollars .
like most of the elite media , though , zakaria despises middle america , so he joyously assumes the study is accurate and bloodlessly screams told you so !
the headline says it all : america s self-destructive whites , and naturally the opening paragraph contains the words donald and trump .
why is middle america killing itself ?
the fact itself is probably the most important social science finding in years .
it is already reshaping american politics .
the post s jeff guo notes that the people who make up this cohort are largely responsible for donald trump s lead in the race for the republican nomination for president .
what does this epidemic mean to zakaria ? that it s time for compassion ? time for government action ? time for understanding ? no .
it means more rage from creepy middle america : the key question is why , and exploring it provides answers that suggest that the rage dominating u.s. politics will only get worse.zakaria hints that the study s numbers are a tad shaky , but that doesn t stop him from doing a happy dance around the fact that middle america s got it coming .the main causes of death are as striking as the fact itself : suicide , alcoholism , and overdoses of prescription and illegal drugs .
people seem to be killing themselves , slowly or quickly , deaton told me .
these circumstances are usually caused by stress , depression and despair.middle america s a bunch of wussies .a conventional explanation for this middle-class stress and anxiety is that globalization and technological change have placed increasing pressures on the average worker in industrialized nations .
but the trend is absent in any other western country it s an exclusively american phenomenon .
and the united states is actually relatively insulated from the pressures of globalization , having a vast , self-contained internal market.stupid middle america should stop voting against the welfare state deaton speculated to me that perhaps europe s more generous welfare state might ease some of the fears associated with the rapid change.middle america s spoiled by white privilege [ o ] ther groups might not expect that their income , standard of living and social status are destined to steadily improve .
they don t have the same confidence that if they work hard , they will surely get ahead .
in fact , rouse said that after hundreds of years of slavery , segregation and racism , blacks have developed ways to cope with disappointment and the unfairness of life [ .
] they do not assume that the system is set up for them .
they try hard and hope to succeed , but they do not expect it as the norm.donald trump can t save you ! mwuh , huh , huh , huh donald trump has promised that he will change this and make them win again .
but he can t. no one can .
and deep down , they know it .
via : breitbart news