washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump , who has for months rained withering ridicule on onetime party favorite jeb bush , on sunday refused to take responsibility for the former florida governor ’ s exit from the 2016 white house race .
“ i just don ’ t know what did him in , ” trump , who won south carolina ’ s republican primary election handily on saturday , said in an interview on cnn .
trump had repeatedly made bush the target of pointed attacks throughout his campaign for the republican nomination to run in the nov. 8 general election , labeling him “ weak , ” “ low-energy ” and “ an embarrassment ” to the bush political dynasty .
on sunday , trump denied any role he may have played in taking down bush , who ended his campaign on saturday night after a fourth-place finish in south carolina .
“ jeb fought very hard , ” the billionaire businessman said .
“ it wasn ’ t his time .
that ’ s all. ” bush , the brother of one president and the son of another , had prided himself as the only candidate to attack trump head-on throughout the campaign and frequently accused him of lacking ideas .
he appeared to take one last jab at trump in his concession speech on saturday , saying : “ despite what you may have heard , ideas matter .
policy matters. ” sounding less like his normally combative self , trump on sunday credited bush in a pair of interviews with having fought hard in the campaign and called him “ very capable. ” “ those last couple of weeks he was on television so much , i was looking , i ’ d say , ‘ man , i ’ ve never seen anything like this , ’ ” trump said on cnn .
he did , however , chide bush for having run “ brutal ” negative ads against him , saying he was “ a little bit offended. ” “ so , you know , this is a tough business , i will tell you , ” the billionaire real-estate mogul said of presidential politics .
“ i think real estate in manhattan is a lot easier. ” ( reporting by megan cassella ; editing by jonathan oatis ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .