strasbourg ( reuters ) - the president of the european commission said on wednesday he saw no prospect of turkey joining the eu in the foreseeable future but he had a more optimistic message for six western balkan nations also seeking membership .
the european union has become increasingly critical of turkey s decades-long membership drive after president tayyip erdogan launched a major crackdown on critics - including journalists and academics - after a failed 2016 coup .
turkey has been taking giant strides away from the european union for some time , jean-claude juncker , head of the executive commission , said in his annual keynote speech to the european parliament on the state of the bloc .
accession candidates must give the rule of law , justice and fundamental rights utmost priority .
this rules out eu membership for turkey for the foreseeable future .
juncker referred to a war of words between berlin and ankara , in which erdogan accused berlin of nazi-like tactics , prompting chancellor angela merkel to call for an end to turkey s membership talks , despite it being a crucial nato ally .
journalists belong in newsrooms not in prisons .
they belong where freedom of expression reigns , juncker said .
stop insulting our member states by comparing their leaders to fascists and nazis .
formally ending turkey s accession negotiations would require unanimity among eu states , which is lacking , though majority backing is enough to suspend them .
eu leaders will discuss turkey at a summit in brussels in october , though any formal decision may not come before next spring .
juncker put a final stamp on the eu s recently-revived engagement in the balkans , where serbia , albania , macedonia , montenegro , bosnia and kosovo all want to join the eu one day .
if we want more stability in our neighborhood , then we must maintain a credible enlargement perspective for the western balkans , juncker said .
the region on the eu s south-eastern edge , still scarred by the wars fought along political , ethnic and religious lines in the 1990s , is important for the bloc for issues from controlling immigration to countering security threats .
earlier this year , the eu accused russia of seeking to destabilize the western balkans - which moscow denied - and its concerns have led to a renewed engagement in the region .
with britain now scheduled to exit the eu in 2019 , juncker said he saw no new enlargement of the bloc before 2020 .
but thereafter the european union will be greater than 27 in number , he added .
eu officials say serbia , albania and macedonia could be closest to joining , possibly allowing for an eu of 30 states by around 2025 , though they avoid setting any firm deadlines .
juncker s comments came in a speech in which he urged the eu to catch the wind in its sails after years of battling crises from the euro zone to migration to brexit .