dakar/accra ( reuters ) - the international tribunal for the law of the sea on saturday drew an ocean boundary favoring ghana in a dispute with its neighbor ivory coast , opening the way for development drilling to resume on ghana s multi-billion dollar ten deepwater oil and gas project .
the decade-old row between the two west african neighbors has slowed the development of oil fields and at times soured relations between the two oil producers , who also together grow 60 percent of the world s cocoa .
the special chamber unanimously finds that ghana did not violate the sovereign rights of c te d ivoire , said judge boualem bouguetaia , president of the special chamber .
an official at the court said that the boundary delineated by the tribunal did not correspond with the claim of either party .
however , the angle appeared to be very close to the line claimed by ghana and politicians welcomed the news .
the judgment is very consistent with ghana s position all along and so we are thankful to god , vice president mahamudu bawumia said on local television on saturday , describing the dispute as friendly and brotherly .
ivorian officials were not immediately available to comment .
... we can now restart work on the additional drilling planned as part of the ten fields plan of development and take the fields toward their full potential , said paul mcdade , chief executive of london-listed oil company tullow oil , the lead operator of the project .
tullow said in a statement it now expected to resume drilling around the end of the year , which would allow production to start to increase toward the full capacity of the floating production , storage and offloading vessel of 80,000 barrels per day ( bpd ) from around 50,000 bpd currently .
kosmos energy , anadarko petroleum corporation , ghana national petroleum corporation and petrosa also have stakes in the ten project .
the ruling , while expected since ghana s claim was based on the customary equidistant line , comes as a huge relief for ghana which is counting on oil revenues to boost its economic growth back to the levels hit before a 2014 fiscal crisis .
ivory coast had been seeking compensation for oil field developments in the area but the tribunal rejected this claim .
analysts had predicted that a loss for ghana would have resulted in complicated contract renegotiations and loss of significant revenue that could worsen the economy , dogged by high public debt .
tullow has said it has already invested around $ 4 billion in the ten project .
ghana , also africa s second largest gold producer , discovered oil in 2007 , prompting its western neighbor which had been pumping oil for decades to revive a claim to some of its territorial waters .
several rounds of talks failed to result in a deal on the border which , like many other african sea borders , had until now never officially been set .