art is about pushing limits .
i m willing to go to jail for my constitutional rights .
are you ?
anthony elonisthe supreme court struck another blow for free speech monday , ruling that threats made over the internet are protected unless they are malevolent or reckless.the decision was a temporary victory for anthony elonis and those like him whose threatening words on facebook or similar social media sites may instill fear in their targets .
but it was a defeat for the government and groups that defend victims of domestic violence.chief justice john roberts wrote the decision for a near-unanimous court .
justice clarence thomas dissented , and justice samuel alito dissented in part.elonis was 27 and recently unemployed in pennsylvania five years ago when he began posting threats against his estranged wife and others , from a generic kindergarten class to the fbi agents who came to his door .
he was convicted on four counts of transmitting threats and sentenced to 44 months in prison .
he completed his term a year ago.the question that has split federal appeals courts is whether the threats must be intentional , or whether they are illegal just because a reasonable person such as those on the receiving end takes them seriously .
elonis was convicted under the latter standard ; a majority of justices ruled that s not sufficient.elonis might not be off the hook , however .
the high court s ruling means his case will be sent back to a lower court to determine whether he meant what he posted or , as he claimed , was just exercising his right to artistic expression .
if the court rules that his posts were intentionally threatening , his conviction will stand.the case represents a critical test of free speech in the internet age , when words that seem threatening emanate from violent spouses and video game-players alike .
the justices were seeking a rule that could result in locking up the former and letting the latter off the hook.elonis case offered a perfect test .
after his wife , tara , left him and took their two children , he lost his job at an allentown , pa. , amusement park and began a series of dark posts containing explicit references to violence against his wife , coworkers , kindergartners , police and the fbi.sometimes , he imitated rap lyrics .
other times , he referred to his first amendment rights .
his lawyers said it was a form of therapy as well as art .
did you know that it s illegal for me to say i want to kill my wife ?
elonis wrote in one of many posts .
it s illegal .
it s indirect criminal contempt .
it s one of the only sentences that i m not allowed to say .
the lengthy diatribe copied nearly word-for-word a satirical sketch by the whitest kids u know comedy troupe , concluding with elonis own summation : art is about pushing limits .
i m willing to go to jail for my constitutional rights .
are you ?
read more : dfp