denmark , south carolina ( reuters ) - betty odom-bell , a 47-year-old entrepreneur , took a financial risk last year when she opened a restaurant in denmark , a small town in the middle of a deeply depressed part of rural south carolina .
so when democratic presidential hopeful hillary clinton visited denmark earlier this month promising to transform the region into a “ corridor of opportunity , ” odom-bell felt reassured .
“ it ’ s almost like we ’ re a forgotten town , ” she said , describing her surprise at clinton ’ s visit to the town of 3,500 .
“ with her , there ’ s a connection .
i don ’ t have that with bernie , ” she said , referring to clinton rival bernie sanders .
clinton is poised to win big over the u.s. senator from vermont in south carolina ’ s primary contest on saturday , in part because of her outsized support among the state ’ s rural black poor - a bloc that sanders has struggled to impress .
interviews with residents in bamberg and allendale counties show her appeal is not just about the differences in her social policies , or her widespread name recognition .
it also results from her up-close campaigning style .
over the past several weeks , she has stumped in parts of the state that are off the beaten-path , reinforcing connections with audiences that stretch back decades , and peppering her speeches with the names of local leaders .
sanders in contrast , has focused his visits on south carolina ’ s big cities and universities , rallying large audiences with his self-styled democratic socialist platform , while relying heavily on surrogates to do his work elsewhere .
plans offered by sanders to address wealth inequality and improve access to education and healthcare have attracted interest , but many complain they do not feel they know him well enough to vote for him .
“ both of them are good candidates , but i ’ m leaning hillary , ” said marion roberts , a 65-year-old retiree having coffee at a fast food restaurant on allendale ’ s main street , where many storefronts are shuttered .
“ sanders talks good , but i know more about her. ” allendale county ’ s 10,000 residents are nearly three-fourths black , and its unemployment rate , at about 9 percent , is nearly double the national average .
about a third of the county ’ s population lives below the poverty line , making it fertile ground for candidates shopping progressive social policies .
clinton ’ s campaign has said south carolina will act as an early “ firewall ” against sanders , who beat her in new hampshire ’ s primary and posted strong showings in iowa and nevada , but is expected to do worse as the race shifts south .
nationwide , sanders has built on his popularity with young and liberal voters to narrow the race to a statistical dead heat .
but clinton still holds a massive 40 percentage point advantage among black democrats , according to reuters/ipsos polling .
clinton ’ s advantage results in part from her husband bill clinton ’ s outreach to black voters during his presidency .
some voters also like that hillary clinton has promised to build on president barack obama ’ s agenda .
allendale city mayor ronnie jackson , for example , says he is backing clinton in part because allendale , a town of about 3,800 , depends on money under an obama administration stimulus program for impoverished communities .
he hopes clinton would continue the support .
“ that ’ s the only way we can survive , ” he said .
but he also points to differences in the way she and sanders have campaigned .
sanders supporters have contacted him repeatedly by phone , he said , but he saw clinton in the flesh at denmark town hall on feb. 12 , just half an hour away .
over the summer , clinton also hosted a listening session for local leaders , many from rural areas , and she recently won the endorsement of u.s. congressman jim clyburn , the only south carolina democrat in the house of representatives .
sanders , meanwhile , has touted his college civil rights activism , met with black civil rights leaders and hosted an event at a historically black college .
some of those efforts have shown signs of success among young blacks .
but his campaigning in rural areas has been mainly by proxy - including a visit on monday to allendale by campaigners organized by national nurses united .
sanders himself moved on to other states in the run up to saturday ’ s primary , while clinton continued to campaign daily there .
james fitts , an 80-year-old allendale resident , said he likes clinton ’ s approach .
“ she ’ s been in it a long time. ” ( editing by richard valdmanis and steve orlofsky ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .