doha ( reuters ) - qatar s defense minister has signed a letter of intent to purchase 24 typhoon jets from british defense group bae systems , in a move that could anger other gulf countries boycotting doha .
saudi arabia , the uae , egypt and bahrain cut diplomatic and trade links with qatar on june 5 , suspending air and shipping routes with the world s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas , which is home to the region s biggest u.s. military base .
the letter of intent includes the ministry s intention to purchase 24 modern typhoon aircraft with all their equipment , state news agency qna reported on sunday .
the agreement was signed by minister of state for defence affairs khalid bin mohammed al attiyah and his british counterpart michael fallon , qna added .
this will be the first major defense contract with qatar , one of the uk s strategic partners , britain s ministry of defence said in a statement , adding that talks over a deal had taken several years .
we also hope that this will help enhance security within the region across all gulf allies .
the eurofighter typhoon is a joint project between bae , france s airbus and italy s finmeccanica [ sifif.ul ] and supports an estimated 40,000 jobs in britain .
neither statement gave the cost of the combat jet deal .
bae had agreed in 2014 to supply saudi arabia with 72 typhoon jets in a deal worth 4.43 billion pounds ( $ 6 billion ) .
fallon told a conference in london , on saturday , the british government will step up efforts to help bae systems to sell more typhoon jets with government-to-government deals .
the typhoon has attracted fewer orders this year than the rival rafale built by france s dassault aviation , which has agreed deals with egypt and qatar .
qatar also signed a deal in june to buy f-15 fighter jets from boeing co in the united states for $ 12 billion and concluded a 5 billion euro ( $ 6 billion ) deal with italy for seven navy vessels .
the wealthy gulf state has been accused by its neighbors of supporting terrorism and meddling with iran , saudi arabia s arch-rival in the region .
qatar denies the accusations .
the crisis has put the region on edge and prompted turkey to send troops to doha in a sign of support .