beirut/riyadh/amman ( reuters ) - saudi arabia pulled no punches when it condemned president donald trump s move to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel .
but palestinian officials say riyadh has also been working for weeks behind the scenes to press them to support a nascent u.s. peace plan .
trump reversed decades of u.s. policy on wednesday with his announcement and instructions to begin the process of moving the embassy in tel aviv to jerusalem , despite warnings that it would drive the wedge between israel and the palestinians deeper .
the saudi royal court described the decision as unjustified and irresponsible and a big step back in efforts to advance the peace process .
but arab officials privately say that riyadh appears to be on board with a broader u.s. strategy for an israeli-palestinian peace plan still in its early phases of development .
four palestinian officials , who spoke on condition they not be named , said saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman and palestinian president mahmoud abbas discussed in detail a grand bargain that trump and jared kushner , the president s son-in-law and adviser , are expected to unveil in the first half of 2018 .
one official said prince mohammed asked abbas to show support for the u.s. administration s peace efforts when the two met in riyadh in november .
another palestinian official said prince mohammed told abbas : be patient , you will hear good news .
this peace process will go ahead .
the u.s.-saudi relationship has improved dramatically under trump , partly because the leaders share a vision of confronting riyadh s arch-rival iran more aggressively in the region .
kushner , 36 , whose father knew israeli leader benjamin netanyahu , has also nurtured strong personal ties with the 32-year-old crown prince as he asserts saudi influence internationally and amasses power for himself at home .
the saudi royal court did not respond to requests for comment .
a white house official said kushner did not ask the crown prince to talk to abbas about the plan .
palestinian officials fear , and many arab officials suspect , that by closing the door on east jerusalem as the future capital of a palestinian state , trump will align with israel in offering the palestinians limited self-government inside disconnected patches of the occupied west bank , with no right of return for refugees displaced by the arab-israeli wars of 1948 and 1967 .
the palestinian officials said they were concerned that the proposal that prince mohammed communicated to abbas , which purportedly came from kushner , presents exactly that scenario .
as told to abbas , the proposal included establishing a palestinian entity in gaza as well as the west bank administrative areas a and b and 10 percent of area c , which contains jewish settlements , a third palestinian official said .
jewish settlements in the west bank would stay , there would be no right of return , and israel would remain responsible for the borders , he said .
the proposal appears to differ little from existing arrangements in the west bank , widening palestinian control but falling far short of their minimum national demands .
this is rejected by palestinians .
abu mazen ( abbas ) explained the position and its danger to the palestinian cause and saudi arabia understood that , the official said .
the white house official denied that kushner communicated those details to prince mohammed : it does not accurately reflect any part of the conversation .
trump sought to temper the blow from his jerusalem announcement with a phone call to abbas on tuesday , stressing that the palestinians stood to gain from the plan being drawn up by kushner and u.s. middle east envoy jason greenblatt .
president trump in a phone call told abu mazen : i will have some proposals for you that you would like .
when abu mazen pressed him on details , trump didn t give any , the first palestinian official said .
a saudi source said he believed an understanding on israeli-palestinian peace would nonetheless begin to emerge in the coming weeks .
do not underestimate the businessman in ( trump ) .
he has always called it the ultimate deal , the source said , declining to be named because of the sensitivity of the subject .
i don t think our government is going to accept that unless it has something sweetened in the pipeline which ( king salman and the crown prince ) could sell to the arab world that the palestinians would have their own state .
trump s decision on jerusalem is seen almost uniformly in arab capitals as a sharp tilt toward israel , which has only signed peace deals with egypt and jordan .
jordan , a u.s. ally which has played a key role in the peace process since inking its bilateral deal with israel in 1994 , insists that no peace can be achieved without jerusalem .
jordanian political analyst oraib rantawi , who spoke with king abdullah after the monarch met with top u.s. administration officials last week , said amman is worried about being bypassed in favor of saudi arabia .
there are direct dealings and a desire to present a deal that is unfair to the palestinians in return for securing u.s. backing and paving the way for gulf-israeli cooperation to confront iran , he said .
most arab states are unlikely to object to trump s announcement because they find themselves more aligned with israel than ever , particularly on countering iran , said shadi hamid , senior fellow at brookings institution in washington , if saudi officials , including the crown prince himself , were particularly concerned with jerusalem s status , they would presumably have used their privileged status as a top trump ally and lobbied the administration to hold off on such a needlessly toxic move , he wrote in an article published in the atlantic .
it s unlikely trump would have followed through if the saudis had drawn something resembling a red line .
israeli energy minister yuval steinitz , a member of the security cabinet , told army radio in november that israel has had covert contacts with saudi arabia , a disclosure of long-rumored secret dealings between the two countries which have no official ties .
saudi arabia denied the reports .
it maintains that normalizing relations hinges on israeli withdrawal from arab lands captured in the 1967 middle east war , territory palestinians seek for a future state .
but with both saudi arabia and israel viewing iran as a major main threat in the middle east , shared interests may push them to work together .
under prince mohammed , the kingdom is pushing back at what it sees as growing iranian influence in and around its borders .
they ve got an unprecedented level of support from washington right now and seem to be making the most of it , said a diplomat in the region .
they re not willing to jeopardize that .
they ve got bigger fish to fry .