buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentine president mauricio macri s main bulwark against a comeback by his populist predecessor , cristina fernandez , in october s legislative elections is someone whose name is not even on the ballot .
buenos aires governor maria eugenia vidal has been handed the role of ensuring that macri s let s change coalition wins more votes than the list of candidates headed by fernandez , who is running for a senate seat in argentina s most-populous province .
argentina s electoral list system guarantees fernandez will get one of three senate seats up for grabs in the oct. 22 vote .
what is really at play in the election is whether she gets enough support to pose a serious challenge in the 2019 presidential election , when macri is expected to run for a second term .
this election is about electoral power and cristina s ability to make a comeback .
it is not about legislative power , said julio burdman , head of local polling firm observatorio electoral , referring to the midterm vote .
vidal is like captain america .
she was created as a super-soldier for macri to win his war against cristina , he added .
an opinion poll released on tuesday by the firm showed vidal , 44 , was more popular than macri and holds the key to keeping fernandez at bay in buenos aires .
home to about 40 percent of argentine voters , the province is the gateway to the presidency .
billions of dollars in potential investment and the future of latin america s no .
3 economy hang in the balance .
investors eyeing argentina s vast oil and mineral wealth want macri s coalition to block any chance of his political nemesis , fernandez , returning to the presidency in 2019 .
they hope that will turn the page on the free-spending populist governments that have ruled argentina on-and-off for seven decades since the days of juan and evita peron .
macri , a scion of a wealthy business family , has a positive image with 44.2 percent of those polled in buenos aires province , with fernandez trailing at 35.1 percent , according to the observatorio electoral survey .
vidal , however , comfortably bests them both with 49.8 percent .
even though fernandez is loved by millions of poor argentines for her generous social spending , her critics say her growth-at-all-costs policies stoked inflation and distorted the economy through heavy currency controls during her 2007-2015 administrations .
investors in argentina s $ 550 billion economy are therefore focused on how many votes fernandez and her list of congressional candidates get versus macri s coalition .
vidal , a former welfare administrator known for her common touch with working families , has become a political juggernaut just when macri needs her to deflect fallout out from his unpopular subsidy cuts and other fiscal tightening measures .
some 38.2 percent of respondents in the observatorio electoral poll said they planned to vote for the list headed by macri ally esteban bullrich , a little-known former education minister .
after making a series of gaffes early in the campaign , he has been accompanied by vidal at most rallies .
fernandez s list trailed with 35.8 percent in the opinion poll .
the difference was within the survey s 3.2-point margin of error .
so with 7.1 percent of voters still undecided as of friday , it is still anybody s race .
vidal is walking the province , ringing doorbells and taking to the airwaves in the campaign against fernandez .
a poll over the weekend by consultancy elypsis showed vidal was argentina s most popular politician .
she is especially strong in the poor , heavily populated buenos aires suburbs , a traditional base of fernandez support where macri remains relatively unpopular .
argentina s peso currency , bonds and stock market , fearing a return of the profit-killing economic distortions of the fernandez years , recoiled in june when she announced she would run for the senate .
it is vidal s job to make sure fernandez s support does not grow beyond the 34 percent she got in last month s primary vote , in which she beat bullrich by less than a percentage point .
polls have generally shown him gaining since then .
while fernandez refuses to discuss vidal , the governor has become the macri camp s most vocal critic of fernandez , chiding her for not paying attention to the struggling residents of the province she is running to represent in the senate .
vidal s critics say she is a creation of the media , which regularly cover her neighborhood visits and town-hall meetings .
the most direct exchange between vidal and fernandez came after the former president alleged that free cafeterias for poor children had been closed as a reprisal measure when school teachers in the province went on strike over better pay .
i d like to tell cristina fernandez that we know , that we are used to her lying while campaigning , vidal said .
but i d ask her to leave children out of it .
they are going to keep eating , strikes or no strikes .