( reuters ) - afghan president ashraf ghani said on wednesday that u.s. president donald trump s strategy to win the war in afghanistan will work where his predecessor s failed because the afghan army is stronger and trump wants a regional approach and a harder line with pakistan .
ghani also said that former president barack obama did not have a partner in afghanistan , implicitly criticizing former afghan president hamid karzai , who frequently disdained u.s. policy and the u.s.-led international military force .
president trump is not just an individual ( but ) a team of partners in afghanistan , ghani told the asia society in new york , where he is attending the u.n. general assembly .
the trump administration s strategy has the uniqueness of immense consultations with us .
at the same time , ghani said , obama s decision to maintain some u.s. forces in afghanistan ensured our survival despite advances by taliban insurgents .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said on monday that more than 3,000 additional u.s. troops are being deployed to afghanistan under the new strategy announced last month .
the number of u.s. forces would rise to more than 14,000 , compared to a high of more than 100,000 under obama .
while providing few details , trump pledged stepped-up operations against the taliban and an open-ended commitment of u.s. military advisers , trainers and counter-terrorism units .
he also vowed to take a tougher line to end what u.s. officials say is pakistan providing refuge and other support to the taliban and other extremist groups .
pakistan denies the charge .
asked how trump s strategy differs from obama s , ghani said trump s plan takes a regional approach to security and a harder line with pakistan while providing a new opening for peace talks .
the message to pakistan to engage and become a responsible stakeholder in the region and in the fight against terrorism has never been clearer , ghani said .
what i am offering the pakistan government , the pakistan security apparatus , is the invitation to a comprehensive dialogue .
if pakistan does not take this opportunity , i think they will pay a high price , he said , without elaborating .
afghans are determined to fight , he said .
no one should mistake our will to defend our country .
not only is the army better trained and profiting from a new generation of soldiers , but it gained experience because the massive cuts in the u.s.-led international force under obama forced afghans to assume a bigger role in the fighting , ghani said .
when it was pointed out that the taliban have expanded their control of territory , ghani blamed the inability of the police to hold ground .
the next phase of reforming afghanistan s security forces will focus on the police , he said .
as for when the 16-year-long war would end , ghani said , i think we are not talking a decade or longer .
we are talking some limited years .
( corrects to mattis said on monday instead of tuesday and corrects number of troops to more than 14,000 instead of around 12,000 , paragraph 5 . )