bucharest ( reuters ) - romania s lower house of parliament , which is dominated by the ruling social democrats , approved a bill on monday that will change the way magistrates are supervised and which critics say threatens judicial independence and efforts to fight corruption .
thousands of romanians have rallied in the capital bucharest and other cities over the past weeks protesting against government plans to overhaul the judicial system in one of european union s most graft-prone member states .
lawmakers approved the bill by 179 votes to 90 vote .
parliament has been debating the legislation , which the european commission and thousands of magistrates have said would put the judicial system under political control , since mid-november .
the parliamentary commission which has debated the changes is headed former justice minister florin iordache , who quit in february after a decree on graft that he drafted triggered the biggest rallies since the 1989 anti-communist revolution .
contested elements of the bill include changes to a judicial inspection unit which oversees the conduct of magistrates .
it will also change the way in which chief prosecutors are appointed and strip the president of the right to vet candidates , as well as amending the definition of prosecutors activity to exclude the word independent .
prosecutors carry out their work according to the principles of legality , impartiality , hierarchical control , under the authority of justice minister , reads the bill .
the bill also refers to the finance ministry s obligation to recoup any losses triggered by a judicial error from the judge who issued the sentence , instead of from state funds .
experts have said this would could potentially distort court judgments .
the bill will be sent to the upper house , the senate , for debates .
a vote in the senate , which has the final say on the bill , could be scheduled for later this month .
transparency international ranks romania among the european union s most corrupt states and brussels keeps romania s justice system under special monitoring .
in a nov. 15 report the european commission said justice reform has stagnated this year and challenges to judicial independence remain a persistent source of concern .