istanbul ( reuters ) - a turkish court on wednesday ordered the release on bail of eight human rights activists , including the director of the local branch of amnesty international , pending a verdict in their trial on terrorism charges .
the case against the activists , who number 11 in total and who face up to 15 years in prison if found guilty , has become a flashpoint in turkey s tense relations with europe and heightened concern that an important nato member is sliding further towards authoritarianism under president tayyip erdogan .
among those ordered released were idil eser , the director of amnesty in turkey , as well as peter steudtner , a german national , and ali gharavi , a swede .
under the terms of their release , steudtner and gharavi are not required to remain in turkey before the next court date on nov. 22 .
two other activists were released on bail prior to the start of wednesday s trial .
another , amnesty s local chairman , is still being held in the coastal province of izmir where he faces charges in a separate case .
i think we re all more than relieved , a tearful steudtner told reporters after he walked out of the silivri prison , outside of istanbul , a few hours later .
we are really grateful for everyone who supported us legally ( and ) diplomatically .
the case had brought widespread condemnation from rights groups , some western governments and , on social media , prominent activists such as edward snowden .
almost all of the eleven were detained in july after participating in a workshop on digital security held on an island off the coast of istanbul .
the prosecutor has alleged a range of charges , including helping the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) and the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , accused by ankara of engineering last year s coup attempt .
it is a happy development that our friends are released , but this case should have never been brought , said one of the defense lawyers , erdal dogan .
we need a state of law and we need the support of our citizens .
germany , which has seen a steady deterioration in ties with turkey over the case and other rows , said it welcomed the decision , even though it remained concerned about ankara s record on rights .
that is an encouraging signal , a first step , foreign minister sigmar gabriel said in a statement , adding that many germans remained imprisoned in turkey for no clear reason .
eser , the local amnesty director , had earlier told the court that she had been arrested for doing her job .
i don t understand how i can be associated with three different terrorist organizations by having attended a workshop , she said .
i don t have anything to regret .
i just did my work as a human rights defender .
the prosecutor has cited amnesty s links to jailed hunger strikers and alleged that some of the defendants had contact with people who had downloaded the encrypted messaging app used by the plotters of last year s failed coup .
another accused , ozlem dalkiran , told the court : i have no idea why we re here .
i dedicated my life to truth , human rights and justice .
now i am here being charged with membership in a terrorist organization , said dalkiran , a member of the turkish arm of the citizens assembly rights organization .
authorities have jailed more than 50,000 people pending trial in a crackdown following the failed military coup .
erdogan says the purges across society are necessary to maintain stability in a key nato country bordering iran , iraq and syria .
european allies fear he is using the investigations to check opposition and undermine the judiciary .
the case has worsened turkey s already fraught relations with the european union .
shortly after the arrests , germany said it was reviewing turkey s applications to buy weaponry from germany .
a cabinet minister in berlin compared ankara s behavior to that of the former communist east germany .
german chancellor angela merkel has said turkey s 12-year-old attempt to join the european union should be halted , although ankara has said it remains determined to press on with its accession process .