edinburgh/ottawa ( reuters ) - the standoff between madrid and supporters of independence in spain s wealthy catalan region has stirred separatist feelings far beyond the spanish borders .
politicians across the globe criticized armed spanish police who used truncheons and rubber bullets on voters , injuring hundreds in a crackdown on sunday s secession vote , considered illegal under spain s 1978 constitution .
several politicians from regions with their own separatist movements said it was time for politics to resolve the crisis in the euro zone s fourth-biggest economy .
catalan leaders said the result showed its people wanted to leave spain and it would push ahead with secession .
madrid has ruled out talks until , it said , catalonia acts within the law .
the solution is political .
it won t be through repression , it won t be through brutality , and what needs to happen is a political discussion .
i think that s reality , quebec s premier philippe couillard told reporters .
he drew parallels for a potential solution to his own province , which has held two referendums on whether to separate from canada and the last of which in 1995 was narrowly defeated .
other politicians called on the european union , currently facing a huge challenge to its unity in britain s impending exit from the bloc , to intervene in a deepening crisis that has shaken the euro and spanish stocks and bonds .
they said it was a matter of human rights .
joanna cherry , a lawmaker from the scottish national party , called on the eu to up its game .
her party lost a legally binding referendum on scottish independence from the uk in 2014 the terms of which were hammered out between both sides .
the snp-led scottish government is urging talks to let catalans decide their own future .
spain will maintain that this vote is not legitimate , but the strength of feeling demonstrated can not be ignored by spain , it said .
matt carthy , european lawmaker for irish nationalists sinn fein whose aim is to unite british-run northern ireland with the irish republic , called the eu a shower of utter hypocrites .
the eu has ignored a vicious assault on eu citizens in catalonia because they had the audacity to vote , he told fellow european lawmakers in an emotionally-charged speech .
we are told the eu stands for peace , democracy and human rights .
where were those values on sunday ?
opinion polls conducted before the catalan vote suggested a minority of around 40 percent of catalans backed independence , but a majority wanted a referendum to be held .
catalan officials released preliminary referendum results showing 90 percent support in favor of breaking away , but turnout was 43 percent and low among those who favor remaining part of spain mainly boycotted the ballot .
spain s constitution determines that the majority which counts is spain as a whole , not catalonia s 5.3 million voters .
ireland s prime minister leo varadkar has said his government respects spain s constitution but he also described the violence as disproportionate and counterproductive .
spain s deputy prime minister and european commission first vice president frans timmermans have said the use of force was proportionate .
turkey , which condemned last week s referendum for kurdish independence in northern iraq , also spoke of the importance of respecting spanish law and territorial integrity .
we believe that spain ( ) will overcome such challenges and establish a national dialogue environment through a democratic approach , turkey s foreign ministry said .
in serbia , officials accused the eu of double standards by refusing to recognize catalonia s vote and at the same time supporting the independence of serbia s former province kosovo .
another would-be breakaway group , the movement for the autonomy of slask ( ras ) which wants autonomy for poland s slask region , said that events in spain were proof of the temptation to use repression to control political dissent .
the european community should work out rules and procedures for solving similar conflicts , it said .
its indifference with respect to the forceful repression of aspirations of catalan people for self-rule will be interpreted as a sign of weakness and will deepen the confidence crisis that many europeans feel toward eu institutions .