we re going to have people who are bilingual teachers , and ultimately people who just want to do the right thing for the united states .
so in other words , soon it won t matter if these illegal alien teachers are able to speak english as long as they want to do the right thing ?
gov .
brian sandoval signed a bill wednesday that would make it easier for immigrants with temporary legal status to get a nevada teaching license , saying it would help meet the needs of a new nevada .
among the people who flanked the republican governor as he signed ab27 was uriel garcia , a 22-year-old nevada state college student and recipient of the deferred action for childhood arrivals program who was previously denied a license .
he said he plans to re-apply as soon as possible to get started on his student teaching and move toward his goal of teaching 2nd grade english language learners .
i want to give back to the community that gave me so much , garcia said.the old law allowed the state superintendent to give a teaching license to someone who is not a citizen but has a work permit only if there s a teacher shortage for a subject the person can teach .
the new law , which passed the senate and assembly unanimously , allows those immigrants to get a teaching license if a district has a teacher shortage of any kind.the measure affects immigrants in the deferred action program , also known as daca recipients or dreamers .
state superintendent dale erquiaga said it s not clear how many new teachers the change will yield , but said his office will track that number going forward.proponents framed the bill as a way to deal with a major teacher shortage , as well as a way to diversify the teaching force in a state with a high population of english language learners .
we re going to have people who are bilingual teachers , and ultimately people who just want to do the right thing for the united states , garcia said.sylvia lazos , vice chair of the latino leadership council , said the bill better reflects a changing nevada .
these laws that prohibit non-citizens from getting licensed come from another era , another time , when many states were hostile to germans , catholics , irish , lazos said .
modern nevada is not protectionist , not anti-immigrant , not anti-foreigner .
it s a wonderful day for nevada to affirm that .
via : chron