berlin ( reuters ) - an eu agreement with britain on relations after brexit could serve as a model for ties with other countries that want to be as close as possible to the bloc but are not yet ready to join , such as ukraine and turkey , germany s foreign minister said .
britain secured the go-ahead from brussels to start talks on its future relationship with the eu earlier this month , with london saying it aspires to a closer relationship as a former member than that of any other third country .
in an interview with the funke newspaper group published on tuesday , german foreign minister sigmar gabriel said such a deal could offer a solution to the puzzle of how the bloc of 27 can manage its ties with two other large non-members .
i can t imagine turkey or ukraine becoming eu members in the next few years , he said .
if we get a smart agreement with britain regulating relations with europe after brexit , that could be a model for other countries - ukraine and also turkey .
turkey , a candidate for eu membership for decades , already has a customs union with the eu which allows the trade of most goods without tariffs .
one possibility would be to offer ankara a new , closer form of the customs union , gabriel said , although he also said such a project would have to wait for changes in turkey s political environment .
thousands of people , including german citizens , have been detained in turkey as part of a government crackdown since a failed coup in 2016 .
an agreement between the eu and ukraine on a deep and comprehensive free trade area formally came into force in september , aimed at allowing free trade of goods , services and capital , and visa-free travel for people for short stays .
ukraine s desire for closer ties with the eu was one of the driving forces behind a popular revolt that toppled a pro-russian president in 2014 , leading moscow to seize ukraine s crimea peninsula and back pro-russian separatists in a still-unresolved conflict in the east of the country .
gabriel s social democratic party ( spd ) is preparing for talks with chancellor angela merkel s conservatives on governing together for another four years .