washington ( reuters ) - u.s. house of representatives lawmakers will introduce bipartisan legislation on wednesday that would prohibit states from requiring tech companies to build encryption weaknesses into their products .
the move marks the latest foray into an ongoing debate over encryption between silicon valley and washington .
while tech companies generally oppose weakened security standards , federal authorities have warned about a “ going dark ” phenomenon in which criminal suspects use powerful encryption in their communications so that investigators can not access a phone ’ s content , even with a warrant .
the encrypt act , sponsored by democratic representative ted lieu and republican blake farenthold , would prevent any state or locality from mandating that a “ manufacturer , developer , seller , or provider ” design or alter the security of a product so it can be decrypted or surveilled by authorities , according to bill text viewed by reuters .
the legislation is in response to proposals in recent months in new york and california that would require companies to be able to decrypt their smartphones manufactured after 2017 , lieu said .
“ it is completely technologically unworkable for individual states to mandate different encryption standards in consumer products , ” lieu told reuters in an interview .
“ apple ( aapl.o ) can ’ t make a different smartphone for california and new york and the rest of the country. ” it is unclear how much momentum the bill will have in the house , though the chamber has staked out positions sympathetic to digital privacy in recent years .
encryption has been an area of disagreement between tech companies and law enforcement authorities for decades , but it gained renewed scrutiny after apple and google ( googl.o ) began offering strong encryption by default on their products in 2014 .
fbi director james comey told a senate panel on tuesday that federal investigators have still been unable to access the contents of a cellphone belonging to one of the killers in the dec. 2 shootings in san bernardino , california , because of encryption .
but technology companies , privacy advocates and cryptographers say any mandated vulnerability would expose data to hackers and jeopardize the overall integrity of the internet .
a study from the berkman center for internet and society at harvard university released last month , citing some current and former intelligence officials , concluded that fears about encryption are overstated in part because new technologies have given investigators unprecedented means to track suspects .