political correctness is literally killing america authorities on wednesday night continued to investigate a redlands home tied to syed farook , a suspect identified in connection with the mass shootings that killed at least 14 people and injured at least 17 people at a social services center in san bernardino on wednesday morning.a few hours after the mass shooting , authorities followed a tip to the home on center street in redlands .
as officers approached , the suspects fled in a dark suv .
a police pursuit ensued , ending back in san bernardino , where a gun battle broke out.two suspects one male and one female were killed in the shootout , burguan said .
he said both suspects were armed with assault rifles and handguns .
a third person who fled from the shooting scene was detained after an extensive search .
it was not immediately clear if that person was involved in the inland regional center shooting.one police officer was wounded in the shooting , apparently from a ricochet , but was not seriously injured.as darkness fell , police continued to search the home in redlands .
officers entered the home with a battering ram and were taking precautions due to a belief that the home could be rigged with explosives.it was believed that the redlands home was the home of syed farook s sister and mother.the second shooting suspect who was killed in a shootout with authorities was identified as farook s wife of two years , tashfeen malik , 27.neighbors in redlands were shocked that the suspects had ties to their area .
i was in awe that it was happening four houses down from my property , one neighbor said.a man who has been working in the area said he noticed a half-dozen middle eastern men in the area in recent weeks , but decided not to report anything since he did not wish to racially profile those people .
we sat around lunch thinking , what were they doing around the neighborhood ?
he said .
we d see them leave where they re raiding the apartment .
via : cbs los angeles