london ( reuters ) - the british government said on thursday its key piece of brexit legislation would be debated in parliament on nov. 14 and 15 , the next stage in what is expected to be a tortuous lawmaking process that will test prime minister theresa may s authority .
the european union ( withdrawal ) bill is central to the government s plan to leave the eu in march 2019 , repealing the laws that made britain an eu member and transposing existing eu law into british law .
but it has faced widespread criticism from lawmakers of all parties - including may s conservatives - for giving the government too much power to change laws , and for not guaranteeing parliament a vote on the terms of brexit .
as a result , the bill s passage through parliament will depend on may s fragile minority government being able to pacify rebel lawmakers who said they were deadly serious about trying to give parliament a greater say on the terms of the eu exit .
the much-anticipated first two days of debate were announced in parliament by andrea leadsom , leader of the lower house .
six further days of debate are planned but dates were not announced .
the bill passed its first parliamentary test in september and the next stage had been expected earlier by some lawmakers , but the government said it needed time to look over the hundreds of proposed changes which will be discussed .
nearly 400 amendments have been tabled and we are looking at those with the utmost seriousness , a brexit department spokeswoman said .
we look forward to continuing the debate and working with parliament to ensure that we deliver a functioning statute book on exit day .
junior brexit minister steve baker later warned that if the bill fails to pass through parliament in time for brexit day on march 29 2019 , holes would appear in the country s laws .
he also said the government currently planned separate legislation to implement the terms of the transitional agreement it is seeking to help smooth its departure from the eu , erecting another potentially difficult parliamentary hurdle .
may s spokeswoman later said it was too soon to know for sure if this would be required .
among the proposed changes to the withdrawal bill , several have enough support from conservative lawmakers to defeat may , who commands a slim 13-seat working majority in the 650-seat parliament thanks to a deal with northern ireland s democratic unionist party .
one of the potential conservative rebels , nicky morgan , warned the government not to underestimate their desire to change the bill .
we are deadly serious , morgan , a former senior minister who was sacked by may last year , told parliament .
any rebellion is expected to crystallise around government plans to offer lawmakers a vote on the final exit package .
the promise is not currently written into the bill , which will only allow lawmakers to accept the deal the government has negotiated with brussels or reject it and leave the eu without a deal .
brexit minister david davis angered parliamentarians on wednesday by suggesting that vote could even come after britain has left the bloc , forcing his department to issue a clarification .
called to parliament on thursday morning to explain his words , davis said he expected the vote to take place before december 2018 or january 2019 , referring to the eu s preferred negotiating timetable .
despite his clarification , lawmakers signaled they wanted to have more say on the exit deal and would try to force the government into making concessions next month in parliament by guaranteeing in law a vote that gives lawmakers a greater say .
the sad reality is that ministerial assurances are no longer good enough , said opposition lawmaker stephen kinnock .