bonn , germany ( reuters ) - china has a chance to assert leadership of a global plan to combat global warming this week at the first u.n. climate talks since u.s. president donald trump decided to quit the 195-nation paris agreement , delegates say .
government experts are to work on a rule book for the 2015 climate pact at the nov. 6-17 annual meeting in bonn , germany .
the accord seeks to end the fossil fuel era this century with a shift to wind , solar and other clean energies .
trump once dismissed climate change as a chinese hoax to harm the u.s. economy and said in june that he would pull out of the agreement and instead promote u.s. coal and oil .
a formal u.s. withdrawal will take until 2020 .
no other nation has followed his lead .
u.s. influence is likely to wane compared to other big greenhouse emitters led by china , the european union and india even though washington will still have a place at the table in bonn .
the rest of the world , including all major emerging economies , has made it clear that it is committed to the paris agreement , maldives environment minister thor abraham , chair of the alliance of small island states ( oasis ) , told reuters .
china , on track to beat its goal of a peak in carbon emissions in 2030 , seems best placed to step up leadership of an agreement largely designed by washington under former president barack obama , many delegates say .
the meeting will be a great free advertisement for china , one european environment minister said .
and beijing plans to launch a nationwide carbon market this year , albeit delayed from the first half .
the results ( in bonn ) will prove that this ( paris ) process has certainly not stopped , china s top climate official , xi zhenhua , told a news conference last week .
he expressed hopes that washington will end up staying in the paris pact .
adding urgency , 2017 is set to be the second warmest on record , behind 2016 , according to nasa .
and 2017 has had weather extremes of hurricanes , floods and drought-fuelled wildfires .
fiji will preside at the bonn talks , the first small island nation to do so in more than two decades of u.n. climate negotiations .
that may give oasis , at risk from rising seas , unprecedented influence .
the paris rule book , including details of how to measure and report emissions , is due to be in place by the end of 2018 .
alden meyer , of the union of concerned scientists , said governments will face a tougher test in coming years when they have to ratchet up national ambitions to meet the goals of the paris agreement .
the united nations says average temperatures will rise about three degrees celsius ( 5.4 fahrenheit ) above pre-industrial times by 2100 with existing policies , against a paris goal of keeping them well below two degrees ( 3.6f ) , ideally 1.5 ( 2.7f ) .
and on friday , u.s. scientists released a report saying it was extremely likely that human activities are the main source of warming , contradicting trump s views .
the u.s. has painted itself into a corner , isolated both from other nations and from mainstream science , christiana figures , who was the u.n. climate chief in paris , told reuters .