( reuters ) - pennsylvania governor tom wolf said on monday he would allow an unbalanced budget of just under $ 32 billion to become law at midnight after state lawmakers failed to agree on a plan to close a $ 2 billion deficit .
wolf had 10 days from june 30th to either sign or veto the legislation .
he chose to let it become law automatically at midnight without his signature .
the legislature approved the spending part of the budget june 30th , beating a july 1 deadline by just hours .
however , republicans , who dominate both houses of the legislature , were unable to agree on a way to close the budget gap .
“ in the coming days , it is my hope that the general assembly will come together to pass a responsible solution to balance our books , ” wolf , a democrat said in a statement .
“ there are many options available to balance the budget in the long-term. ” the fiscal 2018 budget is about $ 450 million larger than last year .
the budget shortfall is due in large part to revenue collections this fiscal year which were $ 1.6 billion below expectations .
in order to close the gap , the state is considering borrowing $ 1 billion , to be repaid with money u.s. states still receive every year from their 1998 legal settlement with tobacco companies for health expenses .
republicans have also discussed a wide expansion in casino gambling , and discussed but rejected placing as many as 40,000 video gambling devices around the state .
democrats want a severance tax on oil and gas production that would feed the general fund .
that idea has failed to pass in previous years .
“ every year our commonwealth borrows money and uses accounting gimmicks to meet our obligations , digging us deeper and deeper into a hole , ” said democratic senator daylin leach .
“ we need new sustainable revenue just to keep the lights on and avoid yet another credit downgrade , ” he said .
on july 6 , s & p global put pennsylvania ’ s aa-minus credit rating on watch for potential downgrade due to budget concerns .