* * * warning * * * image is not appropriate for all ages.how very progressive a german photographer has started a campaign to have right wing propaganda censored on facebook , but pornographic images of women allowed .
he s calling it nipples instead of incitement .
photographer olli waldhauer kicked off his campaign by posting an image on facebook of a topless woman stood beside a man holding a placard with racist slogan written on it .
one of these people is against the rules of facebook , reads the slogan on the image.moderators deleted the image after 21 minutes .
good people , i had to change my profile .
facebook did not come clear with the amount of friend requests .
thank you for your feedback and support , wrote mr waldhauer on his page afterwards .
what madness from a small image can be everything .
thank you all !
always remember # nippleinsteadbaiting !
he added later.mr waldhauer is now encouraging his follower to download the image and post it on their own pages , in the hope of pressuring facebook moderators in the spirit of the # freethenipple campaign.the # freethenipple campaign aims to end the discriminatory banning of female breasts on social media , and so stop men finding breasts attractive by exposing them more often ( according to their logic ) .from his social media profile , mr waldhauer appears to be strongly in favor of mass migration , and has previous started a campaign labeled # iamnotaterrorist to challenge animosity towards migrants from the middle east.perhaps mr. waldhauer s time and effort would be better spent focusing on the muslim caliphate taking place in his country and not on those trying to spread the truth about these refugees .
his dream of censoring political debate on facebook is less outlandish .
in september german chancellor angela merkel said she wanted more facebook to filtering hateful and racial posts .
journalists overheard the comments as she conversed with facebook ceo mark zuckerberg at a un summit .
via : breitbart