columbia , s.c. ( reuters ) - a top adviser to democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton urged a u.s. regulator on thursday to not abandon a proposal to limit the number of futures contracts traders can hold on certain commodities .
a committee advising the commodity futures trading commission has urged it to drop its plan to cap the futures contracts traders can hold on commodities such as oil and natural gas , the new york times reported wednesday .
gary gensler , a clinton adviser and former cftc head , told reuters the former secretary of state believes “ these limits are a critical tool in curbing excessive speculation and protecting the integrity of markets ” and should be finalized .
“ congress has provided for such rules since the 1930s to ensure that no single trader has too large a share of the market and that agricultural , energy and metals markets remain fair and competitive , ” gensler said in a statement provided to reuters .
clinton believes the rule would protect “ consumers , farmers and manufacturers from excessive speculation , ” gensler added .
clinton , who is fending off a challenge from u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont , is fresh off a victory in the nevada primary and the two will face off in south carolina on saturday .
a major theme in the race for the democratic presidential nomination has been how to best rein in the excesses of wall street .
both clinton and sanders have released plans about how they would curb excessive market speculation .
the committee advising the cftc on the limits rule was created by the dodd-frank act and includes members from the energy trading industry , such as from the cme group and intercontinental exchange .
the new york times reported that eight of nine members concluded that there was “ scant evidence ” the limits are needed .
the lone dissenter was from a public advocacy group .
( reporting by amanda becker ; editing by leslie adler ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .