washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. senate appropriations committee passed a spending bill on thursday evening that includes $ 10 million to help fund the united nations ’ climate change body that oversees the paris climate agreement , despite president donald trump ’ s decision to stop funding it .
the 30-member senate panel , which allocates federal funds to various government agencies and organizations , approved a $ 51 billion spending bill for the state department and foreign operations , which included an amendment to continue funding the u.n .
framework convention on climate change as well as the scientific body the intergovernmental panel on climate change .
the amendment passed even though the 2018 budget proposal that trump , a republican , introduced earlier this year eliminated support of any mechanism to finance climate change projects in developing countries and organizations .
the united states is still a party to the 1992 unfccc , which oversees the paris agreement , although trump announced in june that he would withdraw the nation from the global climate pact and cease funding the green climate fund , which supports clean energy and climate adaptation projects in vulnerable countries .
the united states has usually contributed to around 20 percent of the unfccc budget .
democratic senator jeff merkley of oregon , the amendment ’ s author , said on twitter on thursday : “ despite @ realdonaldtrump ’ s dangerous # parisagreement decision & unwillingness to act , we can & will fight back to combat # climatedisruption. ” the amendment passed 16-14 .
republican senators susan collins of maine and lamar alexander of tennessee voted in favor , as did all committee democrats except for west virginia ’ s joe manchin .
although the united states announced it would no longer be a party to the paris climate agreement , a pact that nearly 200 countries approved in 2015 to combat global warming , it has said it will continue to observe the ongoing negotiations .
in a diplomatic cable that reuters obtained last month , secretary of state rex tillerson said u.s. diplomats should sidestep questions from foreign governments on how the united states plans re-engage in the global paris climate agreement .
the cable also said diplomats should make clear that the united states wants to help other countries use fossil fuels , which have been linked to global warming .
[ l1n1ku0up ]