palm beach , fla. ( reuters ) - republican front-runner donald trump warned on wednesday of riots if he is denied the party ’ s presidential nomination and pulled the plug on a scheduled debate among candidates , raising the temperature even more in a heated white house race .
the outspoken new york businessman scored big wins in primaries in florida , illinois and north carolina on tuesday , bringing him closer to the 1,237 convention delegates he needs to win the nomination .
trump also claimed victory in missouri but lost the crucial state of ohio , and left the door open for those in the party trying to stop him from becoming the republican nominee for the nov. 8 election .
trump might fall short of the majority of delegates required , enabling the party ’ s establishment to put forward another name at the july convention in cleveland to formally pick its candidate .
in an interview with cnn on wednesday , trump said the party could not deny him the nomination should he fail to win enough delegates .
“ i don ’ t think you can say that we don ’ t get it automatically .
i think you ’ d have riots .
i think you ’ d have riots .
i ’ m representing many , many millions of people. ” while the republicans were mired deeper in turmoil , hillary clinton won victories in at least four states on tuesday that put her in good shape to defeat senator bernie sanders of vermont and win the democratic party ’ s nomination .
republican party leaders are appalled at trump ’ s incendiary rhetoric and reject policies such as his vow to deport 11 million illegal immigrants , temporarily ban muslims from the united states and build a wall along the mexican border .
the party tried to play down his riot comments , only days after trump supporters and protesters clashed at a rally for the republican in chicago that was later scrapped .
“ first of all , i assume he is speaking figuratively , ” republican national committee spokesman sean spicer told cnn .
recent outbreaks of violence during protests at trump rallies have prompted president barack obama , a democrat , and mainstream republican figures to speak out against the billionaire .
david farber , a professor of modern american history at temple university in philadelphia , said that , though there have been many episodes of violent unrest at american political events , not least the 1968 democratic convention , trump ’ s warning of a riot is unprecedented .
the nearest modern comparison would be former alabama governor george wallace , who unsuccessfully ran for president in 1968 as a third-party candidate , farber said “ we ’ re in a situation somewhat like the 1960s in the united states , a period of great polarization , ” farber said , “ and there just isn ’ t a lot of common ground , and trump supporters feel a lot of quiet desperation that trump is helping to fan the flames of. ” in comments likely to raise more concern in the republican establishment about trump ’ s lack of experience and temperament , the former reality tv show host said he was for the most part his own foreign affairs adviser .
“ i ’ m speaking with myself , number one , because i have a very good brain , ” he told msnbc ’ s “ morning joe ” show .
“ i know what i ’ m doing .
... my primary consultant is myself. ” trump ’ s closest national challenger is first-term u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , who prides himself in being a grassroots conservative often at odds with republican leaders .
he too warned of severe reactions against an attempt to stage a so-called brokered convention or contested convention to install a republican candidate supported by party leaders .
“ i think that would be an absolute disaster .
i think the people would quite rightly revolt , ” cruz told cnn .
a brokered convention is a complicated process of sequential votes that opens the way for horse trading .
the republican establishment ’ s bid to stop trump may have come too late as the field of candidates has dwindled to only three , with trump , 69 , in command ahead of cruz , 45 , and ohio governor john kasich , 63 , who won his state ’ s republican primary on tuesday and is the last moderate republican presidential candidate standing .
growing in confidence , trump pulled out of a republican debate scheduled for monday in utah , saying it clashed with a speech he plan to give to a pro-israel group .
debate hosts fox news then canceled the event .
senator marco rubio quit the white house race after defeat in his home state of florida .
trump now needs to win about 55 percent of the roughly 1,100 delegates still up for grabs in state-by-state nominating contests to guarantee the nomination .
it is not an insurmountable challenge .
republican strategist ron bonjean said it might be tough for the party to block trump at the convention .
“ a contested convention would be justified if trump only had around 35 or 40 percent of the delegates locked up .
however , if he is very close to getting the majority of delegates , it would be politically difficult for the establishment to try stop him by backroom wheeling and dealing without risking a serious backlash from voters , ” said bonjean .
the strategist is not affiliated with any of the candidates .
party figures are divided about whether to throw their weight behind trump despite his downsides or to go on trying to halt him .
florida governor rick scott endorsed trump on wednesday but another influential southern governor , south carolina ’ s nikki haley , declared her support for cruz , the state ’ s post and courier newspaper said .
the election season is likely to become more politicized after obama nominated judge merrick garland to the supreme court , setting up a showdown with senate republicans who have vowed to block any obama nominee .
on the democratic side , wins on tuesday for former secretary of state clinton , 68 , gave her an almost insurmountable edge over sanders , 74 .
his campaign said it was not ruling out asking for a recount in tuesday ’ s tight missouri race .
seeking to become the united states ’ first woman president , clinton needs to win only around a third of the democratic delegates remaining to become her party ’ s nominee .