beijing ( reuters ) - china on thursday offered loans to djibouti , the site of its first overseas military base , as the horn of africa state s leader told president xi jinping he considered himself a great friend of the asian giant .
with a population of less than one million , djibouti has long punched above its weight , thanks to a strategic location on the gulf of aden , one of the world s busiest shipping routes linking europe to asia and the middle east .
china formally opened the base , which it calls a logistics facility , on aug. 1 , the 90th birthday of the people s liberation army .
djibouti also hosts large u.s. and french bases .
djibouti was politically stable , xi told its president , ismail omar guelleh , at a meeting in beijing s great hall of the people .
china sets great store by its relations with djibouti , he added .
guelleh , who has been in power since 1999 , said he considered himself a great friend of china s and could not count the number of times he had visited .
djibouti is known for being a country of peace , exchanges and meetings , guelleh said .
i would like to recall the geostrategic position of djibouti and its importance in this part of the world as an island of stability for asia , africa and the middle east .
the two , who did not mention the military base in comments to reporters , later oversaw the signing of a framework pact for preferential loans .
chinese assistant foreign minister chen xiaodong declined to reveal the amount of loans offered , saying he could not remember .
in this area both countries have always had good cooperation , chen told reporters .
xi and guelleh did discuss the military base , chen added .
what i want to stress is that china building a logistics base in djibouti benefits china to even better fulfill its naval protection , peace-keeping , disaster relief and other international work , he said .
the base will be used to resupply navy ships participating in peacekeeping , humanitarian and anti-piracy missions off the coasts of yemen and somalia , in particular .
china also has deep economic interests in djibouti .
last week , china s poly-gcl petroleum group holdings ltd signed a memorandum of understanding to invest $ 4 billion in a natural gas project in djibouti .
in january , the government launched construction of a project billed as africa s largest free trade zone , as part of china s massive belt and road infrastructure initiative stretching to asia , europe and beyond .