bangkok ( reuters ) - rubber farmers in thailand , one of the world s biggest exporters of natural rubber , threatened on friday to protest in the capital bangkok if the military government does not help to prop up falling prices of the commodity .
prices of thai natural rubber have fallen from a peak of 179.25 baht ( $ 5.41 ) per kg in 2011 to 47.75 baht on friday .
but thai authorities said prices have similarly slumped in other major producers of the commodity .
protests are rare in the junta-ruled southeast asian country where a ban on public gatherings has been in place since a 2014 coup .
the natural rubber council of thailand said farmers in the rubber-growing south were calling on the authorities for help .
the price of rubber is now lower than the cost of production , uthai sonlucksub , president of the council , told reuters .
some farmers from the south want to protest on monday and accuse the rubber authority of thailand , a government agency , of mismanagement , uthai said .
he did not give details on the kind of help the farmers want .
thailand , along with indonesia and malaysia , produce nearly 70 percent of the world s natural rubber .
the three countries agreed last year to cut exports to boost market prices but their targets have not always been met .
the thai rubber authority denied the accusations of mismanagement .
rubber prices are currently low in all of the major rubber producing countries .
we are doing our best , said sunan nuanphromsakul , the authority s deputy governor .
thailand s rubber farmers are politically powerful .
in 2013 , hundreds of farmers staged protests around the country , blocking roads and a regional airport in the south .
those demonstrations eventually turned into a bigger political movement that led to the ouster in 2014 of a civilian government led by then-prime minister yingluck shinawatra .
thai benchmark unsmoked rubber sheet was quoted at 43.60 baht per kg on thursday , less than half of this year s peak reached in january .