emails published by the new york times monday indicate that hillary clinton used more than one private email address during her time as secretary of state , contradicting previous claims from the democratic presidential contender s office.multiple emails show clinton used account hrod17 @ clintonemail.com while serving in the obama administration as secretary of state.clinton s attorney , david kendall , had previously told rep. trey gowdy ( r-s.c. ) that that particular address had not existed during secretary clinton s tenure as secretary of state .
another statement from clinton s office said she only used one address during her time as secretary of state .
secretary clinton used one email account during her tenure at state ( with the exception of her first weeks in office while transitioning from an email account she had previously used ) , it said .
in march 2013 , gawker published the email address she used while secretary , and so she had to change the address on her account .
clinton served as secretary of state from jan. 2009 to feb. 2013 .
the emails she sent with the hrod17 @ clintonemail.com were sent in 2011 and 2012 , according to the documents released by the times : according to emails released by the new york times , hillary clinton used the account hrod17 @ clintonemail.com while secretary of state .
( selected libya-related messages from hillary clinton s personal email account , the new york times , 5/18/15 ) note : on april 8 , 2011 , clinton messaged jake sullivan using the account hrod17 @ clintonemail.com .
( selected libya-related messages from hillary clinton s personal email account , the new york times , 5/18/15 ) note : on january 5 , 2012 , clinton messaged jake sullivan using the account hrod17 @ clintonemail.com .
( selected libya-related messages from hillary clinton s personal email account , the new york times , 5/18/15 ) note : on august 28 , 2012 , clinton messaged jake sullivan using the account hrod17 @ clintonemail.com .
( selected libya-related messages from hillary clinton s personal email account , the new york times , 5/18/15 ) note : hillary clinton served as secretary of state from january 21 , 2009 to february 1 , 2013 .
( u.s. department of state website , accessed 5/18/15 ) a representative for clinton s office did not immediately respond to a request for comment from theblaze.republican national chairman reince priebus tweeted monday evening that the news proved clinton misled public about the use of only one secret email address .
earlier this year , it was reported clinton may have violated federal rules by exclusively using a personal email address to conduct all official government business while serving as secretary of state .