pastor stephen l. anderson of faithful word baptist church in tempe , arizona , is a terrible human being .
in 2014 , he made the case that aids can be eliminated if we just wiped all the f * ggots off the face of the planet .
naturally , given his many unhinged ravings about the lgbt community , a group he calls ( without cause ) pedophiles , and a wide array of other offensive language , anderson was quite pleased after learning that 50 sodomites died , and another 50 were injured , in a targeted terrorist attack against the gay community in orlando.anderson says that this is good news because there s 50 less pedophiles in the world .
the christian pastor praised the shooter for eliminating his victims because they we just disgusting homosexuals at a gay bar .
while he says he would never advocate violence ( except for the time he prayed that president obama would die and go to hell and his statement that all gay people should be murdered , of course ) , anderson is clear that the muslim man who killed all those people was simply following the bible ( what ?
) : now let me just be real clear : i ve never advocated for violence .
i don t believe in , you know , taking the law into our own hands .
i would never go in and shoot up a gay bar so-called .
i don t believe it s right for us to just be a vigilante but i will say this : the bible says that homosexuals should be put to death , in leviticus 20:13 .
obviously , it s not right for somebody to just , you know , shoot up the place , because that s not going through the proper channels .
but these people all should have been killed , anyway , but they should have been killed through the proper channels , as in they should have been executed by a righteous government that would have tried them , convicted them , and saw them executed .
because , in leviticus 20:13 , god s perfect law , he put the death penalty on murder , and he also put the death penalty on homosexuality .
that s what the bible says , plain and simple.while he is happy that fifty people were murdered in the name of his god ( though many christians would dispute that they share a god with muslims ) after an extremist saw two men kissing and flew off the rails , anderson says that there are some drawbacks like those awful liberals who think that this attack is one of the many examples that we need reasonable firearm regulations , and those who will denounce hate speech : but the bad news is that this is now gon na be used , i m sure , to push for gun control , where , you know , law-abiding normal americans are not gon na be allowed to have guns for self-defense .
and then i m sure it s also gon na be used to push an agenda against so-called hate speech .
so bible-believing christian preachers who preach what the bible actually says about homosexuality that it s vile , that it s disgusting , that they re reprobates you know , we re gon na be blamed.like , it s all extremism !
it s not just the muslims , it s the christians !
i m sure that that s coming .
i m sure that people are gon na start attacking , you know , bible-believing christians now , because of what this guy did .
i m not sad about it , i m not gon na cry about it .
because these 50 people in a gay bar that got shot up , they were gon na die of aids , and syphilis , and whatever else .
they were all gon na die early , anyway , because homosexuals have a 20-year shorter life-span than normal people , anyway , anderson says .
at least these dangerous predators , these dangerous filthy pedophiles at this gay bar , at least they re off the streets .
i m just trying to look at the bright side , he concluded before wishing god s blessings on viewers.if there was any justice in this world , god would have spared the victims and taken anderson instead .
f * ck him .
[ update : anderson s video has been removed from youtube for violating the platform s hate speech policy .
a copy is below ] watch anderson s disgusting rant below : featured image via screengrab