wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand s newly invigorated labour party has widened its lead over the governing national party , further threatening its decade-long hold on power , a poll showed on thursday , as the two party leaders exchanged jabs at their third debate in a week .
national fell 2 points to 39 percent , while support for the opposition labour party was unchanged at 43 percent , the poll released on the website of the 1 news broadcaster showed .
new zealand holds a general election on sept. 23 .
the poll still tipped the nationalist new zealand first as a likely kingmaker , and showed the green party would only just make it into parliament .
jacinda ardern has almost single-handedly changed the chances of her labour party since taking over as leader last month , with her charisma and popularity offsetting some criticism over vague tax plans and tighter immigration policy .
national leader bill english , who is pinning his bid on his government s strong economic record , said he was not particularly worried about the poll results .
on those numbers it would seem to me that a labour/new zealand first government would be the more likely outcome , but that all depends on a number of negotiations , said grant duncan , associate professor at massey university in auckland .
based on these numbers , new zealand first would be a key player for both labour and national .
the new zealand dollar fell to the day s low of $ 0.7173 , having stood at $ 0.7207 shortly before the poll results were released .
the poll showed support for the new zealand first party rose 1 point to 9 percent , while support for the green party remained at 5 percent .
duncan said the greens were perilously close to the 5 percent voting threshold below which you do not get a seat in parliament .
ardern reiterated that her first call would be to the green party , with which she has a working agreement , if she was in a position to form a coalition government after the vote .
the debate saw the party leaders trade jabs on taxes and housing , much as in their two previous encounters .
it also touched on allegations this week by national that there is a nz $ 11.7 billion hole in labour s fiscal plans - a claim rejected by labour and one that has been refuted by economists , according to media .
if you continue to maintain that then you re maintaining a lie .
that is misleading voters and it is wrong , ardern told english during the debate .
support for labour overtook that of national in a similar poll released a week ago .