mexico city ( reuters ) - when a devastating earthquake rocked mexico city on tuesday , 32 years to the day after another deadly temblor , the city s traumatized inhabitants struggled to understand why disaster had struck twice on the same date .
just two hours after a city-wide seismic drill to mark the earlier tragedy , mexico city was shaken by a magnitude 7.1 quake , its second major tremor in less than two weeks , which killed at least 100 people in the capital and 230 nationwide .
the annual drill is a legacy of the 1985 quake , a harrowing disaster imprinted on the national psyche after claiming over 5,000 lives in mexico city .
in a country with a long history of supernatural beliefs , the timing of the quakes triggered conspiracy theories and reopened old wounds .
it seems like a thing of the devil , said luis pastrana , a 52-year-old industrial designer who lived through both tremors .
another cursed september 19 , mexican daily el economista proclaimed on its front page on wednesday .
in tlatelolco , a modernist housing project , residents gather every sept. 19 for morning mass at the site where two tower blocks collapsed 32 years ago , killing hundreds .
on tuesday , when the ground began to shake several hours after the service , locals swarmed the historic plaza where they congregate after each quake , crying and praying .
some suffered panic attacks .
some were positing that the mexican government must have known the temblor was coming , and others speculated that north korea was involved , said antonio fonseca , 66 , a local history expert .
they believe fantastical things , he said .
since there is no explanation , there are lots of rumors .
situated at the intersection of three tectonic plates , mexico is one of the world s most earthquake-prone countries , and the capital is particularly vulnerable due to its location on top of an ancient lake bed .
tuesday s quake striking on the 1985 anniversary appeared to be purely coincidental , said jana pursley , a geophysicist with the united states geological survey , noting that the epicenters were hundreds of kilometers apart .
but for some mexico city residents , the timing may have made lingering anxieties more acute , said elizabeth willems , a local psychologist who has treated patients coping with post-traumatic stress disorder from the 1985 disaster .
in a phenomenon known as the anniversary effect , distress levels can spike as the date of a traumatic event approaches , willems said .
the repetition of the event would have compounded the stress , she added .
willems said she had heard from some of her patients who were rattled by the latest quake .
the trauma of the 1985 tremor frequently arises , she said .
it s almost like working with someone who was in manhattan during the events of september 11 .
it s almost a question i ask automatically : where were you that day ?
she said .
maria del carmen herrera , a 60-year-old resident of the juarez neighborhood who survived the 1985 quake , said she was struck by a premonition during the earthquake drill on tuesday morning .
i was afraid .
i thought , it s going to shake , she said .
those of us who survived 1985 , we re left marked forever .
for fonseca , nothing can compare to the devastation of the 1985 quake .
but as he watched the ceiling trembling in his 10th-floor apartment on tuesday , he feared the worst .
i say that coincidences don t exist , he said .
this was something i don t know how to classify .