manila ( reuters ) - the philippines on friday defended its graft-fighting efforts in a bid to convince the united states to continue providing development assistance after an initial five-year grant of $ 434 million expired in may last year .
the move comes despite president rodrigo duterte s remark that america s money could be replaced , after the u.s. government s millennium challenge corporation last year cited human rights concerns in deferring its vote on aid for manila .
the philippines fell short of the control of corruption target on the mcc s scorecard for fiscal 2018 , which determines a country s eligibility for assistance .
however , the rating may not completely reflect the reform initiatives of the duterte administration in the area of fighting corruption and good governance , said harry roque , a spokesman for the philippine president .
duterte has fired government officials over corruption allegations , ordered agencies to open their records to the public , cut red tape and set up a hotline for people to report graft , roque said in a statement .
we are hopeful that the mcc board would take into account these initiatives and see our commitment to further reforms in the areas covered by the compact assistance , he added .
finance secretary carlos dominguez also weighed in , saying the president had been relentless in the campaign against corruption in government .
duterte cleansed the corruption-plagued bureau of corrections , and last month set up an anti-graft panel to investigate cases against presidential appointees , he added .
duterte took power on a platform of battling crime , drugs and graft , but is himself being investigated by an independent anti-graft body over allegations of non-disclosure of wealth when he was mayor of the southern city of davao .
he raised the prospect of severing ties with washington after being infuriated by u.s. criticism of his war on drugs , which has claimed more than 3,900 lives since he took office 16 months ago .