a columbia university professor from brooklyn went into hiding thursday after pal james comey revealed during his senate testimony that the man leaked memos detailing the former fbi chief s conversations with president trump to the press.but richman had vanished from his henry street digs by midday , and family members , friends and neighbors wouldn t answer doors or phone calls to shed any more light.a doorman eventually turned security guard to stop reporters entering the building.richman s wife , alexandra bowie , is a former president of the influential neighborhood civic group the brooklyn heights association .
its director , peter bray , declined to speak about the man who had suddenly usurped lena dunham as the nabe s most famous inhabitant.comey said in his testimony that he decided to give the content of his trump memo to his good friend to leak to the press after president trump tweeted out about possible takes of their conversations .
comey also said of leaking the memo , i thought it might prompt the appointment of a special counsel .
via : nypwho knew the fbi director was a leaker !
this is too much !
our intel community has become so politicized that it prohibits them from following the law or even focusing on gutting to the truth !
during testimony today , susan collins asked if comey ever shared memos from president trump : comey s response was a shocker .
he said he felt he needed to get that out into the public square so he asked a friend to share the memo with a reporter : the person that comey gave the memos to is a former classmate from columbia law school .
he is considered to be a and adviser to comey .
daniel richman is in the video below and is a rather interesting guy .
the video is dated but is meant to give you an idea of the character of this friend and adviser to the former fbi director.comey stated : james comey leaked details of his conversation with @ potus to friend and confidant daniel richman.does this man look sane to you ?
pic.twitter.com/06q7cfnrli josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) june 8 , 2017 does this man look sane to you ?
pic.twitter.com/06q7cfnrli josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) june 8 , 2017