americans are opening their wallets and donating to relief efforts in the aftermath of hurricane harvey and with hurricane irma almost about to hit land in the u.s. , people would be wise to be wary of which charity organization to give money to .
for example , a survivor of hurricane harvey will be fed by the red cross but the food might kill them.the cauliflower doesn t even look cooked and it sits next to a few slices of what looks like ham along with crackers instead of bread.it isn t clear what the percentage of donations to the red cross goes to victims .
the charity organization claims that 91 percent goes to victims but that s far from the truth .
a houston councilman has asked for people to not donate to the red cross , an organization which affords its executives with a hefty salary .
i beg you not to send them a penny , houston city councilman dave martin said at wednesday s council meeting .
they are the most inept unorganized organization i ve ever experienced .
don t waste your money , martin added .
give it to another cause .
a study released by sen. charles grassley ( r-iowa ) claims that the red cross had spent $ 124 million one-quarter of the money donors gave for earthquake relief in haiti in 2010 on internal expenses.since hurricane harvey hit texas , the red cross has collected $ 211 million , according to usa today.this catholic charity claims that 100 % of donated money goes to the victims of hurricanes harvey and irma.we are the official disaster relief agency of the us catholic church .
100 % of funds go to # harvey & # irma relief .
https : //t.co/qafd3uyalx catholiccharitiesusa ( @ ccharitiesusa ) september 9 , 2017to its credit , the red cross is a massive first-response organization which has sheltered and fed ( see picture above ) hundreds of thousands of people.a good chunk of donald trump s $ 1 million donation to victims of hurricane harvey went to the red cross .. @ realdonaldtrump releases list of charities he donated to for hurricane harvey relief .
pic.twitter.com/tb51qqjd2i david fahrenthold ( @ fahrenthold ) september 6 , 2017we re not suggesting that the red cross feed ribeye steaks and lobster tails to hurricane victims , but geez , how about throwing together a sandwich with a few extras for the hungry survivors who are left with nothing in the world due to a natural disaster.photo by joe raedle/getty images .
@ redcrosshouston & @ redcross what kind of meal is this ? !
all of these monetary donations and food we brought in , this is what you serve ? !
pic.twitter.com/xamoohh0mi ashton p. woods ( @ ashtonpwoods ) september 9 , 2017