sydney ( reuters ) - it was supposed to relieve a headache for australian prime minister malcolm turnbull , but a postal vote on whether to legalize same-sex marriage has awakened interest in politics among young voters who could ultimately turf him out of office .
there had been strong calls from the public for australia to become the 25th nation to permit gay marriage , a move that turnbull supports , but more conservative members of his liberal party oppose .
holding a wafer thin parliamentary majority of just one seat , turnbull opted to call a non-binding ballot as it was politically the least risky way of putting a highly emotive issue on the agenda .
the fierce national debate that ensued persuaded many young australians to take a far greater interest in politics than they had before .
and while that might help turnbull make the progressive , liberal amendment to the marriage law that he personally supports , it could cost him in the long term as there is a strong likelihood that the new generation will lean toward the center-left labor party rather than his liberals .
the issue of same-sex marriage has given the opposition a massive advantage in encouraging more young people , who are far more likely to vote for labor , onto the electoral roll , said simon banks , one-time chief of staff to former labor prime minister kevin rudd .
young australians previously have been tardy about registering to vote , knowing that once they do the law requires them to cast their ballot or face a fine of a $ 110 ( $ 86 ) .
but the gay marriage issue persuaded more to get their name on the electoral roll .
i wasn t planning to register to vote , i wanted to wait another few years but i wanted to have my say , i wanted to vote yes , said rebecca rodgers , 18 , a student from darwin in australia s remote north who supports same-sex marriage .
the number of australians aged under 25-year registered to vote now stands at a record high of nearly 1.65 million , making up just over 10 percent of the electorate .
looking at australia s finely balanced electoral map , there are a number of key marginal seats that could be decided by these young voters the next time the country goes to the polls .
coming from solomon , northern territories , a constituency where the liberal party s small majority is endangered , rodgers has already made up her mind .
i will never vote for turnbull , said rodgers , an indigenous australian dissatisfied with the ruling party s efforts to tackle the social ills afflicting her community .
labor supporters are hoping that the new generation of voters will deliver a youthquake similar to the one that nearly carried britain s labour party to an unlikely election victory earlier this year .
a conservative with social liberal credentials , turnbull had enjoyed support spread across all age groups since coming to power in 2015 .
but that appeal has faded , particularly among young people facing dimmer prospects because of the sluggish economy .
nearly one-in-five young australians are underemployed , according to the brotherhood of st laurence , an anti-poverty community and advocacy group .
a lack of job opportunities has stoked inequality , and left many young australians priced out of the property market that has seen home values soar by 69 percent in just nine years .
with opinion polls against him , turnbull would probably favor hanging on until the last possible moment in 2019 to call an election , but australia hasn t been giving its prime ministers the luxury of time .
turnbull is the country s fifth prime minister in the last decade , and there is already a constitutional crisis brewing that could precipitate an early election .
australia s high court will rule on oct. 13 on whether deputy prime minister barnaby joyce can remain in parliament after being elected while holding dual citizenship , potentially ruling him ineligible under the country s constitution .
if joyce is ruled ineligible and turnbull is forced to call an election , there will be little scope for him to win over the youth vote without jeopardizing his core support among the more conservative middle-aged and retired voters , political analysts say .
the liberal party has always been very strong among over 55 s so the number one task is for the pm is to make sure that the core , base vote is as strong as he can make it , said grahame morris , former chief of staff to john howard , australia s second longest serving prime minister .
if that base walks away , nothing else matters .