washington ( reuters ) - since mid-2016 , u.s. house speaker paul ryan has carried around a “ postcard ” that he has said shows how easy it will be for americans to file their taxes once republicans are finished their tax overhaul .
and as recently as thursday president donald trump touted americans being able to “ file their taxes on a single , little beautiful sheet of paper. ” with lawmakers finalizing the biggest tax reform in 30 years and the president ready to sign it into law before the end of the year , the moment should be near when ryan ’ s postcard stops being a rhetorical prop and becomes a reality .
right ?
“ it ’ s kind of crazy to say you can file on a postcard when , first , no one is going to put their social security number on a postcard .
and second , you already have a giant postcard in the form of the 1040ez , ” mark mazur , a director of the nonpartisan tax policy center , said , citing a 14-line internal revenue service ( irs ) tax form .
representatives from the $ 11 billion u.s. tax preparation industry said that the legislation so far seemed unlikely to render their services unnecessary .
“ i don ’ t think you ’ re going to have millions of people filing their taxes on a cell phone , ” said mark steber , chief tax officer at jackson hewitt tax service inc [ jakht.ul ] .
“ i think the demise of the tax business is a bit premature. ” the irs would not discuss changes that might come from the proposed tax overhaul .
however , the irs estimates that , despite its efforts to make filing taxes easier , 90 percent of americans use tax preparation services such as jackson hewitt , h & r block inc and liberty tax inc or tax software such as turbotax from intuit inc .
if congress enacts the republican plan into law , it would not affect 2017 tax-year returns filed in 2018 .
but in 2019 , millions of middle-class americans would no longer gain from a wide range of deductions , credits and other tax breaks .
a key driver of this , according to independent analyses , would be a proposed doubling of the standard deduction and a curtailment of the deduction for state and local tax payments .
in combination , these two changes would mean that about 29 million people would no longer benefit from itemizing .
so they would stop writing off their charitable donations , mortgage interest and state and local tax payments , according to the institute on taxation and economic policy , a think tank .
itemized deductions for medical expenses , investment interest , unreimbursed employee expenses and tax preparation fees could also be dropped by many .
personal exemptions for individual taxpayers , which now take up a lot of space on tax forms , would also be eliminated .
such changes would mean simpler taxes and possibly allow a number of taxpayers to use shorter forms .
the irs expects 24 million people in 2018 to file the longest and most widely used irs form today , the form 1040 , which is 79 lines long .
about 4.6 million people will use the 14-line 1040ez .
wealthy americans likely would still itemize under the republican plan .
owning businesses , homes and other factors could also lead to taxes being more complicated than what filers could describe on a postcard .
“ even though we ’ re talking about simplification for a large number of taxpayers , there ’ s still many taxpayers who will have complicated tax situations and we ’ ll be there to help them as well , ” said david williams , chief tax officer for turbotax .
( adds first name , title in 4th paragraph )