aboard the papal plane ( reuters ) - pope francis on saturday defended his strategy of avoiding the term rohingya in myanmar , saying he believed he got his message across to both the civilian and military leadership without shutting down dialogue .
speaking to reporters aboard the plane returning to rome from bangladesh , the pontiff also indicated that he had been firm with myanmar s military leaders in private meetings about the need for them to respect the rights of rohingya refugees .
he also disclosed that he cried when he met a group of rohingya refugees on friday in bangladesh , where he defended their rights by name in an emotional meeting .
for me , the most important thing is that message gets through , to try to say things one step at a time and listen to the responses , he said .
i knew that if in the official speeches i would have used that word , they would have closed the door in our faces .
but ( in public ) i described situations , rights , said that no one should be excluded , ( the right to ) citizenship , in order to allow myself to go further in the private meetings , he said .
francis did not use the word rohingya in public while on the first leg of the trip in myanmar .
predominantly buddhist myanmar does not recognize the mostly muslim rohingya as an ethnic group with its own identity but as illegal immigrants from bangladesh .
local roman catholic church authorities had advised him not to say it because it could spark a backlash against christians and other minority groups .
the pope met myanmar s military leaders privately on monday , shortly after his arrival in the nation s biggest city , yangon .
the meeting had been scheduled for thursday morning but the military pointedly asked at the last minute that it be pushed forward .
the result was they saw the pope before the civilian leaders instead of the other way around , as had been planned .
non-negotiable truths it was a good conversation and the truth was non-negotiable , he said of his meeting with the military leaders .
the latest exodus from myanmar to bangladesh of about 625,000 people followed a myanmar military crackdown in response to rohingya militant attacks on an army base and police posts on aug. 25 .
refugees have said scores of rohingya villages were burnt to the ground , people were killed and women were raped .
the military have denied accusations of ethnic cleansing by the united states and united nations .
asked if he used the word rohingya during the private meeting with the military chiefs , the pope said : i used words in order to arrive at the message and when i saw that the message had arrived , i dared to say everything that i wanted say .
he then gave a reporter a mischievous grin and ended his answer with the latin phrase intelligenti pauca , which means few words are enough for those who understand , strongly hinting that he had used the word the military detests while in their presence .
human rights groups have criticized the country s de facto civilian leader , aung san suu kyi , a nobel peace prize winner who was under house arrest for a total of 15 years before the 2015 elections , for not taking a stand against the generals .
but francis , who met with her privately on tuesday , appeared to give her the benefit of the doubt because of her delicate relationship with the generals who were once her jailers .
myanmar is a nation that is growing politically , in transition , francis said in response to a question about suu kyi and budding democracy in myanmar .
so things have to be viewed through this lens .
myanmar has to be able to look forward to the building of the country .
on friday in the bangladeshi capital , dhaka , francis held an emotional encounter with muslim rohingya refugees from myanmar and then used the word rohingya for the first time on the trip , although he had defended them by name twice from the vatican earlier this year .
he told the crowd where the rohingya were that god s presence was within them and they should be respected .
i was crying and tried to hide it , francis said on the plane , recounting how moved he felt when the refugees recounted their ordeals to him .