newsflash for mattel , and any other company who is pandering to the left this christmas season : god did not create gender-neutral beings god made man and woman to be different for a reason don t mess with god a boy is featured in the latest barbie commercial for the first time ever .
the commercial is receiving widespread praise for upending gender barriers .
the ad displays mattel s new line of barbie dolls created as part of a partnership with the italian fashion house moschino .
the dolls sport outfits of black mesh and leather , with edgy golden accessories to match.however , it is not the dolls racy clothing that steals the show , but rather , the mohawked boy playing with the dolls .
moschino barbie is so fierce , he exclaims to the camera with an exaggerated head roll .
this single line is garnering the barbie boy a huge fan base worldwide.the public now accepts homosexuality and same-sex marriage .
but the fight is not over .
the offensive to reshape society in even more radical ways pushes forward.an effort is gaining ground to create a world where not just sexual orientation , but sex itself , is a choice .
where boys can be girls and girls can be boys , or something in between .
where people are expected to ignore the biological reality of sex so that all people coexist androgynously , or according to whatever gender suits them at the moment .
where everyone pretends that gender confusion is normal , if not desirable , and anyone who doesn t play along can be punished and silenced.this demonstrates unprecedented contempt for reality and common sense , let alone morality.think of the implications with respect to public bathrooms , sex-segregated activities , locker rooms , college student housing and countless other areas of human interaction.does the idea of a boy who thinks he s a girl showering next to your daughter in p.e .
class make you uncomfortable ?
then you d better brace yourself .
this cause is winning critical legal battles and it is starting with our youth.earlier this month , the california senate passed a bill saying that throughout k-12 education , a student is permitted to participate in sex-segregated school programs and activities , including athletic teams and competitions , and use facilities [ e.g .
bathrooms , locker rooms ] consistent with his or her gender identity , irrespective of the gender listed on the pupil s records .
gender identity is the terminology these ultrasensitive , morally sophisticated lawmakers use to refer to the sex a person happens to identify with.last month , a governing body in colorado ruled that a 6-year-old boy who thinks he s a girl has the right to use the girl s bathroom at his elementary school .
the colorado division of civil rights said that denying him that right creates an environment rife with harassment and is akin to racial segregation.see where this is going ?
the public majority already agrees that denying same-sex couples the right to marry is exactly like prohibiting interracial marriage .
now , denying someone access to a public bathroom on the basis of biology is just like excluding blacks from white-only facilities.these lawmakers and officials are determined to ensure that these children grow up in a world where sex confusion is welcomed , even encouraged.what about the girl who feels awkward about having a boy walk in while she s using the bathroom ?
sorry .
she is the one who needs to adjust her thinking not the boy.but there is something far more sinister going on here .
mattel is not just using the ad to connect with little boys who play with barbie dolls ; it is using the ad to smash gender roles.it s no secret that society is moving away from gender-based toys for children .
target is in the process of removing gender-based signs from their toy section , and hasbro switched to a gender-neutral easy-bake oven a few years ago.the moschino barbie commercial is just another step in society s pursuit to radically change social expectations .
but is including a boy in a barbie ad really progress and common sense , as one news source put it ?
via : the trumpet