marawi city , philippines ( reuters ) - khaliluddin ismail returned home on sunday after five months of war in the southern philippines to find his house ransacked .
but he s still smiling .
at least we have something left , he said , standing in a room with clothes , toys , ornaments and damaged pictures strewn across the floor .
others have nothing .
they lost their homes , they lost their lives .
ismail , 44 , the imam of a nearby mosque , considers himself one of the luckiest people in marawi .
the city was devastated by more than 150 days of battles between government forces and pro-islamic state militants that killed more than 1,100 people and displaced some 350,000 .
his house is in marawi s safe zone , an area long abandoned by residents but untouched by unrelenting shelling and military air strikes that have all but flattened the city s commercial heart , destroying thousands of homes , shops and vehicles .
six days after troops killed the last remaining rebels , ismail was among about 4,000 people allowed to return to their homes on sunday in marawi s basak malutlot area .
many like him have discovered their houses were looted and left in disarray .
i opened the door and i was shocked , but i m still happy to be home , he said .
ismail fled with his family on may 24 during a fierce three-day firefight that erupted just 50 meters away , when security forces tried to raid the hideout of notorious militant leader isnilon hapilon , islamic state s anointed emir in southeast asia .
hapilon escaped , then issued a call to arms to hundreds of insurgents to initiate their planned takeover of marawi .
it sparked the philippines biggest urban battle in recent history , and fears that islamic state s extremist agenda had gained a foothold in the south of the mainly catholic country .
there were scenes of joy and chaos as a convoy of returning residents poured in to marawi to a cacophony of horns and whistles , jamming what only a few hours earlier were deserted streets .
armed police at checkpoints cross-checked documents and pictures of each passengers from the 712 families , to guard against possible infiltration by militants .
babies cried as officials at a public hall shouted on megaphones to try to establish order as hundreds jostled to register for the sack of rice and 5,000 pesos ( $ 97 ) allocated to each household .
with a stern face , the district s elderly chairwoman , jamellah indol saro , yelled in the local maranao dialect at anxious residents to calm down .
i told them we have to thank allah we re still alive , she said , smiling .
some 6,500 families are due to return this week in a phased repatriation , a fraction of the 77,000 that fled to evacuation camps or nearby towns .
many face a lengthy wait for vast swathes of marawi to be rebuilt .
retired government employee mitormar goling , 72 , came home to find jewellery , money , furniture and antiques had been stolen .
he said he feared he would have starved or been killed had he stayed behind .
we felt the ground trembling from the air strikes .
we didn t know if the army could protect us , said goling , wearing sunglasses and a white skull cap .
if you don t believe in their ideology , isis sees you as the enemy , he said , referring to islamic state .
he was among many people who said they understood that the military had to destroy the city to save it .
norida manna s three-storey house was levelled by an air strike , but she s thankful she s alive .
the office clerk and single mother of six will now live at her sister s home , from which she fled in may as troops outside battled hooded , black-clad gunmen who helped the escape of hapilon .
the rebel commander was subsequently killed in a military operation 13 days ago .
my home was destroyed , but i don t blame the military .
they had a job to do , she said .
i have nothing left , but to us , every day is a happy one now .