berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel said on sunday she would seek an end to turkey s membership talks with the european union in an apparent shift of her position during a televised debate weeks before a german election .
the fact is clear that turkey should not become a member of the eu , merkel said in the debate with her social democrat ( spd ) challenger martin schulz .
i ll speak to my ( eu ) colleagues to see if we can reach a joint position on this so that we can end these accession talks , merkel added .
the comments are likely to worsen already strained ties between the two nato allies that have deepened since turkish president tayyip erdogan s crackdown on opponents in the aftermath of a failed coup attempt in july of last year .
there was no immediate reaction from turkey which is in the midst of a national religious holiday .
merkel s comments came after schulz appeared to surprise her by vowing to push for an end to the negotiations if he was elected chancellor in the sept. 24 federal election .
if i become german chancellor , if the people of this country give me a mandate , then i will propose to the european council that we end the membership talks with turkey , schulz said .
whether we can win over all the countries for this i don t know .
but i will fight for this .
merkel initially cautioned against such a move , saying it would be irresponsible to endanger ties with turkey at a time when german citizens are imprisoned there .
twelve german citizens are now in turkish detention on political charges , four of them holding dual citizenship .
i do not intend to break off diplomatic relations with turkey just because we re in an election campaign and want to show each other who is tougher , she said .
but after the moderators had moved on and asked the two candidates a question about u.s. president donald trump , merkel returned to the turkey issue , suddenly throwing her weight behind an end to the membership talks .
merkel s conservative party , the christian democratic union ( cdu ) , has long opposed turkish membership in the european union .
but the green light for membership talks was given months before merkel became chancellor in 2005 and she has always said that she will respect that decision , referring to the negotiations as open ended .
the accession talks have ground to a virtual halt and eu leaders have stepped up their criticism of erdogan .