vienna ( reuters ) - the head of the u.n. nuclear watchdog said on monday iran was abiding by the rules set out in a nuclear accord it signed with six world powers in 2015 , after washington suggested it was not adhering to the deal .
the state department must notify congress every 90 days of iran s compliance with the deal .
the next deadline is october and u.s. president donald trump has said he thinks by then the united states will declare iran non-compliant .
yukiya amano , the head of the international atomic energy agency ( iaea ) , said iran had not broken any promises and was not receiving special treatment .
the nuclear-related commitments undertaken by iran under the ( deal ) are being implemented , he said in the text of a speech to a quarterly meeting of the iaea s 35-member board of governors .
most sanctions on iran were lifted 18 months ago under the deal and , despite overstepping a limit on its stocks of one chemical , it has adhered to the key limitations imposed on it .
in april , trump ordered a review of whether a suspension of sanctions on iran related to the nuclear deal , negotiated under president barack obama , was in the u.s. national security interest .
he has called it the worst deal ever negotiated .
the u.s. ambassador to the united nations , nikki haley , traveled to vienna last month to speak with amano about iran and asked if the iaea planned to inspect iranian military sites , something she has called for .
iran dismissed the u.s. demand as merely a dream .
amano declined to comment on haley s statements when asked by reporters .
iran has been applying an additional protocol , which is in force in dozens of nations and gives the iaea access to sites , including military locations , to clarify questions or inconsistencies that may arise .
we will continue to implement the additional protocol in iran ... as we do in other countries , amano said , referring to so-called complementary access visits granted under the protocol , details of which amano said were confidential .
i can not tell you how many complementary accesses we have had , but i can tell you ... that we have had access to locations more frequently than many other countries with extensive nuclear programs .
he called verification measures in iran the most robust regime currently in existence .
in addition , the iaea can request access to iranian sites including military ones if it has concerns about activities or materials there that would violate the agreement , but it must show iran the basis for those concerns .
that means new and credible information pointing to such a violation is required first , officials from the agency and major powers say .
there is no indication that washington has presented such information .