london ( reuters ) - an attempt to change the law in northern ireland to allow abortions in cases of rape , incest or serious malformation of the fetus started in the uk supreme court on tuesday with harrowing accounts of women s experiences .
a socially conservative province where the catholic and protestant faiths exert strong influence , northern ireland allows abortion only when a mother s life is in danger .
the penalty for undergoing or performing an unlawful abortion is life imprisonment .
as a result , women facing tragic circumstances such as a pregnancy resulting from rape or a diagnosis of fatal fetal abnormality , meaning that a baby will not survive outside the womb , have been forced to carry their pregnancies to term .
the impact of the criminal law in northern ireland does amount to inhuman and degrading treatment by the state , said nathalie lieven , lead counsel for the northern ireland human rights commission which is spearheading the legal action .
the commission , an independent body , launched legal action against northern ireland s government in 2014 , arguing that the law violates the human rights of women and girls .
the case has been working its way through the courts ever since .
a panel of seven supreme court judges in london will hear arguments for and against the proposed changes during a three-day hearing .
they will give their judgment at a later date .
lieven began by giving the judges an overview of detailed evidence provided by several women and girls .
one of them , ashleigh topley , was told when she was four-and-a-half months pregnant in 2013 that her baby s limbs were not growing and she was going to die .
topley was told there was nothing to be done and she had to carry on with the pregnancy until her baby died inside the womb , or until she went into labor which would cause the baby to die .
topley had to endure 15 weeks of anguish as the pregnancy progressed .
she has described how people would ask her if it was her first child , if she wanted a boy or a girl , and other well-meaning questions which exacerbated her suffering .
in the end , topley went into labor at 35 weeks and the baby girl s heart stopped .
other cases described to the judges included that of a girl under 13 years old who was pregnant as a result of sexual abuse by a relative .
after police and social services got involved , the distraught girl had to be taken outside of northern ireland for the first time in her life to have an abortion .
northern ireland s elected assembly voted against changing abortion laws in february 2016 .
the law is far less restrictive in the rest of the united kingdom , and hundreds of northern irish women travel to england every year to have unwanted pregnancies terminated .
as well as the parties in the case , the court will hear from organizations that support changing the law , such as humanists uk , amnesty international and a united nations working group on discrimination against women .
it will also hear from groups who oppose any reform , such as catholic bishops from the province and the society for the protection of unborn children , which describes the legal action as a crusade against disabled babies .
( this version of the story includes updates with details from the hearing )