michelle obama received $ 70 million dollars from the feds for her pet project to promote eduction for girls .
it s really a front and slush fund for her escapades to europe , asia and now the wealthy middle east traveling the world on taxpayer dollars is what mooch does best .
this time she s outdone herself with the idiocy of speaking to a radical muslim group about how bad she had it as a kid in america when these radical muslims don t think twice about sharia law and the horror that brings for little girls .
what a fool ! the first lady is supposed to be a representative of america and shine a light on the good work we re doing around the world .
michelle obama can t help but repeatedly bash america and especially slam the status quo in american culture .
after all , she did say we need to change our traditions.so here s the latest on her america bashing in the middle east while on the taxpayer s dime : first lady michelle obama is in qatar this week for a summit sponsored by a state-controlled foundation that is known for operating mosques that have welcomed extremist clerics , according to a range of sources.obama is in qatar a country under congressional scrutiny for its financing of terrorists through the end of the week to attend the country s world innovation summit for education , an annual educational conference sponsored by the qatar foundation , which has been marred in controversy due to its ongoing hosting of radical clerics.founded and run by the former qatari emir s wife , sheikha mozah , the qatar foundation houses six satellite campuses owned by american universities and other western schools at a site outside doha known as education city.at its mosque there , the foundation has welcomed multiple radical clerics in the past several months , prompting criticism from some who accuse the charity of quietly promoting terrorism.one cleric who recently spoke at the mosque , omar abdelkafi , has mocked the killings of french satirical writers at charlie hebdo , calling the terrorist act the sequel to the comedy film of 9/11 .
another maintained that jews and their helpers must be destroyed .
the ongoing appearance of these clerics at the foundation s mosque has raised questions about the obama administration s endorsement of the charity , which has strived to maintain international legitimacy.read more : wfbobama addressed the foundation on wednesday : michelle obama went to qatar to give a speech on girls education .
there , the first lady of the united states complained about growing up as a girl in america .
back when i was a girl , even though i was bright and curious and i had plenty of opinions of my own , people were often more interested in hearing what my brother had to say .
and my parents didn t have much money ; neither of them had a university degree .
so when i got to school , i sometimes encountered teachers who assumed that a girl like me wouldn t be a good student .
i was even told that i would never be admitted to a prestigious university , so i shouldn t even bother to apply , obama said at the qatar national convention center in doha .
like so many girls across the globe , i got the message that i shouldn t take up too much space in this world .
that i should speak softly and rarely .
that i should have modest ambitions for my future .
that i should do what i was told and not ask too many questions .
but i was lucky , because i had parents who believed in me , who had big dreams for me .
they told me , don t ever listen to those who doubt you .
they said , just work harder to prove them wrong .
and that s what i did .
i went to school .
i worked hard .
i got good grades .
i got accepted to top universities .
i went on to become a lawyer , a city government employee , a hospital executive , and - the most important job i ve ever had - a mother to two beautiful girls .
obama did say that the u.s. has made progress .
and as i moved forward , so did my country .
in each generation , brave women and men fought to end gender discrimination in the workplace , to pass tougher laws against rape and domestic abuse , to ensure equal access to education for women .
and while we still have work to do to achieve full economic , political equality for women in the u.s. , today , nearly 60 percent of american university students are women .
and as for the law school at harvard university - which i actually got my law degree the dean of the school is now a woman , as are half the students .
here s a bit from michelle obama s speech :