( removes erroneous reference to montreal as quebec s capital in this dec. 5 story ) by sonya dowsett and allison lampert madrid/montreal ( reuters ) - a flight by businesses from catalonia s independence crisis has drawn comparisons with quebec , the french-speaking canadian province that deterred investors with a decades-long independence push .
opinion polls showed support for pro-independence parties at just under 50 percent as campaigning for a dec. 21 election began on tuesday , enough to dampen the madrid government s hopes the vote would end a volatile standoff over secession .
carrying on as before means chaos , said jordi alberich , managing director of cercle d economia , a business association based in the catalan capital , barcelona .
what has happened is tremendously serious and it could get even worse .
the election is seen by pro-independence parties as a de-facto referendum on a split from spain following a banned plebiscite which led to clashes between spanish police and protesters on oct 1 and the subsequent dismissal of the catalan government by madrid .
while it may not propel secessionist forces back into regional government , it could end up sustaining their cause and thereby putting off investors over the longer term .
almost 3,000 firms have shifted their headquarters outside the region , many to madrid , mirroring the flight of companies from quebec s montreal for toronto before and after its first referendum in 1980 delivered defeat for independence .
the catalan exodus has so far been administrative rather than physical , with companies effectively shifting domiciles , the brass plate of the business , to avoid legal and tax complications rather than moving staff or operations .
they fear secession would leave them outside the euro zone and exposed to the uncertain policies and possible tax grabs of a new republic burdened by the region s existing large debts .
madrid , eager for unionist parties to score a clear victory on dec. 21 and put the crisis to rest , says the economic impact will be only short term , but there are signs the uncertainty is already affecting longer-term investment decisions .
if i had been contacted by an american investor asking : should i open a small office in barcelona ?
three or four years ago , i would have said : yes , of course , said the spain country head for an international investment bank .
now i can t say that anymore ...
the pain inflicted by the independence process scares money away .
he , like other bankers and chief executives , declined to speak publicly because the issue is divisive .
those who speak out for one side or other can become targets of criticism and abuse .
the spanish government has already trimmed its 2018 economic growth forecast to 2.3 percent due to the catalan crisis , and its independent authority of fiscal responsibility has warned of a bigger impact next year if it is not resolved .
tourism to the region and its main draw card , barcelona , has slumped , leading to spain s first fall in retail sales for more than three years .
spain s economy minister recently noted a strong deceleration in catalonia in the final quarter , and the central bank published an analysis last month based on scenarios that implied impacts ranging from modest to dramatic .
in the worst case , it said political uncertainty could cut economic growth by 2.5 percentage points between end-2017 and 2019 .
in a recent report , catalonia , history repeating ?
, canadian bank rbc capital markets compared it with the fallout from quebec s 1995 referendum , which delivered the narrowest of defeats for independence and was followed by economic decline .
`` even if the independence parties fall short of a majority , the damage may have already been done , '' it said of catalonia 's december vote .
graphic tmsnrt.rs/2agbazv the spanish region s pro-independence camp says it pays more than its fair share of tax income out of the country s 17 regions and during the five-year economic crisis its stronger economy propped up poorer areas such as andalusia and murcia .
the biggest pro-independence party , esquerra republicana de catalunya ( erc ) , has dismissed government warnings secession would cause economic damage and launched its campaign focusing on social issues like housing and energy poverty .
quebec s independence movement , triggered by the 1960s push by french-speakers for economic equality , led to a decline in the province s english-speaking population and its economic affluence , with banks and companies moving their head offices from montreal , then a thriving financial hub .
canada s second-most populous province has made economic strides in recent years , but it continues to lag other provinces in indicators like household income .
between 1970 and 1981 , as pro-sovereignty parti quebecois gained political momentum , montreal lost 18,992 head offices in resource , manufacturing and service sectors , according to a 1983 university of saskatchewan study .
canada s largest life insurance company was among those which left in 1977 .
politics was not the only factor .
montreal s older manufacturing economy was already facing competition from toronto .
the relative decline of montreal and the exodus of headquarters was no doubt exacerbated by politics but was not solely caused by politics , said richard shearmur , a professor at mcgill university s school of urban planning in montreal .
the catalan crisis has drawn interest in quebec : last week , two members of catalonia s secessionist candidatura d unitat popular ( cup ) party spoke at an event organised by a left-leaning quebec opposition party .
but quebec polls show support for separation , especially among young adults , is in decline , while in catalonia polls show pro-independence parties continue to command strong support .
the last catalan government was made up of a coalition of pro-independence parties under the name together for yes , propped up by cup lawmakers who did not join the government s ranks .
opinion polls show pro-independence and pro-unity parties almost in a dead heat for december s election .