how very progressive not since the civil rights movement of the 60 s has america seen such a racial divide .
of course , we all know who s behind the manufactured race war in america .
barack obama is working in unison with race agitators and hollywood idiots like harvey weinstein who are willing to suffer the consequences of being humiliated by a racist comedian in front of millions , if it means they are absolved of the sins of not hiring enough black people.the co-chief of the weinstein co. acknowledges that the academy has a poor track record when it comes to films about people of color including his own but he feels the blame belongs on studios and distributors , not on people who ve worked so hard all their lives and prize that academy card and have reached that zenith and then go on to retirement .
i just can imagine chris rock s opening remarks , harvey weinstein , the co-chief of the weinstein co. , says as we sit down to record an episode of the awards chatter podcast days ahead of sunday s rock-hosted 88th academy awards .
if anybody s [ planning on ] boycotting the oscars , don t , because chris rock is gon na annihilate every one of us [ leaders of hollywood studios/distribution companies ] in the first 20 minutes of the show , and it will be well worth watching .
it will be an oscars to remember .
this year , for the first time since 2008 and one of the few times in the last 25 years , none of weinstein s films are nominated for best picture carol and the hateful eight came up short but he s still going to the show , hoping for a best original score win for hateful composer ennio morricone , among others associated with weinstein co. films , as well as a best actor win for my buddy leo [ dicaprio ] for the revenant .
that film , like the last two best picture oscar winners 12 years a slave and birdman , was guided to fruition by new regency president/ceo brad weston , who used to be co-president of the weinstein co. s dimension films division.here s an example of chris rock on one of his racist rants : weinstein says he understands , from experience , the frustrations of the people calling for a boycott of the oscars over the # oscarssowhite controversy , and feels they have made a difference but he does not support their ultimate objective .
it s that voice , actually , that gets people motivated , he says , because you don t want the boycott .
that s how people use their personal power to force change .
so i look at that and go , great , because everybody s thinking about that now .
i thought about it a couple of years ago because it had bugged me over the years that the films that i did about ethnic diversity never got anything .
so i said , i m gon na stack the deck for myself : i m gon na put out the butler , mandela and fruitvale station in the same year , okay ?
we got one nomination for u2 out of three movies .
was race the driving consideration ?
i have no idea , he says , but it has to make you think .
he continues , and then , that year , there was 12 years a slave , and i said , what is it , only one ? '
via : hollywood reporter