21st century wire says several people have been shot at the bronx-lebanon hospital center as an allegedly disgruntled ex-family medicine doctor opened fire with an m16 type rifle later reported to be an ar-15 inside the facility .
early reports state that as many a seven were injured in the shooting with at least two people dead at the scene including the shooter .
interestingly , early reports suggested that there may have been multiple shooters involved.the motive for the tragic shooting is the still under investigation .
the gunman is said to be 45 year-old dr. henry michael bello , who is believed to have resigned in 2015 over sexual harassment allegations.however , some confusion has emerged as to what really happened at the scene active shooter the bronx-lebanon hospital center took part in an active shooter preparedness forum in june of 2016 .
( photo illustration 21wire s shawn helton ) nbc news reported the following developments shortly after the apparent shooting : the shooter has been identified as dr. henry michael bello , a 45-year-old family medicine doctor formerly employed at the hospital , according to sources.after shooting the victims many of them , if not all , doctors bello tried to set himself on fire on the 17th floor of the hospital , o neill said .
the hospital s fire alarm system activated , and fdny firefighters were on standby outside the hospital as nypd executed its active shooter protocol .
by the time police found bello on the 17th floor , he was dead of self-inflicted gunshot wound , o neill said.a motive in the shootings remains unclear , but authorities say there is no apparent nexus to terror .
sources say bello resigned from the hospital in 2015 in lieu of being fired .
circumstances in the resignation weren t clear .
as members of the nypd s most-armed units responded to the active shooter situation , a sea of patrol and tactical vehicles gridlocked the streets around the hospital on grand concourse , and police surveyed the roof of the building with their guns drawn , chopper 4 over the scene shows .
note : other reports have suggested it took about 15 minutes from the first 911 call until bello s body was discovered dead.also , shortly after the shooting rampage started , reuters reported the police were able to conduct a sweep essentially shutting down the building attack : police searched the hospital room by room , urging occupants to turn off the lights and remain in place as they conducted the sweep , according to an account posted on twitter by felix puno , who identified himself as patient in the radiology department on the fourth floor of the hospital .
building is in complete shut down , i was in the middle of getting an x-ray when security alerted us to the active shooter situation , puno tweeted.new york mayor bill de blasio was briefed on the shooting and was on his way to the scene , the mayor s twitter account said .
drill protocol a hospital staff member follow the obligatory hands up protocol , as part of the scripted active shooter scenario training .
( image source : nydailynews ) sketchy detailsas with any traumatic event there often several are certain details that don t quite add up.while we ve been told the shooting took place on the 16th floor of the building some reports gave eye-witness testimony to the contrary , with one stating he heard three gun shots while located on the 10th floor .
is it really possible he heard gun shots from 6 stories above ?
here s nbc again with that detail : francisco bodon , a patient at bronx lebanon , tells nbc new york sister station telemundo 47 that he was in a room on the 10th floor when three gunshots rang out and then chaos erupted.there may have been more than three [ shots ] , but people were screaming , crying and running around .
it was very chaotic , said bodon .
adding to the confusion , the uk s express reported that one of doctors who was wounded in the shooting , as people inside the hospital created a makeshift tourniquet out of an emergency fire hose.although bello reportedly held a work place grudge and apparently made threats to coworkers the hospital officials said none of the victims were connected to bello .
question : considering the massive amount of training associated with the hospital , why was there no zero tolerance active shooter plan in place something commonly implemented in emergency prep ? over the years , we ve seen how sensationalized shooting events have become a staple part of our day to day lives , complete with ready-made political talking points and staged press conferences a buffet laid out for america , all of this within minutes or hours of high-profile tragedy .
massive response this kind of police emergency response has become routine after many high-profile active shooter incidents .
( image source : nbcdfw.com ) the precarious relationship between emergency preparedness drills and actual active shootings is an ongoing pattern present in many high-profile shooting incidents in recent years , with mass shootings happening at the exact same locations as where active shooter or terrorism drills had just previously taken place a puzzling trend which we have covered extensively at 21wire .
this latest bronx-lebanon hospital center appears to be no exception.although the bronx-lebanon hospital center appears to be work place violence , it s important to examine other aspects or elements surrounding any case.below is a screen shot depicting speakers that participated in an active shooter planning forum in conjunction with the healthcare association of new york state in june of 2016 .
the bronx-lebanon hospital center is displayed among those speaking in addition to active shooter emergency planning protocols listed above , according to a fojp service corporation journal bronx-lebanon hospital was selected be a part of major emergency prep since at least over the past several years .
here s a passage from that report : at bronx-lebanon hospital center , the department of safety is charged with multiple responsibilities , some of which include , but are not limited to : fire and life safety , general safety and monitoring the fire command station ; and coordinating emergency management and response planning.continuing , the report outlined the following : at bronx-lebanon , we took our environment into account , for example , geographic location we re in , and let that be our driving force to how we developed our hazard vulnerablity analysis ( hva ) and put our emergency action plan ( eap ) together .
with two main campuses and multiple satellite locations , our plan has to incorporate everyone to ensure we will have the necessary staff in case of emergencies .
it s interesting that a hospital known to have extensive emergency protocols could have a shooting occur on its own premises after leading the area charge in addressing that very issue.question : is it really just a coincidence that this hospital was so heavily involved in active shooter prep only to fall prey to exactly that kind of tragedy ?
* update * according to new reports as per active shooter protocol first responders ducked for cover as patients filed from bronx-lebanon hospital wearing bed sheets .
wouldn t the answer here be to properly train those in the work place how to handle a firearm in crisis situations such as this ? additionally , sources tell cbs2 bello started two fires , one at the nurse s station and another as an attempt to set himself ablaze .
he ended up shooting himself in a room , then staggered out to the hallway where he died .
continuing the article goes on to state the following : police continue to investigate the rampage .
the new york daily news reports bello sent them an email before the shooting , where he wrote about leaving his job at the hospital .
question : if bello s email prior to the shooting was threatening in nature , then why wasn t he taken in for police questioning ? this whole aspect to the bronx-lebanon hospital case appears to echo some of what happened in 2013 when tv shooter vester flanagan aka bryce williams had also warned a manager that there would be negative consequences for his firing and vowed he would make a stink and it s going to be in the headlines .
here we see a similar foreshadowing of tragedy prior to yet another suspicious shooting case that was also linked to an active shooter drill before a bizarre shooting rampage.here s another look at a tweet from the wdbj-tv shooting case in 2015 that documents the active shooter drill connection here s a collection of media montages and video footage supposedly depicting the bronx-lebanon hospital center shooting response as staff and others sheltered in place .
notice the makeshift barricade during active shooter training the run and hide method is a critical feature in crisis roleplay .
as those in the hospital were ordered to shelter in place by both the nypd and at the urging of the consulate for the united arab emirates , while there were several tweets posted to twitter regarding the incident.here s a screenshot first published by new york city alerts that allegedly depicts the dead gunman bello notice there s no evidence of fire that can been seen question : what was the purpose of releasing this photo or than to sensationalize a tragic event ? here s a social media post with a comment that read stayed safe during the crisis by a page since taken down on instagram here s the witness who heard shots ring out while on the 10th floor in the aftermath of any of these crisis events in america , powerful interests are always quick to line-up and take advantage of the event , mounting their sociopolitical agendas directly on the back of mass media coverage and by extracting political capital out of an emotional and traumatic situation .
certainly , mainstream media outlets like cnn gain immediate benefit as tv viewers are tuned-in incessantly for updates on any breaking situation which translates into high rating and massive advertising income streams for the broadcast network.something else to consider , this shooting event took place the very same week during a major push to pass the gop healthcare bill.while this very well could be an act of workplace violence , it s still important to ask questions , where there are few answers.will new questions emerge following the shocking bronx-lebanon hospital center shooting ? read more daily shooter news at : 21st century wire daily shooter filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv