montel williams is an outspoken opponent of donald trump s campaign and has been hitting the republican nominee particularly hard as of late over his predatory sexual behavior.here goes accused predator @ realdonaldtrump lying about the black community again montel williams ( @ montel_williams ) october 13 , 2016 boys will be boys , but boys will not be president ronald reagan.donald trump will never be president .
montel williams ( @ montel_williams ) october 13 , 2016donald trump is a damn pedophile .
period full stop .
pic.twitter.com/uk6af3gjji montel williams ( @ montel_williams ) october 13 , 2016so trump defender scottie nell hughes responded by privately threatening to bring up sexual misconduct accusations against williams .
bc i appreciate you and don t want to publicly bring up a bad moment in your life but please be careful publicly going against me bc others might not have a loyalty to you , she wrote.rather than bow down to such threat , williams called hughes out publicly on twitter and posted her message for all to see .
trumpers in general : careful threatening me when you don t know what i know and can tell reporters , williams fired back .
@ scottienhughes /trumpers in general : careful threatening me when you don t know what i know and can tell reporters pic.twitter.com/d1kz95gpse montel williams ( @ montel_williams ) october 14 , 2016it turns out hughes was referencing sexual assault allegations which williams was exonerated for in a court of law.seeing her error , hughes claimed she wasn t threatening williams and claimed she was just being a friend .
but williams was having none of it.yes you were and it s a damn stupid one at that given the case was tossed and the lawyer who filed it sanctioned ; ) https : //t.co/lh7cijiuks montel williams ( @ montel_williams ) october 14 , 2016an embarrassed hughes then offered a pathetic apology to stop the bleeding .
@ montel_williams well i apologize you took it that way bc unfortunately the part about the lawyer is not highly reported as much .
i am sorry scottie nell hughes ( @ scottienhughes ) october 14 , 2016but williams didn t accept.scottie was referencing series of frivolous sexual harassment lawsuits filed against me .
i won each and every one https : //t.co/wph3higga0 pic.twitter.com/mjfgbzq3iv montel williams ( @ montel_williams ) october 14 , 2016i didn t settle a one of those cases because i was innocent , so much so the judge fined the lawyer who filed them 15k https : //t.co/4azbliptfr montel williams ( @ montel_williams ) october 14 , 2016in a statement provided to raw story , williams explained that while hughes has only known trump for a few months , she clearly doesn t know him like he does .
scottie has known donald a few months , i ve known him more than 20 years .
it would be unwise for her or any of these folks from central casting posing as surrogates to threaten me .
they have no idea the damage me deciding to talk to a reporter about what i know would cause .
hughes responded on twitter by playing the victim as if she did nothing wrong by casually making threats to someone she considers a friend .
no messages from you sorry or i would have responded that mw and i have had friendly convos since 14 .
sorry .
i guess i misunderstood how polite our friendship was and very disappointed he has that low of respect for me .
threatening to smear a person s reputation is not what any good friend does .
but that s what hughes did even though williams was found totally innocent of the allegations against him .
hughes deserved to be humiliated in public , and by sharing the threat publicly , williams showed the world just how low trump s minions are willing to sink.featured image via facebook