we re giving asylum to people who re connected to terrorist organizations and releasing illegal alien criminals onto our streets .
the obama regime sure doesn t like americans .
asylum was given because they loosened the rules in february of 2014 and they could then let these terror connected people in : such applicants would have been rejected prior to feb. 2014 , according to judicial watch .
that s when the obama administration announced that dhs could exercise discretion whether to grant asylum to aliens who provided limited material support .
we just reported today on the thousands of illegal alien criminals that obama just let go last year including 353 illegals convicted of sexual assault !
now we have foreigners with ties to terrorism coming to live here !
isn t it enough to have the thousands of refugees our state department is just shipping here without fully vetting or letting the people know ?
lord help us ! obama administration granted asylum to more than 1,500 foreigners with ties to terrorist organizations last year because they were deemed to have provided support to the groups while under duress .
the figures are contained in an annual report that u.s .
citizenship and immigration services ( uscis ) sent to congress this month .
the conservative watchdog group judicial watch obtained the report and published it online tuesday.during fiscal year 2014 , uscis applied exemptions to 1,519 foreigners with ties to terrorist organizations who applied for discretionary relief .
of that total , 806 of the foreigners granted discretionary relief were for refugee applicants while another 614 were applicants for lawful permanent resident status.of the 1,519 with terrorist associations , 627 provided material support , while under duress , to undesignated terrorist groups .
another 189 provided material support , while under duress , to designated terrorist groups.designated terrorist groups are the most dangerous .
they are classified as tier i and tier ii organizations and include groups like hamas , hezbollah , al-qaeda and palestinian islamic jihad.nine foreigners granted relief received military-type training , while under duress , from terrorist groups ; 28 provided voluntary medical care to members of terrorist groups ; 37 were qualified aliens who had existing immigration benefits who had provided material support to , solicited funds for , solicited individuals for membership in or received military-type training from tier iii terrorist organizations.uscis asserts that applicants are thoroughly vetted and pose no terrorist threat to the u.s .
applicants names and fingerprints are compared against terrorist watch lists .
following that process , individual applicants are reviewed on a case-by-case basis by the department of homeland security.such applicants would have been rejected prior to feb. 2014 , according to judicial watch .
that s when the obama administration announced that dhs could exercise discretion whether to grant asylum to aliens who provided limited material support .
read more : daily caller