kiev ( reuters ) - the destruction of two ammunition depots this year have dealt the biggest blow to ukraine s combat capability since the start of its separatist conflict , security and military officials said on thursday .
massive explosions at a military depot in the vynnytsya region , 270 km ( 170 miles ) west of kiev , forced the authorities to evacuate 24,000 people on wednesday .
another large depot was destroyed in march .
it is not clear if the explosions were accidents or sabotage , either of which would underscore poor security at the bases , but officials traded blame for the resulting losses .
the country has suffered the biggest blow to our fighting capacity since the start of the war , the secretary of the ukrainian security and defence council , oleksandr turchynov , told journalists .
earlier the defense ministry said the vynnytsya depot contained 83,000 tonnes of ammunition .
there are many violations of fire and air safety at our arsenals .
and these are the consequences , turchynov said .
we ve shown that we re not capable of protecting our strategic arsenals .
prosecutors have launched an investigation into the vynnytsya blaze , which the authorities have said may have been started deliberately , citing external factors .
chief military prosecutor anatoly matios said the site s alarm system was out of order and its security team lacked sufficient guards and up-to-date equipment .
the main issue which must be addressed is the personnel problem of guards whose salaries are very low , and in general security is carried out by elderly people , who certainly don t have hawk-eye vision , matios told journalists .
there have been four large fires at ammunition and weapons depots since late 2015 - an additional drain on ukraine s military , which has been fighting russian-backed separatists in eastern regions for more than three years .
it will be hard for the government to restore the military reserves that have destroyed by explosions over the past two years .
this is hundreds of billions of hryvnias , matios said .
both matios and turchynov said ukraine s general staff , which is responsible for the military s day-to-day operations , should be held accountable for security failings at the depots .
in a post on facebook , chief of the general staff viktor muzhenko denied accusations his institution was incompetent .
the comments were intended to sow doubt about the armed forces ability to protect its people , ( and ) undermine trust in the army , he said .