the u.s. bombardment of a syrian airbase just outside of homs friday was likely seen by north korea as a clear warning that president trump will use his military if united states interests are at risk.the immediate focus after the strikes was on russia s vladimir putin s reaction .
russia was not happy with the u.s. , it spoke in defense of syria and moved warships .
but now the attention is on the next move by another world leader : kim jong-un.gordon chang , a daily beast columnist and author of nuclear showdown : north korea takes on the world , said in an emailed statement to fox news friday that the u.s. strike on the syrian airfield tells north korean leader kim jong-un that he must now heed american military power , something that he probably dismissed before .
kim s father , kim jong il , disappeared from public view for about six weeks in 2003 at the time of the iraq war .
kim jong-un loves the public spotlight , and it will be telling if he similarly goes into hiding , the author said .
fox newsbreaking : a u.s. navy strike group will be moving toward the western pacific ocean near the korean peninsula as a show of force , a u.s. official told reuters on saturday , as concerns grow about north korea s advancing weapons program.earlier this month north korea tested a liquid-fueled scud missile which only traveled a fraction of its range.the strike group , called carl vinson , includes an aircraft carrier and will make its way from singapore toward the korean peninsula , according to the official , who was not authorized to speak to the media and requested anonymity .
we feel the increased presence is necessary , the official said , citing north korea s worrisome behavior.the news was first reported by reuters.in a statement late saturday , the u.s. navy s third fleet said the strike group had been directed to sail north , but it did not specify the destination .
the military vessels will operate in the western pacific rather than making previously planned port visits to australia , it added.this year north korean officials , including leader kim jong un , have repeatedly indicated an intercontinental ballistic missile test or something similar could be coming , possibly as soon as april 15 , the 105th birthday of north korea s founding president and celebrated annually as the day of the sun .
read more : reuters