wellington ( reuters ) - the leader of the new zealand first party , which emerged as the kingmaker after an inconclusive weekend election , said on wednesday he would not make a decision on who should form government until after the oct. 7 release of a final count .
still to be counted are special votes , ballots from overseas voters and those who vote outside their home constituencies , which account for 15 percent of total votes .
while they are not expected to change the result , with the ruling national party ahead with a comfortable 10 point lead , they could add seats to the possible labour-green coalition , making new zealand first more comfortable to go with them , despite the fact they did not win the largest number of seats .
i can t with any intelligence - and nor can my colleagues -tell you what we re going to do until we ve seen all the facts , winston peters , the outspoken leader of the new zealand first party , told a press conference in wellington .
peters , who spoke after meeting with his caucus , gave little away on what his party will demand in return for supporting prime minister bill english or opposition labour leader ardern to form a coalition government .
negotiations are expected to take weeks , with those who have worked with peters saying the final decision will be his .
nobody knows what winston peters or nz first will do , at this stage they don t know what they ll do , tau henare , a former lawmaker for both nz first and national , tweeted on wednesday .
but when winston finds out , they ll know .
the 72-year-old peters , a colorful populist and former foreign minister , has served in both national and labour governments in the past .
the national party secured 58 seats , ahead of the 52 won by the green party and labour in saturday s election , leaving both still in need of nz first s nine seats to reach the tally of 61 required to form a government .
both parties have indicated in recent days that they are willing to offer the carrot of the deputy leadership to peters .
an alternative option , and one that peters took in 2005 , was to strike a confidence and supply deal , in which new zealand first would vote in favor of a governing party s important legislation , like the budget , but remain outside cabinet .
on paper , peters has more in common with labour policies , including curbing immigration , and those who know him say that he d find the option of serving as a high-ranking cabinet member to a relative political newcomer like 37-year-old ardern an attractive proposition .
he has also been scathing of english s performance as leader .
but peters also has a track record of siding with the party that wins the most votes in an election , and is less than complimentary about labour s minority partner , the green party .
everything is negotiable , said nz first mp tracey martin .
it depends how flexible the national party wants to be , i suppose .
peters has been in parliament since 1978 and was a member of the national party until he formed new zealand first in 1993 .
he was first cast as kingmaker in 1996 , when he famously put off coalition talks the day after the election to go fishing .