washington/new york ( reuters ) - ted wade hasn ’ t cared about politics enough to cast a vote in a u.s. presidential election for almost a quarter of a century , back when he supported ross perot ’ s independent candidacy in 1992 .
but republican donald trump ’ s 2016 white house bid has motivated wade to get involved and he plans to support the real estate mogul in nevada ’ s nominating caucus next month .
trump is a “ non-politician ” who can fix the “ chaos ” in washington , he says .
about one in 10 americans who plan to cast a vote this election will do so for the first time in years , if ever , and trump holds a decided edge with them , according to polling by reuters/ipsos .
( tmsnrt.rs/1sgelvi ) these voters offer trump a pool of voters who could be decisive either in the republican primaries or a general election .
they could be crucial for trump in early-voting states such as iowa and south carolina , where his nearest rival , senator ted cruz , is putting pressure on trump and enjoys a strong base of support with more traditionally conservative voters .
in reuters/ipsos polling from june to december 2015 , 27.3 percent of these “ new ” voters said they would vote for trump , higher than his poll numbers among independents and republicans who regularly vote .
by way of comparison , cruz captures just 3.4 percent of these voters .
and senator marco rubio of florida snags only 4 percent .
“ i ’ m tired of the chaos between democrats and republicans and want to give somebody a try who i think can make a difference , ” said wade of trump .
the 51-year-old has already switched his affiliation from democrat to republican and even attended a trump campaign event in las vegas .
he has told his three older children to get involved in the elections , although he did not say whether he wanted them to vote for trump .
trump , the republican front-runner , has made targeting “ lost ” voters such as wade a focus of his campaign .
his anti-immigrant rhetoric and protectionist trade proposals have helped him to fashion a message tailored to reach americans alienated by the endless enmity between the political parties and who , because of declining economic prospects , may feel like neither party has done much for them .
trump ’ s strategy is a gamble , given the lack of reliability of many of the voters with whom he is most popular .
in interviews , some of those lost voters insist they will show up , saying they are drawn to trump ’ s outsider status and his willingness to upend the political system .
tucson , arizona , resident renay cunningham , 56 , said she had never paid much attention to politics in the past .
she plans to cast her first ever vote for trump after hearing his proposed policies to curb illegal immigration , which include building a giant wall on the southern border and making mexico pay for it .
“ we need a piranha in there , and he ’ s definitely a piranha , ” she said .
trump and his operatives are confident they can do what few of his rivals for the republican nomination have shown they can do — expand the party ’ s potential voter pool .
but while democrat barack obama did that eight years ago by largely registering new voters , including record levels of minorities , both male and female , in urban centers , trump ’ s campaign has instead largely sought out the disaffected , who tend to be overwhelmingly older , white , and less educated than the broader electorate .
“ my whole campaign has been focused on expanding the number of people who want to , and will , participate in this election cycle , ” trump wrote in a recent op-ed in usa today .
when analyzing “ lost ” or “ new ” voters , reuters compiled poll results from people who haven ’ t voted in the previous two presidential campaigns and midterm congressional elections .
the results focused only on those who said they were nearly certain to vote in the november election .
it included responses from 3,440 “ new ” republican and independent voters – a sample that has a credibility interval of 2 percentage points .
jan leighley , an expert on turnout at american university , said it ’ s too soon to compare trump ’ s “ new ” voters with the disenfranchised voters , especially minorities , who in 2008 turned out in record numbers to elect the first black president .
those voters didn ’ t find their way to the polls simply because they were inspired to make history , leighley said .
“ he also had a kick-ass mobilization structure. ” “ obama ’ s campaign went door-to-door .
they canvassed whole neighborhoods .
“ i don ’ t know if he ( trump ) has the campaign infrastructure to make sure that the folks who are riled up are walked to the polls on election day , ” she said .
trump ’ s campaign insists he does have the infrastructure , but won ’ t provide specifics on how it intends to turn casual supporters into engaged voters .
the campaign says it does follow up with the thousands of attendees who jam arenas for trump ’ s rallies .
that ’ s one significant advantage the reality star has over the other candidates in the republican field , as the challenge in reaching voters who have fallen out of the political process often lies in simply locating them .
“ we ’ ve identified a lot of people in early primary states who have not participated in the process before , ” campaign manager corey lewandowski told reuters .
lewandowski resists the notion that trump needs to turn out “ new ” or reluctant voters to win states such as iowa .
even if the trump campaign isn ’ t necessarily counting on them , it may be reassuring that his supporters among “ new ” voters who responded to the reuters/ipsos survey appear motivated to cast a vote for him .
at least for the time being .
ronald thomas , a 49-year-old truck driver and navy veteran in north carolina , said he , too , has never voted in a presidential contest .
his girlfriend would push him to vote but he would always say “ yeah , but the right one ain ’ t come along yet , ’ ” thomas said .
trump is that man .
his willingness to take on the government has set him apart as someone who would “ actually look out for the people , ” said thomas .
now he wants to know how to register so that he can vote for the billionaire .
and there ’ s vince disylvester , a retired maintenance worker in missouri , who , at 73 , said has never cast a ballot for president .
but trump has inspired him to rethink that .
“ he ’ s a businessman , he knows business , he knows how to get things done , ” he said .
“ and he tells it like it is .
if you don ’ t like it - well , too bad. ” ( editing by ross colvin ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .