peshawar , pakistan ( reuters ) - pakistan s opposition tehreek-e-insaf ( pti ) party , led by former cricket hero imran khan , swept to a comfortable by-election victory on the edge of the northwestern city of peshawar , though its majority was trimmed by new hardline religious parties .
pti candidate arbab amir ayub clinched 45,631 votes , about 34.8 percent of the total , on thursday to ensure pti kept the parliamentary seat in the province of khyber pakhtunkhwa ( kp ) that it governs .
the by-election was seen as a litmus test of pti s popularity in kp , where it has focused on police , health and education reforms in contrast to the ruling pakistan muslim league-nawaz ( pml-n ) party betting on road and energy infrastructure projects .
khan , the pti chairman , touted the victory as a direct vote of confidence in his party s performance governing kp since the 2013 election , when it won the national assembly seat , known as peshawar na-4 , with a majority of about 40 percent .
the next general election is due in mid-2018 but khan has called for early polls after pml-n leader and prime minister nawaz sharif was toppled in july by a supreme court disqualification over an undeclared source of income .
analysts say khan s chances of becoming prime minister have been boosted by sharif s ouster , and the sportsman has doubled down on his populist message by saying he will pull the country away from infrastructure spending towards improving schools , hospitals and the lives of the poor .
most of the youngsters like imran khan and believe he can steer the country out of crisis and stop corruption , said zahid hussain , a government contractor .
awami national party ( anp ) candidate khushdil khan secured 24,830 votes , or 18.9 percent of the total , to pip pml-n s nasir khan musazai , who won 23,169 votes to finish third .
khushdil khan s showing will hearten the anp , whose candidates barely campaigned in 2013 as the pakistani taliban targeted and killed many of its leaders and activists in kp .
but it was the performance of two new hardline religious parties that caught the eye of political observers .
muhammad shafiq ameeni , a candidate for the tehreek-i-labaik party , won 7.6 percent of the ballot campaigning on a platform of support for pakistan s strict blasphemy laws that are already some of the world s harshest .
labaik supporters have spread their hardline message , including the notion that those who commit blasphemy against islam should be killed , through mosques and seminaries .
syed moharram shah , a labaik activist , said the party was surprised it captured 9,060 votes because it wasn t fully prepared for the election .
this is our first attempt but look at people s response .
it s very much encouraging , he said .
alhaj liaqat ali khan , an independent candidate backed by the milli muslim league ( mml ) party , loyal to hafiz saeed , an islamist under house arrest , obtained 3,557 votes .
washington accuses saeed of being the mastermind behind the 2008 attacks in the indian city of mumbai that killed 166 people , and has placed a $ 10 million bounty on his head .
saeed denies the charge .
last month , candidates backed by labaik and mml won about 11 percent of the ballot in a by-election for sharif s vacated seat in a by-election in the eastern city of lahore .