iran , where the thought police will always have a job : not only will we not grant foreigners the permission to inspect our military sites , we will not even give them permission to think about such a subject .
a spokesman for iran s nuclear agency has once again rejected calls to grant iaea access to military sites , continuing a war of words on the issue that began sunday.press tv reports that behrouz kamalvandi , spokesman for the atomic energy organization of iran ( aeoi ) , gave an interview monday in which he stated that demands for access to iran s military sites were not practical and acceptable .
according to press tv , his statement was a response to a claim u.s. energy secretary ernest moniz made earlier in the day.during an interview with bloomberg news earlier monday , secretary moniz said , we expect to have anywhere , anytime access within iran .
that statement appears to match the contents of the u.s. fact sheet published three weeks ago .
the fact sheet states , iran will be required to grant access to the iaea to investigate suspicious sites or allegations of a covert enrichment facility , conversion facility , centrifuge production facility , or yellowcake production facility anywhere in the country .
secretary moniz s statement about access anywhere , anytime was itself an apparent response to a blunt statement sunday by brigadier general hossein salami .
according to press tv , general salami gave an interview to fars news in which he stated , not only will we not grant foreigners the permission to inspect our military sites , we will not even give them permission to think about such a subject .
in case that was not clear enough , gen. salami added , they will not even be permitted to inspect the most normal military site in their dreams .
general salami is not the first high ranking iranian to deny the iaea will get access to iran s military sites under the proposed deal .
nearly two weeks ago , iran s defense minister said any inspection of iran s military sites was a red line and added that no inspection of any kind from such facilities would be accepted .
ayatollah khamenei backed up that stance the next day.aeoi spokesman behrouz kamalvandi who said military site inspections were not acceptable was reportedly awaiting a nuclear delegation from russia to discuss the construction of two new nuclear power plants in iran next year.via : breitbart news