melbourne ( reuters ) - andy murray thinks he played his best tennis of the tournament during his australian open quarter-final victory over david ferrer on wednesday after a tough few days when he was distracted by his father-in-law ’ s illness .
the 28-year-old scot came through a three-hour , 20-minute tussle with the spanish eighth seed 6-3 6-7 ( 5 ) 6-2 6-3 to take his place in the semi-finals for the sixth time in seven years .
his win contributed to the best week for britain at a grand slam for nearly 40 years , with johanna konta into the last four of the women ’ s draw and murray ’ s brother jamie into the last four of the men ’ s doubles with brazil ’ s bruno soares .
“ i think today was probably the best match i played , especially in the second and third set .
i started hitting the ball better from the back of the court .
“ obviously the last few days have been tough and maybe i hadn ’ t played my best tennis and managed to get through. ” murray endured a worrisome few days after nigel sears , the father of his wife kim and coach of ana ivanovic , collapsed in the stands at the rod laver arena and was taken to hospital on saturday .
sears was discharged on sunday after being examined by a cardiologist and given the all-clear to join his pregnant daughter back home in britain , leaving murray free to focus on his tennis .
the former wimbledon champion , four times a losing finalist at melbourne park , has now reached the semi-finals or better at four of his last five grand slams .
“ obviously i want to win these events .
that ’ s why i ’ m still playing .
after a tough year in 2014 , i think i ’ m now sort of established again at the top of the game and giving myself chances .
“ that ’ s all i can keep doing .
and working hard .
i ’ ll give it my best in the next few days. ” murray will play milos raonic , who beat gael monfils in the last quarter-final , as he bids to reach a fifth australian open final .
reflecting on the strong british showing , murray said : “ it ’ s pretty good for us to have people competing in almost all of the competitions. ” “ it ’ s been a good australian open so far .
hopefully we can keep it going . ”