the cash flows through the state department and the famously corrupt u.s. agency of international development ( usaid ) , which is charged with providing global economic , development and humanitarian assistance .
usaid has allocated about $ 5 million to leftwing soros groups in macedonia since 2012 , documents show , and at least $ 9.5 million has been earmarked by the agency to intervene in the balkan nation s governmental affairs for 2016-2011.here s how the clandestine operation functions , according to high-level sources in macedonia and the u.s. that have provided judicial watch with records as part of an ongoing investigation .
the open society foundation has established and funded dozens of leftwing , nongovernmental organizations ( ngos ) in macedonia to overthrow the conservative government .
one macedonian government official interviewed by judicial watch in washington d.c. recently , calls it the soros infantry .
the groups organize youth movements , create influential media outlets and organize violent protests to undermine the institutions and policies implemented by the government .
one of the soros groups funded the translation and publication of saul alinsky s rules for radicals into macedonian .
the book is a tactical manual of subversion , provides direct advice for radical street protests and proclaims lucifer to be the first radical.thanks to obama s ambassador , who has not been replaced by president trump , uncle sam keeps the money flowing so the groups can continue operating and recruiting , sources in macedonia and the u.s. confirm.with a population of about 2 million , macedonia has one of the more conservative governments in europe .
this includes the lowest flat tax in europe , close ties with israel and pro-life policies .
the country recently built a border fence to crackdown on an illegal immigration crisis that overwhelmed law enforcement agencies .
between 10,000 and 12,000 illegal aliens were crossing the greek-macedonian border daily at the peak of the european migration crisis , a macedonian official told judicial watch , and the impact was devastating .
this is likely of big interest to soros , a renowned open borders advocate who pushes international governance , diminished u.s. global power and an increase in muslim immigration.this appears to be the case in macedonia with the help of american financing.there have been a number of violent protests in recent months that have been coordinated by soros open society foundation through its u.s.-funded ngos , sources tell judicial watch.some u.s. members of congress have expressed interest in the issue and have demanded answers from ambassador baily , usaid and the state department .
in typical fashion , the state department has stonewalled the inquiries and usaid hasn t been much more forthcoming .
judicial watch