united nations ( reuters ) - united nations aid chief mark lowcock warned on wednesday that if a saudi-led military coalition did not allow humanitarian aid access to yemen then it would cause the largest famine the world has seen for many decades with millions of victims .
the saudi-led military coalition fighting the houthi movement in neighboring yemen said on monday it had closed all air , land and sea ports to the arabian peninsula country to stem the flow of arms to the houthis from iran .
the move , which follows the interception of a missile fired toward the saudi capital riyadh on saturday , is likely to worsen a humanitarian crisis in yemen that according to the united nations has pushed some seven million people to the brink of famine and left nearly 900,000 infected with cholera .
lowcock , who visited yemen late last month , briefed the u.n. security council behind closed doors at the request of sweden .
i have told the council that unless those measures are lifted ... there will be a famine in yemen , he told reporters .
it will be the largest famine the world has seen for many decades with millions of victims .
he said u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres spoke with saudi foreign minister adel al-jubeir earlier on wednesday and called for an immediate resumption of humanitarian access .
lowcock said the u.n. s world food programme was feeding seven million people a month in yemen .
what we need is a winding down of the blockade ... so that we can save the lives of those people , he said .
the u.n. security council expressed concern about the humanitarian situation , italian u.n .
ambassador sebastiano cardi , council president for november , said after lowcock s briefing .
the members of the security council emphasized ... the importance of keeping all yemen s ports and airports functioning , including hodeidah port , as a critical lifeline for humanitarian support and other essential supplies , cardi said .
the united nations and international aid organizations have long criticized the coalition for blocking aid access , especially to north yemen , which is held by the iran-aligned houthi movement .
humanitarian access through the ports was inadequate even before the measures that were announced on the 6th november , said lowcock , adding that there had also been no u.n. flights allowed into yemen since monday .
the saudi-led coalition has been targeting the houthis since they seized parts of yemen in 2015 , including the capital sanaa , forcing president abd-rabbu mansour hadi to flee .
lowcock called for an immediate resumption of u.n. and other aid flights to sanaa and aden , assurances from the coalition that there would be no further disruptions to those flights , and immediate resumption of humanitarian and commercial port access .
he also called for the coalition to allow a wfp ship to be pre-positioned off aden and assurances that there would be no further disruption to its functions and demanded that all vessels that have passed u.n. inspection be allowed to offload .