sydney ( reuters ) - australian senator nick xenophon , a key independent lawmaker , said on friday he was resigning from national politics , potentially complicating prime minister malcolm turnbull s efforts to pass legislation .
turnbull does not have a majority in the senate and has relied on xenophon s party , the fourth largest bloc in the upper house , to pass legislation .
xenophon s replacement will come from his party , which bears his name , but is likely to be a far less experienced compared with xenophon s nine years as a senator .
xenophon was a known quantity , he was experienced and as he saw , turnbull could work with him , said peter chen , senior lecturer in politics at the university of sydney .
his potential replacement will be inexperienced , and that can be unpredictable .
this will not be turnbull s preferred choice .
xenophon s future as a senator was under a cloud due to him holding possible dual citizenship with britain .
under the constitution a lawmaker must only hold australian citizenship to be eligible to be elected to the national parliament .
xenophon had renounced his greek citizenship , which he received from his mother , but had not been aware he held possible british citizenship .
while he was born in australia , his father was born in cyprus , which was a british colony until independence in 1960 .
xenophon s citizenship issue was due to be determined by australia s high court .
australia s high court will next week rule on the eligibility of seven politicians , including xenophon and deputy prime minister barnaby joyce .
should joyce be ruled ineligible , turnbull will lose his majority in the lower house .
in announcing his surprise resignation , xenophon said he would stand for election in his home state of south australia next year .
state parliaments do not have the same citizenship rule as the national parliament .
i have increasingly concluded that you can t fix south australia s problems in canberra without first fixing our political system at home .
south australia politics is broken and politically bankrupt , xenophon told reporters in adelaide .