caracas ( reuters ) - venezuelan president nicolas maduro baited u.s. president donald trump on sunday by thanking him for a barrage of criticism that had made him famous worldwide .
it s an honor that the head of the empire mentions me every day , said the 54-year-old president , just back in venezuela from a trip to russia , belarus and turkey .
that means i m doing something right !
maduro laughed , during his weekly program on state tv .
saying venezuela has become a corrupt and repressive dictatorship , the u.s. government has widened individual sanctions on top officials including maduro and also prohibited new debt dealings with caracas .
businessman-turned-president trump has repeatedly criticized maduro and his socialist party in public and at meetings with other heads of state .
donald trump has become the head of the venezuelan opposition , said maduro , who has ruled the opec member since 2013 but seen his popularity plummet during an economic crisis .
he has made me famous around the world .
every time he mentions me , they love me more , maduro added , saying he had been acclaimed by people abroad on his visit to nations who have all had frayed relations with washington .
maduro said he had a one-and-half hour meeting with russian president vladimir putin where , among other subjects , he discussed the possibility of trading venezuelan oil in rubles because of the u.s. financial sanctions .
a whole new world is opening up for venezuela thanks to trump s sanctions , said maduro , who has also said he hopes to move venezuela s commercial transactions to euros , yen and rupees .
on oct. 15 , maduro s government faces off with venezuela s opposition in elections for state governors .
maduro used his tv show to accuse foes of sabotaging public services during the campaign , including cutting electricity cables .
appearing next to him on tv , vice president tareck el aissami said that an opposition-linked activist had been arrested for an explosion that injured seven policemen during anti-maduro protests earlier this year .
venezuela s opposition says the government routinely frames activists by planting explosive materials , arms and money , and invents links between them and criminals , to justify political repression .