the left can t take the great jobs report away from president trump !
he s delivering bigtime when it comes to jobs and growth !
this is what americans really care about ! excellent jobs numbers just released and i have only just begun .
many job stifling regulations continue to fall .
movement back to usa !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 4 , 2017president trump tweeted out today about the good news : excellent jobs numbers just released and i have only just begun .
many job stifling regulations continue to fall .
movement back to usa !
the u.s. economy continued a strong summer , adding 209,000 jobs in july while the unemployment rate fell to 4.3 percent , the lowest since march 2001 , according to a government report friday.economists surveyed by reuters had expected the report to show growth of 183,000 ; the unemployment rate met expectations .
a more encompassing rate that includes discouraged workers and the underemployed was unchanged at 8.6 percent.the number of employed americans hit a new high of 153.5 million thanks to a surge of 345,000 .
the employment-to-population ratio also moved up to 60.2 percent , tied for the highest level since february 2009.stock market futures liked the news , rising to indicate a positive open , while government bond yields also moved considerably higher.economists had a hard time finding anything bad in july s jobs report .
nothing much to complain about , economist aparna mathur at the conservative american enterprise institute said , noting that job gains beat expectations .
kind of an all-around strong headline number , said tony bedikian , head of global markets at citizens bank .
more people are coming into the labor force and finding jobs .
it s difficult to find anything really negative in the report .
the closely watched wage number was unchanged from previous months , with average hourly earnings up 2.5 percent on an annualized basis .
the average work week also was unchanged at 34.5 hours.bars and restaurants provided the biggest boost for the month with 53,000 more positives , while professional and business services contributed 49,000 , the bureau of labor statistics said.read more : cnbc