beijing ( reuters ) - the youth wing of china s ruling communist party on monday said it had complained to social network twitter about a fake account set up in its name that has tweeted sarcastic comments about the communist party .
china blocks twitter and other western sites , such as facebook and google , but that has not stopped some state media and government departments from setting up twitter and facebook accounts in chinese and english as they seek to expand their global footprint .
in a brief statement on its weibo account , china s answer to twitter , the youth league labeled the @ comyouthleague twitter account completely fabricated , saying it had asked for it to be handled .
the statement did not elaborate .
it displayed a screenshot of the account with the phrase fake goods stamped across it in chinese .
a second picture showed the youth league s official social media accounts , including those on weibo and wechat .
it did not include any foreign social media sites .
twitter did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
the account the youth league labeled as fake sent its first tweet on sept. 12 , and has sent 10 tweets to date .
one linked to an article on the official xinhua news agency about a chinese being detained for selling vpn services that help people skirt internet curbs and asked why people needed to do this , if china had such a wonderful internet culture .
it is not clear who set up the account , but it calls itself the youth league s official twitter account and carries a link to the league s official website .
adding to the confusion , another twitter account claiming to be the youth league s , @ ccylchina , was also launched last week , though its content conforms to the party s point of view .
neither account is officially verified by twitter .
the youth league did not answer telephone calls seeking comment .
the youth league has 88 million members aged between 14 and 28 , mainly party and government officials who have been groomed for decades as potential future rulers .
with more than 5 million followers on weibo , it has aggressively courted chinese social media , extending its reach to platforms previously neglected by mainstream propaganda bodies .
in july , the youth league made its latest online foray into netease music , one of china s largest online music streaming sites , with songs on its playlist ranging from the internationale to raps by taiwanese singing sensation jay chou .