london ( reuters ) - britain proposed a new post-brexit security treaty with the european union on monday , seeking to maintain and intensify cooperation to thwart ever-growing and increasingly cross-border threats .
in its sixth policy paper setting out britain s vision for ties with the eu after it quits the bloc in march 2019 , the government said it wanted to keep the benefits of eu security cooperation , arguing it was in both parties interests to do so .
the proposal comes days after a blast on a packed commuter underground train injured 30 people in west london , britain s fifth major attack this year .
we already have a deep level of collaboration with the eu on security matters and it is in both our interests to find ways to maintain it , brexit minister david davis said in a statement .
a new security treaty with the eu would be underpinned by our shared principles , and should make sure our partnership has the agility to respond to the ever-changing threats we face .
the paper said an entirely new form of agreement on security was necessary because there was no satisfactory precedent for security cooperation between the eu and non-eu states , and that relying on existing models would diminish british and eu defenses .
britain has published a series of future partnership policy papers to try to nudge talks with the eu forward , after they have stalled over the divorce settlement , especially over the so-called brexit bill .
security cooperation is seen by government officials as one of their strongest arguments to gain leverage in the complicated talks to unravel more than 40 years of union .
seeking to ram that point home , monday s paper simultaneously stressed britain s importance to eu security , and the need for continued cooperation to respond to future threats as they evolve .
interior minister amber rudd said britain was one of the leading eu contributors to a range of measures , such as data and evidence sharing , extradition measures and to the eu s police agency europol .
recent events in the uk and across europe have shown the criminal and terrorist threats we face are varied and increasingly international .
the long-standing collaboration we have with our european partners allows us to jointly address these threats and keep our citizens safe , she said .
as we prepare to leave the eu it is therefore vital that we agree a new way to ensure continued security , law enforcement and criminal justice cooperation , rudd said .
the document did not rule out britain seeking membership of police agency europol and other bodies , or using the european arrest warrant which provides fast-track extradition .
its focus , however , was finding a way to keep the operational capabilities provided by those instruments .