shanghai ( reuters ) - days after taking over as china s leader in 2012 , xi jinping led other top communist party officials to beijing s national museum to visit an exhibit on party history entitled the road to rejuvenation .
the museum trip telegraphed what would become one of xi s overarching policy priorities in the next five years .
on tuesday , less than a week after being anointed for a second term as party chief at a twice-a-decade party congress , xi and the other men at the pinnacle of the party made a rare joint visit to china s financial capital , shanghai , where they paid homage to the party s birthplace and founding fathers .
official photos showed the men at the site of the first party congress in 1921 , gazing solemnly at a relief sculpture of the party s original leaders and standing around a wooden meeting table .
this is an important symbolic gesture , said willy wo-lap lam , an adjunct professor at the chinese university of hong kong .
it s a reinstatement of the commitment of the party in this so-called new era of socialism with chinese characteristics that they would stick to original values of the founding fathers .
that means definitely no move away from orthodox marxism , orthodox maoism .
no taking up of western values .
the visit brought parts of the city of 25 million people to a standstill as police blocked roads and highways around the xintiandi area , home to the modest grey brick building that hosted the first congress .
state television showed xi leading the six other politburo standing committee members , fists raised , in a symbolic retaking of the communist party oath .
the men then travelled to jiaxing , in eastern zhejiang province , visiting a replica of the red boat on the south lake - another historic site of the communist party s founding .
the communist party was born here , state television showed xi saying .
these are the roots of the party .
at the congress that ended last week - the party s 19th - xi consolidated his grip as china s strongest leader in decades , promoting allies and getting his name and signature political platform enshrined in the party charter .
xi is not the first general secretary of the party to try to send a message with a well-publicised trip early in his tenure .
hu jintao , his predecessor , sought to cultivate a man of the people image starting with a visit one month after becoming party chief in 2002 to the town of xibaipo , a one-time revolutionary base .
in december 2012 , a month after xi became party chief , he made a low-key but widely watched trip to shenzhen , the southern city was where late paramount leader deng xiaoping jumpstarted economic reforms in the early 1990s .
the visit to shanghai on tuesday may also send another message , lam said .
the city had been synonymous with the political patronage network of 91-year-old former president jiang zemin , who attended the congress .
at the weekend , xi promoted ally li qiang to the role of shanghai party chief , the city s top job .
li is not from the city , nor has he built his career there .
in january another xi man from elsewhere , ying yong , was appointed mayor .
traditionally , the city s party chief or mayor , or both , have hailed from shanghai or worked up the ranks there .
having two outsiders is a break with the past .
it shows indirectly that the shanghai faction under jiang zemin has ceased to be a force to be reckoned with , lam said .
now , it s xi jinping bringing his own people .