you would think charlotte is lost to the liberals there are lefty democrats living there who don t understand that they don t get to decide who is involved in local government the voters do !
dimple ajmera decided to characterize president trump as divisive but it s ironic that she is the one who s dividing people .
after her nasty remarks about trump , the trump supporters filled the next city council meeting in protest .
awesome !
charlotte city council member dimple ajmera drew the ire of the local republican party after she said that republicans who support trump should not be involved in local government : dangerous rhetoric : republicans that are supporting trump , they should have no place on city council whatsoever or in the mayor s race , ajmera said on the news show flashpoint on wcnc , which aired sunday.ajmera , a democrat , was appointed to the council in january to replace john autry , who left council to join the n.c. general assembly .
ajmera is running for one of four at-large seats this fall.ajmera stood by her comments tuesday .
charlotte rejected trump in the 2016 elections , she said .
so people are upset by what he represents .
he values divisiveness .
we can t let that divide us as we tackle important issues like economic mobility and as we address the issues of last september .
half of those attending monday s city council meeting carried trump-pence signs , and waved small american flags.the two sides re-fought the 2016 presidential election after city council member dimple ajmera said on a television show last week that trump voters shouldn t be on city council or in the mayor s race controversial comments that she has backed repeatedly.her campaign manager , dan mccorkle , attended the meeting , waving his own pro-ajmera signs .
mccorkle told trump supporters that hillary clinton received more than 70 percent of the vote in the city of charlotte.liberal buzzwords we ve come to expect : sebastian feculak spoke at the council s public forum .
i wanted to applaud dimple for standing up for equity and unity , he said .
you are welcome here no matter what .
our politics are not for xenophopia , racism or sexism .
if the republican party won t hold them accountable , i m glad our leaders will .
via : charlotte observer