hamburg ( reuters ) - returning to her birthplace , chancellor angela merkel urged supporters to mobilize undecided voters before sunday s election , telling them not to take her conservatives solid lead in opinion polls for granted .
surveys show many voters are still undecided and , with the election likely to return a fractured parliament , she wants to maximize support to bolster her position in coalition negotiations .
what i ve heard in the last days is unbelievable ... that everything is already decided , the 63-year-old told a crowd of several hundred packed into the fish auction hall in hamburg .
it is not .
every vote counts !
noting that the center-left social democrats ( spd ) , her closest rivals , have not ruled out a left-wing coalition with the left party and the environmentalist greens - a tie-up untested at national level - merkel added : we live in turbulent times .
we can t afford any experiments .
in these times , we need stability and security , and a clear path , both at home and abroad , she said .
before merkel spoke in hamburg , a band pumped up the crowd , belting out celebration by kool & the gang and bryan adams summer of 69 .
one or two greying supporters stood up and danced .
spd leader martin schulz told broadcaster rtl he believed there could still be a last-minute swing in his party s favor .
the experience of all elections , national or international , show that the number of undecided people is growing more and more , schulz said .
everything is still possible .
a win for him would be against the run of the opinion polls .
on tuesday , a weekly survey conducted by forsa showed support for merkel s cdu/csu bloc - known as the union - at 36 percent , its lowest since april , but still far ahead of the spd , on 23 percent .
attention in germany is largely turning to who merkel will govern with after the election , rather than whether she will stay in power .
latest surveys suggest that only another grand coalition of merkel s conservatives with the spd or a nationwide untested three-way jamaica alliance of the conservatives , fdp and greens would have a stable majority .
a coalition involving the fdp could limit her room for maneuver on pressing ahead with euro zone reform .
without detailing how she wanted to develop the eu , merkel delivered an impassioned defense of the european project , saying she regretted britons vote to leave the bloc .
i could stand here and talk for hours about how arduous europe often is , she said , before adding : it always is worth standing up for europe , even just because it gives us peace and freedom .