swabi , pakistan ( reuters ) - three police officers stand daily guard at the tomb of pakistani student mashal khan to prevent religious hardliners from fulfilling threats to blow up the grave of the 23-year-old beaten to death over rumors he blasphemed against islam .
his grieving family , now also under police protection , say they have little hope the shocking campus killing will prompt a re-examination of blasphemy laws that carry a death penalty , or action against the mob justice that often erupts in such cases .
on friday , there was more evidence the opposite is happening .
a new political party that has made punishing blasphemers its main rallying cry won a surprisingly strong 7.6 percent of the vote in a by-election in peshawar , 60 km ( 36 miles ) from where mashal khan was killed six months ago .
death to blasphemers !
death to blasphemers !
was a common chant of supporters of the tehrik-e-labaik pakistan party at its campaign rallies in the conservative northwestern city .
the party s relatively strong showing - and a separate outcry over a proposed change to an election law that outraged the religious right - has elevated blasphemy into a potent political issue in the run-up to a general election in 2018 .
while tehrik-e-labaik ( movement of the prophet s followers ) is unlikely to break out of single digits in coming votes , its rapid rise , along with another ultra-religious party , could create an additional challenge for the ruling pakistani muslim league-nawaz ( pml-n ) .
the pml-n party s leader , nawaz sharif , was ousted as prime minister in july by the supreme court , and opposition leader imran khan - who spearheaded the legal case that removed him over unreported income - is seeking to press the advantage .
in this week s peshawar by-election , former cricket star imran s pakistan tehreek-e-insaf ( pti ) party swept to a comfortable victory to retain the parliamentary seat , winning 34.8 percent of the vote .
sharif s pml-n had 18.9 percent , narrowly coming in third to the regionally strong awami national party that won just 40 more votes .
but the gains by the labaik party - formed just last year - have grabbed attention .
labaik draws most of its support from the barelvi branch of sunni islam , the largest sect in pakistan that is traditionally considered moderate .
though the party does not publicly talk about its funding , the barelvis have a network of mosques and madrassa religious schools that collect donations .
the party emerged out of a protest movement against the state s execution of mumtaz qadri , a bodyguard of the governor of punjab province who gunned down his boss in 2011 over his call to reform pakistan s blasphemy laws , among the world s harshest , to prevent abuses .
qadri is considered a hero by the party , and its candidate in peshawar , muhammad shafiq ameeni , was equally supportive of mashal khan s killers , although the student s death was not a main feature at campaign rallies .
it was state s responsibility to punish a blasphemer , no two opinions , but when state doesn t do its job and someone does kill , he shouldn t be punished as a murderer , amini said , referring to the 57 people who face trial over mashal khan s death .
in pakistan , allegiance to islam is the official line of most major parties , but ultra-religious parties have so far remained on the fringes .
labaik is one of two new ultra-religious parties formed in roughly the past year .
together , labaik and the milli muslim league ( mml ) gained about 11 percent of the vote in last month s by-election in lahore and 10.4 percent in peshawar , whereas the established religious parties , such as jamaat-e-islami and jamaat ulema-e-islam , combined had 5.3 percent in the 2013 national election .
blasphemy is such an effective wedge issue in pakistan because there is almost no defense against an accusation .
for that reason , say critics , blasphemy laws are often invoked to settle personal scores and to intimidate liberal journalists , lawyers and politicians .
dozens of pakistanis are sitting on death row after being convicted of insulting islam s prophet , a specific charge that carries a mandatory death sentence , though no executions have been carried out in recent decades .
now , political parties may be in danger of facing blasphemy accusations themselves .
earlier in october , the pml-n found itself in the middle of a firestorm when it voted through seemingly small changes to the nation s electoral law .
the changes , among other things , turned a religious oath in the electoral laws stating that mohammad was the last prophet of muslims into a declaration using the words i declare .
the alterations prompted accusations of blasphemy from the religious right and the government quickly retreated , terming the change a clerical mistake and apologizing in parliament .
labaik has vowed to hold a mass rally on nov. 6 to demand the lawmakers responsible be prosecuted for blasphemy .
even before the labaik party s political debut , politicians found promising swift action against blasphemers an easy way to appeal to conservative voters .
in march , then-prime minister sharif issued a public order to prosecute anyone posting blasphemous content online .
the next month , mashal khan was accused of online blasphemy and beaten to death by fellow students and religious activists as onlookers filmed the scene .
sharif said he was shocked and saddened by the senseless display of mob justice .
at least 67 people have been killed over unproven blasphemy allegations since 1990 , according human rights groups .
mashal khan s father , iqbal , said his son was the victim of false rumors .
the family has received death threats from right-wingers and mashal s sisters had to drop out of school .
the snakes our country nurtured are now biting us , the father said , two days before the peshawar by-election , standing beside his son s gave strewn with flowers , lace and poetry .
learning of the labaik party s gains a few days later only made him more pessimistic about the government s ability to stop abuse of blasphemy accusations .
i know very well , i m not going to get my son back , he said .
but this only adds to my pain .