moscow/st petersburg ( reuters ) - police detained more than 200 opposition activists on saturday for taking part in a wave of anti-kremlin protests across russia in support of jailed opposition leader alexei navalny , ahead of a presidential election in march , a monitoring group reported .
under grey skies and intermittent rain , over two thousand people gathered in central moscow s pushkin square and chanted russia will be free and russia without putin before walking towards the kremlin and parliament .
police briefly detained a few people , but did not charge anyone .
it was a different story at rallies in other cities however , and the ovd-info monitoring group , a non-profit organization , said at least 262 people had been detained in 27 towns .
in st petersburg , putin s home town , a reuters witness saw riot police roughly detain at least 11 people .
ovd-info said at least 66 people had been detained in the city .
navalny , who is serving a 20-day jail term for violating rules on public meetings , called the rally in moscow and other cities to coincide with putin s 65th birthday .
putin , who has dominated russia s political landscape for almost 18 years , is widely expected to run for what would be his fourth term .
navalny hopes to run too , despite the central election commission declaring him ineligible due to a suspended prison sentence he says was politically-motivated .
one of the moscow protesters held a homemade poster of putin sitting on a mountain of banknotes , wearing a crown with the legend : happy birthday you little thief !
others carried posters citing their right to protest , some waved russian flags , and a few carried inflatable yellow ducks , a jokey reference to navalny accusing prime minister dmitry medvedev of owning a lavish estate with a duck house .
medvedev called the claims politically-motivated nonsense .
in st petersburg , some 1,500 activists waving red and white banners gathered in a square before heading for the city s main street shouting putin is a thief and free navalny .
the size of saturday s moscow rally and others across russia looked far more modest than navalny-backed mass protests in march and june , which were widely recognized to be some of the biggest since 2012 .
many of the moscow protesters were teenagers or in their twenties .
carrying a yellow duck , ulugbek apsapayev , 17 , said he had turned up because he wanted a better future for russia .
the duck is a sign that we support alexei navalny who also wants only good things for the country .
but unfortunately we only have vladimir putin and his gang in power .
putin is popular across the country however , especially outside major cities where his strong leadership style and tough foreign policy stance go down well .
he is expected to confirm later this year that he will run for another six-year term .
opinion polls show he would comfortably beat navalny if the opposition leader was allowed to run .
navalny says such polls are meaningless because there is no fair political competition .
putin spent his birthday taking congratulatory calls from other world leaders , and chaired a security council meeting .
authorities had refused to approve most of saturday s rallies , but navalny says russians right to protest is enshrined in the constitution .
a reuters reporter at a rally in the urals city of yekaterinburg saw police detain at least eight people among a crowd of over 1,000 protesters .