erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - iran deployed a dozen tanks supported by artillery at its border with iraq s autonomous kurdish region on monday , a kurdish official said , adding that the move was a dangerous escalation in the crisis triggered by iraqi kurdistan s independence vote .
the tanks can be seen from the kurdish side , an official from the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) security council told reuters , adding that the move was a dangerous escalation .
iraq s kurds overwhelmingly voted for independence in a referendum held one week ago , defying the central government in baghdad as well as neighboring turkey and iran , which fear kurdish separatism within their own borders .
the deployment at the parviz khan border point on monday was part of joint military drills conducted by the iranian and the iraqi armed forces in response to the referendum , state media in tehran said .
the exercises began last sunday , according to iran s mehr news agency .
the krg says it plans to use the referendum s result as a mandate to negotiate the peaceful secession of the kurdish region through talks with baghdad .
krg president masoud barzani said on monday it was legitimate to hold the vote in the kurdish areas , including in the multi-ethnic oil city of kirkuk , also claimed by baghdad .
kirkuk is a kurdistani city which should become an example for the coexistence of nations and religions , he said during a visit to kirkuk .
but baghdad has rejected any talks with the krg over independence .
it demanded that the krg relinquish control over its external border crossings with turkey , iran and syria .
it also demanded the krg hand over its airports to federal control .
when the krg turned down those demands , iraq s central government imposed a ban on international flights to and from the region s two international airports on friday .
the interior ministry said on monday foreigners stranded in the kurdish region by the ban would be allowed to exit through baghdad s airport without having to wait for an iraqi visa .
many nationalities , especially westerners , were allowed into the krg without a visa .
baghdad gained the support of cairo s al-azhar , the highest seat of sunni muslim learning , on monday .
it issued a statement rejecting invitations to divide iraq .
al-azhar s position could help iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi , a shi ite , rally some support among iraq s large sunni minority against the kurds , who are also largely sunni .
in another effort to present the government as inclusive for all iraqis , including kurds , state tv announced on monday that it will be broadcasting a daily news bulletin in kurdish .
iraq s defense ministry said on friday the iraqi authorities planned to take control of the borders of its autonomous kurdistan region in coordination with iran and turkey .
the statement did not give details .
nor did it indicate whether iraqi forces would move toward the border posts controlled by the krg from the iranian and turkish side , or set up checkpoints in the vicinity of these posts in order to control the crossings .
iranian state television on saturday quoted a military spokesman as saying iran and iraq agreed on measures to establish border security and receive iraqi forces that are to be stationed at border posts .
we have always respected our borders with our neighbors and any ( military ) move will be in coordination with baghdad and our allies , a senior iranian official told reuters on condition of anonymity .
iran has vowed to stand alongside baghdad in the fallout following the referendum .
allowing iraq to seize border posts from kurdish control would further cement iran s stance to renounce dealings with the kurdistan region in favor of the central government in baghdad .
backed by ankara and tehran , the iraqi government has demanded that the kurdish leadership cancel the result of the referendum or face the prospect of sanctions , international isolation and possibly a military intervention .
a small iraqi force is also deployed on the turkish side of the border as part of joint drills with the turkish army .
iran s military chief , general mohammad baqeri , met turkish chief of staff hulusi akar in tehran on monday .
iran and turkey share the same stance on the referendum in iraqi kurdistan and both insist on the sovereignty of iraq , baqeri was quoted as saying by state news agency irna after his meeting with akar .
the armed forces of both countries will increase cooperation in training and war games , he was quoted as saying by tasnim news agency .