brussels/london ( reuters ) - there is no need for europe-wide rules on toxic smoke from building materials , according to a report expected to be signed off by the eu executive over the coming weeks , disappointing campaigners who say regulation is urgently needed following london s deadly grenfell tower fire .
the european commission is , however , considering eu-wide fire safety testing for building facades and will conclude a study early next year , according to eu sources , who asked not to be named .
debate on fire safety has intensified since the grenfell tower apartment block fire that killed about 80 people in june .
an investigation into the fire is underway and it remains unclear what role , if any , smoke played in the tragedy .
more generally , firefighters say one of their biggest concerns is smoke because of research linking it to cancer .
they also say synthetic materials produce more deadly smoke than natural products .
the responses received do not agree that regulation of toxicity of smoke from construction products is required , extracts from the final report seen by reuters showed .
it found there was not sufficient evidence that member states want eu-wide smoke regulation and cited concerns it could add to building costs .
there is general agreement that regulation of toxicity of smoke of construction products could increase product costs and potentially remove some products from the market , is another conclusion .
it does not name them .
two sources , who asked not to be named , said the commission expected to review , finalize and publish the report after the end of this month , but a publication date had yet to be confirmed .
the commission had asked for the report to help resolve an argument between fire safety campaigners and the plastics industry .
trade body plastics europe , which represents companies such as exxonmobil , total and basf , says there is no evidence that rules on smoke would save lives and there are multiple factors to consider when assessing a building s safety .
toxicity criterion for construction products will not per se guarantee more safety in the eventuality of a fire , plastics europe said in a position paper .
the european commission declined to comment .
firefighters and other safety campaigners say labeling products according to their toxicity when burned would address a lack of clear fire safety regulations for builders .
had the construction products regulation incorporated fire toxicity into the product labeling , it would have been very clear to the architects and designers that they were putting the occupants of grenfell in danger , said richard hull , a professor of fire science at the university of central lancashire in england .
for now , the eu only sets standards to ensure construction materials can be shipped across borders within the bloc , although eu sources said the commission decided long before the grenfell fire to draw up the planned rules to harmonise fire-safety tests for building facades .
in addition , the grenfell tower fire led the commission to set up a fire information exchange platform to share safety information among member states .
it met in brussels for the first time on oct. 16 .
sian hughes , chair of fire safe europe , said harmonized testing for facades would be a step forward but for high-rise buildings it was impossible for any test to accurately predict a real-life fire .
we must design the risk out of these buildings and that means only permitting non-combustible materials in these buildings from the start , she said .
fire safe europe brings together fire fighters , representatives of the concrete and cable industries , and equipment and insulation companies including danish-listed rockwool and germany s knauf insulation .
it says around 40 percent of deaths in fires are caused directly by smoke , while a further 20 percent are caused by a combination of severe burns and smoke .