mexico city ( reuters ) - president donald trump on tuesday proposed drastically slashing u.s. foreign aid spending in mexico and central america , which are struggling with drug violence , graft and poverty that prompts many from the troubled region to migrate north .
trump ’ s austere 2018 budget proposal , which seeks to trim $ 3.6 trillion from government spending over the next decade and is unlikely to get legislative approval in its current form , envisages steep cuts in most federal departments , but particularly the state department .
ever since launching his presidential campaign in 2015 , trump has attacked mexico , threatening to rip up the north american free trade agreement , build a mexico-funded southern border wall and ramp up deportations of those living without documents in the united states .
tuesday ’ s proposal foresees 2018 mexican aid of $ 87.66 million , down more than 45 percent from the 2016 outlay .
the proposed spending cuts comes as the united states leans on mexico to do more to prop up its poor central american neighbors , where poverty and gangs are the main drivers pushing migrants to the united states .
the budget proposes scrapping most u.s. money for the mexican military , along with counterterrorism funds and some governance programs .
narcotics and law enforcement spending would fall from $ 100 million in 2016 to $ 60 million .
in guatemala , u.s. aid would drop almost 40 percent from 2016 , to $ 80.66 million , while in honduras and el salvador it would fall nearly a third .
in a call with reporters , u.s. officials stressed the cuts would not prevent them from tackling their regional objectives .
“ that is a reduction .
however it really prioritizes our programs that focus on disrupting the activities of transnational criminal organizations , strengthening border security and combating corruption … we ’ re going to continue addressing those root causes as part of our central america strategy , ” an official said .
mexico , which is struggling with rising crime , will be co-hosting a june meeting in miami where the u.s. government hopes to drum up more private sector support to improve employment and security conditions in central america .
although the number of migrants arriving on the southern u.s. border has fallen drastically since trump took office , history suggests the decline may prove short-lived if he fails to realize his tough policies .
well over 100,000 people have died in drug-related violence in mexico since 2006 , and the 2017 murder tally could be the highest ever as legacy drug cartels splinter into ever more violent factions .