paris ( reuters ) - venezuela s government and opposition will hold a round of talks in the dominican republic on wednesday , france s foreign minister said on tuesday , warning caracas that it risked eu sanctions if it failed to engage in negotiations .
venezuela was convulsed for months by demonstrations against leftist president nicolas maduro , accused by critics of knocking the oil-rich country into its worst-ever economic crisis and bringing it to the brink of dictatorship .
i was happy to learn that dialogue with the opposition would restart tomorrow in the dominican republic , jean-yves le drian said in a statement after meeting his venezuelan counterpart , jorge arreaza montserrat , in paris .
venezuela s democratic unity coalition said it would send a delegation to meet with dominican president danilo medina to discuss the conditions under which dialogue could be held , but denied that any talks as such had begun .
the invitation by ( medina ) does not represent the start of a formal dialogue with the government , the coalition said in a statement .
to begin serious negotiations , we demand immediate concrete actions that show true willingness to solve problems rather than to buy time .
the statement reiterated long standing opposition demands including the release of political prisoners , respect for the opposition-run congress and measures to ease a crippling economic crisis .
le drian said wednesday s meeting would involve medina and former spanish prime minister jos luis rodriguez zapatero .
united nations secretary-general antonio guterres expressed his full support for the talks .
the secretary-general encourages the venezuelan political actors to seize this opportunity to demonstrate their commitment to address the country s challenges through mediation and peaceful means , u.n. spokesman stephane dujarric said in a statement .
maduro routinely calls for dialogue with the opposition , but his adversaries see dialogue as a stalling mechanism that burnishes the government s image without producing concrete results .
in a televised broadcast on tuesday evening , he voiced renewed support for dialogue and said he was sending socialist party heavyweight jorge rodriguez to represent the government in the dominican republic .
a dialogue process brokered by zapatero and backed by the vatican in 2016 did little to advance opposition demands .
many maduro critics believe opposition leaders were duped in that dialogue process , and have grown suspicious of zapatero as an intermediary .
like fellow-eu member spain a few days earlier , le drian also warned arreaza that if the situation continued there would be consequences .
i reminded him of the risk of european sanctions and the need to rapidly see evidence from venezuela that it is ready to relaunch negotiations with the opposition and engage in a sincere and credible process , he said .