manila ( reuters ) - nearly nine out of 10 filipinos support philippine president rodrigo duterte s war on drugs , and almost three quarters believe extrajudicial killings are taking place in the bloody crackdown , an opinion poll showed on monday .
thousands of filipinos have died in duterte s signature campaign , causing international alarm , amid widespread allegations by activists that police are executing suspected drug users and dealers .
police reject that and say every one of the more than 3,900 victims in their anti-narcotics operations were killed because they were armed and had violently resisted arrest .
eighty-eight percent of the 1,200 filipinos surveyed last month by pollster pulse asia said they supported the campaign , while 9 percent were undecided and 2 percent were against it .
( bit.ly/2ykrjjs ) but 73 percent of respondents believed extrajudicial killings were taking place , up from 67 percent in the june poll .
a fifth felt there were no such killings , down from 29 percent in june .
extrajudicial killings , often referred to locally as ejks , is a contentious issue in the philippines , where definitions of what it means vary from those typically used by international organizations and human rights groups .
pulse asia in its survey defined the term as killings done by people in authority , such as the police or soldiers , that do no follow the rule of law .
national police chief ronald dela rosa said critics were so fixated by alleged summary executions that it had adversely impacted filipinos perception of the campaign .
they keep mentioning ejk so it seeps into their minds , he said .
presidential spokesman ernesto abella said the poll showed filipinos appreciate the government s efforts to tackle crime .
he said duterte was unambiguous about unlawful killings , having made it absolutely clear that killing unarmed suspects who do not resist arrest is never allowed and will be punished .
political analysts ramon casiple said the survey showed support for the drugs war by those who felt crime was falling , but reservations among those most affected .
communities with reported deaths , generally urban poor communities , are getting increasingly concerned of the killings , he said .
the survey comes amid unprecedented scrutiny on the war on drugs and several opinion surveys by another pollster that indicated dwindling trust of police accounts of operations , and whether victims were indeed all drug dealers as the police have maintained .
duterte last week ordered police to withdraw from the anti-narcotics campaign and leave all operations to the philippine drug enforcement agency ( pdea ) following scrutiny of police conduct .