manila ( reuters ) - philippine security forces on wednesday arrested an indonesian national suspected to be among the pro-islamist militants who seized control of parts of the southern city of marawi in may , military and police officials said .
the seizure stoked concerns that the region had become a hub for islamic state in southeast asia , triggering a five-month military effort to eject the militants , comprised of domestic fighters and foreigners such as indonesians , malaysians and middle easterners .
community peacekeepers arrested the indonesian on wednesday morning , colonel romeo brawner , deputy commander of the marawi task force , told reporters .
the arrest highlights that civilian participation is essential in our collective effort to secure our communities from terrorist elements , zia alonto adiong , a politician who is assisting in rescue and relief , said in a statement .
the arrest came a day after a pro-islamic state militant was gunned down and nine days after the philippines wrapped up military operations .
more than 1,100 people , mostly militants , died in the siege , which drove about 350,000 from their homes .
the militant identified himself as muhammad ilham shaputra , 23 , from medan city in north sumatra , said john guyguyon , police chief of the province of lanao del sur , where marawi is located .
his bag held a mobile phone , a .45-caliber handgun , a fragmentation grenade and philippine and indonesian currencies , along with some riyals , while he tried to escape through a lake , guyguyon added .
our action is to file a case against him because he is part of the initial siege , guyguyon told a news conference .
we are preparing the investigation report so we can file cases of rebellion , terrorism and others , guyguyon said , adding that the indonesian confessed there were several gunmen still hiding in the main battle area in downtown marawi .
the indonesian militant arrived in the philippines in november last year at the invitation of isnilon hapilon , the islamic state s emir in southeast asia , who was killed in marawi last month , guyguyon said .
thousands of residents have started returning home , only for some to find dwellings ransacked .
but the main battle area remains off limits , until possible booby traps and unexploded ordnance have been cleared .