ankara ( reuters ) - the united states partially resumed issuing visas in turkey on monday after getting what it said were assurances about the safety of staff at its missions following a number of detentions .
the turkish embassy in washington said almost immediately it would match the move , although it denied there had been any assurances .
it called the u.s. move a positive development , noting it was announced on the eve of a visit to the united states by turkey s prime minister binali yildirim .
the u.s. embassy said that despite its move it remained deeply concerned over the detention of two of its locally employed staff at diplomatic missions in turkey , and the fate of u.s. citizens arrested under a state of emergency in force since a failed coup last year .
the arrest of a veteran employee at the u.s. consulate in istanbul a month ago led the united states to suspend all non-immigrant visa services while it assessed the security of its staff in turkey .
within hours of the u.s. announcement on oct. 8 , turkey said it was implementing reciprocal measures and president tayyip erdogan later angrily accused washington of sacrificing a longstanding alliance with ankara .
we have received initial high-level assurances from the government of turkey that there are no additional local employees of our mission in turkey under investigation , the u.s. embassy said in a statement .
we have also received initial assurances from the government of turkey that our local staff will not be detained or arrested for performing their official duties .
hours later , however , the turkish embassy said it had not given the united states any assurances , and that any decision regarding legal procedures on u.s. mission workers would be left to turkey s judiciary .
the personnel in question employed by the u.s. has been the subject of a judicial process not because of his official duties , but because of very serious charges against him , it said in a statement .
it also said a reference to the security conditions of u.s. missions in turkey in the u.s. embassy s statement was considered odd and did not reflect the truth .
news of the partial resumption , reported by reuters earlier , had helped the lira trytom=d3 strengthen to 3.8356 to the dollar from 3.8708 beforehand .
in may , a translator at the u.s. consulate in the southern province of adana was arrested and , more recently , a u.s. drug enforcement administration ( dea ) worker was detained in istanbul .
both are accused of links to last year failed coup .
the u.s. embassy has said the accusations are baseless .
turkish officials have said police want to question a third worker based in istanbul .
his wife and daughter were detained over alleged links to the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , blamed by ankara for orchestrating the abortive putsch .
they were later released .
turkey has been angered by what it sees as u.s. reluctance to hand over gulen , who has lived in pennsylvania since 1999 .
u.s. officials have said courts require sufficient evidence to order his extradition .
gulen denies any involvement in the failed coup .
erdogan has also lashed out at the united states after prosecutors there charged a former turkish economy minister and the ex-head of a state-owned bank with conspiring to violate u.s. sanctions on iran by illegally moving hundreds of millions of dollars through the u.s. financial system on tehran s behalf .
the charges stem from an ongoing case against reza zarrab , a wealthy turkish-iranian gold trader who was arrested in the united states over sanctions evasion last year .
zarrab , who is due to go on trial this month , has pleaded not guilty .
erdogan has said u.s. prosecutors have ulterior motives in that case , by including references to him and his wife in court papers .
in their statement , the turkish embassy said turkey had serious concerns about legal cases concerning its citizens in the united states , and added that turkish and u.s. officials would continue to hold meetings to resolve the cases in a satisfactory manner .