lansing , mich ( reuters ) - michigan governor rick snyder , facing protests , lawsuits and calls for his resignation over drinking water contamination in flint , on tuesday apologized to the city ’ s residents and called for the state to spend $ 28 million on fixes .
“ to you , the people of flint , i say tonight as i have before , i am sorry and i will fix it , ” snyder said in his annual speech to lawmakers , adding that federal , state and local leaders had failed residents .
snyder , a republican , asked lawmakers to authorize $ 28 million in spending on diagnostic tests , health treatment for children and adolescents , replacement of old fixtures in flint schools and day care centers and a study of the city ’ s water pipes .
he also said additional funding would be needed .
some people have reported rashes , hair loss and other problems since flint , under a state-appointed emergency manager , switched to flint river water in april 2014 from a detroit-run water system to save money , attorneys for the residents said .
complaints about the water began within a month of the switch , but flint did not return to detroit water until october 2015 after tests showed elevated levels of lead in flint tap water and in some children .
the corrosive river water caused more lead to leach from flint pipes than detroit water did , increasing contaminants in the tap water .
president barack obama met on tuesday with recently elected flint mayor karen weaver over the crisis , which has become part of the u.s. presidential debate with candidates on both sides questioning the slow response .
the u.s. environmental protection agency said it acted too slowly to address the situation in flint .
snyder promised to release his flint-related emails from 2014 and 2015 on wednesday .
he has rejected calls for his resignation by some protesters .
“ lansing failed in one of its most basic functions , ensuring the well-being and health of our citizens , ” state house democratic leader tim greimel said after the speech .
at least 1,000 people protested at the capitol on tuesday , some holding baby bottles filled with brown water .
“ the governor has a business agenda and his business agenda was to take over the water to profit in it , ” said lila cabbil , a demonstrator from detroit .
several lawsuits have been filed .
the latest on tuesday asks a judge to stop flint from issuing shutoff notices to residents , who are still receiving bills for water declared undrinkable .
attorney cary mcgehee said lawyers have heard from more than 500 people reporting health problems and financial hardships .