donald trump continues to embarrass himself in a desperate effort to prove that he s a job creator.in yet another self-serving and self-promoting post on twitter , trump crowed about an announcement made by ford motor company that it is investing $ 1.2 billion in three automotive plants in michigan that will keep and create jobs.big announcement by ford today .
major investment to be made in three michigan plants .
car companies coming back to u.s. jobs !
jobs !
jobs !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 28 , 2017however , ford previously planned this investment back in 2015 while president obama was still in office.according to the detroit news , the company said tuesday it will invest $ 850 million to retool its michigan assembly plant in wayne for truck and suv production ; $ 150 million in its romeo engine plant to expand capacity for several vehicles ; and $ 200 million to build a data center at the company s flat rock assembly plant .
the investments at the michigan assembly plant and romeo engine plant were negotiated as part of the 2015 ford-united auto workers contract .
the investments at flat rock those announced today and those announced in january are new.in short , most of the investments trump is praising were already going to happen as part of deal between ford executives and the labor union , which means a labor should get the credit for helping american workers and preventing jobs from being outsourced to other countries .
trump had nothing to do with it.this isn t the first time trump has taken credit for investments and job growth companies planned prior to him taking office.trump also took credit for a charter communications announcement to create 20,000 jobs even though that plan was also made in 2015.of course , while trump supporters are gullible enough to believe he is responsible for these job gains , everyone else is not buying it .
twitter users made that clear in their comments.hey @ realdonaldtrump , these are all part of the 2015 ford-united auto workers contract .
had nothing to do with you https : //t.co/tmzr8dov76 josh s nchez ( @ jnsanchez ) march 28 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump every time you make these announcements , we later find out that the deal had been in place months.sign of desperation .
matthewdicks ( @ matthewdicks ) march 28 , 2017 @ matthewdicks @ realdonaldtrump of course it s been in place for months .
this guy is too busy working on his golf swing .
pic.twitter.com/ajz4mokqva j. rollins ( @ six7six7 ) march 28 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you love taking credit for everything obama did .
we know the truth .
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) march 28 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump thank you !
this is a great reminder of that time obama saved the entire american automobile industry .
nick jack pappas ( @ pappiness ) march 28 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump cut the bs , # trump you can t just take credit for things that you ve had zero to do with .
wtf is wrong with you ! ?
andy ostroy ( @ andyostroy ) march 28 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump yes .
trumpers , read the detroit papers .
this was promised in a union contract from 2015 .
don t let trump con you , again riotwomenn ( @ riotwomennn ) march 28 , 2017the only question now is what other job announcements made under the obama administration will trump take credit for next ? featured image : win mcnamee/getty images