we re going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business .
hillary clintonyes , that s exactly what hillary clinton said in march about the coal industry .
she was following the obama policy of shutting down the coal industry at all costs .
she has since said she would spend federal dollars to retrain coal miners to do another job .
the problem is that these men don t want to do that .
the american people and voters in west virginia had better realize what the loss of the coal industry would mean this is part of a piece from the new york times so reader beware of liberal spin and lies here and there powellton , w.va .
deep in the belly of an appalachian mountain , a powerful machine bored into the earth , its whirring teeth clawing out a stream of glistening coal .
men followed inside the maple eagle no .
1 mine , their torches cutting through the dank air .
one guided the machine with a playstation-like controller ; others bolted supports in the freshly cut roof.they were angry .
the coal industry that made west virginia prosperous has been devastated .
every day , it seemed , another mine laid off workers or closed entirely .
friends were forfeiting their cars , homes and futures.for these men , this season s presidential campaign boils down to a single choice .
i m for trump , said dwayne riston , 27 , his face smeared in dust .
way i see it , if he wins , we might at least stand a chance of surviving .
few places in america offer such a simple electoral calculus as the rolling , tree-studded hills of west virginia.even as donald j. trump , the republican presidential nominee , lags badly in crucial swing states and loses his grip on white male voters over all , he remains on solid ground here with his promise to bring back coal .
the fact that his democrat opponent , hillary clinton , said in march , we re going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business , has helped , too.but this is not just about economics .
west virginia s coal country is part of the broader white , working-class vote that has coalesced around a single candidate , mr. trump , like never before .
his support here stems from a profound , decades-in-the-making sense of political and cultural alienation that has left people feeling distant from their leaders , and even from fellow americans .
i kind of feel that people are looking down on us , said neil hanshew , a miner , voicing a common sentiment .
they re looking at us like we re a bunch of dumb hillbillies who can t do anything else .
read more : nyt