donald trump is going to lose his shit if he reads this.throughout the week , trump has been viciously attacking morning joe host mika brzezinski is a disgusting display of unpresidential behavior that should get him declared unfit to hold office.i heard poorly rated @ morning_joe speaks badly of me ( don t watch anymore ) .
then how come low i.q .
crazy mika , along with psycho joe , came .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 29 , 2017 to mar-a-lago 3 nights in a row around new year s eve , and insisted on joining me .
she was bleeding badly from a face-lift .
i said no !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 29 , 2017those tweets alone drew sharp condemnation nationwide from democrats and republicans alike .
trump s white house team pathetically attempted to defend him , but most americans were sickened by his attacks.and then trump attacked brzezinski again yesterday.crazy joe scarborough and dumb as a rock mika are not bad people , but their low rated show is dominated by their nbc bosses .
too bad !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 1 , 2017that tweet also received wide condemnation and republicans are begging trump to stop tweeting.but the best response to trump s nasty tweets came from noted jedi and voice of the joker himself , mark hamill.update : apparently it s # attacklowratedcabletvmorningshowhostsday3 ( ! )
for those of you scoring at home .
# unpresidentedpresidentialpriorities https : //t.co/h0tugdjht6 mark hamill ( @ hamillhimself ) july 1 , 2017their tax returns ?
https : //t.co/wdrjrv88oc mark hamill ( @ hamillhimself ) july 1 , 2017crazy and dumb as a rock # potus is not a bad person , but his low rated administration is dominated by his russian bosses .
too vlad !
https : //t.co/h0tugdjht6 mark hamill ( @ hamillhimself ) july 1 , 2017mark hamill just humiliated trump on twitter and you can bet that trump will whine about it if he hears about it.the next tweets trump posts will be all about how stars wars is failing and how hamill is a bad actor or something along those lines.featured image : twitter