port-au-prince , haiti ( reuters ) - a new united nations-backed mission to support haiti s justice system has had a mixed reaction from local politicians and civil society groups after long-standing criticism of its predecessor .
president jovenel moise s government has welcomed the deployment of the u.n. mission for justice support in haiti ( minujusth ) in the face of opposition skepticism .
a u.n. peacekeeping mission in haiti intended to restore stability after a 2004 coup ended in october after 13 years .
known as minustah , the departing mission was dogged by controversies , including the introduction of cholera to the island and allegations of sexual abuse .
the new mission will focus specifically on the justice system and the police .
mamadou diallo , deputy special representative of the u.n. secretary general in haiti and acting head of the new mission , said its aim was to build on minustah s work to strengthen the security , bolster democracy and the country s institutions .
that would enable a social contract to be established between haiti s rulers and the people , diallo said .
however , minujusth has quickly come under fire .
the country should expect nothing positive from this new mission which is only a tactic to continue with the occupation that the haitian people have rejected , former presidential candidate eric jean-baptiste said .
retired army colonel himmler rebu , a former cabinet minister and one-time contender for the presidency , also had harsh words .
the u.n. stabilization mission has been here for the past 13 years and they have done nothing , except for preventing armed thugs from taking over the presidential palace , rebu said .
the new mission , which officially launched last week , has a six-month renewable term ending april 15 , 2018 .
it will include 1,275 un police officers and will train haiti s national police .
lucien jura , a spokesman for moise , said the president expected minujusth to help correct flaws in the justice system , and several civil society organizations expressed hope that the mission can make a difference .
however , much will depend on haiti s leaders , they say .
the mission may have all the good will you can imagine , but if haitian authorities don t play their part in efforts ... we may not have the expected results , said pierre esperance , head of the national network to defend human rights , known as rnddh .
the u.s. state department said in a statement that the transition to minujusth marked a turning point in haiti from stability efforts to a focus on justice and the rule of law .