manila ( reuters ) - the philippines expressed concern on monday about china s testing of a massive dredging ship , saying it would track its activities closely , despite beijing s assurances it would not develop areas where it has competing claims with manila .
china , which has poured billions of dollars into building artificial islands to strengthen its sovereignty claims across most of the south china sea , has started testing a new ship designed to boost its land reclamation capability .
the mere presence is a little bit concerning , defence secretary delfin lorenzana told reporters .
where it is going , we do not know .
military officials said the ship , tian kun , had a deck the size of nine basketball courts and would become asia s largest dredging vessel .
china claims almost the entire south china sea , through which more than $ 3 trillion of seaborne trade passes each year .
brunei , malaysia , the philippines , taiwan and vietnam also have conflicting claims in the area .
lorenzana said troops deployed on nine philippine-claimed features in the south china sea had been ordered to monitor the movements of chinese navy , coastguard and fishing boats in the spratly islands .
we are constantly monitoring the movement of the ship , he added .
we have also our air patrol going regularly , so we will be able to monitor movement of this so-called very big dredger ship .
the testing of the dredger comes ahead of two major international meetings in vietnam and the philippines this week and the next , set to be attended by china and the united states .
in august , the foreign ministers of southeast asia and china adopted a negotiating framework for a code of conduct in the south china sea , a move they hailed as progress but which critics saw as a tactic to buy china time to consolidate its maritime power .
all parties say the framework is only an outline for how the code will be established , but critics say the failure to outline as an initial objective the need to make the code legally binding and enforceable , or have a dispute resolution mechanism , raises doubts about how effective it will be .
in beijing , chinese assistant foreign minister chen xiaodong said talks on the framework had achieved important progress and there would be results at the manila summit of southeast asian nations , attended by chinese premier li keqiang .
whether the code is binding , or how it would be binding , and what the code looks like in its final form , depends on the outcome of the talks between china and the association of southeast asian nations , chen told reporters .
it can t be decided by a single party .
chinese president xi jinping will attend the other meeting , of asia-pacific leaders in vietnam .