united nations ( reuters ) - ukrainian president petro poroshenko dismissed a russian proposal to deploy u.n. peacekeepers in eastern ukraine as an effort to legalize its proxies and freeze the conflict .
relations between kiev and moscow have never been worse since russia annexed crimea more than three years ago and russian-backed separatist fighters subsequently took up arms against ukrainian government forces in the east of the country .
russian president vladimir putin this month suggested armed u.n. peacekeepers be deployed to eastern ukraine to help protect ceasefire monitors from the organization for security and cooperation in europe ( osce ) and to help end a conflict between ukrainian troops and russia-backed separatists , which has killed more than 10,000 people since 2014 .
poroshenko used his speech at the annual gathering of world leaders for the united nations general assembly to accuse moscow of not contributing to international security , but of being its biggest threat .
the latest hybrid peacekeeping proposal from moscow is yet another example of russia s real ambition to legalize its proxies and freeze the conflict forever , he said .
we remain confident that a fully fledged peacekeeping operation is the only viable solution to de-escalate and protect the people of ukraine .
putin originally said the peacekeepers should be deployed along the line of contact between ukrainian government forces and pro-russian separatists , but later said they could also be deployed in other areas where osce inspectors work .
the peacekeepers mandate should cover the entire occupied area , including the ukrainian-russian state border .
this is the must .
as long as the border is used as the main supply route for manpower and weapons to donbass there will be no peace in my country , he said .
kiev and western countries accuse russia of providing military backing to the insurgency in eastern ukraine .
russia denies any direct role in the conflict .
efforts to broker an end to fighting through the so-called minsk agreements have so far failed .
violence continues with attempted ceasefires repeatedly broken .
western powers fear peace efforts could unravel .
the key problem in donbass is that ukraine and russia strive for different things , poroshenko said .
ukraine wants peace and restoration of its sovereign territory , but russia wants control of ukraine and undermines every effort ( to get ) our sovereign control on ukraine s border .
ukraine s alternative plan would ban any russian nationals from taking part in a peacekeeping mission which it wants deployed along the part of its border with russia which it does not control , an idea moscow has so far balked at .