barack obama and the democrat party would like us to go the way of the swedes .
do americans have the fortitude to fight back against a government hell-bent on putting political correctness before national security ? the swedes see the welfare systems failing them .
swedes have had to get used to the government prioritizing refugees and migrants above native swedes .
there are no apartments , no jobs , we don t dare go shopping anymore [ without a gun ] , but we re supposed to think everything s great .
women and girls are raped by these non-european men , who come here claiming they are unaccompanied children , even though they are grown men .
you cabinet ministers live in your fancy residential neighborhoods , with only swedish neighbors .
it should be obligatory for all politicians to live for at least three months in an area consisting mostly of immigrants [ and ] have to use public transport .
laila , to the prime minister .
instead of torchlight processions against racism , we need a prime minister who speaks out against the violence unite everyone .
do not make it a racism thing .
anders , to the prime minister .
in all honesty , i don t even feel they [ government ministers ] see the problems there is no one in those meetings who can tell them what real life looks like .
laila , on the response she received from the government.the recent double murder at ikea in v ster s , where a man from eritrea who had been denied asylum grabbed some knives and stabbed carola and emil herlin to death , letters and emails poured into the offices of swedish prime minister ( pm ) stefan l fven .
angry , despondent and desperate swedes have pled with the social democratic pm to stop filling the country with criminal migrants from the third world or , they write , there is a serious risk of hatred running rampant in sweden .
one woman suggested that because the swedish media will not address these issues , l fven should start reading foreign newspapers , and wake up to the fact that sweden is sinking fast.during the last few decades , swedes have had to get used to the government ( left and right wing parties alike ) prioritizing refugees and migrants above native swedes .
the high tax level ( the average worker pays 42 % income tax ) was been accepted in the past , because people knew that if they got sick , or when they retired or otherwise needed government aid , they would get it.now , swedes see the welfare system failing them .
more and more senior citizens fall into the indigent category ; close to 800,000 of sweden s 2.1 million retirees , despite having worked their whole lives , are forced to live on between 4,500 and 5,500 kronor ( $ 545 $ 665 ) a month .
meanwhile , seniors who immigrate to sweden receive the so-called elderly support subsidy usually a higher amount even though they have never paid any taxes in sweden.worse , in 2013 the government decided that people staying in the country illegally have a right to virtually free health and dental care .
so while the destitute swedish senior citizen must choose between paying 100,000 kronor ( $ 12,000 ) to get new teeth or living toothless , a person who does not even have the right to stay in sweden can get his teeth fixed for 50 kronor ( $ 6 ) .the injustice , the housing shortage , the chaos surrounding refugee housing units and the sharp slide of swedish students in pisa tests all these changes have caused the swedes to become disillusioned .
the last straw was that prime minister l fven had nothing to say about the murders at ikea.gatestone institute contacted to the swedish government , to obtain emails sent to the prime minister concerning the ikea murders .
according to the principle of public access to official documents , all swedes have the right to study public documents kept by authorities with no questions asked about one s identity or purpose .
the government , however , was clearly less than enthusiastic about sharing the emails : it took a full month of reminders and phone calls before they complied with the request.what follows are excerpts from emails sent from private citizens to prime minister stefan l fven : from mattias , a social worker and father of four , a dad who wants my kids to grow up in sweden the way i had the good fortune of doing , without explosions , hand grenades , car fires , violence , rape and murder at ikea : hi stefan .
i am a 43-year-old father of four , who is trying to explain to my children , ages 6-16 , what is going on in sweden .
i am sad to say that you and your party close your eyes to what is happening in sweden .
all the things that are happening [ are ] due to the unchecked influx from abroad .
you are creating a hidden hatred in sweden .
we are dissatisfied with the way immigration is handled in sweden , from asylum housing to school issues .
and it takes so long to get a job , many people give up before they even get close .
mattias marcus , 21 , wrote : hi stefan , i am one of the people who voted for you .
i live in helsingborg , still with my parents because there are no apartments available .
i can see where i live that as soon as an old person moves out , eight foreigners immediately move in : they just bypass us young , swedish people in line .
with all that is going on in sweden rapes , robberies , the ikea murders and so on why aren t non-swedes sent back to their countries when they commit crimes ?
of course we should help refugees , but they should be the right kind of refugees .
i m sorry to say this , stefan , but the sweden democrats should be allowed to rule for four years and remove the people who do not abide by the laws , and who murder or destroy young women s lives .
it is horrible , i have a job that pays poorly because there are no jobs .
sweden has more people than jobs .
peter wrote : esteemed prime minister .
i am writing to you because i am very worried about the development in swedish society .
i am met daily by news of shootings , exploding hand grenades/bombs , beatings , rapes and murders .
this is our sweden , the country that , when you and i grew up , was considered one of the safest in the world .
you , in your role as prime minister , have a responsibility to protect everyone in the land , regardless of whether they were born here or not .
unfortunately , i can see that you are not taking your responsibility seriously .
i follow the news daily , and despite our now having suffered another act of madness , this time against a mother and son at ikea , i do not see any commitment from you ?
you should emphatically condemn the violent developments we see in this country , allocate resources to the police , customs and district attorneys to slow and fight back ( not just build levees and overlook ) criminal activity .
sebastian wrote : hi stefan !
after reading about the horrible deed at ikea in v ster s , i am now wondering what you are going to do to make me feel safe going to stores and on the streets of sweden .
what changes will there be to make sure this never happens again ?
will immigration really continue the same way ?
benny wrote : hi , i m wondering , why is the government quiet about such an awful incident ?
the whole summer has been characterized by extreme violence , shootings , knifings and explosions .
the government needs to take vigorous action so we can feel safe .
laila s subject line reads : is it supposed to be like this ?
are we supposed to go outside without arming ourselves ?
rape after rape occurs and no one is doing anything about it .
i was born and raised in v rby g rd , but seven years ago , we had to move because we couldn t take the dogs out in the evenings due to the non-europeans driving on the sidewalks .
if you didn t move out of the way , they would jump out of the car and hit you .
if you called the police , they do nothing in a suburb of stockholm .
when my brother told some of these men off , a rocket ( the kind you use at new year s ) appeared in his mailbox .
you can imagine how loud the blast was .
women and girls are raped by these non-european men , who come here claiming they are unaccompanied children , even though they are grown men .
it is easy to get weapons today , i wonder if that is what we swedes need to do , arm ourselves to dare to go shopping .
well , now i am getting to what happened at a major department store : two people were killed and not just killed , there is talk online of beheading .
the prime minister will not say a word , but resources are allocated to asylum housings , a slap in the face for the relatives who just had two of their kin slain .
swedish newspapers will not say a word , but fortunately , there are foreign newspapers that tell the truth .
we swedes can t change apartments , we live five people in three bedrooms .
two of us are unemployed , looking , looking and looking for work .
the only option is employment agencies .
i m 50 years old , on part-time sick leave because of two chronic illnesses , i can not run around from one place to another .
but more and more asylum seekers keep coming in .
there are no apartments , no jobs , we don t dare go shopping anymore , but we re supposed to think everything s great .
unfortunately , i believe the prime minister needs to start reading foreign newspaper to find out that sweden is going under .
i found out that the mass immigration costs billions every year , and the only thing the immigrants do is smoke waterpipes in places like v rby g rd .
this is happening in other places too , of course .
now it s starting to spread ; you will see that in the opinion polls , next time they are published .
soon , all swedes will vote for the sweden democrats .
they are getting more and more supporters every day .
you cabinet ministers do not live in the exposed areas , you live in your fancy residential neighborhoods , with only swedish neighbors .
it should be obligatory for all politicians to live for at least three months in an area consisting mostly of immigrants , the car should be taken from you so you d have to use public transport .
after three months , you would see my point .
i am scared stiff of what is happening in this country .
what will the government do about this ?
anders wrote : hi stefan , why don t you , as our prime minister , react more against all the violence that is escalating in our country ?
[ such as ] the double murder at ikea in v ster s. add to that the bombings and other things happening in malm .
instead of torchlight processions against racism , we need a prime minister who speaks out against the violence , who says that it s wrong no matter which ethnic group is behind it or at the receiving end of it .
because all the people living in sweden are swedish , right ?
a torchlight procession against racism only highlights the fact that it s immigrants committing these crimes .
what we need now is a clear signal from our popularly elected [ officials ] that violence needs to stop now .
sweden is supposed to be a haven away from violence .
i m asking you as our prime minister , take a stand against the violence .
unite everyone in sweden into one group and do not make it a racism thing .
some of the people received a reply from carl-johan friman , of the government offices communications unit ; others have not received any reply at all .
a typical response goes : thank you for your email to prime minister stefan l fven .
i ve been asked to reply and confirm that your email has reached the prime minister s office and is now available for the prime minister and his staff .
it is of course not acceptable that people should be exposed to violence and criminal activities in their everyday life .
many efforts are made to counteract violence , and quite correctly , this needs to be done without pitting groups against each other .
thank you for taking the time to write and share your views , they are important in shaping government policies .
via : zero hedge