buckle up america obama still has 6 months to fundamentally transform america .
if the media and # nevertrump crowd manages to convince voters to support crooked hillary , it will be the end of america as we know it who will be vetting the unlimited number of potential terrorists refugees obama is bringing to america ?
the white house announced last week that it is launching a call to action asking private businesses to help with the resettlement of refugees .
this could be done without regard to the government cap of 85,000 total refugees , including 10,000 syrian refugees , in 2016.fifteen founding corporations have teamed up with the obama administration on the effort .
these are : accenture , airbnb , chobani , coursera , goldman sachs , google , hp , ibm , jpmorgan chase & co. , linkedin , microsoft , mastercard , ups , tripadvisor , and western union .
the call to action initiative is not only to help refugees in the united states , but all over the world.in europe for example , mastercard worked with mercy corps to distribute prepaid debit cards to eligible refugees traveling through serbia .
approximately $ 75,000 was distributed to nearly 400 families and individuals .
the three main facets of this private partnership program are : education , employment , and enablement .
education includes facilitating refugee children and young adults education by ensuring that refugee students can access schools of all levels .
the employment facet includes increasing employment opportunities for refugees .
through those two parts of the initiative refugees can be settled in the united states without limit as they wouldn t fall under the purview of the government cap on refugee resettlement .
through work and education visas refugees would not actually be considered as refugees for their immigration status .
one of the companies already partnered with the obama administration , chobani , currently has a work force in the united states that is roughly 30 percent resettled refugees .
a white house fact sheet states 66 percent of refugees are of working age.outside of employment and education , under the enablement part of the initiative , the white house mentions that companies can help refugees get access to financial services , technology , housing and transport .
this also includes covering costs of charter flight to bring resettled refugees to the united states ( or to another country of resettlement ) .
these refugees will be coming outside the refugee resettlement program so they would not be counted under the government cap of 10,000 .
these alternative legal pathways or sponsorships will be under employment visas , training , student visas and scholarships , visiting scholars etc , nayla rush , senior researcher at the center for immigration studies , told the daily caller.rush added , remember , the aim is to bring as many syrian refugees as possible .
10,000 is the limit this [ fiscal year ] under the refugee resettlement program .
no limit to these private sponsorships , more importantly , to traceability .
at a united nations summit on september 20 , obama is going to push for double the number of resettlement slots and alternative legal pathways for admission that are available to refugees , and increase the number of countries accepting significant numbers of refugees .
via : daily caller