berlin ( reuters ) - germany s foreign minister said on saturday that he had been disappointed by british prime minister theresa may s brexit speech , adding to a downbeat reception from france ahead of the resumption of brexit negotiations next week .
we heard nothing concrete .
it is time for the government of great britain to clearly state under what conditions it wants to leave the european union , sigmar gabriel told reporters in the northern german city of wolfenbuettel .
in a speech in the italian city of florence on friday , may set out a plan to retain full access to the eu s single market for two years after brexit , to try to reassure business and reset the tone of stalled negotiations with brussels .
shortly afterwards , french president emmanuel macron said there was still not enough clarity on rules for european union citizens living in britain , the divorce bill it would pay , and how the land border with ireland will work .
if these three points are not clarified , we will not be able to advance on the rest , macron said .
france , germany and other eu countries are insisting that britain reach a deal with the bloc on the terms of its divorce before moving on to negotiate its future trading relationship .
on saturday , gabriel said the eu would not back away from its demand for britain to pay some 60-100 billion euros ( $ 72-120 billion ) for the divorce , adding that he continued to view britons decision to leave the eu as a huge mistake .
the conservatives in britain didn t tell their citizens the truth about the consequences , and that is why they seem to be unable to present a clear strategy , he said .
we need clarity from the british government , and no conflict within the british government between the foreign minister and the prime minister .
we re running out of time .
britain is due to formally leave the bloc in march 2019 .
gabriel , a social democrat , said britain had refused to answer the eu s key questions on issues such as its financial obligations under the eu budget , adding : thank god , the eu is more unified than ever before .
a leading member of merkel s conservatives also criticized may s address .
theresa may s speech underscores the will of london to move ahead with brexit negotiations , but unfortunately it will not provide a new dynamism in the talks that is so urgently needed , michael stuebgen , european spokesman for the conservatives in the german parliament , said in a statement .
he also said may had failed to address the issue of future borders , especially in ireland .
on this basis , we can hardly expect the needed progress in the brexit negotiations before the european council meeting in october , he said .
the eu s chief brexit negotiator , michel barnier , said on friday that may s speech showed a willingness to move forward , but that he wanted to hear a precise negotiating position when he meets his british counterpart on monday .
the head of the german association of small and medium-sized businesses ( bvmw ) , mario ohoven , said may had wasted an opportunity for a new beginning in the brexit negotiations .
what german industry needs above all is planning and investment certainty , he said in a statement .
looming customs duties and bureaucratic trade obstacles are exactly the opposite of that , and are already resulting in significant damage to the investment climate .
( $ 1 = 0.8367 euros )