harrisburg , pa. ( reuters ) - pennsylvania attorney general kathleen kane , who faces trial in august for allegedly leaking secret grand jury information , on tuesday ruled out running for a second term .
kane is the first woman and first democrat elected as the state ’ s top law enforcement officer , and her current four-year term concludes at the end of 2016 .
“ ( i ’ m ) a mother first and foremost , ” kane , who is divorced and has two teenage sons , told reporters at a news conference in scranton .
“ i have two very important people at home , ” said kane , 49 , of clarks summit , pennsylvania .
“ as you all know , being a single mother… that in itself is a full-time job. ” she vigorously defended her time in office , especially her efforts to “ rid the state of corruption ” but declined to answer further questions .
tuesday marked the deadline in pennsylvania for filing nominating petitions for the may primary election .
kane was expected to face at least two and possibly three democratic opponents in the primary while at the same time defending herself against the legal charges .
kane has been in legal hot water ever since her indictment last summer for allegedly passing grand jury information to a reporter as part of a personal feud .
her law license was suspended in october as a result of the grand jury indictment .
kane has portrayed herself as a victim of an “ old boys ’ network ” worried about her efforts to expose prosecutors and supreme court judges who had exchanged sexually explicit or offensive emails on state computers .
last week , democrats in the state senate defeated a republican-led effort to remove her from office on the grounds that her suspended law license made it impossible for her to do her job .
one of her chief critics , representative daryl metcalfe , a republican , said on tuesday he welcomed her decision not to run but also wished she had resigned .
he said he would continue to support a separate effort in the house of representatives to impeach kane .