( reuters ) - a court in vietnam jailed a blogger on monday for seven years for conducting propaganda against the state , the latest action against a critic of the one-party state .
nguyen van hoa , 22 , rose to prominence after a toxic waste spill from a steel mill built by taiwan s formosa plastics corp s vietnam unit that polluted more than 200 km ( 125 miles ) of coast , sparking rare protests in the communist party-ruled country .
despite sweeping economic reforms and growing openness to social change , including gay , lesbian and transgender rights , vietnam retains tight media censorship and its government does not tolerate criticism .
in recent months , authorities have stepped up measures to silence critics whose voices on various issues have been amplified by social media in a country that is among facebook s top 10 by users .
the people s court in ha tinh province said on its website hoa had been found guilty of propaganda against the state .
it said hoa produced videos to call for protests after the spill .
neither hoa nor or a legal or family representative were available for comment .
hoa was arrested and prosecuted in april for publishing anti-government content .
the formosa incident , one of vietnam s worst environmental disasters , is a sensitive topic for the government as it balances political stability , environmental protection and foreign investment , one of the drivers of economic growth .
the government has said it will prosecute identified formosa protesters for causing public disorder .
another critic of the steel mill spill , nguyen ngoc nhu quynh , known as me nam ( mother mushroom ) , was given a 10-year jail term for publishing propaganda against the state .
a prominent rights lawyer who has represented quynh , said on monday the bar federation in phu yen province had revoked his licence to practice .
the government does not want me to work as a lawyer anymore because i have been defending poor people , people who were unjustly charged ... cases that are sensitive in vietnam , the lawyer , vo an don , told reuters .
don said he would not be able to defend quynh at her appeal hearing .
reuters was unable to immediately reach the bar federation or government authorities for comment on the case .