( reuters ) - president barack obama knocked republican presidential candidates for anti-muslim rhetoric and accused critics on tuesday of playing into the hands of islamic state in a speech aimed at setting an optimistic tone for his last year in office .
obama , delivering his last state of the union speech to congress before leaving office next year , said it was fiction to declare the united states was in economic decline or getting weaker on the international stage .
in a direct slap at republican presidential front-runner donald trump , obama said insulting muslims hurt the united states and “ betrayed ” its identity .
“ when politicians insult muslims ... that doesn ’ t make us safer , ” he said , drawing applause from the crowd in the house of representatives chamber .
“ it ’ s just wrong .
it diminishes us in the eyes of the world .
it makes it harder to achieve our goals. ” 10:52:30 pmin the republican response to president barack obama ’ s state of the union address , south carolina governor nikki haley took a softer tone on immigration than the harsh rhetoric often heard from her party ’ s presidential candidates .
“ immigrants have been coming to our shores for generations to live the dream that is america , ” haley said in a speech delivered from columbia , the state capital .
following obama ’ s lead , she appeared to use the speech as an occasion to respond to donald trump , the front runner for the republican nomination who has called for a ban on allowing muslims to enter the united states .
“ some people think that you have to be the loudest voice in the room to make a difference , ” she said .
“ that is just not true .
often , the best thing we can do is turn down the volume .
when the sound is quieter , you can actually hear what someone else is saying .
and that can make a world of difference. ” haley ’ s speech was praised by both sides of politics .
former obama strategist david axelrod tweeted : “ really effective speech by @ nikkihaley .
avoided the response to sotu curse. ” republican pollster frank luntz said haley , who is being touted as a possible republican running mate , tested well with voters .
“ this is the highest we ’ ve ever tested a # sotu response. ” 10:25:44 pmpresident obama wrapped up his final state of the union address with a forceful statement of confidence in the future of the united states .
“ i believe in change because i believe in you , ” obama said in his closing remarks , generating a standing ovation .
“ that ’ s why i stand here as confident as i have ever been that the state of our union is strong. ” obama received about a dozen standing ovations during his address , but just a handful were fully bipartisan .
in addition to the standing ovation that greeted the entry of first lady michelle obama , the other bipartisan applause moments came after his comments on cutting red tape and outdated regulations , when he announced vice president joe biden would lead a cancer “ moonshot ” initiative and when he lauded the u.s. military as the finest fighting force in the world .
several more moments won big applause from the democratic side of the chamber .
those included obama ’ s remarks on : * making college affordable * food stamps not causing the financial crisis * biden securing new resources for national institutes of health * his administration ’ s clean energy achievements * the islamic state not being representative of one of the world ’ s largest religions * his request for new authorization to use military force * terrorists finding that americans have long memories and the u.s. reach has no limits * his assertion that “ we are on track to end the scourge of hiv/aids 9:52:13 pmtwitter traffic on the hashtag # sotu has exploded since president obama started delivering his final state of the union address , with more than 761,000 tweets using the tag , up by roughly 500,000 since obama ’ s speech began .
jeers at house speaker paul ryan ’ s lack of participation counted heavily among the tweets .
according to social media analytics firm zoomph , # paulryan was among the top hashtags during the speech .
ryan appeared only to have applauded obama when the president mentioned u.s. military personnel .
author and new york times columnist anand giridharadas ( @ anandwrites ) tweeted : “ after curing cancer , we should cure the problem that prevents paul ryan ’ s hands from joining even for things he agrees with .
# sotu. ” while president barack obama was widely expected to focus on gun control in his final state of the union address , the word “ gun ” appeared just once in the prepared text of his speech when he quickly summarized several proposals he ’ s already made .
obama symbolically had a chair left empty in the box where first lady michelle obama was sitting in honor of those who have died from gun violence .
the hashtag # emptyseat was trending heavily on twitter in response to the gesture .
the single reference to “ gun ” compared with four mentions of “ climate change ” and 15 to the “ economy. ” obama apparently has delivered on his promise to keep this year ’ s speech shorter : the text of his speech unofficially comes in at 5,438 words versus 6,776 in his 2015 speech .
the white house released a post ( bit.ly/1q3p2oz ) by vice president joe biden explaining his new task , heading an initiative to find a cure for cancer .
president barack obama was expected to detail biden ’ s role during the state of the union speech tuesday night .
“ i know that we can help solidify a genuine global commitment to end cancer as we know it today — and inspire a new generation of scientists to pursue new discoveries and the bounds of human endeavor , ” biden wrote .
president barack obama has entered the u.s. house of representatives to deliver his final state of the union speech as u.s. commander in chief .
obama has taken the podium and has begun .
he promises to keep this speech , his eighth , “ a little shorter , ” joking that many in the audience need to get to iowa , site of the first u.s. party caucuses ahead of november ’ s presidential election .
according to an advance text of his speech , he will rebuff talk from critics that america is in economic decline as “ political hot air. ” president barack obama will call on congress to end the practice of drawing congressional districts so that politicians can pick their voters .
too many americans feel “ the system is rigged in favor of the rich or the powerful or some narrow interest , ” obama said , according to a copy of the speech released by the white house .
first lady michelle obama has arrived in the house chamber for her husband 's final state of the union address , wearing a mustard-colored dress .
members of obama 's cabinet have also arrived , as have the justices of the u.s. supreme court .
8:56:55 pmthe white house has posted the text of president obama 's speech ( bit.ly/1nh7mfi ) and he will describe isis militants as `` killers and fanatics who have to be rooted out , hunted down and destroyed . ''
separately , however , he said claims that the isis fight is world war iii are “ over the top. ” still , he urged congress to pass authorizations to use military force against isis .
obama is also expected to say that vice president joe biden , whose son beau died from a brain tumor , will lead a new effort to make america the country that cures cancer once and for all .
u.s. vice president joe biden has entered the house of representatives chamber ahead of president obama ’ s state of the union address , shaking hands with several of members as he arrived .
house speaker paul ryan , attending his first state of the union in his new capacity , greeted the vice president as he walked up the steps .
“ how ’ s it going joe ? ” ryan said .
the two men aren ’ t strangers .
they debated during the 2012 campaign as the respective vice presidential nominees for their parties .
also spotted on the house floor : former congresswoman gabby giffords and democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders .
obama , meanwhile , is enroute to capitol hill from the white house .
the white house posted video on snapchat of him climbing into his car , nicknamed the beast .
8:36:29 pmwith about 30 minutes to go until the state of the union , social media traffic was heavy , with the hashtag # sotu tweeted more than 171,000 times .
other top hashtags on twitter , according to social media analytics firm zoomph , include # kimdavis , referring to the woman who was jailed last year over the same-sex marriage license controversy but then invited to the speech .
also in the mix were # tcot , referring to “ top conservatives on twitter ” and # p2 , a hashtag for progressives .
republican presidential hopeful ben carson took to twitter to criticize obama for speaking while american military members were being held in iran .
“ when president obama takes the stage tonight , there will still be 10 united states military members being held captive by iran , ” carson tweeted .
8:26:15 pmpresident barack obama has no plans to speak about the iranian seizure of u.s. navy sailors in his final state of the union address , cnn reported tuesday .
“ there are no plans to address this issue , ” white house communications director jen psaki said in a cnn interview .
“ he ’ s tracking this closely , he ’ s following this closely but the state of the union will not be about this issue. ” the president will , however , “ absolutely ” tout the nuclear deal he reached with iran and other world powers last year , she said .
in the latest development on the seizure , a u.s. defense official said plans were in place for iran to return the 10 sailors to a u.s. navy vessel in international waters early on wednesday .
8:05:43 pmpresident barack obama on tuesday urged u.s. leaders to “ fix our politics ” and lift americans ’ standard of living in a final state of the union speech designed to contrast his vision for the country with republican presidential campaign rhetoric .
obama , who is delivering his last annual speech to congress before leaving office next january , said political discourse was meant to be messy , but - in an apparent nod to proposals by republican candidates such as donald trump - required “ bonds of trust ” between citizens.obama ’ s speech , scheduled for 9 p.m. est ( 0200 gmt on wednesday ) , is one of his few remaining chances to capture the attention of millions of americans before the nov. 8 election of a new president who will take office next january .
in the latest teaser leading up his state of the union address on tuesday night , president barack obama touted his record on the economy and health care .
“ more than 14 million jobs , nearly 18 million people now with health coverage — together , we ’ ve pulled ourselves out of yesterday ’ s crisis to put us on a stronger course for tomorrow , ” obama said in the message posted at www.whitehouse.gov .
still , obama said his speech will stay focused on the future .
“ tonight i ’ ll lay out a vision for an economy that ’ s even stronger , a country that ’ s safer , and a union that ’ s more perfect .
“ because with one year left in my presidency , i ’ m still fired up and ready to go. ” in the white house ’ s latest snapchat clip ahead of the state of the state speech , edith s. childs , the retired nurse who coined president obama ’ s notable “ fired up ” campaign chant in 2008 , is shown singing the refrain .
wearing a cream-colored suit and pumping her fist , childs is featured on the white house official snapchat story singing : “ fired up !
ready to go ! ” again and again .
childs will be a special guest of first lady michelle obama .
06:43:51 pm president barack obama is set to tell americans on tuesday that while the country faces extraordinary change , the nation can overcome the challenges it faces if americans come together , the white house said .
“ it will only happen if we fix our politics , ” obama will say , according to excerpts of his state of the union address provided by the white house .
“ the future we want - opportunity and security for our families ; a rising standard of living and a sustainable , peaceful planet for our kids - all that is within our reach , ” will say .
6:16:53 pmpresident barack obama made a brief appearance on facebook on tuesday as he finalized the text of his last state of the union address .
the president , sitting at his desk , said he was making last minute changes and added touches to his speech .
“ there ’ s a lot of work that still needs to be done , ” obama said , adding that he wanted to make sure that the american people understood his proposals .
“ we ’ ve got some big choices ahead , ” he said .
6:06:01 pm hardly a quiet few hours for the white house in the run up to president obama ’ s swan song state of the union address later on tuesday .
as the president goes through his final preparations for the speech : iran has taken 10 sailors aboard two u.s. navy boats into custody , although iran has told the united states that the crew members will be “ promptly ” returned , u.s. officials said .
and at least 145 congressional democrats , including senate minority leader harry reid , are condemning the obama administration ’ s immigrant deportation efforts .
ahead of his final state of the state speech , the white house tweeted that president barack obama would share a few thoughts live on facebook before the event .
obama ’ s speech before a joint session of congress is scheduled for 9 p.m .
et .
meanwhile , indie rock band el vy was gearing up for the pre-speech performance at 7:45 p.m .
et .
the white house posted clips of the band ’ s warm up on snapchat .
u.s. president barack obama will talk about the prospects for self-driving cars in his final state of the union address on tuesday , according to government officials , the first time the president has used the annual speech to tackle an important issue facing the auto and technology industries .
millions of americans were discussing president obama ’ s upcoming state of the union address on tuesday on top social media platforms like facebook and twitter , debating anticipated speech topics such as gun control , terrorism and healthcare .
u.s. president barack obama voiced regret for failing to unite washington since taking office on a wave of hope in 2009 , as he prepared to give a state of the union speech on tuesday to launch his final year in the white house .
asked about his inability to heal america ’ s political divisions , obama told nbc ’ s “ today ” show , “ it ’ s a regret. ” the president planned to speak optimistically about america ’ s future in his speech in congress , one of his few remaining chances to capture and hold the attention of millions of americans before the nov. 8 election of a new president who will take office next january .
the democratic president will give his final state of the union address as campaign rhetoric for november ’ s presidential election intensifies with candidates fighting over illegal immigrants , wage inequality and violence .
9:00:22 ampresident barack obama said he could envision republican presidential candidate donald trump giving a state of the union address - but in a comedy skit .
in a “ today ” show interview ahead of his final state of the union address , the democratic president was asked if he could envision trump , the billionaire developer known for his bombastic style , making his own state of the union speech as president .
“ well , i can imagine it - in a ‘ saturday night ’ skit , ” obama said , referring to the nbc ’ s long-running late-night comedy show “ saturday night live. ” “ look , anything ’ s possible .
and i think , you know , we shouldn ’ t be complacent . ”