wellington ( reuters ) - the rising popularity of new zealand s labour party in hotly contested elections is making it less likely that the nationalist new zealand first party will play kingmaker , poll averages released on friday show .
the uncertainty over which combination of parties will decide the next government is worsening an already topsy-turvy election , previously seen as a slam dunk for the center-right national party , which has ruled for almost a decade .
since taking over as leader last month , charismatic politician jacinda ardern has almost single-handedly changed the chances of her labour party at the sept. 23 election .
when i go out and knock on doors ... there is a feeling for change , there is , marama fox , a leader of the m ori party , said at a televised debate between leaders of smaller parties , referring to labour s newfound popularity .
fox s party , which campaigns for the rights of indigenous new zealanders , could play a crucial role in determining the next government .
though it has been in a coalition with national for nine years , fox said she could work with labour .
support for newly invigorated labour rose to 41.8 percent in opinion polls , nudging above the national party s 41.1 percent , figures released by media showed .
that put the center-left opposition party closer to being able to form a government with the green party , polling at around 5.4 percent , and the m ori party , which posted support of about 1.2 percent .
alternatively labour could join forces with new zealand first , which slipped to 7.9 percent and had previously been thought likely to determine which major party governed .
green party leader james shaw would not rule out a deal with new zealand first , but expressed reluctance , as the party s outspoken leader would not commit to either national or labour .
he s a bad date , shaw said of peters last-minute decision to skip the debate .
he s stood us up tonight ... he s completely unreliable and you don t know which way he s going to go .
but if the green party fell further , sinking below the support threshold of 5 percent for seats in parliament , that would put new zealand first in an even stronger position .
it is really unusual ... it s all about which pieces land where , said grant duncan , political analyst at auckland university .
minor parties often have an outsize role in new zealand s proportional representation system , in which a party , or combination of parties , needs 61 of parliament s 120 members - usually about 48 percent of the vote - to form a government .