buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentina s congress passed a reform to the pension system on tuesday , after days of demonstrations by the bill s opponents and violent clashes between protesters and police .
the measure is central to president mauricio macri s plan to slash the fiscal deficit and attract investment .
it paves the way for further market-friendly legislation that his cambiemos , or let s change coalition hopes to pass in extraordinary congressional sessions before the end of the year .
the law changes the formula used to calculate benefits by linking them to consumer prices instead of tax income and wage hikes .
the government says that will make benefits more predictable and sustainable , and they will still increase by more than inflation next year .
this formula guarantees that over the next few years , retirees will never lose against a jump in inflation , said macri , who took office in december 2015 after more than a decade of populist rule .
macri tweaked his proposal , pledging a one-time bonus payment to the neediest retirees , after clashes last thursday derailed congressional debate .
still , the measure generated fierce criticism from opposition lawmakers and labor unions , who say it will hurt retirees .
the debate prompted demonstrations on monday .
thousands took to the streets of the capital buenos aires and around the country , banging pots and pans and blaring car horns .
stone-throwing protesters confronted police , who responded with water canon , rubber bullets and tear gas .
dozens were injured .
all these changes generate discomfort , but they are necessary , macri said after the measure passed the lower chamber of deputies 127-117 , with two abstentions , following an all-night debate session .
the senate approved the proposal last month .
the government will now press congressional votes on a tax code overhaul and a deal with provinces to limit spending , macri told reporters .
economists , noting that inflation expectations are lower , said linking benefits to consumer prices would lower spending by around 0.5 percent of gross domestic product ( gdp ) next year .
but savings from the pension reform will finance transfers from the national treasury to provinces as part of the fiscal pact , said economist ariel barraud of the argentina fiscal analysis institute in cordoba , argentina .
almost all of the savings obtained from the pension formula change will go to compensate the fiscal deal , barraud told reuters by phone .
argentina s government is aiming to cut the deficit to 3.2 percent of gdp from 4.2 percent currently .
cambiemos lacks a majority in congress despite a strong performance in october s legislative midterm .
dozens of votes from opposition lawmakers were needed to pass the pension measure .
other leaders in south america have had a harder time implementing similar business-friendly agendas .
in peru , measures meant to boost growth have stalled as president pedro pablo kuczynski has fought efforts to remove him over his ties to scandal-plagued brazilian builder odebrecht .
brazil s efforts at its own pension reform were recently pushed back until next year .
despite passage of the pension measure , macri s agenda still faces substantial popular skepticism .
they are encroaching upon the rights of society s most vulnerable , opposition lawmaker facundo moyano said during the congressional debate .