so that immigration crisis you never hear about on your evening news ?
it s not over .
not by a long shot.with only a few months left to go before a new president obtains the keys to the oval office , the obama administration released another 6,051 unaccompanied alien children into american communities in the month of october , averaging about 195 kids per day.according to recent stats released by the executive office for immigration review , only about 45 percent of all immigration cases opened for unaccompanied minors since july of 2014 have been closed .
eoir data also shows that nearly 40 percent of all illegal alien children ordered to appear before an immigration judge won t show up for their final court hearing.children who come across the border unlawfully and without a parent or guardian are being released at an alarming rate that corresponds with the increasing number of kids currently being apprehended along the u.s.-mexico border .
in october alone , customs and border protection reported they apprehended 46,197 illegal aliens crossing into the united states unlawfully via the southwest u.s. border , including 13,124 members of family units and another 6,754 unaccompanied children .
for entire story : mrctvwhat has escaped all but a few conversations are the short and long term implications of this flood of children haphazardly being placed in detention or residential settings , or released to family members , and how it can precipitate a fertile recruiting opportunity for gangs such as ms-13 and the 18th street gang , who already have assimilation within this diaspora , putting not only domestic but regional security in question.since 2009 , the numbers of unaccompanied alien children up to 17 years old , as they are designated by customs and border protection under the aegis of the department of homeland security , has grown exponentially , with children from honduras representing the largest diaspora , followed by guatemala , honduras , and mexico .
hmsnetthis is an especially heartwarming story for the working american taxpayer who s trying to figure out how they re going to be able to scrape enough extra money together to buy their own children a gift for christmas .
people like hillary and barack , who ve made a fortune as career politicians , can t be bothered with the issues of everyday americans , they ve got a country to fill with democrat voters .
the american citizens who actually support these illegal aliens with their tax dollars are not their concern .