the following timeline charts the origin and spread of the zika virus from its discovery nearly 70 years ago : 1947 : scientists researching yellow fever in uganda ’ s zika forest identify the virus in a rhesus monkey 1948 : virus recovered from aedes africanus mosquito in zika forest 1952 : first human cases detected in uganda and tanzania 1954 : virus found in nigeria 1960s-80s : zika detected in mosquitoes and monkeys across equatorial africa 1969–83 : zika found in equatorial asia , including india , indonesia , malaysia and pakistan 2007 : zika spreads from africa and asia , first large outbreak on pacific island of yap 2012 : researchers identify two distinct lineages of the virus , african and asian 2013–14 : zika outbreaks in french polynesia , easter island , the cook islands and new caledonia .
retrospective analysis shows possible link to birth defects and severe neurological complications in babies in french polynesia march 2 , 2015 : brazil reports illness characterized by skin rash in northeastern states july 17 : brazil reports detection of neurological disorders in newborns associated with history of infection oct. 5 : cape verde has cases of illness with skin rash oct. 22 : colombia confirms cases of zika oct. 30 : brazil reports increase in microcephaly , abnormally small heads , among newborns nov. 11 : brazil declares public health emergency november 2015-january 2016 : cases reported in suriname , panama , el salvador , mexico , guatemala , paraguay , venezuela , french guiana , martinique , puerto rico , guyana , ecuador , barbados , bolivia , dominican republic , nicaragua , curacao , jamaica feb. 1 : world health organization ( who ) declares public health emergency of international concern feb. 2 : first case of zika transmission in united states ; local health officials say likely contracted through sex , not mosquito bite feb. 5 : u.s. centers for disease control and prevention says virus being actively transmitted in 30 countries , mostly in the americas feb. 8 : u.s. president barack obama requests $ 1.8 billion to fight zika feb. 12 : brazil investigating potential link between zika infections and 4,314 suspected cases of microcephaly .
of those , 462 confirmed as microcephaly and 41 determined to be linked to virus feb. 17 : brazil investigating potential link between zika and 4,443 suspected cases of microcephaly .
of those , 508 confirmed as microcephaly and most of those cases are linked to the virus .
who seeks $ 56 million to fight zika .
feb. 18 : cdc adds aruba and bonaire to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 32 .
feb. 23 : cdc investigating 14 cases of possible sexual transmission of zika .
cdc also adds trinidad and tobago and marshall islands to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 34 .
feb. 25 : brazil says confirmed microcephaly cases number more than 580 and considers most of them to be related to zika infections in the mothers .
brazil is investigating an additional 4,100 suspected cases of microcephaly .
feb. 27 : france detects first sexually transmitted case of zika .
feb. 29 : cdc adds st. maarten , and saint vincent and the grenadines to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 36 .
march 1 : brazil says confirmed microcephaly cases rose to 641 and considers most of them to be related to zika infections in the mothers .
brazil is investigating an additional 4,222 suspected cases of microcephaly .
march 8 : who advises pregnant women to avoid areas with zika outbreak and said sexual transmission of the virus is “ relatively common. ” march 9 : cdc adds new caledonia to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 37 .
march 15 : cuba reports first case of zika contracted in the country .
march 16 : cape verde identifies first case of microcephaly .
march 18 : cdc says during jan. 1 , 2015 to feb. 26 , 2016 , 116 residents of the united states had evidence of recent zika virus infection based on laboratory testing .
brazil says confirmed microcephaly cases rose to 863 and considers most of them to be related to zika infections in the mothers .
brazil is investigating an additional 4,268 suspected cases of microcephaly .
march 19 : cdc adds cuba to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 38 .
march 21 : south korea confirms first case of zika .
march 22 : cdc adds dominica to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 39 .
bangladesh confirms first case of zika virus .
brazil says confirmed microcephaly cases rose to 907 and considers most of them to be related to zika infections in the mothers .
brazil is investigating an additional 4,293 suspected cases of microcephaly .
march 29 : brazil says confirmed microcephaly cases rose to 944 and considers most of them to be related to zika infections in the mothers .
brazil said the number of suspected cases of microcephaly dropped slightly to 4,291 .
march 31 : according to the world health organization , there is a strong scientific consensus that zika can cause the birth defect microcephaly as well as guillain-barre syndrome , a rare neurological disorder that can result in paralysis , though conclusive proof may take months or years .
april 1 : cdc adds kosrae , federated states of micronesia to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 40 .
april 4 : cdc adds fiji to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 41 .
april 5 : vietnam reports first zika infections .
april 6 : brazil says confirmed microcephaly cases rose to 1,046 and considers most of them to be related to zika infections in the mothers .
the number of suspected cases of microcephaly dropped to 4,046 .
april 7 : st. lucia confirms first two cases of zika , contracted locally .
april 12 : brazil says confirmed microcephaly cases rose to 1,113 and considers most of them to be related to zika infections in the mothers .
the number of suspected cases of microcephaly dropped to 3,836 .
it was the second week in a row that the overall total figure fell .
april 13 : the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention concluded that infection with the zika virus in pregnant women is a cause of the birth defect microcephaly and other severe brain abnormalities in babies .
the cdc said now that the causal relationship has been established , several important questions must still be answered with studies that could take years .
cdc adds st. lucia to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 42 .
april 14 : colombia confirms two microcephaly cases linked to zika .
april 18 : peru reports first case of sexually transmitted zika virus .
cdc adds belize to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 43 .
april 19 : chilean authorities find zika mosquito for first time in decades .
april 25 : canada confirms first sexually transmitted zika case .
april 26 : brazil says the number of confirmed cases of microcephaly climbed to 1,198 from 1,168 in the week through april 23 , but suspected ones under investigation continued to decline to 3,710 from 3,741 a week ago .
brazil registered 91,387 likely cases of the zika virus from february until april 2 , the health ministry said , in its first national report on the epidemic .
april 29 : puerto rico reports first death related to zika , according to the cdc .
the country also confirmed 683 zika cases , including 65 pregnant women , and five suspected cases of guillain-barre syndrome from zika , the cdc reported .
may 4 : panama confirms four microcephaly cases tied to zika .
may 6 : spain gets first case of zika-related brain defect in a fetus .
may 9 : cdc adds papua new guinea , saint barthelemy and peru to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 46 .
honduras suspects first case of microcephaly in zika patient .
may 11 : brazil says the number of confirmed cases of microcephaly dropped to 1,326 in the week through may 7 as doctors and brazilian health officials find that some suspected cases of microcephaly are not the disorder .
suspected ones under investigation continued to decline to 3,433 .
may 12 : cdc adds grenada to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 47 .
may 13 : puerto rico reports first case of zika-related microcephaly .
may 20 : who says an outbreak of zika virus on the african island chain of cape verde is of the same strain as the one blamed for birth abnormalities in brazil .
may 24 : brazil reports the number of confirmed cases of microcephaly at 1,434 for the latest week to may 21 .
suspected ones under investigation declined to 3,257 .
may 26 : cdc adds argentina to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 48 .
june 9 : who issues updated guidelines on prevention of sexual transmission of the zika virus , including advising women living in areas where the virus is being transmitted to delay getting pregnant .
june 14 : el salvador confirms first case of microcephaly linked to zika .
june 23 : cdc reports seven babies in the united states with microcephaly or other zika-related birth defects such as serious brain abnormalities , and five lost pregnancies from either miscarriage , stillbirth or termination .
june 28 : first baby with zika-related birth defect microcephaly born in florida .
june 30 : cdc adds anguilla to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 49 .
guinea-bissau confirms three cases of zika , government says .
spain records first case of sexually transmitted zika virus , health authorities said .
july 8 : cdc confirmed that a utah resident ’ s death last month is the first zika-related death in the continental united states .
july 14 : cdc adds saint eustatius to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 50 .
july 15 : new york city ’ s health department reports the first female-to-male transmission of the zika virus .
july 18 : cdc reports that caregiver of utah man who died of zika tested positive for virus .
july 19 : florida health officials are investigating a case of zika virus infection that does not appear to have stemmed from travel to another region with an outbreak .
july 21 : cdc reports 400 pregnant women in u.s. with evidence of zika infection , up from 346 a week ago .
the health agency also reports three more babies born in u.s. with birth defects linked to the zika virus , bringing total to 12 .
florida department of health said it was investigating a non travel-related case of zika in broward county , marking the second such case in the u.s. july 22 : new york city health officials reports first baby born with zika-related birth defect .
july 25 : spain reports first case in europe of baby born with zika-related defect .
cdc issues updated recommendations for preventing and testing for zika infection , warning that the virus can be transmitted through unprotected sex with an infected female partner .
july 26 : honduras detects 8 cases of babies with zika-related defect .
cdc adds saba to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 51 .
july 27 : paraguay reports first cases of microcephaly linked to zika .
july 29 : florida authorities report what is believed to be the first evidence of local zika transmission in the continental united states .
aug. 1 : florida identifies 10 more cases of zika virus caused by mosquitoes , bringing total to 14 .
cdc issues guidelines for pregnant women who live in and traveled to affected area in a miami neighborhood .
aug. 2 : health authorities in florida add one more case of locally transmitted zika , bringing total to 15 .
cdc adds antigua , barbuda , and turks and cacos to countries and territories with active outbreaks , bringing total to 54 .
aug. 3 : u.s. researchers said they launched zika vaccine clinical trial .
aug. 4 : cuba reports two cases of locally transmitted zika .
aug. 5 : florida health authorities report another locally transmitted case , bringing total to 16 .
aug. 9 : texas health officials said death of infant born with microcephaly is linked to zika , the first casualty in the state associated with the virus .
cayman islands reports first locally transmitted zika case .
sources : world health organization , u.s. centers for disease control and prevention , reuters