beirut ( reuters ) - u.s.-backed militias in syria have detained senior foreign islamic state leaders in months of fighting for raqqa , but it is not yet clear if they will be repatriated after facing trial , a spokesman said on thursday .
we have foreign emirs ... from all around the world , talal silo of the sdf told reuters .
they were captured in special operations , and some of them turned themselves in to our forces .
the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias , declared victory this week in raqqa , raising flags over the last islamic state positions in the city .
the fall of raqqa marked a potent symbol of the jihadist movement s collapsing fortunes .
islamic state militants used the city as a planning and operations center for its warfare in the middle east and its string of attacks overseas .
the united states has said raqqa served as a hub for attacks abroad .
in november 2015 , after militants killed more than 130 people in paris , france said it launched air strikes on islamic state targets inside raqqa .
silo declined to say how many high-ranking , foreign islamic state prisoners were in detention , but said sdf intelligence was interrogating them .
there are prisons dedicated just for daesh , he added , using the arabic acronym for islamic state .
we don t put them with the regular prisoners .
they are being investigated , and will be presented to the courts .
we have an independent judicial system that will try them , all of them , he said .
after the trials , it remained unclear if the sdf would hand over the fighters to their countries or whether the foreign states would accept to take them back , he said .
it depends on the situation between us and the ( foreign ) states , silo said .
there may be an agreement ... there may be consent to handing them over , and there may not be .
with air strikes and special forces from the u.s.-led coalition , the kurdish-led sdf had been fighting since june inside raqqa , after months of battles to encircle the city .
raqqa was the first major city islamic state seized in early 2014 , before its series of rapid victories in iraq and syria brought millions of people under the rule of its self-declared caliphate , which passed laws and issued passports and money .