beirut/dubai ( reuters ) - iran warned the united states against designating its revolutionary guards corp as a terrorist group and said u.s. regional military bases would be at risk if further sanctions were passed .
the warning came after the white house said on friday that president donald trump would announce new u.s. responses to iran s missile tests , support for terrorism and cyber operations as part of his new iran strategy .
as we ve announced in the past , if america s new law for sanctions is passed , this country will have to move their regional bases outside the 2,000 km range of iran s missiles , guards commander mohammad ali jafari said , according to state media .
jafari also said that additional sanctions would end the chances for future dialogue with the united states , according to state media , and issued a stark warning to american troops .
if the news is correct about the stupidity of the american government in considering the revolutionary guards a terrorist group , then the revolutionary guards will consider the american army to be like islamic state all around the world particularly in the middle east , jafari said .
the revolutionary guards ( irgc ) are iran s most powerful internal and external security force .
the quds force , the irgc s foreign espionage and paramilitary wing , and individuals and entities associated with the irgc are on the us list of foreign terrorist organizations , but the organization as a whole is not .
iran sees the sunni muslim militants of islamic state as an existential threat to the islamic republic where the majority of the population are shi ites .
on june 7 , islamic state claimed an attack on tehran s parliament and the mausoleum of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini , the founder of the islamic republic , killing 18 people .
the guards fired missiles at islamic state bases in syria on june 18 in response .
guards commanders have framed their military involvement in iraq and syria , where they are fighting to support the government of president bashar al-assad , as a fight against islamic state .
dozens of members of the guards , including senior commanders , have been killed in syria and iraq .
the website for state tv reported jafari as adding that the united states was mistaken if it thought it could pressure iran into negotiating on regional issues .
jafari also said that tehran would ramp up its defense capabilities , including its missile program , if the u.s. undermined a nuclear deal between iran and western powers .
under the 2015 deal , iran agreed to limit its disputed nuclear program in return for the easing of economic sanctions .
however , trump is expected to announce soon that he will decertify the deal , a senior administration official has said , in a step that potentially could cause the accord to unravel .
the americans should know that the trump government s stupid behavior with the nuclear deal will be used by the islamic republic as an opportunity to move ahead with its missile , regional and conventional defense program , jafari said , according to state media .
the prospect of washington backtracking on the deal has worried some of the u.s. allies that helped negotiate it , especially as the world grapples with another nuclear crisis in the shape of north korea .
if trump does not certify that iran is in compliance , the u.s. congress will have 60 days to decide whether to reimpose sanctions waived under the deal .
u.n. inspectors have verified iranian compliance with the terms .
the guards navy was also carrying out a military exercise on sunday in the gulf , an area of tension with the u.s. navy in recent months .
more than 110 vessels were involved in the exercise , including some that have rocket and missile capabilities , a state media report quoted a guards commander as saying .