this is a very interesting article and worth taking the time to read all the way through the islamic state believes it can use its enemies hands for its own agenda .
its propaganda material and its supporters social media activity have made it apparent there are three key reactions isis is hoping u.s. policymakers , media broadcasters and citizens will have.you can watch clarion project national security analyst ryan mauro discuss two of these reactions on kennedy on fox business network : the first reaction isis is hoping for is the western media facilitating its narrative of success , which is one of the biggest reasons for the terror organization s rapid expansion .
battlefield achievements make the group more attractive to jihadists and are seen as proof of allah s endorsement.isis wants headlines like those about the paris attacks ; its bombing of the russian airliner ; the cancelled soccer game in germany and the stabbing of a jewish schoolteacher in france by isis supporters .
it doesn t want headlines about how the u.s. killed jihadi john in syria and the leader of its affiliate in libya ; how it lost sinjar and beiji in iraq or how u.s.-backed rebels in syria are finally having success in pushing back isis.many people in the region immediately tweeted the paris attacks would not distract from these losses .
their smack-talk to isis was based on a valid and important point .
they did want not the media to limit its coverage to isis success , but to include broader context that provides more accurate coverage that doesn t play into isis hands.the second response sought by isis is a vicious anti-muslim backlash in europe and the u.s. that the group believes will win them supporters .
online supporters of isis are open about how they hope a clash will divide muslims into two camps : the pro-isis jihadists versus the pro-western apostates .
the group thinks there is currently a middle ground that can be radicalized and won to its side.the third response is the deployment of u.s. troops for a major ground war in iraq and syria ; one where u.s. troops seize and hold territory and meet isis in the battlefield instead of just carrying out raids and training and advising iraqi , syrian and kurdish partners.a focal point of isis apocalyptic vision rooted in islamic prophecy is that roman armies american and european will invade iraq and syria and engage in a bloody battle .
isis hopes the apparent fulfillment of prophecy will activate millions of isis supporters who have not yet picked up a gun.the opportunity to target u.s. troops has greater appeal in the bigger jihadist world and any documented capturing , injuring or killing of a u.s. serviceman has tremendous propaganda value .
there are many risks that come with deploying u.s. combat troops for a major offensive .
american president barack obama rejected the option after the paris attacks and explained part of his reasoning : [ it is ] not because our military could not march into mosul or raqqa or ramadi and temporarily clear out isil , but because we would see a repetition of what we ve seen before , which is if you do not have local populations that are committing to inclusive governance and who are pushing back against ideological extremes , that they resurface , unless we re prepared to have a permanent occupation of these countries .
via : clarion project