istanbul ( reuters ) - turkey said on thursday it had stopped training peshmerga forces in northern iraq in response to a kurdish independence vote there , whose backers had thrown themselves into the fire .
the kurdish peshmerga have been at the forefront of the campaign against islamic state and been trained by nato-member turkey s military since late 2014 .
northern iraq s main link to the outside world , turkey views monday s vote - which final results on wednesday showed overwhelming in favour of independence from baghdad - as a clear security threat .
fearing it will inflame separatism among its own kurds , ankara had already threatened military and economic measures in retaliation .
government spokesman bekir bozdag reiterated on thursday any such actions would be coordinated with the iraqi central government .
bozdag , also a deputy prime minister , told broadcaster tgrt in an interview that more steps would follow the peshmerga decision and that the prime ministers of turkey and iraq would meet soon .
turkey , which is home to the region s largest kurdish population , is battling a three-decade kurdish insurgency in its southeast , which borders northern iraq .
president tayyip erdogan said it was inevitable that the referendum adventure in northern iraq , carried out despite turkey s warnings , would end in disappointment .
with its independence initiative , the northern iraq regional government has thrown itself into the fire , he said in a speech to police officers at his palace in ankara .
earlier this week , erdogan said iraqi kurds would go hungry if his country halted the flow of trucks and oil across the border , near where turkish and iraqi soldiers have been carrying out military exercises this week .
hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil a day flow through a pipeline in turkey from northern iraq , connecting the region to global oil markets .
erdogan has repeatedly threatened economic sanctions , but has given few details .
prime minister binali yildirim said turkey would not shy away from giving the harshest response to a national security threat on its border , but that this was not its first choice .
speaking in the central turkish province of corum , yildirim said turkey , iran and iraq were doing their best to overcome the crisis caused by the referendum with the minimum damage .
iraq , including the kurdish region , was turkey s third-largest export market in 2016 , according to imf data .
turkish exports to the country totalled $ 8.6 billion , behind germany and britain .