the information below is almost like a satire piece from the onion .
it s so funny that anyone could claim that ads are believed to have swayed the election.how about the fact that clinton was a horrible candidate ?
how about the fact that the american people are 100 % fed up !
with phony career politicians .
the report from facebook was turned over to special counsel robert mueller .
what a joke !
this proves absolutely nothing ! a whopping $ 100,000 on ads : facebook has turned over all information about ads likely purchased by russian operatives to special counsel robert mueller , according to a report.a source familiar with the matter told reuters on wednesday that the social media giant had sent the former fbi director data including copies of the ads and the identity of the buyers .
that report followed news that an internal facebook investigation found it is agents of the kremlin may have spent $ 100,000 on ads with divisive messages between june 2015 and may 2017.a facebook blog post published on wednesday said the operation involved 3,000 separate ads over a two-year period and was likely to have been run out of russia .
in addition , facebook found 470 affiliated fake accounts and pages.president trump is correct it s a witch hunt : mueller is investigating russian efforts to influence the 2016 election and whether the trump campaign colluded with the kremlin .
the investigation has dogged and frustrated president donald trump , who has called it a witch hunt and a hoax .
according to facebook , about $ 50,000 of the funds about 2,200 ads were potentially related to affecting u.s. politics .
the majority of the ads did not reference the presidential election , voting or a specific candidate .
however , the ads focused on divisive social and political messages about hot-button topics including lgbt rights , race , immigration and gun rights .
facebook has shared its findings with u.s. authorities.whaaaat ?
evidence of what exactly ? facebook said in april that it found evidence some groups used its platform to sway the outcome of the election.it did not specify targets or who was behind the attack , but said its own findings did not contradict a u.s. director of national intelligence report in january about russian efforts to influence the election.via : cnbc