we can t say for sure , but we re guessing the truth about the happiest place on earth is about to be exposed by the donald i m doing this because i don t like bullies , dena moore says , explaining why she as one of the american disney workers who was laid off and forced to train her low-wage h-1b foreign replacement is now launching a discrimination lawsuit against the corporation .
you can t let a bully continue to be the bully .
someone had to say : slavery isn t right , i think i ll stand up against it .
someone had to say : we shouldn t [ mistreat ] our women .
i think i ll stand up .
someone had to stand up .
that s what i m hoping that my work is doing .
there s a lot of people who are just afraid , moore tells breitbart in an exclusive telephone interview.yet this sentiment also explains why moore , a constituent of sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) now says she s casting her ballot for gop frontrunner donald trump : trump is standing up to the bullies .
the american people are now the weak ones being bullied , moore explains .
the everyday working person needs a champion and you d never think to say that .
who would ever think a day would come when we would have to say that ?
but the middle class needs a champion we need a union that will protect us and donald trump is that champion .
he is champion who stands up to the bullies to protect the weak , he stands up for us he stands up .
when you stand up to the bullies you have to stay strong , moore explained .
you re not always going to be well-liked , and it takes you a little while to be heard .
maybe you ll make mistakes , but you have to get past the media s let me pick you apart stage and recognize that this person is standing up to the bullies .
i will be voting for trump , moore said emphatically .
if we don t want to become the next third world country to me we need somebody whose a business man to run the country .
i never realized the laws behind it , moore says of the nation s rampant visa policies that allowed her and her colleagues to be replaced by foreign workers .
i didn t know what i didn t know .
and trump has brought this to the forefront .
this is probably happening in more than 50 percent of workplaces .
as americans , we re becoming the minority , we re becoming the underpaid workers , who have to now go find a different position .
moore , at 53 is a mother of four and grandmother of 13 .
she had been working for disney just shy of ten years , when out of the blue she was called into a meeting and informed that she along with hundreds of her american colleagues were being let go and would be replaced with foreign workers , whom they would have to train .
these foreign workers had been brought into the country on the controversial wage-depressing h-1b visa.in the course of the interview , moore discussed the toll this news took on her extended family her colleagues at disney who could not recover from the stress of the blow .
people often tell me , you don t seem devastated enough .
i am , but i don t live my life that way , moore says .
i am miss sunshine .
i m the energetic positive force .
being devastated , moore explains , is just not in my nature .
i bounce .
but a lot of other people have not , she says trailing off .
most people were devastated because they had worked at disney for 30 , 40 years .
i fared better because i ve been a contractor my whole life .
disney was my first real job as an employee .
but i had a friend who passed away after the situation .
and i had another friend who was hospitalized with a heart condition .
i truly believe it was from the stressful situation that we were all in .
it was a family the people i worked with it was an extended family .
and it got torn part .
and not only for the people who left .
people were devastated you took a well-running machine and you just busted it up .
we were afraid to come forward we didn t want them to hoard anything against us , moore said of why so many of ex-disney employees remained silent.moore s senator , marco rubio , has pushed to expand h-1b visas despite the fact that scores of his own constituents had just been displaced by the program.in 2015 rubio introduced a bill to triple the number of h-1b visas .
this bill known as the i-squared bill was endorsed by disney ceo bob iger via his immigration lobbying firm .
disney is also one of sen. rubio s biggest financial boosters having donated more than $ 2 million according to open secrets.while rubio has pushed legislation that would help companies like disney to bring in more even more h-1b foreign replacement , trump has called on disney to hire back all of its american employees .
in october , trump declared , i am calling today on disney to hire back every one of the workers they replaced , and i am calling on rubio to immediately rescind his sponsorship of the i-squared bill and apologize to every floridian for endorsing it .
i am further calling on rubio to return the money he has received from silicon valley ceos and to donate the money to a charity helping unemployed americans whose jobs rubio has helped to destroy .
while trump has made clear that he will champion the interests of american workers , marco rubio has never reached out to us , moore explained .
i do believe that politicians will always side with who pays them directly or indirectly , moore said of rubio s financial ties to disney .
i also believe they will say and do whatever it takes because they re not being held accountable .
there s always an out for them because that is what the american people have said politicians can do .
during the exclusive interview , moore recalled the events that led her to eventually call sara blackwell and begin her involvement in the lawsuit.moore said that when disney originally gathered the american employees together : we thought we were having a party .
we did fantastic work .
we were excited .
we thought it was going to be a party , but then when we went down the hallways .
we realized it wasn t a party but a meeting , suddenly we all knew that something good was not about to happen .
it was that quick suddenly there was an ominous atmosphere nobody they brought in was better than anybody they let go .
every one they brought in were as we would describe completely green , they were like interns , fresh out of nowhere [ when they originally let me go ] , i was offered a position it was a contract position for six months i had a start date , i was entered in to the hr system , etc .
but two days before i was supposed to come in to start , hr called and said , you can t come in because executives are reviewing your position .
four weeks later after not hearing from them i called sara [ blackwell , the attorney for american workers in the lawsuit against disney ] .
moore said that she is grateful for trump s firm position on immigration : i m not prejudiced .
i have lots of diversity in my friend group , but i don t think you can come into my country , take my resources and not only be granted to stay here but tohave the red carpet rolled out for you by my politicians what s bad is that because we have become this politically correct nation , if you say anything you sound like you re prejudiced .
to me , trump has done a really good job because it is so very easy to pull that you re prejudiced card , and that is not what this is about .
it has to do with our economic resources and whether americans get to benefit from them .
i usually just vote republican because i m a republican , moore said .
i don t usually pay attention to politicians because they say whatever they need to say .
i usually don t hold many politicians to what they say because they just say what people want to hear , but with a business person they don t play that political game .
it makes you listen .
they re used to being held accountable they re used to having to prove themselves and perform .
via : breitbart news