paris ( reuters ) - cambodia s prime minister hun sen will be driven from power like president mugabe in zimbabwe , veteran opposition chief sam rainsy told reuters on thursday , adding that western states should impose targeted sanctions after his party was dissolved .
the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) was banned at the government s request last week , deepening hun sen s fight with western donors who accuse him of demolishing democracy in the country he has ruled for over 32 years .
rainsy resigned in february from the party , saying he feared it would be banned if he did not .
defamation convictions that he calls politically motivated drove him to flee cambodia for france in 2015 .
cambodia is at a tipping point .
the people are fed up with hun sen and what is happening in zimbabwe is inspiring , rainsy told reuters in an interview .
mugabe has fallen and it will soon be the turn of hun sen , who has become unacceptably anachronistic .
mugabe , who had led zimbabwe from independence in 1980 , stepped down on tuesday after the army seized power and the ruling party turned against him .
hun sen s government called for the cnrp ban after arresting its leader kem sokha on sept. 3 .
it charged him with treason for an alleged plot to take over the southeast asian country with the help of the united states .
his opponents say the charges were intended to eliminate kem sokha from next year s election so the strongman , who is currently the world s longest serving prime minister , can extend his rule .
rainsy , who announced his return to politics on nov. 15 , described the party ban as just on paper .
he said the opposition needed to demonstrate that it continued to garner strong support after winning some 3 million votes in the 2013 elections , and push cambodia s main western donors to shy away from the phnom penh government .
what is important is to show hun sen that what he did was unacceptable .
the world is not going to do business as usual with this government ... and needs to tell him it would never recognize a government that came out of these elections , he said .
according to a recording leaked online on thursday , hun sen has warned his party it could still lose the vote even after the cnrp was banned , and he demanded that it improve its image .
western countries have condemned the government s crackdown on the opposition , civil rights groups and independent media and have called for the release of kem sokha to allow credible elections .
washington has said it is cutting planned aid for holding elections and will take further steps .
france , which ruled the country for almost a century before its 1953 independence , on thursday said the government needed to abide by a democratic process .
hun sen , a former commander in the ultra-leftist khmer rouge led by pol pot which is blamed for the deaths of around two million people in the 1970s , has brushed off western criticism , and warned that trade sanctions will hurt the people first .
rainsy said the u.s. and european union should initially withdraw all assistance for the elections and impose targeted sanctions ranging from visa bans to asset freezes .
he stopped short of calling for economic sanctions , saying that this could be used further down the line .
we need personal sanctions that target individuals so that it won t hurt the people , but ( hurt ) the leaders who have hidden their ill-amassed fortunes abroad .
they react when their personal interests are hurt , he said .
when asked about hun sen increasingly turning to china , cambodia s biggest donor , rainsy said he believed the relationship would eventually unravel .
china looks beyond hun sen. no government is stupid enough to continue to bet on him .
what is happening in cambodia now is reminiscent of the khmer rouge era .
pol pot was isolated from the world and relied on china , but ... when it didn t need him it threw him out .