the flag ruffled an otherwise-peaceful event friday , when hundreds of locals descended upon the open space for the love trumps hate rally .
marshall collins jr. , of traverse city , raised a fist in the air as the truck circled the event.collins , who is black , later confronted the white man who drove the truck , parked it in a restricted zone and sipped a bud light while a crowd grew around the vehicle .
he said the man denied the flag s history is steeped in racism and division .
it means a lot to people like me , collins said .
it means hatred .
a photograph from the incident circulated on social media following the confrontation .
police chief jeff o brien on saturday confirmed the man depicted was officer michael peters , a 18-year veteran with the department .
he said a sergeant will conduct an internal investigation starting monday .
that s not what the traverse city police department represents , o brien said .
we are to provide protection for everybody .
the confederate flag is not something we consider an oath of office .
we take an oath of office to the constitution , not the confederacy .
i personally feel that flag stands for hate and hatred .
peters couldn t be reached for comment.a woman arrived with peters .
another man ryan salisbury , a former grand traverse county sheriff s deputy held an anti-hillary clinton sign nearby .
local businessman andy mcfarlane , who confronted the trio along with collins , said he attended the rally because he felt trump used racist and sexist rhetoric.the confederate flag only supports bigoted stances , he said .
the reason i have such a powerful reaction is it s a symbol for the denial of those rights for a portion of the population , mcfarlane said.collins grew up splitting his time between northport and florida .
he said the flag-emblazoned trucks like peters were a frightening sight from his days in the south .
those vehicles forced collins and his sister into bushes and under beds for fear of prowling ku klux klan members.he spoke about those experiences to a crowd of rallygoers .
( peters ) had the nerve to tell me that i had no experience with the flag , collins said.salisbury denied he saw peters or participated in a protest with him , although the two parked next to each other and could be seen together .
he said he arrived to stand up for a fair election and because he felt it insenstive to hold such a rally on veterans day .
i think that as a americans we have a right to demonstrate peacefully , he said.salisbury said the confederate flag is not a symbol of racism.peters stayed for about 10 minutes before they finished their beers and drove off .
rumors circulated among protesters that peters was a local law enforcement officer , but collins didn t know for sure until saturday.collins said he didn t feel safe knowing someone who is supposed to protect his rights would fly that flag .
he said o brien s condemnation hit the nail on the head .
i hope they hold ( peters ) accountable , he said .
he needs to be held accountable .
o brien said his officers have a constitutional right to free speech , but also a code of conduct and other internal policies .
he said a sergeant on monday will look into whether peters violated those rules , as well as local prohibitions on where people can openly drink alcohol .
we ll do an internal investigation and see if any policy was violated , he said.traverse city police officials recently shifted toward a community policing model in which officers are encouraged to develop local ties to the community .
o brien said peters apparent behavior didn t represent the department .
we re trying harder to build relationships in the community , o brien said.via : record eagle