beirut ( reuters ) - hundreds of civilians left a besieged islamic state enclave in central syria after the syrian government and islamic state reached an evacuation deal , the syrian observatory for human rights said on friday .
the syrian army could not be reached for comment but a syrian military source quoted on state media later said that the army and its allies had captured several areas in the enclave .
an insurgent source in northwestern syria said the civilians - mostly shepherds - from the enclave , straddling the border between hama and homs provinces , had arrived in rebel-held idlib province .
the syrian army - supported by russian air power and iranian-backed militias - isolated the pocket , islamic state s last presence in central syria , in august during its eastward drive against the jihadists .
the military source said the army had captured the areas of mazin al-baqr , al-mushirfa al-shomalia , rasm al-tawil and jawra al-nazal , .
the observatory reported that the government and islamic state had finalised the deal on thursday , allowing islamic state fighters , their families and civilians to leave the pocket and cross government areas into areas held by islamist groups .
some crossed to areas held by tahrir al-sham , a jihadist alliance that includes the former nusra front group , in northern hama and eastern idlib provinces , it said .
others moved to camps set up west of the enclave in government-held areas in accordance with tribal deals , the british-based monitor said .
last week , jihadists launched an offensive against government-held parts of northern hama province , advancing south from rebel-held idlib .
the syrian government has responded with strikes on rebel-held positions .
russia , iran and turkey had previously struck a tripartite deal to deploy an observer force on the edge of a designated de-escalation zone in idlib .
the islamist militants who hold sway in idlib rejected the diplomatic effort .
the syrian army s main focus has been its offensive against islamic state in the east of the country , where the islamist group is also facing an offensive by the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces .