trigger warning if liberal schools and badass campus cops offend you , this video may cause a spike in your blood pressure two university of south alabama students were confronted by campus police wednesday , and one student was cited for causing alarm by wearing an empty holster .
this week is the empty holster protest for students for concealed carry in alabama to demonstrate that students are defenseless on campus , d.j .
parten , president of students for concealed carry , told campus reform .
along with fellow club member kenneth tews , parten was also promoting an upcoming screening of the movie can we take a joke ?
when three campus police officers approached their table demanding identification.video footage , obtained by campus reform , shows one of the police officers asking to search the students , and when they exercise their right to refuse , another officer becoming aggravated and warning that he will find something to charge them with if they remain uncooperative a threat that is eventually carried out against parten.the school s website states that all weapons are prohibited in university housing buildings , parking lots , and on university property adding that this includes , but is not limited to , bullets , ball bearing bullets , bullet balls , pellets , firearms , guns , knives , paintball guns , air guns , hunting bows , archery bows , swords , martial arts weapons , and replicas of such weapons .
toy and water guns are prohibited .
parton protested that nothing in the policy even implies that he is not allowed to wear the empty holster , particularly since he was doing it as a way of drawing attention to the school s no-gun policy , but made no headway with the intractable officer , who insisted that the empty holster represented a potential safety hazard because it implied the existence of a firearm whose whereabouts he could not ascertain .
is this just because i have a holster on me ?
parten asks the officer after turning over his identification .
yeah , it is , because somebody called it in , the officer replies matter-of-factly .
you know there s a no-weapons policy out here , but still you want to push it .
uh this is a protest , parten submits after a short pause , evidently caught off-guard by the notion that an empty holster might violate the policy .
did you get permission to wear it ?
the officer queries him .
i don t need permission to wear it , parten replies confidently .
you need permission from the university .
to wear a holster ?
he asks with undisguised incredulity.standing his rhetorical ground , the officer simply shrugs off the challenge and says , there s a no-weapons policy here .
it s not a weapon .
i understand that , the officer concedes .
take it up with dean of students , then , because y all are gon na be written up for disciplinary [ sic ] , and i will put in there your attitude , you understand ?
assuming a more confrontational demeanor , the officer then turns to parten and states , so i m gon na ask you one more time : where s the weapon ?
i don t have it , parten tells him .
it s at home .
later in the video , though , the first officer calls parten over after the others have stepped away and acknowledges that neither of the students had technically done anything wrong , then requests for your safety as well as mine that they be more compliant in the future when officers respond to reports of a possible weapon .
what you re doing is not against the rules or the law , he explains , but when we get a call thinking somebody might have a gun , you have to be polite and cooperative , because if you start being difficult , [ it looks like ] you re carrying something .
your friend here had his hands in pockets , and he kind of laughed when i asked him to take them out , but he forgot that he put this little folding knife that has a clip on the outside in his pocket .
parton and tews counter that , at least with respect to the holsters ( which were the reason the officers were called , in the first place ) , they were engaged in a public display that was explicitly billed as an empty holster protest .
via : campus reform