according to an associated press source , michael flynn is going to decline to honor the senate intelligence committee subpoena and refuse to testify at wednesday s hearing .
flynn was asked to appear before the committee , and to produce documents detailing all of his conversations with russia .
instead , he will send a letter to the committee today informing them of his plans to refuse to testify.washington ( ap ) ap source : michael flynn to decline senate intel committee subpoena , invoke 5th amendment later today .
zeke miller ( @ zekejmiller ) may 22 , 2017in addition to the senate intelligence committee , flynn is also the subject of a federal grand jury which has issued subpoenas to his close associates earlier this month.even though flynn will refuse to talk , the evidence against him is mounting .
flynn registered as an agent of a foreign country after his firing , which indicates that he s taken money from overseas in return for lobbying .
flynn was also caught lying about his connections with russia to the vice president , which apparently caused him to be fired after 18 days of deliberation.documents showing communication with russia , as well as flynn s first-hand testimony of what happened behind the scenes , would be an enormous help to senate investigation.flynn will definitely be the first trump pardon .
christopher hayes ( @ chrislhayes ) may 16 , 2017but it appears likely that michael flynn is prepared to keep his mouth shut in order to protect his former boss , donald trump .
there is little downside for flynn in any case .
under the law , he can not be charged for refusing to testify against himself .
the rules regarding flynn s unwillingness to provide documentation that may incriminate him are similar , so he is unlikely to face additional prosecution .
like any decent criminal , michael flynn is clinging to the fifth amendment .
no need to incriminate yourself .
the evidence will do it for you aiden wolfe ( @ aidenwolfe ) may 22 , 2017in april , flynn s lawyers put the word out on twitter that nothing would secure his cooperation except for full immunity .
but that may not be necessary to build a case against the administration.despite his persistent refusal to produce the requested documents or testify in his own defense , prosecutors reportedly feel pretty good about their chances of getting flynn to open up .
the federal grand jury probe is in the process of producing evidence that will make flynn s testimony unnecessary .
trump 2016 : pleading the fifth amendment makes you look guilty.flynn 2017 : i plead the 5th vinay a. ramesh ( @ vinaytion ) may 22 , 2017off the record , investigators think that they can get flynn to crack and tell everything he knows once he s faced with evidence of his wrongdoing .
photo by win mcnamee via getty images .