mexico city ( reuters ) - spending cuts and a failure by mexico s president to upgrade an earthquake alert system hurt life-saving prevention programs and amplified recovery costs after two major temblors this month , current and former government officials said .
although president enrique pena nieto is eager to show a prompt and competent response to the earthquakes , which killed more than 430 people , the budget of recovery agencies is threadbare due to cost-cutting by his administration .
pena nieto , an unpopular centrist struggling to get a successor from his party or an ally elected president next july , on wednesday acknowledged the problem , urging lawmakers to boost funding in the 2018 budget .
the reconstruction needs more resources , he said .
the government has slashed disaster budgets by as much as 50 percent in recent years , part of a broader cost-cutting effort to make up for shortfalls caused by a drop in oil revenues , which finance about 20 percent of mexico s federal budget .
the 2017 budget alone reduced funding for mexico s various disaster and civil protection efforts by 25 percent , from about 8.6 billion pesos ( $ 475 million ) in 2016 to 6.4 billion pesos .
in a statement , pena nieto s office defended its performance and said cutbacks could not be attributed solely to the presidency .
while the executive branch proposes the budget , the spending plan is ultimately approved by congress .
despite the budget restrictions , the civil protection system has strengthened in recent years , the president s office said in a statement .
the cuts last year prompted lawmakers to warn in a report that the state is relinquishing its responsibilities to its population , given inevitable and unknowable disaster risks .
now , after the two big quakes , and damage from hurricanes before that , mexico is hard-pressed to find ways to rebuild .
the reconstruction fund has zero pesos , luis felipe puente , the government s emergency services chief , said in an interview .
the president s office said funding had not hindered the start of reconstruction , saying insurance and a disaster bond augmented federal coffers .
for those who work in readiness efforts , however , the current problem is a clear example of what happens when governments skimp on prevention measures , from risk assessments to early warning systems for quakes , volcanic activity and other disasters .
according to the united nations , every dollar spent on preparedness saves about seven dollars in response .
in 2014 , mexico s federal auditor chastised the government for spending more on reconstruction than on preparing for disasters .
we should be investing more in prevention , said enrique guevara , a former head of mexico s national center for disaster prevention , or cenapred .
firstly because you save lives , and secondly you save money .
at cenapred , founded in the wake of a massive 1985 quake that killed thousands , expenditure fell by 20 percent between 2012 and 2016 , hurting the upkeep of a national risk atlas and lowering morale at the institution , according to a senior official there who requested anonymity to speak frankly .
the government also slashed 2017 budgets for two government funds that finance disaster efforts , official data shows .
this year s budget for fopreden , a fund for the prevention of natural disasters , was cut by 50 percent .
fonden , a larger fund for disaster relief , lost a quarter of its budget , according to the government spending plan .
in addition to reducing funds for the federal government s own efforts , the president has turned down or ignored financing requests at another program officials said could help lower disaster tolls .
unlike the previous administration of former president felipe calderon , pena nieto has not invested in a widely praised earthquake alert system credited with saving lives since it was implemented in mexico city in 1989 .
the system , the center for seismic instrumentation and registry , detects many quakes across the country , sounding a warning that gives the 20 million residents of greater mexico city crucial time to evacuate buildings before some tremors arrive .
funded mostly by the city government , and currently operating on less than 30 million pesos per year , the system needs more monitors to detect even more temblors , like the 7.1 quake on sept. 19 .
better detection , the system s director said , could have given mexico city residents up to 5 seconds more warning that day .
as it happened , many locals said they heard the alarm only once the ground began shaking .
but repeated requests to pena nieto and various federal agencies for additional funding in recent years were met with olympic silence , said juan manuel espinosa , the director .
in its statement , the president s office said the federal government had no obligation to fund the alarm system .
it noted a shortfall in past financing for the system by the state of oaxaca , which is a contractual partner with the mexico city government in its financing .
for pena nieto and his institutional revolutionary party , or pri , the cutbacks could create problems at the ballot box , especially among a mexican electorate that is increasingly ready for change after years of corruption and drug violence .
although pena nieto can not stand for reelection , the pri ranks third in current projections for the july vote .
meanwhile , rivals like leftist frontrunner and former mexico city mayor andres manuel lopez obrador are poised to take advantage of any missteps .
whoever gets this wrong will feel the effects in the election , said gustavo mohar , a former mexican intelligence official who now runs a strategic risk consultancy .
for the recovery to succeed , the government must find additional sources of financing .
estimates of the cost range from about $ 2 billion , according to the government , to as much as $ 4 billion , a calculation by investment bank nomura .
puente , the emergency services chief , said the finance ministry may receive funding from catastrophe bonds , issued by the world bank in august , that could provide mexico with up to $ 360 million in protection from certain quakes and storms .
but aside from housing the homeless and rebuilding , the government must also ensure it spends disaster funds wisely and transparently - a notoriously tricky task , particularly for an administration that many mexicans consider corrupt .
in the hard-hit capital , where at least 206 people died , volunteers helping with recovery work this week said they distrust the government s ability to provide effective relief .
there is no money for anything , said beatriz navarrete , a 21-year-old medical student manning a donations tent .
if the government was really spending money , we wouldn t be here , begging for medicine .