the rainbows and unicorn crowd decided they just had to complain about a gun manufacturer s ad being in the columbia , sc airport .
fn manufacturing s ad made travelers upset so it was taken down .
total bs ! columbia metropolitan airport has removed a billboard-sized advertisement of a firearms manufacturer from its concourse.the decision comes a day after the state newspaper reported the ad , featuring eight firearms from fn manufacturing , upset some travelers .
it touted , yeah , we carry .
i pulled in the commission , and really , they felt that given the negative feedback that it d probably be better to bring it down , said dan mann , executive director of the airport.the richland-lexington airport district approves all advertisements , including their text , content and graphics , according to the terms and conditions of their advertisement agreements.two other displays for fn will remain up : a different billboard and a promotional video at the escalators.columbia mayor steve benjamin , who spotted the ad while at the airport friday morning , said the banner with the multiple firearms wasn t appropriate given its location .
it was the wrong ad in the wrong place at the wrong time , benjamin said .
i could easily see why anyone , including gun owners , which i am , would be seriously alarmed .
benjamin stressed the city has a good relationship with fn manufacturing , which has supplied columbia police department s firearms in the past .
he said fn is a good company .
s.c .
poet nikky finney echoed benjamin s sentiment concerning the location in which the banner was displayed given the tenor and the times we live in .
i m trying to say that anything that goes up that looks like that and has that kind of attitude should be decided upon by a committee of people that understand that the young man that went to a church , pulled a trigger and took nine lives came from columbia , said finney , referencing the killing of nine worshipers at emanuel ame in charleston allegedly at the hands of dylann roof in june 2015.via : the state