istanbul ( reuters ) - u.s. vice president joe biden said on friday that turkey , once vaunted by washington as a model of islamic democracy , was setting a poor example for the region in intimidating media , curtailing internet freedom and accusing academics of treason .
on a two-day visit to the nato ally , part of the u.s.-led alliance against islamic state in neighbouring syria and iraq , biden said the strength of turkey ’ s democracy had a direct impact on its ties with the united states .
turkey is a vital partner for both washington and europe in efforts to combat islamic state , end syria ’ s civil war , and curb the flow of migrants and refugees .
opponents of the government have accused the west in the past of pulling its punches over the country ’ s human rights record as a result .
“ the more turkey succeeds , the stronger the message sent to the entire middle east and parts of the world who are only beginning to grapple with the notion of freedom , ” biden said , flanked by members of turkish civil society groups .
“ but when the media are intimidated or imprisoned for critical reporting , when internet freedom is curtailed and social media sites ... are shut down and more than 1,000 academics are accused of treason simply by signing a petition , that ’ s not the kind of example that needs to be set , ” he told reporters .
turkey was cited by washington as an example for the middle east of a functioning islamic democracy in the early years of then prime minister tayyip erdogan ’ s rule .
more recently , reforms have faltered and erdogan , now president , has demonstrated a more authoritarian style .
last week , he denounced as “ dark , nefarious and brutal ” more than 1,000 signatories , including u.s. academic noam chomsky , of a declaration that criticised turkish military action in the largely kurdish southeast .
security forces briefly detained 27 academics on accusations of terrorist propaganda .
dozens face investigation by their universities .
biden met members of the turkish parliament from the ruling ak party , the secularist opposition chp and the pro-kurdish hdp , largely to discuss the southeast .
biden , who laid roses at the site of a suicide bombing blamed on islamic state that killed 10 german tourists last week , will meet erdogan and prime minister ahmet davutoglu on saturday .
talks are expected to focus on syrian border security and the role of syrian kurdish fighters , backed by washington in the campaign against islamic state .
turkey fears their advances will fuel separatist sentiment among its own kurds .
turkish media reports said biden also met the wife and son of jailed journalist can dundar , editor-in-chief of the secularist cumhuriyet newspaper , arrested in november over the publication of footage purporting to show the state intelligence agency helping send weapons to syria .
he also met prominent journalists fired over the past year following critical coverage of erdogan and the government .
the government says journalists are held for promoting terrorism or for anti-state activities , not their journalism .
it denies intimidating media bosses , many of whose parent companies hold lucrative government contracts in other areas of industry .
“ if you do not have the ability to express your own opinion , to criticise policy , offer competing ideas without fear of intimidation or retribution , then your country is being robbed of opportunity , ” biden said .