tunis ( reuters ) - the united nations began a new push on tuesday to stabilize libya by getting rival factions to revise the stalled peace plan and set the country on the path to elections .
the effort aims to end the turmoil that developed in libya after the 2011 nato-backed uprising ended muammar gaddafi s 42-year rule , giving space to islamist militants and smuggling networks that have sent hundreds of thousands of migrants to europe .
political and military fractures have left the country mired in conflict and the opec member s economy in freefall .
rival parliaments and governments have vied for power .
last week , u.n. envoy ghassan salame announced a one-year action plan for a transition toward presidential and parliamentary elections .
the plan got underway on tuesday with negotiations between delegations from rival parliaments from eastern libya and tripoli , which are meant to draw up amendments to a previous u.n.-mediated plan signed in december 2015 .
as the delegations convened in tunis , salame said he hoped the amendments could be agreed rapidly and that he sensed a window of opportunity for reconciliation .
all libyans are fed up .
they are going from transition to transition with no horizon , he said .
we have sleeping institutions that need to be awoken , divided institutions that need to be united , and hijacked institutions that need to be rebuilt .
the 2015 deal has only had limited support from power-brokers and was never endorsed by factions aligned with military commander khalifa haftar that control eastern libya .
haftar , who has been courted by western states after making military gains , was in rome on tuesday where he met defence minister roberta pinotti and italy s highest ranking military officer , claudio graziano .
pinotti expressed hope that all parties would support salame s inclusive political strategy ... excluding any military solution , according to a defense ministry statement .
italy and other western states have tried to work with the u.n.-backed government of national accord ( gna ) in tripoli , but it has been hamstrung by internal splits and has been unable to halt a slide in living standards or tame the power of armed groups .
we re here to move the political process forward for the sake of the country s stability , said moussa faraj , head of the delegation from the high council of state in tripoli , according to a tweet from the united nations from the tunis meeting which got closed to the press after salame s speech .
under the new u.n. plan , once amendments have been agreed a national conference drawing on a much larger number of representatives from across libya is meant to approve the members of a transitional government that would run the country until elections .
the eastern parliament , or house of representatives ( hor ) , is expected to devise laws for national elections and for a referendum to approve a much-delayed constitution .
the chamber has barely functioned over the past two years and has been boycotted by a large number of its members .
our task is difficult , said abdusalam nasia , head of the hor delegation , according to the united nations .
i call on all to leave personal interests behind and focus on common interests .