gaza ( reuters ) - prime minister rami al-hamdallah chaired the first meeting of the palestinian cabinet in the gaza strip for three years on tuesday , in a move toward reconciliation between the mainstream fatah party and islamist group hamas .
hamas seized gaza in 2007 in fighting with fatah forces loyal to president mahmoud abbas and has ruled the impoverished desert enclave of two million people since .
the cabinet session was the first in gaza since 2014 , hamdallah told ministers , and a major step in a reconciliation process promoted by neighboring egypt and other u.s.-allied arab countries .
today , we stand before an important historical moment as we begin to get over our wounds , put our differences aside and place the higher national interest above all else , hamdallah said .
hamas chief ismail haniyeh echoed the optimism , saying : there might be some difficulties on the road , but we will conclude reconciliation , regardless of the cost .
israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu warned the palestinians against engaging in bogus reconciliations and he referred to iranian funding for hamas , which has fought three wars with israel since 2008 .
in a statement , netanyahu said any palestinian administration should recognize the state of israel , disband the hamas military arm , ( and ) sever the connection with iran .
hamas , considered a terrorist group by israel and the west , last month disbanded its gaza shadow government after egypt , saudi arabia and the united arab emirates clamped an economic boycott on its main donor , qatar .
but while hamas has handed over administrative responsibilities to a unity government originally formed three years ago , its armed wing remains the dominant force in gaza .
a first sign of discontent surfaced on tuesday with hamas criticizing abbas s decision to await the outcome of talks fatah plans to hold with the group on oct. 10 before lifting sanctions he has imposed on gaza .
the government has assumed its responsibilities in gaza and therefore delay is not justified , hamas spokesman fawzi barhoum said .
there is no excuse for delaying or undermining measures that would ease the suffering of gaza s people .
abbas halted payments for israeli-supplied electricity to the enclave in june , a step that has led to long daily blackouts , and cut salaries for gaza civil servants .
abbas told egyptian tv station cbc on monday there could be only one state , one regime , one law and one weapon in gaza , reiterating a long-held position that security should be in the hands of only the palestinian authority ( pa ) , which he heads , and that the pa must control border crossing points .
in a pre-recorded address to the palestinian cabinet , egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi urged unity .
i assure you we have no time to waste , and that history will hold accountable those who waste the current opportunity to bring about peace , sisi said .
both israel and egypt - whose intelligence chief arrived in gaza to meet hamas leaders , hamdallah and officials from other palestinian factions - maintain a partial blockade of gaza , citing security concerns .
israeli-palestinian talks have been frozen since 2014 over issues such as fatah-hamas reconciliation and israeli settlement-building in occupied territory .
visiting the jewish settlement of maale adumim in the occupied west bank on tuesday , netanyahu said thousands of housing units would be added to the community of 40,000 people near jerusalem .
he gave no timeframe .
israel has built about 120 settlements in the west bank .
about 350,000 settlers live there and a further 200,000 in east jerusalem , among about 2.6 million palestinians .
most countries consider the settlements illegal and an obstacle to peace as they take up territory palestinians need for a viable state .
israel disagrees , citing biblical , historical and political connections to the land and security interests .