religious rights in obama s america don t apply to christians or jews they only apply to muslims.the equal employment opportunity commission won $ 240,000 in damages for two muslim truck drivers after it sued their former employer for religious discrimination for firing the drivers for refusing to make beer deliveries.the eeoc said that star transport inc. , a trucking company based in morton , ill. , violated their religious rights by refusing to accommodate their objections to delivering alcoholic beverages .
eeoc is proud to support the rights of workers to equal treatment in the workplace without having to sacrifice their religious beliefs or practices , eeoc general counsel david lopez announced thursday .
this is fundamental to the american principles of religious freedom and tolerance .
the case involved star transport s firing of drivers mahad abass mohamed and abdkiarim hassan bulshale , both of somali heritage , in 2009 after they refused to make beer deliveries for the company , citing their adherence to islamic law .
for devout muslims , consuming or even being in contact with any alcoholic beverage is prohibited.the eeoc argued that the company could have easily reassigned the drivers but did not and sued it for religious discrimination .
star transport admitted liability in march .
the jury awarded mohamed and bulshale $ 20,000 each in compensatory damages and $ 100,000 each in punitive damages .
the judge awarded each about $ 1,500 in back pay .
via : washington examinerthe catholic nuns beliefs are being violated by forcing them to pay for contraception and drugs that may cause abortions : a catholic religious order , the little sisters of the poor , has filed a lawsuit against the obama administration asking the courts to protect them from being forced to comply with the hhs abortion mandate .
the mandate compels religious groups to pay for birth control and drugs that may cause abortions.yesterday , the becket fund for religious liberty filed a lawsuit on behalf of the little sisters of the poor , a religious order of sisters dedicated to caring for the elderly poor .
without relief , the little sisters face millions of dollars in irs fines because they can not comply with the government s mandate that they give their employees free access to contraception , sterilization , and abortion-inducing drugs.the christian couple who owned sweet cakes by melissa was forced to pay $ 135,000 after refusing to bake a cake for a lesbian couple , as they explained it would violate their christian beliefs.a complaint against sweet cakes by melissa was filed after the owners , aaron and melissa klein , turned away a lesbian couple who requested a wedding cake in 2013.the state ruled that the owners were discriminating against the couple based on their sexual orientation.fox news reported that the state has now ordered the kleins to pay $ 135,000 in damages to the lesbian couple and issued a gag order , which bans them from speaking publicly about their refusal to participate in or bake wedding cakes for same-sex unions .
the couple told sean hannity tonight that they think the state of oregon has violated their first amendment rights.christian city clerk is jailed for refusing to issue marriage licenses to same sex couples : kim davis , rowan county , ky city clerk refused to issue marriage licenses to gay couples .
the judge determined davis should be held in contempt and felt that a fine was not a harsh enough punishment for her .
she was jailed on september 3 and spent 5 days in jail.under the threat of more jail time , rowan county ( ky. ) clerk kim davis remained out of sight monday as one of her deputy clerks issued a marriage licence to yet another lesbian couple , drawing heckles from some anti-gay protesters who questioned davis decision to not interfere.shannon and carmen wampler-collins were the first couple to obtain a license since davis returned to work after her high-profile release from the carter county detention center last week .
davis has been at the center of the dispute about gay marriage and religious liberty.davis said earlier in the day that , while she still refuses to authorize marriage licenses , she will not stand in the way of a deputy clerk who began providing them more than a week ago .
the clerk had been jailed for six days on a contempt of court charge .