winston-salem , n.c. ( reuters ) - minority voters in north carolina will have a harder time casting a ballot this presidential election year if a judge allows a law requiring photo identification at the polls to take effect , challengers of the law said in federal court on monday .
but a lawyer representing the state said only a small number of people may not have the necessary forms of identification and exceptions will be allowed under an amended version of the measure .
“ it ’ s a policy question , ” lawyer thomas farr said .
“ the evidence here does not rise anywhere close to showing a discriminatory intent. ” the trial in winston-salem is one of several closely watched voting rights battles that will play out across the country as democrats and republicans fight for the white house in november .
democrats argue voter id laws passed by republican-led state legislatures target voters who typically support the democratic party .
proponents of the measures say they are intended to prevent voter fraud .
the case in north carolina tests a key piece of broad voting restrictions passed soon after the u.s. supreme court ruled in 2013 that states with a history of discrimination no longer needed federal approval for voting law changes affecting minorities .
the u.s. justice department and national association for the advancement of colored people argue north carolina ’ s revised voting protocol disproportionately burdens african-americans and hispanics , who are more likely than whites to lack the acceptable forms of identification .
the law “ threatens to deter , confuse and disenfranchise voters , ” said michael glick , a lawyer representing the naacp .
“ it sets out to solve a problem that never existed. ” last summer , u.s. district judge thomas schroeder heard arguments about the state ’ s decision to shorten its early voting period , end same-day registration , eliminate pre-registration for 16- and 17-year-olds and stop provisional ballots cast outside the correct precinct from being counted .
he has not issued a decision .
the voter id requirement is getting a separate vetting after lawmakers amended it in 2015 ahead of the initial trial .
now voters who cite a “ reasonable impediment ” to being able to obtain acceptable identification will be allowed to cast a provisional ballot .
south carolina is the only other state with a reasonable impediment provision , farr said .
challengers said the law remains discriminatory and could give election workers too much discretion .
it is unknown if schroeder will rule before the state ’ s presidential primaries in march .