did target really believe that 99.8 % of americans were going to be silent in the face of a decision that puts the safety of our women and children in jeopardy in order to satisfy the desire of a percentage of the .2 % of americans who consider themselves to be transgender ?
i cancelled my debit card with target and lodged a complaint with their headquarters in minneapolis .
i would urge anyone who reads this to do the same .
here is the number to their corporate office : i called 612-304-6073 to cancel my # target debit card.stand up to companies who put political ideology before customers # targetmissedthemark 100 % fed up !
( @ 100percfedup ) april 25 , 2016more than 1,000,000 people have signed the boycott pledge against target , following the secretive decision by executives to open all of their stores bathrooms and changing rooms to people of both sexes .
that s a million families who are going to spread the word about target , so they may not get those customers back , or their money , said tim wildmon , president of the american family association , which has hosted the boycott.here is the link to sign the afa petition to boycott target : https : //www.afa.net/action-alerts/sign-the-boycott-target-pledge/just reached 1 million signatures !
# boycotttarget pic.twitter.com/v8szc0httr american family assc ( @ americanfamassc ) april 29 , 2016target s management is just going to have step up here [ and ] say we re selling hammers and hats , we re not into social engineering , he said.the boycott was announced april 20 by the association , one day after target revealed its decision to favor its few transgender customers and staff over the rest of the population .
a study of the 2010 census data suggests that only about 1 in 2,400 adults change their names to match names used by the other sex. # boycotttarget who discriminates against 99.8 % of non-transgender americans who want safe restrooms 4 women & girls .
pic.twitter.com/ukwuvtfczj 100 % fed up !
( @ 100percfedup ) april 29 , 2016wildmon s association wants to affirm people s privacy in bathrooms and changing rooms , but also to block the progressives multi-front push to stigmatize and outlaw any recognition of the average differences between women and men , and between boys and girls .
the lgbt agenda is being rammed down people s throats , and people are losing their jobs because of it , and it is becoming so that you can t think differently from these people or you re [ called ] a hater or a bigot , he said.since the decision was announced , numerous comments , articles , and videos protesting the store s one-sided decision have gone viral .
public opinion has moved and hardened in opposition to the previously bizarre notion of dual-sex bathrooms and changing rooms , and target s brand as a family friendly store has taken a hit , as the online conversation shifted from its claim of cheap chic to worries of privacy , sexual predators , and the anger at the company s disregard for the reasoned judgement of its middle-class customers.target , however , is not responding to customers opposition .
we certainly respect that there are a wide variety of perspectives and opinions .
as a company that firmly stands behind what it means to offer our team an inclusive place to work and our guests an inclusive place to shop we continue to believe that this is the right thing for target , company spokeswoman molly snyder said april 25.amid the turmoil , the company s stock edged down from $ 83.98 per share on april 19 to roughly $ 81.33 in april 28.that s a loss of $ 2.65 per share , which chops the company s stock market value by $ 1.5 billion , down to $ 48.8 billion.for entire story : breitbart news