pristina ( reuters ) - kosovo s prime minister called on friday for an international investigation after some of his countrymen were convicted of taking part in a gun battle with macedonian police .
the men were part of a group of ethnic albanians jailed in neighboring macedonia on thursday , some of them for life , on charges of plotting attacks and clashing with the police in a 2015 shootout .
crowds took to the streets of kosovo s capital after the sentencing , accusing the macedonian authorities of staging the attack .
protesters in the eastern kosovan town of gjilan burned the macedonian flag .
kosovan media and officials have regularly said the accused albanians were innocent and the victims of a plot by macedonia s former nationalist government - an allegation dismissed by skopje .
justice must be done , kosovo prime minister ramush haradinaj said in a statement .
an international investigation would help find the truth which we are all demanding .
he did not say who or what should carry out the inquiry .
kosovo s foreign minister , behgjet pacolli , said he had called his ambassador in skopje for consultations and asked for a clarification from the macedonian ambassador in pristina , without going into further details .
most of the defendants in thursday s hearing were from neighboring kosovo , while others were from macedonia s own albanian minority .
they all denied the charges .
the 2015 shootout occurred during a police raid that followed an attack by armed men on a border post .
some of them were former guerrillas from the national liberation army ( nla ) , an ethnic albanian militia that had fought an insurgency in 2001 in which scores of people were killed .
macedonia , a small ex-yugoslav republic of about two million people , declared independence in 1991 and mostly avoided the violence that accompanied the break up of yugoslavia in the 1990s , until the clashes with ethnic albanian fighters in 2001 .
albanians are believed to make up around 30 percent of macedonia s population , living mostly in the northwest near the borders with kosovo and albania .