ottawa ( reuters ) - an international meeting in canada on north korea in january is designed to produce better ideas to ease tensions over pyongyang s nuclear and ballistic missile tests , canadian officials said on wednesday .
a canadian source who declined to be identified said that up to 16 foreign ministers were scheduled to meet in vancouver , although north korea itself will not be invited .
canada announced the meeting on tuesday and said it would be co-hosted by the united states .
by discussing the various options out on the table , by listening to ... local wisdom of the regions and especially ( to those ) who live a bit closer to korea than we do , you can come up with some better ideas , andrew leslie , parliamentary secretary to foreign minister chrystia freeland , told reporters .
early on wednesday , north korea tested its most advanced intercontinental ballistic missile yet , putting the continental united states within range and increasing pressure on u.s. president donald trump to deal with the nuclear-armed nation .
freeland later told reporters that japan , south korea and china would be among those invited to the meeting .
it s an important step in terms of showing the unity of the international community in applying pressure on north korea , she said , sidestepping a question about whether trump might do something to upset the talks .
prime minister justin trudeau , who came to power in 2015 promising the world that canada is back , last week said he had discussed with cuban president raul castro in 2016 the possibility of working together to address the crisis .
these are the kinds of things where canada can , i think , play a role that the united states has chosen not to play , this past year , trudeau said , referring to trump s isolationist global stance .
defense experts say north korean missiles aimed at the united states could land off course in canada .
defence minister harjit sajjan told reporters canada was looking at the threat extremely seriously but declined to say what military counter measures he might be take .
we believe the diplomatic solution is the way to go - we feel there is hope for it , sajjan said .
in the meantime , canada s relations with north korea appear to be warming up slightly .
in september , a canadian diplomat said the north koreans perceive us as not an enemy and therefore potentially a friend .
canada established diplomatic relations with north korea in 2001 but suspended them in 2010 .