this will be irreversible !
call your congressman or congresswoman today and demand they stop this ! frank gaffney was on breitbart radio speaking about the impending takeover of the internet .
he was pleading for americans to call mitch mcconnell and urge him not to give up the internet don t let this happen , make sure the continuing resolution doesn t permit that.he had a great idea of bringing pressure to bear on the democrats through their presidential candidate : let s call out hillary clinton , to find out whether she supports barack obama in diminishing our country , undermining our friends and our own interests , and emboldening our enemies .
i call that the obama doctrine whether she s actually gon na stand with donald trump and say , don t give up the internet .
we need her help on this , and if she does it , i think most , if not all , of the democrats in the senate will agree , and will stop being obstructionists , will support a sound measure on this count , at least , on the continuing resolution.and again , we ve got three days to fix this , folks .
this is no drill .
this is a live-fire exercise .
we need your help , now.i think the more people understand what s going on here , the more we re gon na have the right outcome .
the challenge , as with so much of the obama agenda , as you know , alex , is trying to slip it under the radar .
keep people from figuring it out until it s done.and this is the real hook .
this will be irreversible .
once this so-called mechanism known as the numbering and naming function is permanently and irreversibly to some multinational non-profit which will , trust me , be dominated in due course , if not right away , by the russians , and the chinese , and the saudis , and so on we re not getting that back .
there s not anything a president trump is gon na be able to do about it , if he does , in fact , become president.it s three days from now .
it s october 1st , the end of the fiscal year .
it s what obama s been striving for , is to jam this thing through , while nobody s paying attention .
we can t let that happen.read more : breitbart