phnom penh ( reuters ) - with cambodia s opposition warning of the imminent death of its democracy , the historic rival who once beat prime minister hun sen in an election said there was no option but to work with the strongman .
seventy three year-old prince norodom ranariddh , hun sen s opponent in u.n.-supervised elections in 1993 , has horrified cambodia s main opposition party with a call for it to be dissolved after its leader was charged with treason .
ranariddh s career exemplifies not only the swings in cambodian politics , but also the way hun sen , 65 , has used force and cunning to neutralize enemies since defecting from the genocidal khmer rouge in the 1970s to help drive it from power .
samdech hun sen , you want or you don t want , you like him or you don t like him , he brings about this national unity , ranariddh said , using the prime minister s formal title .
according to the law you are not allowed to harm national unity , the white haired ranariddh told reuters on saturday .
beside him , four aides nodded and pressed together their palms in deferential emphasis .
ranariddh s royalist funcinpec party won no parliamentary seats in 2013 elections , but would be allocated most of those held by the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) if it is dissolved after the arrest of leader kem sokha last month .
alongside the government , funcinpec has sought a ban on the cnrp because of the arrest .
kem sokha and his party dismiss the charges against him as bogus and an attempt to extend hun sen s 32-year rule at the head of the cambodian people s party ( cpp ) amid the biggest crackdown on critics of the prime minister in years .
the prince failed his people when he had the mandate to bring real peace , said mu sochua , a deputy to kem sokha who recently fled to exile in fear of arrest .
now , he is robbing his people of their right to choose the leader of their choice by collaborating with the cpp in the dissolution of the cnrp .
ranariddh was summoned to politics from his post as a french law lecturer by his wily father , the late king norodom sihanouk .
with royalist sentiment strong , ranariddh beat hun sen in the 1993 election organized by the united nations .
but when hun sen threatened a return to war , sihanouk did a deal that sidelined his son as a co-prime minister .
ranariddh was driven into exile in 1997 after his forces were defeated by those of hun sen in bloody clashes in phnom penh .
after international pressure , ranariddh was allowed to contest elections a year after , but never again came close to winning and entered on and off alliances with hun sen .
splits in the party followed and after a spell overseas following accusations of financial scandal , ranariddh returned in 2015 .
as he speaks , he switches between english and khmer with a peppering of french .
we are not puppets , ranariddh said beside a huge portrait of his father .
we are definitely not an opposition party but we don t always , always , always say yes , yes , yes , yes , yes .
we can say no .
although the united states and other western countries helped secure ranariddh s return to cambodia in the 1990s , he dismissed their criticism of kem sokha s arrest and calls on the government to stop moves to ban the cnrp .
i , norodom ranariddh , would like them to leave us free to decide , he said .