gothenburg , sweden ( reuters ) - neutral sweden has launched its biggest war games in two decades with support from nato countries , drilling 19,000 troops after years of spending cuts that have left the country fearful of russia s growing military strength .
on the eve of russia s biggest maneuvers since 2013 , which nato says will be greater than the 13,000 troops moscow says are involved , sweden will simulate an attack from the east on the baltic island of gotland , near the swedish mainland .
the security situation has taken a turn for the worse , micael byden , the commander of the swedish armed forces , said during a presentation of the three-week-long exercise .
sweden , like the baltics , poland and much of the west , has been deeply troubled by russia s 2014 annexation of ukraine s black sea peninsula crimea and its support for rebels in eastern ukraine .
russia is the country that affects security in europe right now with its actions - the annexation of the crimea and continued battles in eastern ukraine - so it is clear that we are watching very closely what russia is doing , byden said .
around 1,500 troops from the united states , france , norway and other nato allies are taking part in the exercise dubbed aurora .
non-nato member sweden has decided to beef up its military after having let spending drop from over 2 percent of economic output in the early 1990s to around 1 percent , and is re-introducing conscription .
the armed forces , which at one point could mobilise more than 600,000 , stand at just 20,000 , with 22,000 more home guard volunteers .
nato generals say the aurora exercise is not a response to russian exercises that start on thursday .
but byden , speaking as u.s. and french forces displayed mobile surface-to-air missile systems to be deployed during the exercise , stressed the importance of nato for sweden .
we are a sovereign country that takes care of and is responsible for our safety .
we do this together with others , ready to both support and receive help , he said .
the united states shipped vehicles by sea from germany , while france brought others by train .
they are to be moved via a classified route to sweden s east coast for the exercise where u.s. attack helicopters will play the enemy during aurora .
the government is determined to stick to the country s formal neutrality .
sweden has not fought a war since it clashed with norway in 1814 .
but like its non-nato neighbor finland , sweden has been drawing closer to nato , allowing closer cooperation with alliance troops , with a view to working together in the event of an armed conflict .