russian president vladimir putin got sassy with the press when he was approached by a reporter and asked about comey : what do we have to do with it ?
i m off to play hockey with my fans putin s answer when asked how comey s firing will affect russia priceless ! hahaha # putin reacts to # comeyfiring what do we have to do with it ?
i m off to play hockey with my fans # russiainvestigation pic.twitter.com/jlee6qw8uu trump anomaly ( @ anomaly1 ) may 10 , 2017this isn t the first time putin s gotten sassy with the press : putin steals famous president bush quote in forceful denial of russian interference in u.s. electionsrussian president vladimir putin has denied interfering in the u.s. elections , and he did it by using a famous quote from a u.s. president .
watch my lips , no , putin said.the russian strongman made the claim when asked point-blank whether russia had interfered and whether any evidence to the contrary would get found.he invoked former president reagan , although the read my lips quote was actually used by his successor , george h.w .
bush , speaking at a cnbc event on arctic issues.putin said claims of russian interference were lies used for domestic american politics.all those things are fictional , illusory and provocations , lies , putin continued .
all these are used for domestic american political agendas .
the anti-russian card is played by different political forces inside the united states to trade on that and consolidate their positions inside .
then he delivered a friendly message to u.s. audiences .
we said on numerous occasions and i reiterate that we are confident and know for sure that opinion polls in the unites states show that very many people are friendly towards the russian federation and i d like to tell these people that we perceive and regard the united states as a great power with which we want to establish good partnership relations .
house speaker paul ryan said thursday in an interview with cbs news , we all knew russia was trying to meddle with our election .
and we already know right now they re trying to do it with other countries .
ryan continued : the world s super power , the american government needs to do everything we possibly can , not only to undercut what they re trying to do but to uncover what they re trying to do and help our allies prevent it from happening .
putin also said thursday he is ready to meet with trump if finland hosts an arctic summit .
finland is set to take over the rotating leadership of the arctic council.for entire story : daily mail