mexico city ( reuters ) - trapped under tons of rubble and in complete darkness , diana pacheco s hopes were fading fast for making it out alive from a collapsed office building after a huge earthquake in mexico city , despite rescuers frantic attempts to reach her .
then the trapped woman had a great stroke of luck : a series of short messages she had written and sent to her husband some 16 hours earlier lit up his phone screen .
my love the ceiling fell we re trapped i love you i love you a lot we re on the fourth floor near the emergency stairway there s four of us , read the whatsapp messages , which finally reached her husband juan jesus garcia on wednesday at 5:34 a.m. garcia , 33 , an uber driver , had been waiting , often in tears , beside the collapsed building all night and immediately ran over to rescue workers .
it was like a miracle because i was the only one who got the message and since i was there with the rescue workers i talked to them and they could locate her , said garcia .
the messages on garcia s phone , seen by reuters shortly after they were received on wednesday , could have been delayed due to erratic cell phone coverage in parts of mexico city after the quake , or the fact that pacheco s phone signal was blocked by the tons of concrete that kept her trapped in the collapsed building .
when asked whether whatsapp messages can be delivered hours after they were sent in an area without good cellphone coverage , a spokeswoman for the company confirmed it is possible .
pacheco , a recruiter for a human resources and accounting firm , said she sent the messages shortly after the 7.1 magnitude earthquake struck at 1:14 p.m. on tuesday .
those messages helped them know more or less where we were located , pacheco said on friday from her hospital bed , her voice weak .
using the information to pinpoint their location , rescuers freed pacheco , 30 , and the three other survivors shortly after 6 a.m. on wednesday .
rescue operations were still underway on friday at the building , where pacheco says there were some 60 people on her floor alone at the time of the quake .
i think there are people ( alive ) there because we had oxygen , air was coming in , she said .
despite having bruises all over her body and wearing a neck brace , pacheco was generally in good health .
she said she tried to send whatsapp and text messages to other people from under the building , as well as make phone calls and post on facebook , but only the messages to her husband got through .
she said when the building fell , the force of two floors above collapsing violently knocked her down , but a wall of concrete stopped just short of crushing her and three of her coworkers .
they found themselves huddled together in a cramped space .
they screamed out every time they heard voices from outside the building .
we heard them ( rescue workers ) when they asked us to yell or make noise , but regardless of how much we yelled they couldn t hear us , pacheco said .
the quake , mexico s deadliest in a generation , has already claimed close to 300 lives .
[ nl5n1m330h ] ( this version of the story has been refiled to change the date in dateline . )