beirut ( reuters ) - raqqa will be part of a decentralized federal syria now the city has been freed from islamic state , the u.s.-backed militias that captured it said on friday , tying its political future to kurdish-led autonomy plans for northern syria .
the kurdish-dominated syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) said the people of the majority arab city and surrounding province would decide their own future within the framework of a decentralized , federal , democratic syria .
in a declaration formally announcing raqqa s liberation from islamic state after four months of battles , the sdf pledged to protect the frontiers of the province against all external threats , and to hand control to a civil council from the city .
the u.s.-backed sdf , which is led by kurdish militia fighters and also includes arabs , captured the syrian de-facto capital of islamic state s self-proclaimed caliphate this week in a decisive defeat for the group that had ruled over millions of people from central syria to northern iraq .
in syria , the fight against islamic state has taken place amid a wider , multi-sided civil war between the government of president bashar al-assad , who is backed by iran and russia , and an array of rebel groups supported by other powers .
kurdish-led authorities in other parts of the north say they want a federal system that would allow regions to rule themselves without central control by the center .
they have been moving ahead with plans set it up , despite discouragement from their u.s. allies and strong opposition from both turkey and the syrian government in damascus .
turkey views the rise of kurdish power in syria as a threat to its national security , viewing kurdish groups in northern syria as an extension of the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) , which is fighting a three-decade insurgency in turkey .
turkey said on friday that a huge banner of jailed pkk founder abdullah ocalan unfurled in central raqqa by the u.s.-backed kurdish forces was proof that washington had been working with terrorists .
the kurdish-led autonomy plans in syria have advanced as diplomacy has failed to make any progress towards a political solution to the six-year-long war .
assad , who is fast regaining territory in syria s most populous eastern regions with iranian and russian military support , has repeatedly said the state will recover all syria .
asked about the sdf statement , ali haidar , the syrian government minister responsible for national reconciliation , said raqqa s future could only be discussed as part of the final political structure of the syrian state .
the sdf , dominated by the kurdish ypg militia , has established control over swathes of northern syria in operations backed by the u.s.-led coalition against islamic state , mostly avoiding conflict with russian-backed pro-government forces .
spokesman talal silo reaffirmed the sdf s plan to hand control of raqqa to a civil council formed of people from the city , and to hand over internal security to a police force drawn from local recruits .
he called raqqa s liberation the final chapter of a struggle that began against islamic state from the town of kobani some three years ago , though the sdf is still fighting the jihadist group in deir al-zor province .
the united states has said it will take the lead in helping to clear rubble and restore basic services to the city .
with islamic state s self-declared caliphate crumbling in its last remaining syrian strongholds , assad s russian allies said on thursday the fight with the jihadist group would soon be over .
president vladimir putin expressed hope a new peace conference could be convened , though the kremlin said on friday it was too early to discuss the timing or venue for the proposed congress of the peoples of syria .