honolulu ( reuters ) - taiwanese president tsai ing-wen landed in honolulu on saturday en route to the island s diplomatic allies among pacific nations and set off for a visit to a pearl harbor memorial , despite strong objections to the visit from china .
china regards self-ruled taiwan as sovereign territory and regularly calls it the most sensitive and important issue between it and the united states , complaining to washington about transit stops by taiwanese presidents .
china has not renounced the possible use of force to bring the island under its control .
tsai , who china believes is seeking formal independence for taiwan , left on saturday on a week-long trip to three pacific island allies - tuvalu , the solomon islands and the marshall islands - via honolulu and the u.s. territory of guam .
for her part , tsai says she wants to maintain peace with china but will defend taiwan s democracy and security .
earlier this week , the u.s. state department said tsai s transits through u.s. soil would be private and unofficial and were based on long-standing u.s. practice consistent with our unofficial relations with taiwan .
it noted there was no change to the u.s. one-china policy which recognizes that beijing takes the view that there is only one china , and taiwan is part of it .
tsai , accompanied by her entourage and members of the media , left on a short boat ride for the uss arizona memorial , which is built over the remains of the battleship sunk in pearl harbor in the second world war , on saturday afternoon .
the memorial , where tsai was expected to lay a wreath , now forms a centerpiece of the world war two valor in the pacific national monument , a site administered by the national park service .
u.s. president donald trump is due to visit china in less than two weeks .
he angered beijing last december by taking a telephone call from tsai shortly after he won the presidential election .
the trip to the united states is tsai s second this year .
in january she stopped over in houston and san francisco on her way to and from latin america , visiting the headquarters of twitter , which is blocked in china .
china has claimed sovereignty over taiwan since 1949 , when mao zedong s communist forces won the chinese civil war and chiang kai-shek s nationalists fled to the island .