vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis will meet the head of myanmar s army and rohingya refugees in bangladesh , both late additions to a tour of the two countries next week .
human rights monitors and u.n. officials have accused myanmar s military of atrocities , including mass rape , against the stateless rohingya during operations that followed insurgent attacks on 30 police posts and an army base .
vatican spokesman greg burke said on wednesday that the pope would meet army head senior general min aung hlaing on nov. 30 in a church residence in yangon .
myanmar cardinal charles maung bo had talks with the pope in rome on saturday and suggested that he add a meeting with the general to the schedule for a trip that is proving to be one of the most politically sensitive since francis was elected in 2013 .
both the pope and the general agreed .
some 600,000 rohingya refugees , most of them muslim and from myanmar s northern rakhine state , have fled to bangladesh .
burke said a small group of rohingya refugees would be present at an inter-religious meeting for peace in the bangladeshi capital , dhaka on dec 1 .
myanmar s government has denied most of the claims of atrocities against the rohingya , and the army last week said its own investigation found no evidence of wrongdoing by troops .
the pope will separately meet the country s leader , aung san suu kyi , in the capital naypyitaw , on nov. 28 in an encounter that was already on the schedule .
briefing reporters on the trip , burke gave no details of how the rohingya who will meet the pope would be chosen .
a source in dhaka said the refugees would be able to tell the pope about their experiences .
both events were not on the original schedule of the nov. 26-dec. 2 trip .
bo , the cardinal from myanmar , has advised the pope not to use the word rohingya while in myanmar because it is incendiary in the country where they are not recognized as an ethnic group .
burke said the pope took the advice seriously but added : we will find out together during the trip ... it is not a forbidden word .