brussels ( reuters ) - the european union is set to agree on monday to ban business ties with north korea , part of a new package of sanctions to isolate pyongyang over its nuclear and missile programs .
the practical impact of the moves is likely to be mostly symbolic : brussels will impose an oil embargo and a ban on eu investment , but it sells no crude to north korea and european companies have no substantial investments there .
north korean workers in the eu , of which brussels estimates there are about 400 mainly in poland , will face a lower limit on the amount for money they can send home and their work visas will not be renewed once they expire .
the measures to be agreed by eu foreign ministers in luxembourg go further than the latest round of multi-lateral sanctions imposed by the united nations security council .
the north koreans appear to be uninterested in having the eu get involved as a peace mediator , said an eu diplomat .
the north koreans want direct talks with the united states , but president ( donald ) trump has ruled that out , the diplomat said .
the sanctions will add three more top north korean officials and six businesses to a blacklist banning them from travel to the eu and freezing their assets .
that will take the total of those sanctioned by the eu to 41 individuals and 10 companies , a senior eu official said .
separately , u.n. sanctions target 63 people and 53 companies and institutions .
we have in place everything that we possibly could do to try to get the dprk to change their behavior , the eu official said , using north korea s official name of the democratic people s republic of korea .
although the eu does not export crude to north korea , its aim is to push other countries to ban oil exports , either unilaterally or at the united nations .
the u.n. security council last month capped north korean imports of crude oil , but china and russia resisted an outright ban .
diplomats said that if pyongyang launches more missiles , the eu could consider imposing sanctions on non-eu firms doing business with pyongyang , as the united states has done .
however , such secondary sanctions need clear evidence to avoid legal challenges and the bloc is reluctant to anger china , a top trading partner , by targeting chinese people and firms .