since obama was sworn in as president hundreds of thousands of refugees have come to america most of them muslim .
we re also seeing thousands of people from all over the world cross our southern border illegally .
with the virtual invasion via illegals and refugees , is obama trying to give america to isis ?
it is a question worth asking if you look at the facts : dhs has just announced that isis is infiltrating the refugee resettlement program .
no shocker there .
and yet , not only does obama refuse to shut it down , he s bringing more and more in .
treasonous much ?
he s also going after our guns and constitutional rights in an attempt to strip them from us just when we need them the most .
isis plans global domination : a document has just surfaced which outlines how isis organizes its territory and controls it .
i am not surprised .
i would have expected nothing less from the caliphate .
they are a conquering force after all , so it makes sense that they would be the ultimate , brutal community organizers.before we get into that , the latest on isis is that taliban leader mullah akhtar mansour is dead in afghanistan .
he was mortally wounded in a shootout last tuesday and succumbed to his wounds sometime within the next 48 hours .
if true , this is a death blow to the taliban in afghanistan by isis and is very bad news .
as horrific as the taliban is , isis makes them look like amateurs.experts say they can t figure out where isis is getting their funding .
are you kidding me ?
they are big business : drugs , oil and they are backed by various countries behind the scenes and other players in geopolitical manipulations .
isis will spread through afghanistan like a malignant cancer .
slaughter and terror will be widespread .
isis is very organized in their conquest for the caliphate and they will rule the country with an iron fist and a quran.i don t believe the taliban when they say mansour is still alive .
if he were alive , we would have seen him by now .
already , slick propaganda is surfacing from isis of their executions of their enemies .
it is brutal and gory .
i have heard reports of them making the taliban kneel on explosives and then blowing them up .
they also put mortars as necklaces around their necks and then detonate them .
the training camps they are setting up all over the place are terrifying and many are flocking to isis to join in the fight for the caliphate .
they are the strong horse in the race for the middle east .
isis is going from town to town , province to province and slaughtering people and conquering in their wake .
they rape women and children , execute infidels and crucify offenders .
they take slaves and wealth as they go .
it is very reminiscent of genghis kahn .
people flee in abject terror when they hear that isis is approaching.neither russia or the united states could take the taliban out .
they live like goats in the mountains of afghanistan .
but isis is making short order of them and fast .
the trick is to be more brutal and aggressive than your enemy and isis has that down to an art .
isis settled in among the population in afghanistan and then activated .
that is exactly what they are doing in europe .
things are about to get very , very dicey out there.now , with this unearthed document , we see how they have global plans .
isis is already throughout the middle east and with the hijrah migration , they are now planted in europe .
just as they did in afghanistan , they initially plant themselves within a population before rising up in cells and sweeping the country .
they are beginning to do this in america too , thanks to barack obama s open borders and refugee resettlement program.read more : noisy room