beirut ( reuters ) - u.s.-backed militias said they captured syria s largest oil field on sunday , pressing their assault against islamic state in the east of the country .
the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) said they took al-omar field on the eastern bank of the euphrates river in the early hours .
our forces managed to liberate the fields without notable damages , said lilwa al-abdallah , spokeswoman for the offensive in deir al-zor province .
the jihadists holed up in buildings in a nearby district , where the sdf was trying to hunt them down , she said .
with u.s.-led jets and special forces , the sdf has been battling in deir al-zor bordering iraq .
the alliance of kurdish and arab militias has focused on territory east of the river , which bisects the oil-rich province .
the syrian army , with russian air power and iran-backed militias , has been waging its own separate offensive against islamic state , mostly to the west of the river .
the u.s.-led coalition and the russian military have been holding deconfliction meetings - to prevent clashes between planes and troops - though the two offensives have sometimes come into conflict .
islamic state has lost vast territory across syria , and has now come under attack in its last footholds in a strip of the euphrates valley and the desert in deir al-zor .
the sdf declared victory over the jihadists in their former headquarters in raqqa city this week .
sdf fighters would now move to the frontlines in deir al-zor , speeding up the battle in eastern syria .
last month , the kurdish-led militias captured a major natural gas field upstream of sunday s advance .
al-omar oil field lies some 10 km ( 6.21 miles ) north of the town of al-mayadin , which government troops and their allies took earlier this month .
the town had turned into a major base for islamic state militants after the u.s.-backed offensive drove them out of raqqa .
the syrian observatory for human rights said islamic state fighters who had withdrawn from the oil field mounted a counter-attack overnight against government forces .
the militants made some gains around al-mayadin , the britain-based monitor said .
but a syrian military source denied this , saying there was no significant attack and fighting raged on at the same pace .
any attack by the islamic state militants there was a desperate attempt , the source said .
the syrian arab army is attacking , hitting daesh positions ... and advancing , the source said , using the arabic acronym for islamic state .