new york ( reuters ) - online trading platform predictit and bookermaker paddy power showed a massive reversal of fortune for u.s. presidential candidates republican donald trump and democrat hillary clinton on tuesday night , as the new york businessman ’ s chances of taking the white house skyrocketed on both .
trump stunned many political experts , showing a slight edge on clinton in several swing states after voting had ended in more than two-thirds of the 50 u.s. states .
paddy power put trump ’ s chance of victory at 83.3 percent tuesday and clinton ’ s at 22.2 percent .
the two had been in essentially opposite positions on tuesday morning .
the irish bookmaker stands to take a $ 4 million hit if trump wins , said paddy power spokesman féilim mac an iomaire , who said the dramatic reversal in odds was reminiscent of what it saw in the “ brexit ” vote for britain to leave the european union .
“ you could say it ’ s deja vu again , ” said mac an iomaire .
“ much like brexit , it looked to be following the odds early on before a dramatic turnaround. ” while opinion polls went back and forth leading into britain ’ s june 23 referendum on whether or not to remain in the eu , betting odds favored the “ remain ” campaign .
britons voted to leave by 52 percent to 48 percent .
a similar trajectory played out on the online trading platform predictit , which was launched in 2014 and is jointly run by victoria university in wellington , new zealand , and washington-based political consulting firm aristotle international inc. clinton led trump in predictit ’ s market on who will win the white house throughout the campaign , but news of her republican challenger ’ s surprise momentum sent her chance of winning the election plummeting roughly 75 percentage points from its level tuesday morning to 5 percent .
trump ’ s chance , meanwhile , shot up more than 40 percentage points to around 65 percent .
it was the first time in the entire campaign that trump had led clinton on the platform , according to a predictit spokeswoman .
british gambling company ladbrokes had trump ’ s chance of victory at roughly 85 percent tuesday night , compared with 15 percent for clinton .
ladbrokes had earlier in the day placed clinton ’ s chance of victory at 76 percent and trump ’ s at 24 percent , but company spokeswoman jessica bridge said the development “ isn ’ t a surprise in the slightest , ” given the high volume of trades made on trump since the market opened in 2012 .
roughly 75 percent of all bets in ladbroke ’ s u.s. presidential wagering had been placed on trump .