beijing ( reuters ) - china s capital unveiled the shining example of its 80 billion yuan ( 9.1 billion ) new airport on monday , tipped to become one of the world s largest when it opens in october 2019 amid a massive infrastructure drive overseen by president xi jinping .
representatives showed off the sprawling skeleton of beijing new airport , which is made up of 1.6 million cubic meters of concrete , 52,000 tonnes of steel and spans a total 47 sq km ( 18 sq miles ) , including runways .
it is expected to serve an initial 45 million passengers a year with an eventual capacity of 100 million , putting it on par with hartsfield-jackson atlanta international airport .
lined up together there s roughly 5 km of gates , said project spokesman zhu wenxin .
it s a shining example of china s national production capacity .
updates on the airport come as the ruling communist party is set to open its 19th congress later this week , a twice-a-decade leadership event where xi will consolidate power and emphasize successful projects and policy from his first five years .
the project , which broke ground in 2014 , is one of the region s largest infrastructure investments under xi s rule , which has been plagued by fears of slowing economic growth , offset slightly by a construction spree .
china has sought to boost its profile as both an aviation hub and a manufacturer in recent years .
the country s first home-grown passenger jet , the c919 , lifted off on its maiden flight in may , edging into a multibillion-dollar market currently dominated by boeing co and airbus se .
situated 67 km south of beijing , the airport technically falls in neighboring hebei province , though it will eventually constitute its own development zone .
it will relieve pressure on beijing s existing international airport , to the northeast of beijing and currently the world s second largest by passenger volume , which opened a new terminal worth $ 3.6 billion ( 2.7 billion ) in 2008 ahead of the beijing summer olympics .
the existing airport will continue to operate major international flights , though a third smaller domestic airport in the city s south will close in coming years .
two of china s three major airlines , china eastern airlines corp and china southern airlines co , will relocate to the airport on completion , accounting for roughly four-fifths of the new airport s total traffic .
the airport will be connected to beijing by a high speed train with a top speed of 350 km an hour , as well as an inter-city train and a major expressway .
original plans for the airport were made by french airports operator aeroports de paris , though third-party improvements to the original version make the final design wholly domestic , said zhu .
it s like a large flower , but made of steel , said one construction worker on the site , who declined to share his name because he was not authorized to speak to press .