flint s democrat mayor karen weaver is throwing a hissy fit over trump s unannounced visit to the broken , violent city of flint , mi .
mayor weaver is currently embroiled in a lawsuit after former city administrator natasha henderson blew the whistle on her for allegedly trying to steer money from a charity for local families into a campaign fund .
henderson claims she was wrongfully fired for blowing the whistle on hillary s loyal minion , the mayor of the city of flint .
donald trump will be visiting the broken , violent city of flint today , where he plans to visit a church and the flint water treatment plant .
but one of hillary s biggest cheerleaders won t be throwing out the welcome mat flint mayor karen weaver says she s baffled by the visit , and didn t receive a call from trump s campaign ahead of time.does trump need to get clearance from hillary s de facto flint campaign manager before he can visit a violent and broken city that s been destroyed for decades by democrats ?
i would think , if you are very concerned about flint and the people , you would contact the mayor and want to have a conversation about what s going on so that puts a question mark in my mind that i wasn t even contacted or notified about something today about something tomorrow , says weaver.weaver is in washington d.c. and will not be in flint during trump s visit .
i had not been notified by donald trump or his people finally , this afternoon , a call to my press person , but i did not know .
these plans were made without contacting me .
her reaction when she was contacted by trump s campaign ?
that s kind of not the way it s supposed to go i wish that he had come when things were in more dire straits maybe before we had even received help when the debates were going on .
we were crying out for a long time .
the fact that trump didn t rush to flint , mi for a photo-op when hillary and bernie were making regular visits as part of their pandering for the black vote effort in a city ignored for decades by democrats , speaks volumes about trump s serious nature .
americans are getting to see firsthand how a successful businessman approaches serious issues vs. how a career politician promises to fix issues with no real plan to ever come back once the press packs it up and leaves these broken neighborhoods .
trump s desire to create jobs for people who have been unemployed for decades is real and the democrats biggest fear is that his message is resonating in these forgotten neighborhoods .