cair knows what it s doing in tulsa , ok but as usual pretends it s no big deal .
we ve dealt with the cair , michigan leader who s been on twitter , along with others in the organization , bashing our military .
we took screen shots of the tweets that are included in this article .
the organization is trying to taunt our veterans on a day when we should be saluting them .
if you live in the tulsa , oklahoma area , please go and protest this float.the islamic hate group cair is taunting our veterans and military personnel with this latest stunt .
yesterday , veterans gathered at the richard l. jones , jr. airport to protest the terror-tied float .
the group is asking parade goers to literally turn their backs on the float for the council on american-islamic relations.the u.s. front group for a uae-designated islamic terrorist group will have a float in one of the largest veterans day parades in the country.the subversive organization known as the council on american-islamic relations , or cair , continues to try to burnish its unsavory image and obscure knowledge of its true nature.adam soltani , executive director of cair oklahoma , insists that his organization is pure as the driven snow : any claim that cair is associated with the muslim brotherhood , hamas , or any other terrorist organization is absolutely preposterous .
cair was founded in 1994 in washington , d.c. , as a national organization to be a civil rights advocate for american muslims , to stand up for constitutional rights , for religious freedom , for pluralism , and for every right that we value as american citizens .
a memorial day tweet from cair , michigan director and retweeted by the san francisco cair director : soltani s words are far from the truth .
the reality is that cair is an unindicted co-conspirator in a hamas terror funding case so named by the justice department .
cair operatives have repeatedly refusedtodenounce hamas and hizballah as terrorist groups .
several former cair officials have been convicted of various crimes related to jihad terror .
cair s cofounder and longtime board chairman ( omar ahmad ) , as well as its chief spokesman ( ibrahim hooper ) , have made islamic supremacist statements .
its california chapter distributed a poster telling muslims not to talk to the fbi .
cair has opposed every anti-terror measure that has ever been proposed or implemented .
according to a captured internal document entered into evidence in the largest terrorist funding trial in our nation s history , the islamic association of palestine , which is the parent organization of hamas-tied cair , was a muslim brotherhood entity , working toward eliminating and destroying western civilization from within , and sabotaging its miserable house cair operatives attack and dismantle america s greatest freedoms through litigation jihad .
they smear and destroy the voices of freedom via their well-paid hacks in the media .
over the past decades , they have expended untold amounts of money to buy influence among media and elected officials.michigan director of cair : a muslim nation with ties to 9/11 ( qatar ) made a major endowment to the council on american-islamic relations .
the saudis have funded them with at least $ 50 million .
post-9/11 , they worked furiously to defeat the patriot act , and they continue to undermine counter-terror programs here at home.read more : pam geller