hillary won t be able to claim a vast right-wing conspiracy when she sees the article the left-leaning new york times published .
the article outlines how hillary aggressively pursued the women her husband willingly chose to have sex with while he was married to her .
hillary never considered the women her philandering husband had sexual relations with were merely victims of a serial sexual abuser .
he was her ticket to the ultimate power .
the truth of the matter is , hillary destroyed these women and protected her sexual predator husband , because having the ultimate political power was more important to her than the victims her husband discarded like yesterday s trash .
this is the woman who is to be held up as an example for our daughters ?
this is the woman who young girls on college campuses say they ll vote for because she has matching genitalia ?
hillary s true story needs to be told .
she is nothing more than a two-bit opportunist who has clung to a charismatic serial sexual abuser of women for one reason , and one reason only to get to this point her ultimate goal the first serious female candidate for president of the united states .
as usual with the clinton s anyone who is harmed on their way up the political ladder , is of little or no consequence to them last week , donald j. trump , the republican presidential nominee , criticized mrs. clinton over mr. clinton s affairs and her response to them , and said he might talk more about the issue in the final weeks before the election.that could be a treacherous strategy for mr. trump , given his own past infidelity and questionable treatment of women .
many voters , particularly women , might see mrs. clinton being blamed for her husband s conduct.it could also remind voters of a searing period in american history , and in mrs. clinton s life.confronting a spouse s unfaithfulness is painful under any circumstance .
for mrs. clinton , it happened repeatedly and in the most public of ways , unfolding at the dawn of the 24/7 news cycle , and later in impeachment proceedings that convulsed the nation.outwardly , she remained stoic and defiant , defending her husband while a progression of women and well-funded conservative operatives accused mr. clinton of behavior unbecoming the leader of the free world.but privately , she embraced the clinton campaign s aggressive strategy of counterattack : women who claimed to have had sexual encounters with mr. clinton would become targets of digging and discrediting tactics that women s rights advocates frequently denounce.the campaign hired a private investigator with a bare-knuckles reputation who embarked on a mission , as he put it in a memo , to impugn ms .
flowers s character and veracity until she is destroyed beyond all recognition .
in a pattern that would later be repeated with other women , the investigator s staff scoured arkansas and beyond , collecting disparaging accounts from ex-boyfriends , employers and others who claimed to know ms .
flowers , accounts that the campaign then disseminated to the news media.by the time mr. clinton finally admitted to sexual relations with ms .
flowers , years later , clinton aides had used stories collected by the private investigator to brand her as a bimbo and a pathological liar .
mrs. clinton s level of involvement in that effort , as described in interviews , internal campaign records and archives , is still the subject of debate .
by some accounts , she gave the green light and was a motivating force ; by others , her support was no more than tacit assent.what is clear is that mrs. clinton was in a difficult spot .
she was aware that her husband had cheated earlier in their marriage , but by her telling , she also believed him when he denied the accusations levied by ms .
flowers and others.mickey kantor , the chairman of bill clinton s 1992 campaign , said that mrs. clinton wanted to separate fact from fiction and to size up the women making the claims .
let s say the woman has some not-helpful things that she has done in the past , mr. kantor said .
wouldn t you want to know that , and evaluate it ?
mrs. clinton and her husband declined to be interviewed , and her campaign did not answer questions about her support of efforts to undermine the women .
the country closed the book on these matters close to 20 years ago , and there is nothing whatsoever new here , her spokesman , brian fallon , said in a statement.her campaign also released statements from james carville , mr. clinton s top campaign strategist , and two lawyers who worked for mr. clinton , saying that mrs. clinton had not overseen the counterattacks .
those who took the lead in responding to those attacks at the time have plainly stated that hillary clinton did not direct their work , mr. fallon said.neutralizing the whispersfour years after gary hart fled a presidential race amid speculation about an affair , every accusation of womanizing was viewed as a mortal threat to mr. clinton s campaign.stanley greenberg , a pollster for the campaign who had strategized with the clintons in the fall of 1991 about how to handle the rumors of infidelity , recalled mrs. clinton s acknowledgment that her husband had strayed .
it was an uncomfortable meeting , mr. greenberg said in an interview for an oral history of mr. clinton s presidency conducted by the miller center at the university of virginia .
i remember hillary saying that , obviously , if i could say no to this question , we would say no , and therefore , there is an issue .
weeks later , their first taste of trouble came in a penthouse magazine story by a rock groupie named connie hamzy , who claimed mr. clinton had once propositioned her at a hotel in little rock , ark.mr .
clinton brushed off the story , saying that ms. hamzy had made a sexual advance toward him , george stephanopoulos , the communications director of the 1992 campaign , recalled in his book , all too human .
but mrs. clinton demanded action .
we have to destroy her story , she said , according to mr. stephanopoulos.in what became a common tactic , affidavits were collected , from an aide and two others who stated that they were with mr. clinton at the hotel and that ms. hamzy s story was false .
( contacted recently , ms. hamzy said she stood by her account .
) when the work was done , both clintons called mr. stephanopoulos , together , to offer their thanks.an explosive accusationthe gennifer flowers story landed like a bomb weeks before the new hampshire primary.ms .
flowers , a lounge singer and arkansas state employee at the time , sold star magazine her story claiming an affair with mr. clinton that had lasted more than 10 years.in a meeting with aides , the clintons scripted a unified defense that they delivered in the interview on 60 minutes .
with mrs. clinton nodding agreement , mr. clinton admitted to the tv audience to causing pain in my marriage , but denied an affair with ms .
flowers .
mrs. clinton professed sympathy for ms .
flowers , saying she had been caught up in rumors through no fault of her own.but at a news conference the next day , ms .
flowers reasserted her claims , playing excerpts from her calls with mr. clinton .
the two could be heard discussing the attention the rumors were getting , and she joked about his sexual talents.glimpsing the news conference in south dakota , mrs. clinton directed an aide to get mr. clinton on the phone , gail sheehy , a journalist traveling with her , recalled in a recent interview .
it was a reaction of no surprise , but immediate anger and action , said ms. sheehy , who also described her observations in a vanity fair article that year .
not anger at bill , but at flowers , the press and republicans .
back on a plane that night , mrs. clinton told ms. sheehy that if she were to question ms .
flowers in front of a jury , i would crucify her .
weeks later , a small group of campaign aides , along with mrs. clinton , met at the governor s mansion in little rock , and they made a pivotal decision : they would hire jack palladino , a private investigator known for tactics such as making surreptitious recordings and deploying attractive women to extract information.an aide to the campaign , who declined to be publicly identified because the aide had not been authorized to speak for the clintons , said mrs. clinton was among those who had discussed and approved the hiring , which shifted the campaign to a more aggressive posture.mr .
kantor , the campaign chairman , said he did not know whether mrs. clinton had specifically approved mr. palladino s employment as the other aide recalled .
but he said that she had seen a need for outside help .
she believed we had to deal with the issue directly , mr. kantor said.mr .
palladino , who did not respond to requests for an interview , reported to james lyons , a lawyer working for the campaign .
in a memo that he addressed to mr. lyons on march 30 , mr. palladino proposed a full-court press on ms .
flowers .
every acquaintance , employer , and past lover should be located and interviewed , mr. palladino wrote .
she is now a shining icon telling lies that so far have proved all benefit and no cost for any other opportunist who may be considering making clinton a target .
soon , ms .
flowers heard from ex-boyfriends and others who said they had been contacted by a private investigator .
they would say that he would try to manipulate them , ms .
flowers recalled , or get them to say things like i was sexually active .
karen steele , who had worked with ms .
flowers at the roy clark celebrity theater in branson , mo. , was among those who received a visit .
i remember i got questioned about brothers gennifer and i once dated , she said .
it wasn t warm and fuzzy .
while mrs. clinton considered the lewinsky affair a personal lapse by her husband , she gave him credit for trying to break it off and manage someone who was a narcissistic loony toon , according to ms. blair s papers.bill clinton can be seen lying before grand jury about sexual relations he had with monica lewinsky , a young intern in the oval office , for which he was impeached later .
hillary s close friend diane blair a political science professor whose papers were donated to the university of arkansas special collections library hillary clinton credited bill clinton with trying to break away from lewinsky , whom she called a narcissistic loony toon .
: soon after , mrs. clinton expressed pleasure to her friend that she and her husband were able to drive their adversaries totally nuts because they did not appear to be suffering.for entire story : new york times