baghdad ( reuters ) - kurdish authorities said on friday they had sent thousands more troops to kirkuk to confront threats of iraqi military attack , but also slightly pulled back defense lines around the disputed oil-producing area to ease tensions .
the baghdad central government has taken a series of steps to isolate the autonomous kurdish region since its overwhelming vote for independence in a sept. 25 referendum , including banning international flights from going there .
baghdad s tough line , ruling out talks sought by the kurds unless they renounce the breakaway move , is backed by neighbors turkey and iran - both with their own sizable kurdish minorities , and in turkey s case , a long-running kurdish insurgency .
tens of thousands of kurdish peshmerga soldiers have been stationed in and around kirkuk for some time and another 6,000 have arrived since thursday , kosrat rasul , vice president in the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) , said .
in washington , u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said on friday the situation had the full attention of the united states , which was working to ensure it does not escalate .
we can t turn on each other right now .
we don t want this to go to a shooting situation , mattis said .
these are issues that are longstanding in some cases ... we re going to have to recalibrate and move these back to a way ( in which ) we solve them politically and work them out with compromised solutions .
the krg s security council expressed alarm late on thursday at what it called a significant iraqi military buildup south of kirkuk , including tanks , artillery , humvees and mortars .
these forces are approximately 3 km ( 1.9 miles ) from peshmerga forces .
intelligence shows intentions to take over nearby oilfields , airport and military base , it said in a statement .
kurdish security sources later said that the peshmerga had shifted their defense lines by 3 km ( 1.9 miles ) to 10 km south of kirkuk to reduce the risk of clashes with iraqi forces , which then moved into some of the vacated positions without incident .
the area from which the peshmerga withdrew is populated mainly by shi ite muslim turkmen , many of whom are loyal to the shi ite led-government in baghdad and affiliated with iranian-backed political parties and paramilitary groups .
an iraqi military spokesman said military movements near kirkuk aimed only to inspect and secure the nearby region of hawija recaptured from islamic state militants a week ago .
iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi has repeatedly denied any plans to go further and actually attack the territory .
kirkuk , a city of more than one million people , lies just outside krg territory but peshmerga forces deployed there in 2014 when iraqi security forces collapsed in the face of an islamic state onslaught .
the peshmerga deployment prevented kirkuk s oilfields from falling into jihadist hands .
krg prime minister nechirvan barzani urged the united states , the european union and the u.n. security council to rapidly intervene to prevent a new war .
germany , which traditionally has good relations with both baghdad and the krg , called for measures to defuse tensions .
we would like to ask them to meet those responsibilities and not to escalate the conflict , german government spokesman steffen seibert told reporters in berlin .
president tayyip erdogan s spokesman said on thursday ankara would gradually close border crossings with northern iraq in coordination with the central iraqi government and iran .
turkish prime minister binali yildirim is expected in baghdad on sunday for talks with abadi .