erbil , iraq/ankara ( reuters ) - turkey threatened potentially crippling restrictions on oil trading with iraqi kurds on thursday after they backed independence from baghdad in a referendum that has alarmed ankara as it faces a separatist insurgency from its own kurdish minority .
iraq s kurds endorsed secession by nine to one in a vote on monday that has angered turkey , the central government in baghdad , and other regional and world powers , who fear the referendum could lead to renewed conflict in the region .
iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi s office said he had been told by turkish prime minister binali yildirim in a call that turkey would break with past practice and deal only with the baghdad government over oil exports from iraq .
most oil that flows through a pipeline from iraq to turkey comes from kurdish sources and a cut-off would severely damage the kurdish regional government ( krg ) , which relies on sales of crude for almost all its hard currency revenues .
so far the pipeline is operating normally despite turkish threats to impose economic sanctions on the kurdish autonomous region in iraq .
turkish officials , however , ramped up pressure on the kurds on thursday .
turkish president tayyip erdogan said after talks with russian president vladimir putin the kurdish government made a big mistake by holding the referendum and must be prevented from bigger mistakes .
he said turkey and russia agreed the territorial integrity of iraq and syria must be preserved .
yildirim said separately that turkey would respond harshly to any security threat on its border after the referendum , although that was not its first choice .
yildirim also said he agreed with abadi to coordinate economic and trade relations with the central government in baghdad .
he said turkey , iran and iraq may meet to discuss the referendum .
turkish government spokesman bekir bozdag said turkish armed forces would stop training iraqi kurdish peshmerga forces , which protected oil fields from capture by the islamic state .
with the region s largest kurdish population , turkey has been battling a three-decade insurgency in its largely kurdish southeast and fears the referendum will inflame separatist tensions at home .
the united nations offered on thursday to help solve the problem between the krg and baghdad , the iraqi foreign ministry said following a meeting between foreign minister ibrahim al-jafari and jan kubis , the top u.n. envoy in iraq .
the united states was willing , if asked , to help facilitate talks to try to ease tensions between the two sides , u.s. state department spokeswoman heather nauert said .
kurdish officials say they can withstand an economic blockade because they are self-sufficient in terms of power generation and fuel supply and have fertile agricultural land .
they also say that three quarters of the trucks that cross the turkish border are heading to territory controlled by baghdad rather than to the kurdish region , so the turkish and iraqi economies would suffer from any blockade .
but travel to the kurdish region will become harder if airports in erbil and sulaimaniya are closed to international flights .
their autonomous region in iraq is the closest the kurds have come in modern times to a state .
it has flourished amid iraq s civil war but may struggle to maintain investment if it is blockaded economically .
kurdish officials say that abadi s tough response to the referendum vindicates iraqi kurdish leader masoud barzani s decision to hold the referendum because they believe baghdad will not cooperate under any circumstances .
the officials feel that if baghdad , turkey , iran , the united states and the world line up against them , and the kurds can not see an end to their hardship , barzani could come under pressure at home to declare independence .
a diplomatic drive to forestall monday s referendum failed to persuade kurdish leaders , some of the united states closest middle eastern allies , former u.s. officials and experts said .
there were expectations that the united states , which said it would not recognize the vote , could use its ties to the iraqi kurds to persuade barzani to cancel the referendum in exchange for a guarantee of talks with baghdad .
the u.s. bid to stop the referendum failed , experts said , in part because the aging barzani sees fulfilling aspirations for an independent kurdish state as his legacy .
the united states , major european countries and nearby turkey and iran all opposed the referendum as destabilizing at a time when all sides are still fighting islamic state .
a spokesman for the u.s.-led coalition said there had been a loss of focus in the fight against islamic state since the referendum .
baghdad has heaped pressure on the kurds , demanding they cancel their referendum , while parliament urged the iraqi government to send troops to take control of oilfields held by kurdish forces .
baghdad also demanded that foreign governments close their diplomatic missions in the kurdish capital erbil .
foreign airlines have begun cancelling flights to kurdish airports after iraq said international flights to erbil and sulaimaniya would be suspended from friday .
turkey told its citizens to leave northern iraq before the ban came into force .
kurdish authorities have rejected baghdad s demands that they should annul the referendum and hand over control of their international airports , instead offering to hold talks with baghdad in an attempt to defuse the airports crisis .
erdogan and putin met in ankara on thursday .
russia s interest in the region is growing .
oil major rosneft ( rosn.mm ) is increasing investment in kurdistan and the kurds have been developing strong ties with moscow .
russia is one of the biggest investors in the economy of iraqi kurdistan at this moment , said kirill vertyayev , a senior research fellow at the institute of oriental studies in moscow .
there is a certain conflict of interest because neither baghdad nor ankara are happy about russia s economic expansion in iraqi kurdistan ... that s why russia is acting carefully , he said .
the kurds consider monday s referendum to be an historic step in a generations-old quest for a state of their own , while iraq considers the vote unconstitutional .
barzani , who is krg president , has said the vote is not binding , but meant to provide a mandate for negotiations with baghdad and neighboring countries over the peaceful secession of the region from iraq .
baghdad has rejected talks .
the kurds were left without a state of their own when the ottoman empire collapsed a century ago .
around 30 million live in iraq , turkey , syria and iran .
the kurds say the referendum acknowledges their contribution in confronting islamic state after it overwhelmed the iraqi army .