beijing ( reuters ) - china on thursday pledged stiffer oversight of preschool teachers , including closer checks on their qualifications , following an outcry over allegations of child abuse at a private kindergarten in beijing .
the case has become a lighting rod for anger at a lack of trained teachers , low wages and poor oversight in china s massive and fast-growing private pre-school sector .
claims that teachers at a school in the capital run by new york-listed ryb education had abused children sparked an outpouring of anger online last week .
on tuesday , police in beijing dismissed as unfounded some of the claims , such as one that children were given tablets or another that doctors had undressed them for medical checkups .
the education ministry will do more to check the qualifications of new entrants to teaching and will adopt tougher oversight measures , deputy minister tian xuejun said , in reply to a question from reuters about the scandal .
most teachers are cautious and conscientious workers who provide a happy environment for children , he said , adding , but there have also been a few individual incidents like this that we do not wish to see .
tian attributed such events to chinese parents unmet demand for pre-school education of high quality .
we believe one side of incidents like this at kindergartens reflects a contradiction between the masses rigid desire for pre-schools and the inadequate and unbalanced development of education , he said .
tian s view echoed president xi jinping s declaration , at a top meeting of the ruling communist party in october , that the core issue facing chinese society is unequal and imbalanced development that fails to meet people s desire for a nice life .
ryb appears to have weathered the storm , seeing its shares recover some of their initial losses after the scandal broke , thanks in part to active and effective crisis management by the company s founder , experts said .
teachers and academics have said that stamping out abuse remains a challenge in china , especially at franchised , private-sector schools where competition for entry is fierce and norms for teachers are less stringent .