companies including cars.com , peloton , and leesa sleep have all given in to pressure to cease advertising on the show over hannity s pursuit of now retracted claims made by fox news that murdered dnc employee seth rich had contact with wikileaks before his death.leesa sleep even bragged about cutting off their advertising with sean hannity on twitter .
they apparently made 11k liberals very happy with their decision .
the big question is how many conservatives will they lose as customers for their high-end mattresses ? we adjust our media buying every day and we can confirm that we are no longer advertising on sean hannity .
leesa ( @ leesasleep ) may 24 , 2017cars.com would like you to consider purchasing one of their certified pre-owned options .
they must be addressing their new liberal audience with this tweet , since conservatives are likely now shopping with their competition like autotrader.com for instance shopping for a new or used car but do n't know about the certified pre-owned option ?
find out more here : https : //t.co/ptb209uzbs cars.com ( @ carsdotcom ) may 20 , 2017peloton bragged about the $ 1.25 billion value of their company on twitter yesterday .
bringing a peloton cycle bike home with you comes with a hefty price tag of $ 1,995 .
you will , however , need to pay a $ 39 per month subscription fee to continue taking spin classes over the hd screen .
peloton has a link on amazon where users can review their bikes .
feel free to review their bikes here .. @ wsj features peloton 's latest round of financing , which values the company at $ 1.25 billion : https : //t.co/melc9hulco # ridepeloton peloton ( @ ridepeloton ) may 24 , 2017 i totally and completely understand how upset and how hard this is on this family , especially over the recent coverage of seth s death , he said .
i ve been communicating with them .
i got a very heartfelt note .
i also sent them a heartfelt note back .
however , out of respect for the family s wishes , for now , i am not discussing this matter at this time , hannity continued , although he later contended that he had retracted nothing and would continue to try to get to the truth .
in a series of tweets on wednesday , hannity accused figures including george soros , david brock of media matters , and failed presidential candidate hillary clinton of liberal fascism , after his advertisers were reportedly inundated with emails from left-wing groups asking them to stop advertising on the show .
breitbart