mayor bill de blasio on thursday skipped an nypd swearing-in ceremony made somber by this week s assassination of a cop then hours later revealed he was busy preparing to jet off on a surprise trip to join leftist protesters at the g-20 summit in germany.hizzoner s overseas jaunt was kept under wraps until just 90 minutes before he took off from newark airport .
a last-minute announcement said he will attend several events surrounding the g-20 summit , including saturday s hamburg zeigt haltung rally .
de blasio will be the keynote speaker , organizers of the demonstration hamburg shows attitude tweeted .
the mayor also made sure the free trip will include a visit with his son , dante , a yale university student who s spending the summer on an internship in berlin , a city hall spokesman said.presumptive republican challenger nicole malliotakis accused de blasio of abandoning pressing issues in the big apple to pursue his progressive agenda in europe .
unbelievable .
instead of jet-setting around the world , he should be here doing his job , said the staten island assemblywoman .
a police officer was murdered , street homelessness has skyrocketed and people continue to get delayed on the trains .
malliotakis who later tweeted a doctored image showing de blasio in an alpine hat and lederhosen , grinning behind a plate of bratwurst , wienerschnitzel and pilsner glasses also blasted him for blowing off the nypd ceremony at the police academy in queens.malliotakis jabs de blasio with photoshopped tweet over germany trip https : //t.co/dttraaqbxd via @ nypmetro carl campanile ( @ ccampy ) july 7 , 2017 the mayor should be embarrassed by the way he has treated the men and women of our police department , she said.he is off gallivanting & i 'm here pointing out problems w/ garbage collection , the most basic of city services https : //t.co/yw4mz02u3o nicole malliotakis ( @ nmalliotakis ) july 7 , 2017new jersey transit tweeted about a schedule change after a train was derailed yesterday while entering penn station in nyc , causing delays in transit for commuters : all midtown direct trains are being diverted into hoboken terminal .
njt is cross-honoring w/ path , & nj transit & private bus carriers .
nj transit ( @ njtransit ) july 7 , 2017gop mayoral candidate nicole malliotakis retweeted nj transit s message to keep new yorker s apprised of the change , in the absence of the protesting nyc mayor deblasio : i 'm retweeting this to keep # nyc residents informed since our mayor is in germany where it is 4:57a.m .
https : //t.co/qv1nxsghhm nicole malliotakis ( @ nmalliotakis ) july 7 , 2017i m so old , i remember when mayors stayed in their city to do their job rather than try to make themselves ideological symbols .
https : //t.co/dedbxzwu3g john avlon ( @ johnavlon ) july 7 , 2017the head of the nypd sergeants union also attacked de blasio .
as the city mourns , its leader flees , ed mullins said .
and then he wonders why he has a problem with the police .
a real leader stays with the city in this time of hardship .
nyp