cairo ( reuters ) - russian president vladimir putin held talks with egypt s president abdel fattah al-sisi on monday , agreeing to resume civilian flights which moscow halted more than two years ago after militants bombed a russian tourist jet over the sinai .
putin s latest visit to cairo reflects the deepening ties between russia and egypt , the second largest recipient of u.s. military aid after israel and a strategic u.s. partner in the middle east because of its control of the suez canal .
putin , who flew on to turkey , briefly visited a russian base in syria before arriving in egypt and ordered russian forces to start withdrawing from syria after a two-year military campaign there .
in cairo , egyptian and russian ministers signed a $ 21 billion deal to start work on egypt s dabaa nuclear power plant and putin said moscow was ready to resume russian civilian flights to egypt .
moscow halted civilian air traffic to egypt in 2015 after militants detonated a bomb on a russian metrojet flight , downing the jet leaving from the tourist resort of sharm el-sheikh and killing 224 people on board .
the attack and moscow s decision damaged egypt s already struggling tourism industry .
egyptian airport inspections and talks to resume flights have been going on for months .
the russian security services have reported to me that , on the whole , we are ready for opening the direct air link between moscow and cairo , putin said .
this would require signing a corresponding intergovernmental protocol .
russia s transport minister told reporters flights could resume in early february , and russia was prepared to sign a protocol with egypt this week .
earlier , russian state nuclear company rosatom said the dabaa nuclear station it will build in egypt will have four reactors and cost up to $ 21 billion .
construction is expected to finish in 2028-2029 .
moscow and cairo signed an initial agreement in 2015 for russia to build the plant , with russia extending a loan to egypt to cover the cost of construction .
sisi said the two leaders had also discussed industrial projects , trade and russian investments in egypt , including in the suez canal economic zone .
sisi and putin also discussed syria and mutual rejection of u.s. president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel , a move that has triggered protests across the region and from european capitals .
we had a detailed exchange of views on key international issues .
our approaches either coincide completely or are really quite close , putin said .
the high-level russian visit comes after the u.s. government in august decided to deny egypt $ 95.7 million in aid and to delay another $ 195 million because of its failure to make progress on human rights and democratic norms .
russia launched a military operation to support syrian president bashar al-assad in september 2015 , and there are signs moscow is keen to expand its military presence in the region .
neither leader on monday mentioned an announcement from november when russia s government published a draft agreement between russia and egypt allowing both countries to use each other s air space and air bases for their military planes .
but putin has been steadily building relations with egypt .
on his first visit to cairo in 2015 , he was the first leader of a major power to meet with sisi after the former egyptian army commander ousted islamist president mohamed mursi in 2013 .
that prompted washington to cool relations with egypt , and the u.s. government suspended some military aid .
since then the two leaders have increased cooperation , reviving the historical alliance between egypt and soviet union of the 1970s .