a beautiful story of generosity and kindness the media would never share with american voters one narrative emerging around the surprisingly resilient donald trump portrays the brash billionaire as a final card laid down by republican blue-collar voters who see their way of life and their political clout draining away in a bathtub spiral.trump has been a man of last resort before .
right here in georgia , in fact .
and if his republican presidential machine doesn t seize upon the tale in the next few weeks , as he and u.s. sen. ted cruz of texas battle for southern votes , then someone in the trump campaign will be guilty of gross incompetence.it happened in 1986 , in the midst of the worst farm crisis since the great depression .
in burke county , on georgia s eastern border , farm after farm was folding.on feb. 4 , lenard dozier hill iii , a third-generation occupant of his cotton-and-soybean acreage , was about to have his land sold out from under him .
that morning , it was going to be auctioned off at the courthouse steps , so he committed suicide , said betsy sharp , his daughter.in the bedroom of the hill home , along with the .22-caliber rifle that did the work , was a neat stack of life insurance policies and other papers on the nightstand .
hill had intended for the life insurance payout to cover most of his $ 300,000 debt and so save the family farm for another generation.it was a grievous miscalculation .
most , if not all , life insurance policies include a clause that prohibits payment in cases of suicide .
he didn t realize all that , sharp said.hill s desperate act struck a chord .
reporters and tv crews descended on the waynesboro church where the funeral was held .
vandals painted farmer killer on the door of the local bank.once the family realized the financial futility of hill s suicide , the burden of saving the farm fell on his widow , annabel hill , a 66-year-old teacher and social worker with gray hair and large glasses.the widow was already familiar with frank argenbright , a wealthy and white atlanta businessman who had made a name for himself by organizing the successful effort to save the farm of a black farmer in cochran named oscar lorick .
( argenbright initially tried to do this anonymously , as a masked benefactor who called himself a.n .
american .
but he was the head of a growing security firm , and his cop friends recognized his voice .
) argenbright arranged a press conference for annabel hill in atlanta .
it went national , he said .
today , in the age of the internet , we use the term viral .
then , as now , clowns came out of the woodwork .
in an interview , argenbright said one of the first calls he received was from a texas oilman who wanted to come to atlanta to help .
for some reason i had to pay the ticket , argenbright said .
first class.the oilman turned out to be a soused escapee from a rehab unit for alcoholics .
argenbright put him on the next flight back to texas .
in coach.above is a video , featuring betsy sharp , daughter of lenard and annabel hill , put together by chad etheridge of growing america , a news service for farmers .
* * * argenbright was still at the airport when his assistant called .
someone claiming to be donald trump had just rang , offering to help annabel hill.a suspicious argenbright called the number and demanded proof of identity from the man who answered .
herschel walker works for me , the voice said .
the former university of georgia running back was the star of the new jersey generals , a united states football league team owned by trump .
that was good enough .
well , mr. trump , i apologize , argenbright said.trump told the atlanta businessman that his wife , ivana , had seen the report on the hill family s plight on the network news , and she suggested that he get involved .
the magnate summoned argenbright and the hills to new york .
after a brief interview , trump signed onto the cause.accounts of what followed differ .
in his book the art of the deal , trump wrote that , in a phone call , he twisted the arm of a vice president of the georgia bank that held the hill mortgage .
i said to the guy , you listen to me .
if you do foreclose , i ll bring a lawsuit for murder against you and your bank , on the grounds that you harassed mrs. hill s husband to his death .
all of a sudden , the banker sounded very nervous and said he d get right back to me .
sometimes it pays to be a little wild , trump wrote.problem solved.argenbright , a trump admirer who would go on to provide security at many of the billionaire s properties , describes a trump who was far less sure of himself and of the public reaction that would follow .
and quieter , too .
it wasn t the donald that you see now , argenbright said .
he wasn t sure that people would respond to him .
he didn t want to be embarrassed .
trump provided $ 20,000 to stave off foreclosure of the hill farm , but his name was initially kept out of the picture .
during a press conference on the courthouse steps in waynesboro announcing the delay , argenbright said he spoke only of support from a new york developer .
but trump s identity was easily and quickly guessed .
the billionaire and the georgia farm wife made the rounds of the morning tv shows .
viewers were asked to send their dollars to the annabel hill fund , trump towers , new york , 10022 .
money poured in , but trump and a texas oilman a real one , this time provided the last $ 78,000 .
a mortgage-burning ceremony was scheduled for two days before christmas .
the hill family was again flown to new york , at trump s expense .
i had just graduated from high school .
he flew us to new york , and we went to trump towers and had breakfast with him , said betsy sharp , who is now 49 and lives in augusta .
we saw a whole different side of him that was kindhearted , to reach out to us , to help us , the daughter said .
most people don t know and see that side .
all they see is just the blurt that people put on the tv .
they don t see the other side of him , and that s what my family got to experience .
argenbright feels likewise .
he couldn t have been nicer .
he took care of them and stayed in touch with them after that , argenbright said .
he had no ulterior motive .
but argenbright said that , in advance of that mortgage-burning ceremony in 1986 , he did catch a glimpse of the media-savvy presidential candidate that we are watching now.trump ordered the waterfalls in his towers turned off , to make it easier for the tv sound technicians .
he made sure that at least three tested cigarette lighters were on hand to spark the fire .
the mortgage papers were fake , but trump ordered an assistant to light one up to make sure they would burn quickly and dramatically , said argenbright , who supplied an engraved tray from tiffany s for the ashes .
just to watch how detailed he was in understanding the perception of the moment and how significant it was it was a special time , argenbright said .
he was an honorable guy who wanted to do the right thing .
if it wasn t for him , that farm wouldn t have been saved .
the annabel hill episode was just a small piece of the farm crisis .
in the two months that followed , 85 other farms in burke county alone were scheduled for foreclosure .
other celebrities attempted rescues as well willie nelson s series of farm aid concerts had begun the year before.but this was the moment that donald trump , who had already put his name on the new york city skyline , introduced himself to rural america .
via : ajc