tunis ( reuters ) - more than 90 mayors from across libya s political divides are meeting for the first time in an effort to shore up their role in tackling conflict-linked crises and promote themselves as a unifying movement .
local councils are one of the few parts of the vast north african state still functioning in a country where rival camps have split the government and major institutions as they vie for power and a share of shrunken oil revenues .
when a citizen grumbles or complains about a service , he goes to the municipality .
there is no other place for him to go , said abdulrahman el-abbar , mayor of the eastern city of benghazi , before the three-day meeting that began on wednesday in hammamet in neighboring tunisia - security risks and political schisms make meeting inside libya difficult .
you need to reinforce ( the municipality s ) powers so that it can provide the right services to the people .
despite libya s oil wealth , public services were weak under muammar gaddafi s long rule .
as libya splintered and lawlessness set in following the 2011 uprising that ousted gaddafi , services steadily collapsed .
a u.n.-backed government has largely replaced a self-declared rival in the capital tripoli , but a third , almost powerless government , has held out in eastern libya , aligning itself with military commander khalifa haftar .
all have overseen a worsening of living conditions , leaving residents seeking local or improvised solutions .
abdulrahman al-hamedi , mayor of tripoli s abu salim district , says he has few resources to support residents crushed by rapid inflation , cash shortages and disrupted services .
in what used to be one of the region s richest countries , monthly wages are now often worth less than $ 100 because of the sharp depreciation of the libyan dinar on the black market , hamedi said .
abu salim has been shaken by militia battles from the revolution until earlier this year , and is also home to large numbers of displaced people from other conflict-ridden areas .
currently the security situation is relatively stable , said hamedi .
the economic situation is really terrible , given the lack of basic services that the citizen would normally be provided with , such as electricity or water or gas , or obtaining cash or even food products .
the united nations relaunched a peace process in september , but the mayors have little hope of quick progress .
the hammamet meeting , which was facilitated by the centre for humanitarian dialogue , a geneva-based private diplomacy organization , brings elected mayors from the west aligned with the u.n.-backed government together with eastern mayors , some of whom , like abbar , owe their positions to haftar .
they are discussing ways to act as a force for reconciliation as well as pressing for devolved powers .
all the libyan municipalities are in contact from the extreme east to the extreme west and the south ; we don t have any problems , said yousef ibderi , mayor of gharyan , 80 km ( 50 miles ) south of tripoli , who uses a walking frame after being hit by a sniper s bullet early last year .
in the last three and a half years there has been no strong government , there s been no presence of the governments at all , but the municipalities were active despite a complete lack of budget and means , they were the guardians of stability and peace , he said .
so we consider decentralization to be a very , very important solution and one that we need to work on .