berlin ( reuters ) - germans see u.s. president donald trump as a bigger challenge for german foreign policy than authoritarian leaders in north korea , russia or turkey , according to a survey by the koerber foundation .
topping the list of foreign policy concerns were refugees , with 26 percent of respondents worried about germany s ability to cope with inflows of asylum seekers .
relations with trump and the united states ranked second , with 19 percent describing them as a major challenge , followed by turkey at 17 percent , north korea at 10 percent and russia at 8 percent .
since entering the white house in january , trump has unsettled germans by pulling out of the paris climate accord , refusing to certify an international agreement on iran s nuclear programme and criticizing germany s trade surplus and its contributions to the nato military alliance .
trump s actions prompted the usually cautious german chancellor angela merkel to say earlier this year that berlin may not be able to rely on the united states in the future .
she also urged europe to take its fate into its own hands .
in the poll of 1,005 germans of voting age , carried out in october , 56 percent of germans described the relationship with the united states as bad or very bad .
despite merkel s pledge , the survey showed deep scepticism in the population about germany taking a more active role in international crises , with 52 percent of respondents saying the country should continue its post-war policy of restraint .
that may reflect the fact that neither merkel nor her main challengers in the recent election campaign talked much about how germany should respond to the challenges posed by trump s disruptive presidency and britain s looming departure from the european union .
last week , norbert roettgen , a member of merkel s conservative party and head of the foreign affairs committee in the bundestag , decried a deplorable lack of leadership in educating germans about the need to invest more in their own defense and security .