united nations ( reuters ) - the united nations launched a roadmap on wednesday for a renewed international effort to break a political stalemate in libya and end the turmoil that followed the country s 2011 uprising .
the world body s libya envoy , ghassan salame , set out an action plan on the sidelines of the u.n. general assembly in new york that proposes amending a 2015 peace deal that quickly stalled .
the u.n.-backed government of national accord ( gna ) established under the december 2015 deal never fully materialized in tripoli , leaving libya with three competing governments aligned with rival armed alliances .
i am also convinced that today there is an opportunity to end a protracted crisis that has caused immense suffering and contributed to the instability beyond libya s borders .
we must all seize this moment , u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres said in an address to key stakeholders .
hamstrung by internal splits in its nine-member leadership , or presidency council , the gna has been unable to tackle libya s acute liquidity crisis , save collapsing public services or bring powerful militias to heel .
though oil production has partly recovered and local forces ousted islamic state from its north african stronghold of sirte last year , security vacuums in central and southern libya persist and armed groups control the informal economy .
eastern-based commander khalifa haftar has gradually strengthened his position on the ground , with support from egypt and the united arab emirates .
lauded by allies for his anti-islamist stance , haftar is accused by foes of seeking to reimpose military rule that they fought to overthrow when they toppled veteran ruler muammar gaddafi six years ago .
gna prime minister fayez seraj said he wanted salame to send a clear message to message to those who could try to subvert the process and make it clear that the gna was the only party that should be dealt with .
salame , who took up his post in august , proposed reducing the unwieldy gna presidency council to three members and having it then nominate a new transitional government .
the action plan was not designed by me , but by the libyans .
they want an inclusive process , a way forward which clearly defines stages and objectives , he said .
salame said the drafting of the plan would begin next week before the convening of a national conference for all key libyan actors to join the political process .
securing changes to the 2015 deal would need the approval of a barely functional eastern-based parliament .
the european union and the united states have imposed sanctions on the head of that parliament , agila saleh , accusing him of stalling libya s political process .
a delegation from the eastern parliament is expected to start negotiating with members of its tripoli-based rival assembly .
they are under pressure to reach an agreement before dec. 17 , when opponents of the 2015 deal say it expires .
salame , who appeared to suggest a new calendar of a year for the process , must also balance calls for new elections with the need to prepare a legal framework in which they can take place .
elections would require an electoral law , and possibly a referendum , to endorse a new constitution .
in 2014 , elections were challenged , leading to a major escalation of conflict and the division of libya s key institutions .
france , britain and italy , who have all at some point tried to assert their influence in recent weeks , said they were fully on board with salame s plans .
we must be united behind the roadmap .
our collective credibility is at stake in libya , british prime minister theresa may said .