shehyni , ukraine ( reuters ) - former georgian president mikheil saakashvili and a crowd of supporters barged past guards to enter ukraine from the polish border on sunday after a prolonged standoff between saakashvili and the ukrainian authorities .
amid shouts of victory and glory to ukraine , saakashvili returned to ukraine despite being stripped of ukrainian citizenship by his one-time ally , ukrainian president petro poroshenko , and facing possible arrest and deportation .
poroshenko invited saakashvili to be a regional governor to help drive reforms after protests in 2014 ousted a pro-russian president in kiev .
but saakashvili quit as governor of odessa in november , accusing poroshenko of abetting corruption .
thousands of saakashvili s supporters gathered on the border on sunday while prominent lawmakers , including former ukrainian prime minister yulia tymoshenko , traveled with him from poland .
saakashvili had tried to cross the border by train but the train did not leave its station in the polish town of przemysl .
the woman in charge of the ukrainian train said she had been ordered by the authorities - she declined to specify whether polish or ukrainian - to stop the train leaving until saakashvili got off .
he then traveled by bus to the border and was stopped by guards who sealed off the area , causing a tailback of vehicles .
supporters pushed their way through and escorted him across .
i came with my ukrainian passport , i wanted to show my passport and make a statement , a triumphant saakashvili told supporters after crossing .
instead , the authorities arranged this circus .
poroshenko s spokesman did not respond to a request for comment .
the crowd broke through the shehyni checkpoint , oleh slobodyan , a spokesman for the ukrainian border service , wrote on facebook .
the fight started .
it s hard to predict the consequences of this situation .
a statement by the border service said several police and border guards were injured during the clash and said a group of people , whom it did not name , had crossed the border illegally .
saakashvili took power in georgia after a peaceful pro-western uprising , known as the rose revolution , in 2003 .
the 49-year-old is now wanted on criminal charges in georgia , which he says were trumped up for political reasons .
loathed by the kremlin , saakashvili was once a natural ally for poroshenko after moscow annexed ukraine s crimea region in 2014 .
but he has become one of the ukrainian president s most vocal critics , casting doubt on the western-backed authorities commitment to tackle entrenched corruption .
saakashvili has accused the ukrainian authorities of using pressure tactics to deter him from returning to kiev , where he has launched a campaign to unseat poroshenko .
speaking to reporters earlier in the polish city of rzeszow , saakashvili said poroshenko viewed him as an existential threat .
it looks like he is getting rid of a political opponent and no matter how many times he says that i am not a danger to him , every action of his shows exactly the opposite , that he regards me as a great and immediate danger , he said .