caracas ( reuters ) - venezuelan authorities on thursday arrested two once-powerful officials who had run the oil ministry and state energy company pdvsa as part of a deepening industry purge also seen as a power play by leftist president nicolas maduro .
in the highest-profile arrests to date , engineer eulogio del pino and chemist nelson martinez were detained early on thursday on accusations of graft and seeking to sabotage the nation s ailing energy industry , prosecutor tarek saab said in a televised speech .
he accused del pino of participating in a $ 500 million corruption and sabotage scheme at the petrozamora joint venture with russia s gazprombank ( gzpri.mm ) and said martinez had allowed a poor refinancing deal for venezuela s citgo petroleum corp , a u.s.-based refiner that he used to lead , to go ahead without government approval .
we re talking about the dismantling of a cartel of organized crime that had taken over pdvsa , saab said as state television flashed a video of armed military intelligence agents knocking on doors and images of the two men being handcuffed and arrested .
maduro has promised a vast anti-corruption purge to cleanse the oil industry of mafias .
some 65 executives have been detained so far , panicking pdvsa workers , depriving venezuela s oil industry of much of its top brass , and stalling decision-making in the company overseeing the world s biggest crude reserves , insiders say .
the opposition dismisses the probe as a power struggle within maduro s inner circle , noting that the industry has been under tight control of the ruling socialist party since early in the late president hugo chavez s 14-year rule .
they say authorities ridiculed and dismissed a report last year by the opposition-run congress , which concluded that some $ 11 billion went missing at pdvsa over a decade when del pino and martinez were both influential officials .
insiders instead say the probe is politically motivated , likening it to a recent crackdown on graft in saudi arabia that has strengthened the power of crown prince mohammed bin salman .
pdvsa and venezuela s information and oil ministries did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
reuters was unable to contact del pino or martinez .
in a video recorded before his arrest that he published on his twitter account on thursday afternoon , del pino defended himself and said he was the victim of an unjustified attack , but did not elaborate on who was to blame for his arrest .
we know there are irregularities , and i am the first who , through internal control mechanisms ... ( made us ) denounce and push ahead with investigations , said a tired-looking del pino , speaking under a large tree .
the arrests of del pino and martinez have brought more attention to rafael ramirez , who was venezuela s all-powerful oil czar for a decade and under whom both men ascended .
maduro fired ramirez , who was thought to have presidential ambitions , from his job as representative to the united nations on tuesday and summoned him back to caracas from new york , according to people with knowledge of the situation .
those people say a protracted rivalry between the two men has deepened in recent weeks , especially after ramirez wrote online opinion articles criticizing pdvsa s production slump and maduro s handling of the economy .
saab did not mention ramirez by name , although both maduro and top officials have recently repeatedly referred to his governance as oil boss as a time when mafias were formed and executives came to think of themselves as the owners of venezuela s reserves .
ramirez s next moves were not immediately clear .
he did not respond to a request for comment on thursday .
authorities appear to be seeking information on ramirez from del pino and martinez as splits widen in the socialist party , which is no longer controlled by the charismatic chavez , according to one source with knowledge of the detentions .
del pino , wearing a venezuelan national soccer team shirt , was picked up at his caracas home , according to the source and a photo flashed on state television .
oil industry sources say maduro is using the graft probe to sideline political rivals and consolidate his grip on a sector that , despite falling investment and output , brings in more than 90 percent of the cash-strapped country s export income .
the unpopular leftist appears to be seeking to shore up his position ahead of a presidential vote in 2018 , when he is poised to seek re-election despite an economic crisis that has sparked food shortages and the world s highest inflation .
after surviving major political protests and pushing through a controversial pro-government legislative superbody , maduro is feeling empowered , according to government insiders and opposition politicians .
to ensure he maintains support , military and political sources say that maduro , who unlike chavez does not hail from the army , has handed it more power .
del pino and martinez had been removed from their posts on sunday and replaced by a major general , giving the already powerful military further clout .
the demotion followed the arrest in caracas last week of six citgo executives , five of whom are also u.s. citizens , as part of the graft probe , leaving the refiner deprived of much of its top brass .
the men s sidelining also deprives the venezuelan oil sector of two of its most experienced executives , who were also adamant that the country must keep paying its onerous debt and avoid a debilitating default at all costs .
del pino did not respond to a whatsapp message , although his profile picture had changed to one of his children from a photo of him at a pdvsa event with red-shirted workers .