a highly-anticipated declassified us intelligence report , aimed to prove that russia supported donald trump , has turned out to be a huge embarrassment .
the annex that contained factual material that was thought to provide evidence of rt influencing the american public was compiled in december 2012 , right after the reelection of barack obama.the report focuses on television shows and interviews that took place four years before trump was elected , and well before he was even a politician .
in annex a of the report , intelligence agencies claim that kremlin s tv seeks to influence politics , fuel discontent in us .
buried at the bottom of that page is a note stating , this annex was originally published on 11 december 2012 by the open source center , now the open source enterprise .
the report notes that two rt shows , breaking the set and truthseeker , focused on criticism of us .
the problem is , both of these shows were off air before the 2016 election season began.the report goes on to detail programming in 2012 about voting booth irregularities , which , again , would have been during obama s campaign .
despite being an old report , the topic became largely relevant once again during the democratic primaries when voters found themselves purged from voting rolls , and hundreds of thousands of ballots went uncounted.perhaps most shocking of all , the dastardly rt network dared to host third party debates , as they were not allowed participation in the main debates .
in an effort to highlight the alleged lack of democracy in the united states , rt broadcast , hosted , and advertised third party candidate debates and ran reporting supportive of the political agenda of these candidates .
the rt hosts asserted that the us two-party system does not represent the views of at least one-third of the population and is a sham .
apparently , the intelligence communities do not agree that some of the people they serve may not fit perfectly into the two neat and tidy political boxes of republicans and democrats .
the report states that the network aired a documentary on occupy wall street , an obviously left-wing movement , in 2012 .
again , this was the year obama was elected , so perhaps the russians actually won him the presidency .
they presented evidence that russian media often reports on infringements of civil liberties , police brutality , and drone use .
while these issues are all popular topics of discussion in left-leaning media , rt s reporting in 2012 was clearly part of a long-running plot to elect trump , right ? if the report is true and rt the almighty was swinging votes in 2012 , the only beneficiary of the coverage was the now-outgoing president of the united states , who won a landslide victory over republican mitt romney .
four years ago trump was not thought of as a politician and it remains a mystery how rt s 2012 coverage could propel him .
a mystery , that even a classified version of the report would have a hard time explaining .
sputnik news