the latest liberal meltdown comes from minnesota this reminds of the mayor who was stopped by the police and had a fake meltdown too ( see below ) .
do these liberals all have a meltdown handbook ? sda reports : if you re a social justice warrior , here s a standard set of tactics to get your way : proclaim anything you wish , no matter how ludicrous.if anyone dares disagree with you , call them a racist , bigot , homophobe , or islamophobe.if they dare object , scream at them that they are out of order and to stop interrupting you.start shaking and crying , proclaiming how passionate you are about what you re saying.do whatever you need to do to make yourself out to be the victim.now that you understand this playbook , watch new brighton , minnesota mayor val johnson follow this script : vote this crazy liberal lunatic out that s what happened to this liberal lunatic : thank goodness a police camera captured a democratic county lawmaker bizarrely screaming , begging , invoking for special privileges , saying she s broke , claiming to suffer from post-traumatic stress disorder ( ptsd ) and panting like she s about to keel over while she received a routine speeding ticket for driving 13 miles per hour over the posted speed limit .
the legislator in the disturbing dash-cam video is jennifer schwartz berky , a member of the ulster county legislature in ulster county , new york.becky obviously doesn t think the rules apply to her the incident occurred back in may .
the video is coming out now just in time for local elections in response to a freedom of information law request ( and in spite of appeals by berky s lawyer to suppress it ) .you owe it to yourself to watch this woman s epic freakout .
there s groaning and whimpering .
there are excuses galore.mere words can not do any sort of justice to the groaning , the whimpering , the excuse-making , the lamentation and the gnashing of teeth over a speeding ticket for going 43 miles per hour in a zone where the posted speed limit is 30 miles per hour.the new york post has published an even shorter version sort of a cliffsnotes summary of berky s amazing encounter with local police.berky who claims in the video that she suffers from ptsd has an undergraduate degree in art history and a graduate degree in urban planning from columbia university , according to a lengthy biography at the website of ulster county s local government.she was born and raised in new york city but has lived for several years abroad during her career and studies , and is fluent in spanish , french and italian .
she lists three party affiliations in her bio .
in addition to the democratic party , there is the green party and the working families party , an ultra-progressive leftist group.she has been very been active in supporting her fellow democrats and working families party candidates in federal , state and local elections .
wow !
koo koo ! read more : daily caller