abuja ( reuters ) - president muhammadu buhari is to visit southeast nigeria this week , his spokesman said on monday , his first trip since taking office to a region formerly known as biafra .
calls for secession have become increasingly loud in the last few months in parts of the southeast , where the president is deeply unpopular , prompting buhari to say he will not allow nigeria to be divided by separatist groups .
a million people died in a 1967-70 civil war over the short-lived republic of biafra .
buhari , a 74-year-old former military ruler who took office in may 2015 , fought in the war as a young soldier on the government side .
the spokesman , garba shehu , said the president would , as part of his trip , visit the campaign run by his all progressive congress party in the state of anambra ahead of gubernatorial elections in the next few days .
mr president will be visiting two southeast states of ebonyi and anambra , said shehu .
he said buhari would leave the capital , abuja , on tuesday morning and return the following day .
tensions in the region rose following the release on bail of nnamdi kanu , leader of the region s best known secessionist group , the indigenous people of biafra ( ipob ) .
the government designated the group as a terrorist organization in september , and deployed troops to the region to crack down on secessionists .
kanu , who was on bail after being charged with treason , has not been seen since sept. 14 , when ipob says his home was raided by soldiers .
the military has denied raiding kanu s home and has said it is not holding him .
we are yet to know our leader s whereabouts or that of his parents .
( buhari ) is not the type of person any governor should be welcoming to their land , said an ipob spokesman in a statement that urged the president to stay away .
a nigerian minister in september said secessionists in the southeast were sponsored by the government s political opponents .
the government has repeatedly rejected the accusation that buhari , a muslim northerner , is opposed to the development of the mostly christian southeast , where people are mainly from the igbo ethnic group .
nigeria s 180 million inhabitants are split roughly equally between christians and muslims , and around 250 ethnic groups mostly live peacefully side by side .