amman ( reuters ) - u.s. troops and allied arab fighters have evacuated a garrison set up in june in the syrian desert near the border with iraq and relocated to their main tanf base , rebel sources said on tuesday .
they said the move follows a deal between washington and moscow to abandon the zakf site , located around 60-70 km ( 40-50 miles ) northeast of tanf .
syrian president bashar al-assad has gained momentum in the six-year civil war but rebel groups still control large , populous areas in both the northwest and southwest of the country as well as other pockets elsewhere .
zakf was established to stop the syrian army and allied iranian-backed militias advancing from territory north of tanf toward the iraqi border after they managed to cut off and encircle rebels backed by washington .
we have left the garrison after our allies reached an agreement with russia to pull back to tanf .
we have moved all the equipment and destroyed some of the fortifications so they are no longer usable , said a source who belongs to maghawir al-thawra .
maghawir al-thawra is a pentagon-backed rebel group that maintained the base and patrols around tanf .
the pentagon did not comment on the status of the zakf site .
it has closed numerous temporary bases , as warranted by the operational situation , said spokesman eric pahon .
zakf was set up at a tense moment when jets of the u.s.-led coalition hit iranian-backed militias several times to stop them advancing toward tanf , located near syria s border with iraq , to ensure the safety of its forces .
the base was a first line of defense and now the justification behind it is no longer present and the aim is to concentrate in tanf , the senior commander in the group said .
western-backed rebels had also hoped at the time that it could be used to take more territory along the iraqi border and to push toward deir al-zor in eastern syria .
however , advances by the syrian army and its allies from central syria , as well as by coalition-backed forces from northern syria , have since approached the city , making a rebel drive there from the south redundant .
as the fighting has moved to deir al-zor , most iranian-backed forces have pulled away from the area around tanf , said a western diplomat familiar with the situation , based on intelligence reports .
at the same time , western and arab countries , have put pressure on rebel groups they back in the sparsely populated desert area to pull out of syria and retreat to jordan , which the groups have so far resisted .
washington and moscow have now moved closer to cooperation in syria , brokering a ceasefire in the southwest which was the first such understanding between them since the start of the conflict .
the diplomat said the latest move is part of a broader effort that included that ceasefire .
this is the latest outcome of the ongoing secret us-russian talks over southern syria , the diplomat , who requested anonymity , told reuters .
tanf is the only position with a significant u.s. military presence in syria outside the kurdish-controlled north , where it has much larger air bases .