ottawa/toronto ( reuters ) - a u.s.-canadian couple freed in pakistan this week , nearly five years after being abducted in afghanistan , returned to canada on friday where the husband said one of his children had been murdered and his wife had been raped .
american caitlan coleman and her canadian husband , joshua boyle , were kidnapped while backpacking in afghanistan in 2012 by the taliban-allied haqqani network .
they arrived in canada with three of their children .
obviously , it will be of incredible importance to my family that we are able to build a secure sanctuary for our three surviving children to call a home , boyle told reporters after arriving at toronto s pearson international airport , wearing a black sweatshirt and sporting a beard .
pakistani troops rescued the family in the northwest of the country , near the afghan border , this week .
the united states has long accused pakistan of failing to fight the taliban-allied haqqani network .
the stupidity and the evil of the haqqani network in the kidnapping of a pilgrim ... was eclipsed only by the stupidity and evil of authorizing the murder of my infant daughter , boyle said , reading from a statement , in a calm voice .
and the stupidity and evil of the subsequent rape of my wife , not as a lone action , but by one guard , but assisted by the captain of the guard and supervised by the commandant .
he did not elaborate on what he meant by pilgrim , or on the murder or rape .
coleman was not at the news conference .
boyle said the taliban , who he referred to by their official name - the islamic emirate of afghanistan - had carried out an investigation last year and conceded that the crimes against his family were perpetrated by the haqqani network .
he called on the taliban to provide my family with the justice we are owed .
god willing , this litany of stupidity will be the epitaph of the haqqani network , said an exhausted-looking boyle .
he did not take questions form reporters .
the family traveled from pakistan to london and then to toronto .
boyle provided a written statement to the associated press on one of their flights saying his family had unparalleled resilience and determination .
ap reported that coleman wore a tan-colored headscarf and sat with the two older children in the business class cabin .
boyle sat with their youngest child on his lap .
u.s. state department officials were on the plane with them , ap added .
one of the children was in poor health and had to be force-fed by their pakistani rescuers , boyle told ap .
reuters could not independently confirm the details .
they are expected to travel to boyle s family home in smiths falls , 80 km ( 50 miles ) southwest of ottawa , to be reunited with his parents .
canada has been actively engaged with boyle s case at all levels and would continue to support the family , the canadian government said in a statement .
at this time , we ask that the privacy of mr boyle s family be respected , it said .
the journey home was complicated by boyle s refusal to board a u.s. military aircraft in pakistan , according to two u.s. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity .
boyle instead asked to be flown to canada .
but boyle said he never refused to board any mode of transportation that would bring him closer to home .
boyle had once been married to the sister of an inmate at the u.s. military detention center at guantanamo bay .
the marriage ended and the inmate was later released to canada .
the families of the captives have been asked repeatedly why boyle and coleman had been backpacking in such a dangerous region .
coleman was pregnant at the time .
boyle told the news conference he had been in afghanistan helping villagers who live deep inside taliban-controlled afghanistan where no ngo , no aid worker , and no government had been able to reach .
the taliban and haqqani network share the same goals of forcing out foreign troops and ousting the u.s.-backed government in kabul but they are distinct organizations with separate command structures .