obama had the audacity to tell this crowd of mourners that he wonders if the divides of race in america can ever be bridged ?
he must have forgotten who created and cultivated the racial divide with his good friends eric holder and al sharpton none of us is entirely innocent and that includes our police departments it started out well , with obama calling the shooting racial hatred , but then descended quickly into a lecture to the police about their bigotry and need to recognize the pain black lives matter folks feel .
he even brought up slavery , jim crow and history of oppression .
it was about salving his own issues , as always , not recognizing the event he was at , a memorial for the five officers .
he did mention them , but spent most of the time imploring people to recognize their racism .
weasel zipperspresident obama defended the black lives matter movement tuesday at a memorial service for five slain dallas police officers , saying bigotry remains in police departments across the u.s .
while paying tribute to the fallen officers for sacrificing their lives to protect others from a sniper , mr. obama also called on law enforcement agencies to root out bigotry .
we have all seen this bigotry in our lives at some point , mr. obama told an audience of several hundred at a concert hall in dallas .
none of us is entirely innocent .
no institution is entirely immune .
and that includes our police departments .
we know this .
the officers michael smith , lorne ahrens , michael krol , brent thompson and patrick zamarripa were killed by a black sniper who told police he targeted white officers during a black lives matter protest thursday night.at the service , photographs of the slain officers were displayed on the stage .
five empty seats in the arena were adorned with folded u.s. flags and duty-officer hats to signify their loss.the president , who has been criticized by law-enforcement officials for supporting the black lives matter movement , said americans can not simply turn away and dismiss those in peaceful protest as troublemakers or paranoid .
we can t simply dismiss it as a symptom of political correctness or reverse racism , he said.here is part of obama s embarrassing speech .
the speech in its entirety can be found below : former president george w. bush , a resident of the dallas area , said the nation is proud of the slain officers .
our police chief and police department have been mighty inspirations for the rest of the nation , mr. bush said .
these slain officers were the best among us .
referring to racial divisions roiling the country , mr. bush said americans must work at finding our better selves .
we recognize that we are brothers and sisters , sharing the same brief moment on earth , mr. bush said .
we do not want the unity of grief , nor do we want the unity of fear .
we want the unity of hope , affection and high purpose .
mr. obama said the gunman , army veteran micah x. johnson , committed an act not just of demented violence , but of racial hatred .
it s as if the deepest fault lines of our democracy have been exposed , perhaps even widened , the president said .
we wonder if the divides of race in america can ever be bridged .
narcissistic jack hole via : washington timeshere is obama s speech in its entirety :