kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - thousands of protesters gathered at an unsanctioned rally on saturday to demand action against prime minister najib razak over the mismanagement of billions of dollars by a state fund .
malaysia s opposition are counting on the 1malaysia development berhad ( 1mdb ) scandal to turn as many voters as they can against najib , who can call for national polls anytime between now and the middle of next year .
the prime minister has so far been able to weather the scandal , consolidating power by clamping down on dissenters and curbing local media and activists even as he faces a fierce challenge from his former mentor , mahathir mohamad .
but rising living costs and a broad-based consumption tax are leaving people like hasmurni tamby , a 42-year-old single mother of five , fed up with the way things are going under najib .
prices of everything have gone up but not our salaries .
we can t save .
so we don t want this leader anymore , said hasmurni , who traveled several hours north from her home state of malacca to attend the evening rally .
saturday s rally was touted as the finale of a two month-long anti-kleptocracy roadshow , a platform set up by the opposition pakatan harapan ( ph ) coalition to convince the majority malay-muslim voters in rural battleground areas that the country has suffered from najib s handling of 1mdb .
najib s popularity took a hit from persistent bad press linked to 1mdb , especially after the u.s. department of justice filed civil suits to recover over $ 1.7 billion alleged to have been misappropriated from the 1mdb fund .
a rebounding economy and strengthening ringgit currency , however , are working in najib s favor .
the prime minister is expected to announce plenty of people-centric initiatives later this month when he tables his last budget before the polls .
just a few months prior , he announced billions in housing and cash aid for the malay community .
but mahathir , who saw through malaysia s industrialization as its longest-serving prime minister , warned that nothing good will come out of allowing his former protege to continue to rule .
never before have we had a prime minister who is a thief .
he steals so he can have a comfortable life , mahathir told the crowd when delivering the final speech of the night .
we need to bring down kleptocracy in our country ... najib s fate is in our hands .
we can get rid of him , just by voting ph , the former prime minister said .