jakarta ( reuters ) - the speaker of indonesia s parliament , who is being investigated for his suspected involvement in a $ 170 million graft scandal , has tendered his resignation , two members of the assembly said on monday .
setya novanto was arrested last month over his suspected role in the scandal linked to a national electronic identity card scheme .
anti-corruption investigators then took him into custody from where he sent a letter to assembly leaders pleading to be allowed to keep his job while he fought the charges .
mr novanto has resigned , member of parliament yandri susanto told reuters , referring to a letter in which novanto announced his decision .
he didn t say why .
a replacement for him as speaker was expected to be decided by his party , golkar , at an extraordinary meeting on dec. 19 , said dito ganinduto , a member of parliament from novanto s golkar party .
novanto had not resigned as chairman of golkar , ganinduto said .
a lawyer for novanto , maqdir ismail , deferred questions on the matter to acting golkar chairman idrus marham .
marham could not be reached for comment .
novanto had clung to power through several previous corruption cases .
his latest battle with the graft agency has gripped indonesia , where newspapers have splashed the story on front pages and social media posts mocking him have been widely shared .
before his detention last month he had for months declined to answer summonses for questioning by the corruption eradication commission , known by its indonesian initials kpk .
the allegations against novanto have reinforced the perception among indonesians that their parliament , long regarded as riddled with entrenched corruption , is a failing institution .
indonesia was ranked last year at 90 out of 176 countries on transparency international s corruption perception index .
the watchdog has singled out parliament as indonesia s most corrupt institution , and in july called on president joko widodo to protect the kpk against attempts by the legislature to weaken the commission s powers .
critics inside and outside the parliament say the root problem is money politics .