riyadh/washington ( reuters ) - saudi king salman on tuesday ordered that women be allowed to drive cars , ending a conservative tradition seen by rights activists as an emblem of the islamic kingdom s repression of women .
the kingdom , the birthplace of islam , has been widely criticized for being the only country in the world that bans women from driving , despite gradual improvement on some women s issues in recent years and ambitious government targets to increase their public role , especially in the workforce .
despite trying to cultivate a more modern image in recent years , the driving ban had been a longstanding stain on saudi arabia s international image .
the royal decree ordered the formation of a ministerial body to give advice within 30 days and then implement the order by june 24 , 2018 , according to state news agency spa .
it stipulated that the move must apply and adhere to the necessary sharia standards , referring to islamic law .
it gave no details but said a majority of the council of senior religious scholars , saudi arabia s top clerical body , had approved its permissibility .
an hour after the official announcement in saudi arabia , a jubilant saudi ambassador to washington , prince khaled bin salman , said it was an historic and big day in our kingdom .
i think our leadership understands that our society is ready .
i think it s the right decision at the right time , the ambassador said .
positive reactions quickly poured in from inside the kingdom and around the world .
the u.s. state department welcomed the move as a great step in the right direction .
president donald trump commended the decision , the white house said in a separate statement that pledged u.s. support for a plan the kingdom announced last year for economic and social reforms .
this is a positive step toward promoting the rights and opportunities of women in saudi arabia , the white house statement said .
we will continue to support saudi arabia in its to efforts to strengthen saudi society and the economy through reforms like this and the implementation of saudi vision 2030 .
for more than 25 years , women activists have campaigned to be allowed to drive , defiantly taking to the road , petitioning the king and posting videos of themselves behind the wheel on social media .
the protests brought them arrest and harassment .
activist manal al-sherif , who was arrested in 2011 after a driving protest , took to twitter following the king s announcement to express her relief .
today , the last country on earth to allow women to drive ... we did it , she wrote .
latifa al-shaalan , a member of the shura council , an advisory body , said the decision would strengthen women s employment in the private sector .
this is an historic day and i can not find the words to express my feelings and the feelings of thousands of saudi women , she said on arabiya tv .
in saudi arabia , a top arab ally of the united states , women are legally subject to a male guardian , who must give approval to basic decisions they make in fields including education , employment , marriage , travel plans and even medical treatment .
women in the kingdom are also bound by law to wear long robes and a headscarf and require the consent of a male guardian for most legal actions .
prince khaled , the ambassador , said women would not need permission from their guardians to get a license or have a guardian in the car and would be allowed to drive anywhere in the kingdom , including the islamic holy cities of mecca and medina .
women with a license from any of the gulf cooperation council countries would be allowed to drive in saudi arabia , he added .
he said the interior ministry would have to decide whether they could be professional drivers .
in terms of international pr , this is the biggest overnight win that saudi arabia - and particularly mbs - could possibly have , said jane kinninmont , senior research fellow at chatham house .
the position of saudi women gradually improved under late king abdullah and since king salman took over in 2015 , the kingdom has been opening more areas for women through the government s modernizing reforms .
that has sparked tensions with influential clerics upon whose support the ruling family relies .
some reactions to tuesday s announcement reflected that .
critics took to twitter to denounce the decision , accusing the government of bending the verses of sharia .
as far as i remember , sharia scholars have said it was haram ( forbidden ) for women to drive .
how come it has suddenly become halal ( permissible ) ?
another user wrote .
asked whether he was worried about a conservative backlash , the ambassador said : on these changes some people will be in the drivers seat ... some people will be in the back seat , but we re all going to move forward .
he added : it s not women must drive , it s women can drive .
so if any women do not want to drive in saudi arabia , that s her choice .
some leading members of the country s powerful and austere sunni muslim clergy have argued against women being allowed to drive , which they say could lead to them mingling with unrelated men , thereby breaching strict gender segregation rules .
the decision could also have broad economic impacts , making it possible for women to get to work without a driver but also curbing the popularity of car hailing apps like uber and careem .
prince khaled , a son of the king , said the decision was as much about economic reform as social change .
his older brother , 32-year-old crown prince mohammed , has become the face of reform in the kingdom in the past few years .
many younger saudis regard his ascent as evidence that their generation is taking a central place in running a country whose patriarchal traditions have for decades made power the province of the old and blocked women s progress .
oh my god , this is amazing .
ever since mohammed bin salman s rise , he has fast-tracked all the changes that are needed for our country , said marwa afandi , a 35-year-old event planner in the red sea city of jeddah .
congratulations to all my ladies , this is a real victory .