washington ( reuters ) - republican george w. bush on monday will seek to generate a fresh burst of enthusiasm for his brother jeb bush ’ s white house bid in south carolina , marking the former president ’ s first appearance on the campaign trail this year .
george w. bush will appear with his younger brother at a rally in north charleston , s.c. , the jeb bush campaign said on thursday .
the 6 p.m. est event will be held at the north charleston coliseum and convention center .
the 69-year-old former president is highly popular in the republican party , particularly among south carolina republicans , who supported his 2000 and 2004 races for president .
george w. bush ’ s decision to go to war in iraq in 2003 remains a topic of debate in the race to find a successor to president barack obama , with republican front-runner donald trump noting that he had opposed the war .
bush ’ s image has improved among americans in the years since he left office in 2009 .
a cnn/orc poll last june found that 52 percent of adults had a favorable impression of him , compared with about a third of americans when he left office .
the bush campaign believes the ex-president can have a positive impact in south carolina , which has a sizable number of u.s. military facilities and military veterans who have supported the former commander-in-chief .
it will be the most public role george w. bush has taken to date in his brother ’ s campaign .
jeb bush , whose father was also president , played down his famous family roots for most of last year in his pursuit of the 2016 republican presidential nomination , but in need of a boost , he has been relying more heavily on his family ties .
his 90-year-old mother , barbara bush , campaigned with him last week in new hampshire .
george w. bush has headlined several private fundraisers for him and reporters were allowed in at one of them , in houston last october .
on wednesday his voice was heard on a radio ad in south carolina .
“ we need a strong leader with experience , ideas and resolve .
there ’ s no doubt in my mind that jeb bush will be a great commander-in-chief for our military , ” the former president says in the ad .
jeb bush has drawn large crowds during his appearances in south carolina on wednesday and thursday after experiencing something of a comeback with a fourth place finish in new hampshire .
he has some ground to make up in south carolina , however , with trump enjoying a big lead there ahead of the feb. 20 primary vote .
“ president bush has been incredibly supportive of his brother ’ s campaign and governor bush is excited to have him out on the trail , ” said bush spokeswoman kristy campbell .
( reporting by steve holland ; editing by steve orlofsky ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .