bogota ( reuters ) - colombia and the marxist eln rebel group said on monday they agreed a temporary ceasefire that would run through mid-january 2018 , but it would not be in effect when pope francis arrives in the andean country for a visit later this week .
the ceasefire , the first with the eln , is due to begin on oct. 1 and end on jan. 12 , with the possibility for extensions if it is respected , president juan manuel santos said in a televised address to the country .
the priority is to protect citizens , so during this period , kidnappings , attacks on oil pipelines and other hostilities against the civilian population will cease , he said .
the two sides have long said the pope s visit would be a good opportunity to call a ceasefire .
the government said details and verification methods were still being finalized and that was why the ceasefire did not begin immediately .
the national liberation army ( eln ) rebel group , which has bombed oil installations and kidnapped for ransom , was founded by radical catholic priests in 1964 .
the eln and government are in peace talks , currently being held in ecuador , to end 53 years of war .
since the talks began in february , the eln has continued to take hostages for ransom , launch bomb attacks and extort foreign oil and mining companies .
the eln told reuters last week that it had killed russian-armenian citizen arsen voskanyan in april .
the eln s practice of kidnapping civilians is a key issue at the peace talks .
the eln told reuters last week that they were not optimistic a peace agreement could be reached because neither side would give ground on kidnapping .
pope francis is scheduled to arrive in colombia on wednesday evening for a five-day visit to the cities of bogota , villavicencio , medellin and cartagena .
the eln said in a statement on its website on monday , we have said that the visit of pope francis should be an extra motivator to accelerate our work for an accord .
once the days of celebration of the presence of francis have passed , we will continue to insist on advancing toward the de-escalation of the conflict , until complete peace is a reality .