albany , n.y. ( reuters ) - new york governor andrew cuomo on wednesday presented a $ 145.3 billion budget that keeps operating funds growth at 1.7 percent for a sixth year , while promising an infrastructure development plan that he said will be the largest in the state ’ s history .
cuomo , a democrat , outlined his budget in his sixth annual state of the state address in new york ’ s capital , albany .
it was a wide-ranging speech designed to portray cuomo as a governor of big ideas , touching on topics including the minimum wage , prison reform , counter terrorism and paid maternity leave .
cuomo has consistently presented himself as a responsible steward of the state ’ s finances , capping spending growth at 2 percent or under .
when he took office in 2011 he inherited a budget deficit of $ 10 billion and a state known for fiscal dysfunction .
he has tied his governorship to big infrastructure projects and has spent the new year touring the state , promising a program to equip new york for the next 100 years .
wednesday ’ s speech was no exception .
cuomo , who has been cited as a possible presidential candidate beyond 2016 , presented himself as an alternative to the gridlock in washington d.c. “ this nation has real problems that we haven ’ t seen before and with the gridlock in washington i am not going to rely on them to solve them , ” cuomo told a packed convention center in the address that lasted for over an hour and half .
cuomo ’ s infrastructure plans include rebuilding new york city ’ s pennsylvania station for $ 3 billion , expanding rail services to long island by adding a third track for $ 1 billion and a $ 1 billion extension to the jacob k. javits convention center in new york city .
he has also promised $ 22 billion for upstate transport over the next five years .
the funds , which will primarily go to repairing roads and bridges , are aimed at creating parity between upstate and downstate spending on transport , cuomo said .
cuomo also tried to draw a line under a difficult year for albany after speakers of the assembly and senate were convicted on corruption charges .
he proposed measure to close a loop hole allowing some companies to skirt limits on political donations .
a cloud of suspicion was removed from cuomo this week after the top federal prosecutor in manhattan said there was “ insufficient ” evidence to prove any crimes occurred when the governor prematurely disbanded an anti-corruption panel .