a piece of art depicting cops as animals that are killing minorities that has no business hanging in our us capitol building artistic expression , or one congressman s political statement masquerading as student art ?
a very offensive depiction of police hands in the u.s. capitol complex , and missouri rep. william lacy clay is drawing heat for placing it there.for several months the painting , called untitled # 1 , has hung in the house building connecting hall , depicting police as animals seemingly engaged in the act of brutalizing minorities .
bprin february 2015 , democratic congressman clay suggested that prosecutors are responsible for fixing outcome of racially charged cases that involve cops when he claimed that in ferguson and in garner s death we saw an all-too-familiar pattern of local prosecutors who work hand-in-hand with police every day , essentially prewiring the grand jury process to produce a known outcome .
in a released statement , clay said , members of congress support student art competitions in our districts but we do not select the young artists and we do not judge the artwork .
i had no role in selecting the winner of this student art competition and i would never attempt to approve or disapprove artistic expression .
the u.s. capitol is a symbol of freedom , not censorship .
the young artist chose his own subject and the painting will not be removed .
he also told the st. louis post dispatch that the painting was the most creative expression that i ve witnessed in the last 16 years .
take it down , bolling said , telling viewers to call your congressman or call lacy clay s office .
take it down !
anti-cop crap must stop .
this `` art '' hangs in us capitol-contact rep lacy clay ( d-mo ) demand it removed https : //t.co/bxmi3zei6n eric bolling ( @ ericbolling ) december 31 , 2016joe patterson , president of the st. louis county police association , said that we are not about censorship , but good art and good taste are sometimes not the same thing .
this is an extraordinarily disrespectful piece at a minimum , he said .
we in the law enforcement community have been continuing to work to build bridges and come to a better understanding with our minority community and then we have irresponsible leadership from elected officials pouring gasoline on bridges haven t even finished being built yet , patterson said of clay .
he s picking at these wounds that we re trying to heal .
when the winning piece was chosen last spring , clay told the st. louis american that he considered it the most creative expression that i ve witnessed in the last 16 years of the competition .
slpd