copenhagen ( reuters ) - danish fishermen could be hit hard by britain s decision to leave the european union if it leads to restrictions in their access to british waters , a research report made on request of the danish government concluded on wednesday .
the danish fishing lobby has strong clout in copenhagen and could press the government to adopt a tough stance in britain s negotiations with the eu on a post-brexit trade deal .
european fishermen want brussels to use its trump card - continued access to the essential eu market - in negotiations on how to divvy up the seas .
those danish fishermen that operate the most in british waters could lose more than half of their current catch in the worst of four imagined scenarios , researchers from copenhagen university concluded in the report .
the actual consequences will depend on the negotiations between britain and the other 27 eu countries , minister for fisheries karen ellemann said .
we are working with the other affected countries to maintain our fishing opportunities and access to british waters , she said in a comment on the report .
each of the years from 2012 through to 2016 danish fishermen have unloaded fish from british waters worth between 700 million and 1 billion danish crowns ( $ 109-156 million ) .
that corresponds to 34 percent of the total value of fish uploaded by the danish fishermen , and 45 percent of the volume .
herring and mackerel would be especially hit , and it would indirectly hurt denmark s onshore fish processing industry .
the danish vessels might change behavior in a way which has not been foreseen in the analysis , or other fishing opportunities might become possible , for instance in the norwegian zone , the researchers said in the report .
danish fishermen have argued that if the british get free access to sell fish in the eu , then eu fishermen should also get free access to fish in the british fishing zone .
europe imports about 75 percent of the british catch .
britain has said it plans to allow foreign ships to fish in uk waters after brexit but claims the right to decide the extent of access .
the eu will be seeking to maintain something close to the status quo , industry sources have told reuters .