kosambi , indonesia ( reuters ) - two explosions tore through a fireworks factory on the outskirts of indonesia s capital on thursday , killing at least 47 people and injuring dozens .
it was one of indonesia s worst industrial disasters and is likely to cast a new spotlight on lax safety standards in the southeast asian country , where rules are often ignored or weakly enforced .
workers had no time to escape from the plant in tangerang , an industrial and manufacturing hub to the west of jakarta , after the explosions that one neighbor described as a roar that could be heard miles away .
a video of the scene inside the warehouse , widely shared on social media , showed charred bodies sprawled about the burnt-out factory , and reuters reporters at the scene saw grass scorched over an area about 10 meters ( 33 feet ) from the site .
people were burned so badly you couldn t see their faces ...
it was really bad , said search and rescue official deden nurjaman , who expected the death toll to climb as more bodies were found inside the factory .
fireworks are frequently used in indonesia for religious and other celebrations , and are widely available .
there have been a series of major fires in indonesia this year , including one that engulfed one of jakarta s main markets .
thick , dark plumes of smoke billowed from the factory through the afternoon as an inferno took hold .
as night fell , the pt panca buana cahaya sukses warehouse was still smoldering and there was a stench of chemicals and burning plastic .
jakarta police spokesman argo yuwono told metro television that 47 bodies had been discovered , 46 people were injured and 10 people were unaccounted for .
he said the missing might have left with light injuries or not have been working at the time .
one of the first policemen on the scene , raymond masengi , told metro tv that he and other officers had to smash holes in the factory wall to help the injured escape .
fiza , a doctor in the emergency unit at tangerang general hospital , said he was treating seven people , some of them with burns to more than 80 percent of their bodies .
three were in critical condition .
a nearby mosque held prayers for the victims .
forensic police worked in fading light to examine the debris , setting up a few floodlights to try and establish the cause of the blaze .
yuwono said police were looking into the permit of the factory , which was close to a school and housing and - according to media reports - had been operating for only two months .
a witness who lives around the corner from the factory said she heard an explosion like a roar .
i dressed and stepped outside the house , and saw the flames , they were almost in my face .
the smoke , the heat was in my face .
i panicked , i was scared , i picked up my son and ran away from the fire , said kartini , 40 , who uses one name , like many indonesians .
hundreds of children at a school just 100 meters ( yards ) from the factory jumped in terror over a wall as the explosions boomed , dropping books and bags in their haste to get away .
science teacher asep mahmud , 47 , said : there were several small explosions and then one really big one that shook our buildings and desks .
( this story has been refiled to correct typo in second paragraph )