hurricane harvey devastated texas on the 12th anniversary of katrina .
and now , hurricane harvey is advancing to louisiana .
katrina was one of the five deadliest storms in united states history , killing nearly 2,000 people as flood walls failed and the levee broke .
a whopping 80 percent of new orleans was under water as people fought to get on their rooftops to survive .
katrina was the deadliest hurricane to hit the u.s. since 1928 and it took days before bodies were discovered , mostly the elderly and disabled.in 2005 , mike pence , then a republican congressman from indiana , who considers himself to be a devout christian , addressed the issue of funding for the devastated state .
mr. speaker katrina breaks my heart .
when i consider it s tragic aftermath the ancient parable comes to mind and the rains descended and the flood came and the winds blew and beat against the house and it fell with a great crash .
for most american families when a tree falls on your house , you tend to the wounded , you rebuild and then you figure out how you re gon na pay for it , pence said .
later today congress will continue the work of funding the relief and recovery from hurricane katrina , he continued .
and well we should by speeding more than $ 50 billion dollars to fema & other agencies , but as we tend to the wounded , as we begin to rebuild , let us also do what every other american family would do in like circumstances , and expects this congress to do .
let s figure out how we re gon na pay for it .
congress must ensure that a catastrophe of this nature , does not become a catastrophe of debt for our children & grandchildren , he added , unfortunately.watch : video : katrina breaks my heart but we must not let katrina break the bank for our children & grandchildren mike pence-2005 # impeachtrump pic.twitter.com/sxmt8ngea7 scott dworkin ( @ funder ) august 29 , 2017at the time , pence was leading an effort by house republicans to offset any post-katrina aid with offsetting budget cuts in other programs , which includes highway projects and the new medicare prescription drug benefit.mike , you can stop calling yourself pro-life now , thankyouverymuch.featured image via aaron p. bernstein/stringer/getty images