milan ( reuters ) - silvio berlusconi need no longer pay his ex-wife 1.4 million euros ( $ 1.7 million ) a month , an italian court said on thursday , ruling the former prime minister had been unfairly treated in a divorce settlement .
the milan appeals court also told veronica lario , a former actress , to hand back to berlusconi alimony payments totaling some 60 million euros , saying she had no right to the money .
the good news for the tycoon politician comes as his political career - considered dead and buried only a year ago - is also back on the rise .
the milan case follows a landmark ruling by italy s top appeals court in may that said divorce settlements need not guarantee spouses their previous standard of living but rather ensure they were financially independent .
berlusconi , italy s seventh richest man , according to forbes , with a wealth estimated at about 7 billion euros , was married to lario for more than 22 years .
they split in 2009 , with the normally reserved lario writing to italy s national news agency to denounce her husband s interest in other women .
their divorce was formalized in 2014 .
following their separation , berlusconi was embroiled in scandals over his bunga bunga parties and convicted of paying to have sex with a 17-year-old minor .
the verdict was later overturned when an appeals court said it could not be proved he knew she was underage .
berlusconi s partner of the last five years is francesca pascale , a former television show girl 49 years his junior .
a court in 2012 initially awarded lario alimony of three million euros a month .
this was subsequently cut to 1.4 million , but berlusconi complained it was still too high .
a legal source said the milan judges took into consideration the may supreme court ruling and decided that lario , who has cash deposits of some 16 million euros as well as jewels and a real estate business , did not need additional monthly income .
there was no immediate comment from lario or her lawyers .