it was actually refreshing to see the cops fighting back against an unruly mob of mexican flag carrying rioters in san diego ( watch video here ) .
it s interesting to see how little coverage the threats against donald trump s life are getting by the press .
could you imagine a legal american tea party member threatening the life of hillary ?
do you think you d have to scour conservative news sources to find that story ?
no need to answer that hundreds of protesters gathered outside a donald trump rally on friday , chanting f * * k donald trump and holding obscene signs including one that included a death threat against trump should he win the presidency in november.the young protester held up a sign that read : if trump wins he ll be dead with in a week the cartel wont have his bullsh * t. protester outside trump san diego rally threatens trump with death by cartel if @ realdonaldtrump is elected pic.twitter.com/khqim8ro4h michelle moons ( @ michellediana ) may 27 , 2016mexican flags waved as the crowd flooded the street in front of the san diego convention center , where trump was speaking.arrests were also made at the anti-trump riots .
most of them appeared to be hispanic .
will the media ever disclose how many of the people who were arrested are illegal aliens.protester handcuffed outside trump san diego rally pic.twitter.com/qpmr3jbskt michelle moons ( @ michellediana ) may 28 , 2016at one point bottles were thrown at police , and in the course of the protests , several people were detained .
several pi atas depicted trump , including one whose head had been severed in the street , with the rest just a crumpled bit of papier-m ch .via : breitbart newswhat you didn t see reported by the mainstream media was the enormous crowd of supporters inside the san diego venue where trump was announced to thunderous applause .
it s no wonder the left is freaking out about trump .
he is drawing tens of thousands of supporters in the bluest of blue states and they re coming because they believe in him .
they re not coming because of the color of his skin or his promise to fundamentally destroy our nation , they re coming because they want to see america return to her greatness and they believe trump has the ability to actually make that happen .
what america did n't see much of !
@ realdonaldtrump 's rally in fresno , ca .
w/ the movement !
aka , # trumptrain pic.twitter.com/oetrl6m4a5 dan scavino jr. ( @ danscavino ) may 28 , 2016