manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte has not lifted a ban on open pit mining , his spokesman said on monday , going against the stance of a government panel and the environment minister who are seeking to reverse the policy .
open pit mining is allowed under the laws of the southeast asian country , the world s top nickel ore exporter .
but , the former environment minister regina lopez banned it during her 10 months in office , saying the environmental degradation ruined the economic potential of places where it was done .
the mining industry coordinating council ( micc ) , an inter-agency panel that makes recommendations on mining policy , last month asked the department of environment and natural resources to lift the ban .
roy cimatu , the new environment and natural resources secretary , supports removing the ban .
cimatu replaced lopez when she stepped down in may after the philippine congress voted not to confirm her .
i assure you that this is one of the instances when i personally asked the president if there s been a change in policy .
and he says that s there s still no new policy on this , there s still a ban on new open pit mining , harry roque , duterte s spokesman , told a media briefing .
roque said he was unsure whether the micc recommendation has reached duterte .
the micc is co-chaired by cimatu and finance secretary carlos dominguez .
calls and messages to cimatu seeking comment were not immediately returned .
but finance undersecretary bayani agabin , who is an alternate for dominguez on the micc , said the policy on open pit mining is under duterte s authority .
the president has the final say on the matter , agabin told reuters in a text message .
the ban would only affect new projects .
lifting the ban could open the door for some big-ticket ventures including the $ 5.9 billion tampakan copper and gold mine .
the tampakan project in south cotabato province on the island of mindanao is the nation s biggest stalled mining venture .
operator glencore plc to quit the project in 2015 but development was first halted after south cotabato banned open-pit mining in 2010 .
lopez has said the project would cover an area the size of 700 soccer fields in what otherwise would be agricultural land .
duterte said in september he agreed with the open-pit mining ban given the environmental damage it causes , but would give mining firms time to find other ways to extract minerals .