london ( reuters ) - britain said on thursday that moves toward paying half a billion dollars to iran for a debt owed since the 1979 islamic revolution had nothing to do with a bid to secure the release of a jailed iranian-british aid worker .
nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe , a project manager with the thomson reuters foundation , was detained in april and sentenced to five years after an iranian court convicted her of plotting to overthrow the clerical establishment .
she denies the charges .
prime minister theresa may s government is under intense pressure to secure zaghari-ratcliffe s release , in part because foreign secretary boris johnson made remarks that iran said justified her conviction .
britain has sought legal advice over whether it could transfer over 400 million pounds ( $ 528 million ) which it owes the islamic republic in capital and interest for a 1970s arms deal with the then-shah of iran , the telegraph newspaper .
britain owes the money after the shah paid up front for 1,750 chieftain tanks and other vehicles , almost none of which were eventually delivered after the islamic revolution of 1979 toppled the u.s.-backed leader .
british officials did not directly answer requests for comment on whether they were preparing to pay the money to iran , but may s spokesman said the debt issue was not linked to the attempts to convince tehran to release zaghari-ratcliffe .
talks to resolve the debt matter have been going on for years .
it is wrong to link a completely separate debt issue with any other aspect of our bilateral relationship with iran , a government spokesman said , adding that iran s defence ministry remains subject to european union sanctions .
the debt was paid to a bank account controlled by the high court in 2002 but has not been released due to sanctions on the islamic republic , the spokesman said .
iran rejected media reports associating the debt britain owed to iran with the fate of zaghari-ratcliffe .
these are two separate matters ...
linking them is wrong .
nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe has been tried and sentenced to jail , tv quoted foreign ministry spokesman bahram qasemi as saying .
british officials told the telegraph that work on how to pay the debt has intensified in recent months in a bid to improve relations with iran .
when asked about the reports , may s spokesman said the government saw no connection between the debt and the fate of zaghari-ratcliffe .
we are clear we don t see any link between these two issues , the spokesman said .
the reports are speculation , not anything that i recognize .
the thomson reuters foundation is a charity organization that is independent of thomson reuters .
it operates independently of reuters news .