vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis issued a stinging new critique of the vatican s top administration on thursday , saying traitors stood in the way of his reforms and made any change as hard as cleaning egypt s sphinx with a toothbrush .
for the fourth year running , francis used his annual christmas greetings to the roman catholic church s central bureaucracy , or curia , to lecture the assembled cardinals , bishops and other department heads on the need for change .
reforming rome is like cleaning the sphinx of egypt with a toothbrush , he said , quoting a 19th-century belgian churchman .
the phrase did not evoke much laughter when the pope read it in the frescoed clementina hall of the vatican s apostolic palace .
since his election as the first latin american pope in 2013 , francis has been trying to reform the italian-dominated curia to bring the church s hierarchy closer to its members , to enact financial reforms and guide it out of scandals that marked the pontificate of his predecessor , former pope benedict .
but he has encountered resistance , particularly as some departments have been closed , merged or streamlined .
francis said some in the bureaucracy - the nerve center of the 1.2-billion-member church and whose members are entrusted with carrying out the pope s decisions - were part of cliques and plots .
francis called this unbalanced and degenerate and a cancer that leads to a self-referential attitude .
in his address on thursday , he spoke of those traitors of trust who had been entrusted with carrying out reforms but let themselves be corrupted by ambition and vainglory .
when they are quietly let go , he said , they erroneously declare themselves to be martyrs of the system ... instead of reciting a mea culpa ( latin for my fault ) .
francis did not cite any specific examples .
last june the vatican s first auditor general resigned suddenly .
he later said he was forced to step down because he had discovered irregularities but the vatican said he had been spying on his superiors .
earlier this month , the vatican bank s deputy director was fired under circumstances that have not been explained .
in july , in a major shake-up of the vatican administration , francis replaced catholicism s top theologian , a conservative german cardinal who has been at odds with the pontiff s vision of a more inclusive church .
francis said the overwhelming majority of curia members were faithful , competent and some saintly .
later , in a separate meeting with lay vatican employees and their families , francis asked forgiveness for the failings of some church officials .
he spoke hours before the funeral of cardinal bernard law , the ex-archbishop of boston who resigned in disgrace after covering up years of sexual abuse of children by priests and whose name became a byword for scandal in the catholic church .