london ( reuters ) - the chance that britain leaves the european union without agreeing a divorce deal has not increased recently and talks have not hit an impasse , british finance minister philip hammond said on monday .
hammond , who last week apologized for calling the eu the enemy , described relations with european countries as constructive .
however , he said the eu s strict adherence to a phased negotiating process - which first tackles budget issues and the rights of eu citizens living in britain - was delaying progress on more substantive trade issues .
last week the eu s chief negotiator said talks were deadlocked , notably over london s refusal to detail what it was offering to pay brussels to settle outstanding liabilities after its june 2016 vote to leave the bloc .
this followed an attempt by may last month to revive the negotiations with a speech in florence promising britain would honor its eu commitments .
asked in an interview with u.s. broadcaster cnbc whether the risk of no deal had risen , hammond said : personally i don t think so .
it is so blindingly obviously in the best interests of both the uk and the european union 27 that we do reach a deal so we can continue trading together .
prime minister theresa may is due to meet european commission chief jean-claude juncker over dinner later on monday to try to refocus the talks on future trade ties .
earlier on monday jpmorgan said the chance of a no deal brexit had risen to 25 percent from 15 percent previously , in line with the consensus of a reuters poll of economists published last month .
hammond was speaking in the united states during a visit to attend an international monetary fund meeting and see finance industry representatives .
he predicted london would keep its status as a global financial center and said most international banks were planning to keep the vast majority of their london-based staff .
eu business is only a fraction of london s total business , and we re very confident that the uk , london , will remain a global financial center , he said .