augusta , maine ( reuters ) - maine lawmakers killed a motion on thursday that would have marked the first step toward impeaching republican governor paul lepage , whose blunt comments have often infuriated adversaries .
the motion , presented on thursday morning by eight democrats and one independent , called for the creation of a legislative committee to investigate at least eight “ allegations of misconduct ” against lepage .
lawmakers seeking lepage ’ s ouster contended he overstepped his authority when he threatened to withhold funds last year from a nonprofit that hired a political rival , among other charges .
legislators , including some of lepage ’ s critics in the democratic-controlled state house of representatives , voted 96-52 to postpone the motion indefinitely .
“ as i have said all along , this impeachment nonsense was nothing more than a political witch hunt that had absolutely no merit , ” lepage said in a statement following the vote .
the vote came a week after lepage drew criticism for saying out-of-state drug dealers were coming to maine and impregnating “ white girls. ” critics called the comments racist , while lepage told reporters he had misspoken .
the majority of democrats who spoke during a three hour-long house debate favored an investigation of lepage ’ s actions , but republicans said the allegations against lepage would set the bar for impeachment proceedings too low .
“ what is going to be the standard , the threshold , next time that someone is disgruntled with the actions of a chief executive ? ” asked republican state representative ken fredette .
lepage has acknowledged threatening to withhold funding from a charter school for troubled youths , after it hired house speaker mark eves , a democrat , as president .
lepage said he felt eves was unqualified and had been offered the job as a political favor .
maine attorney general janet mills , a democrat often at odds with lepage , reviewed the charges but found no basis for a criminal investigation .
since taking office in 2011 as a favorite of the conservative tea party movement , lepage has often engaged in a war of words with political opponents .
he has called eves a “ hack ” and often refers to the legislators as “ corrupt. ” no maine governor has ever been impeached .
nationally , state officials are rarely impeached .
most recently , in 2009 , illinois governor rod blagojevich was removed from office for attempting to sell then president-elect barack obama ’ s vacated senate seat for cash .