kandahar , afghanistan ( reuters ) - senior afghan and american officials welcomed the arrival of new u.s.-made military helicopters on saturday , beginning a process that will radically transform the young afghan air force .
while the plan for new uh-60 black hawk helicopters has been in the works for some time , it forms a major part of the u.s.-led military coalition s training efforts , which were expanded under proposals approved by president donald trump in august .
it s a modernization of their program that will allow them to project power throughout afghanistan , said lieutenant colonel trent alexander , a u.s. military adviser to the afghan air force .
while transitioning to the black hawk will not be a quick task , it will not be a difficult task .
at a ceremony at kandahar airfield in southern afghanistan , afghan president ashraf ghani formally accepted the first new helicopters , calling it a historic day that would allow the air force to better respond to the demands on the security forces .
the russian-designed mi-17 helicopters that currently form the backbone of the afghan air force worked well for crews used to russian equipment , but deteriorating relations between moscow and washington meant that the americans were unable to provide new parts and aircraft to replace the overworked aircraft .
the mi-17 was a great aircraft and it brought the afghans the ability to be capable , however , with the introduction of the uh-60 they are now sustainable , alexander said .
by 2024 the u.s. plans to provide the afghans with at least 159 black hawks , including 58 fitted with extra rocket pods and machine guns to provide close air support , a fleet that will dwarf the fewer than 40 mi-17s currently operational .
the black hawks will cost the american government almost $ 8 million a piece , officials said , after a process that completely refurbishes and upgrades u.s. army surplus aircraft .
so far only two training black hawks have arrived , with the delivery of several additional helicopters delayed by the u.s. military s humanitarian response to hurricanes in the caribbean .
retraining an afghan pilot to fly the black hawk takes about five to six months , said alexander .
members of the first class of six pilots said they were excited over what they view as more modern helicopters .
black hawks are manoeuverable because they are smaller than the mi-17 , so will be more capable during fighting , carrying soldiers , or cargo , said one pilot , zabihullah dorandish .
the afghan pilots are expected to begin flying their own missions in the black hawks by early next year , officials said .
a twitter feed attributed to taliban spokesman zabihullah mujahid warned that the aircraft would do nothing to change the war .
u.s. and afghan leaders should remember that our fight is not based on technology but is an ideologically motivated fight , he said in one twitter post .