who wants to deport dreamers ?
not many people , it turns out .
even veteran immigration restrictionists seem willing to legalize this subset of immigrants in the country illegally if it is part of a package deal .
that s true even though a lot of what s said about the daca recipients is pr-style hooey.for example , it s often said indeed , former president barack obama just recently said that the approximately 800,000 of them were brought to this country by their parents .
well , many were .
but that s not required to qualify as a protected deferred action for childhood arrivals program recipient under the various plans , including obama s. you just have to have entered the country illegally before age 16 .
you could have decided to sneak in against your parents wishes .
you re still a dreamer !
likewise , we re told daca recipients are college-bound high school grads or military personnel .
that s an exaggeration .
all that s actually required is that the person enroll in a high school course or an alternative , including online courses and english-as-a-second-language classes .
under obama s now-suspended program , you didn t even have to stay enrolled.compared with the general population , daca recipients are not especially highly skilled .
a recent survey for several pro- dreamer groups , with participants recruited by those groups , found that while most daca recipients are not in school , the vast majority work .
but their median hourly wage is only $ 15.34 , meaning that many are competing with hard-pressed lower-skilled americans.the daca recipients you read about have typically been carefully selected for their appeal .
they re valedictorians .
they re first responders .
they re curing diseases .
they root for the yankees .
they want to serve in the army .
if daca recipients are the poster children for the much larger population of immigrants in the country illegally , these are the poster children for the poster children .
chicago tribune34 republicans in congress are not about to let the pesky facts about obama s dreamers get in the way of lobbying speaker ryan to grant them permanent citizenship.numbers usa reports thirty-four republicans in the house of representatives signed a letter to house speaker paul ryan calling for passage of a permanent daca amnesty before the end of the year .
reps. scott taylor ( r-va. ) and dan newhouse ( r-wash. ) led the effort.while the lawmakers stop short of demanding passage of a daca amnesty before the end of the year or including an amnesty in this month s must-pass spending bill , they don t insist on any other immigration-related provisions that would stop future flows of illegal immigration by calling for mandatory e-verify or to reduce the numerical impact of the amnesty by calling for an end to chain migration.the letter reads : dear speaker ryan , we write in support of passing of a permanent legislative solution for deferred action for childhood arrivals ( daca ) recipients before the end of the year .
daca recipients young people brought to america through no fault of their own are contributing members of our communities and our economy .
for many , this is the only country they have ever known .
they are american in every way except their immigration status.since daca s inception , the federal government has approved approximately 795,000 initial daca applications and 924,000 renewals .
since being approved for daca status , an overwhelming majority of these individuals have enrolled in school , found employment , or have served in the military .
studies have shown that passing legislation to permanently protect these individuals would add hundreds of billions to our country s gross domestic product ( gdp ) .
that is why the business community , universities , and civic leaders alike support a permanent legislative solution.we agree with president trump that executive action was not the appropriate process for solving this issue , as was done under the previous administration , and we believe congress should act .
we are compelled to act immediately because many daca recipients are about to lose or have already lost their permits in the wake of the program s rescission .
not acting is creating understandable uncertainty and anxiety amongst immigrant communities.while we firmly believe congress must work to address other issues within our broken immigration system , it is imperative that republicans and democrats come together to solve this problem now and not wait until next year .
we all agree that our border must be enforced , our national security defended , and our broken immigration system reformed , but in this moment , we must address the urgent matter before us in a balanced approach that does not harm valuable sectors of our economy nor the lives of these hard-working young people .
we must pass legislation that protects daca recipients from deportation and gives them the opportunity to apply for a more secured status in our country as soon as possible .
reaching across the aisle to protect daca recipients before the holidays is the right thing to do.here s the list of 34 republicans who need to be drained from the swamp : rep. scott taylor ( va-2 ) rep. dan newhouse ( wa-4 ) rep. mia love ( ut-4 ) rep. mark amodei ( nv-2 ) rep. david valadao ( ca-21 ) rep. dave reichert ( wa-8 ) rep. brian fitzpatrick ( pa-8 ) rep. mike coffman ( co-6 ) rep. charles dent ( pa-15 ) rep. frank lobiando ( nj-2 ) rep. peter king ( ny-2 ) rep. carlos curbelo ( fl-26 ) rep. illeana ros-lehtinen ( fl-27 ) rep. ryan costello ( pa-6 ) rep. fred upton ( mi-6 ) rep. jeff denham ( ca-10 ) rep. rodney davis ( il-13 ) rep. john faso ( ny-19 ) rep. john katko ( ny-24 ) rep. chris stewart ( ut-2 ) rep. susan brooks ( in-5 ) rep. adam kinzinger ( il-16 ) rep. glenn t. thompson ( pa-5 ) rep. mike simpson ( id-2 ) rep. mimi walters ( ca-45 ) rep. leonard lance ( nj-7 ) rep. pat meehan ( pa-7 ) rep. elise stefanik ( ny-21 ) rep. tom mcarthur ( nj-3 ) rep. chris smith ( nj-4 ) rep. jenniffer gonzales-colon ( pr ) rep. joe barton ( tx-6 ) rep. will hurd ( tx-23 ) rep. bruce poloquin ( me-2 ) numbers usa does an amazing job of exposing the truth about illegal immigration and what it really costs the american taxpayer .
nearly all funding for numbersusa action comes from individuals giving $ 10 , $ 25 and $ 100 donations over the internet .
if you can afford to make even a small donation , it will help them to continue to help americans change immigration policies .
you can donate to numbers usa here .