beijing ( reuters ) - china is facing heightened threats from foreign infiltration via religion and from the spread of extremism , a top official for religious affairs said on tuesday , after strict new rules were passed to manage religious practice in the country .
president xi jinping has emphasized the need to guard against foreign infiltration through religion and to prevent the spread of extremist ideology , while also being tolerant of traditional faiths that he sees as a salve to social ills .
china s cabinet last week passed updated rules to regulate religion so as to bolster national security , fight extremism and restrict faith practiced outside state approved organizations .
the new rules take effect in february .
wang zuoan , the head of china s religious affairs bureau , said the revision was urgently needed because the foreign use of religion to infiltrate ( china ) intensifies by the day and religious extremist thought is spreading in some areas .
issues with religion on the internet are starting to break out ... and illegal religious gatherings in some places continue despite bans , he added , writing in the official paper of the ruling communist party , the people s daily .
wang said that freedom of religious faith is protected by the new rules .
at the same time , freedom of religious faith is not equal to religious activities taking place without legal restrictions , he added .
religion within china needed to be sinicized , a term officials use to describe the adjusting of religion to fit chinese culture as interpreted by the party .
these rules will help maintain the sinicization of religion in our country ... and keep to the correct path of adapting religion to a socialist society , he said .
china s five officially sanctioned religions - buddhism , taoism , islam , catholicism and christianity - vowed to fight desinicization at a forum on the topic held in beijing last week , according state media .
china has seen a revival of religious practice in recent decades after faith was effectively banned during the cultural revolution in the 1960s .
official estimates put the number of believers at around 100 million , but scholars argue that the real number could be many times higher , due to many believers being unregistered with authorities .
china requires places of worship to be registered with authorities , but many believers shun official settings in preference for private gatherings often known as underground churches .
( story corrects to reflect that rules were passed by china s cabinet , not parliament , in third paragraph . )