jerusalem ( reuters ) - an israeli ex-soldier who serves as a spokesman for a group that documents alleged abuses of palestinians has set off a legal tussle with the israeli authorities by saying he himself beat a detainee .
after dean issacharoff , a former army lieutenant , spoke of the incident in a speech uploaded to youtube in april , the israeli justice ministry took the unusual move of launching an investigation , with him as a suspect .
issacharoff , the son of a senior diplomat , belongs to breaking the silence , a circle of army veterans that has long angered israeli leaders by publicising abroad what it says are confessions of war crimes in occupied palestinian territory .
the group portrayed as another example of israeli military excess issacharoff s account of what he said was his own beating of a palestinian stone-thrower in the west bank town of hebron while trying to handcuff him in 2014 .
but the justice ministry last week declared the case closed , saying questioning of the alleged palestinian victim showed the event had never happened and that issacharoff had made a mendacious claim .
on twitter , prime minister benjamin netanyahu celebrated the decision as further proof breaking the silence lies and slanders our soldiers .
issacharoff retorted on social media that the ministry had questioned the wrong palestinian - a man he had detained separately in hebron around the same time .
breaking the silence issued what it said was video of the right incident , showing issacharoff frog-marching a handcuffed man .
the palestinian appears to have dark patches on his cheeks , which the group said were bruises from issacharoff having kneed him .
issacharoff said he bloodied the palestinian , though no blood is seen on the detainee in the footage .
achiya schatz , another breaking the silence spokesman , accused the justice ministry of clearing issacharoff in order to discredit the group .
this was a politicised investigation , made-to-order for the elimination of opposition ( voices ) , schatz said .
prosecutor nurit littman denied any bias and said issacharoff s testimony had been too sketchy to produce corroboration .
we do not dabble in politics .
we deal in evidence , she told army radio , leaving open the possibility of a new investigation taking into consideration the new video .
interviewed on israeli television , the palestinian , faisal al-natsheh , said he had been detained though he had not thrown stones , and had been beaten by troops .
he could not confirm issacharoff was among them .
they didn t let me look at them , not even once , he said .