mogadishu ( reuters ) - a court in somalia on thursday released without charge a former minister and government critic who spent two days in jail after being arrested for alleged treason , an arrest which ignited a smoldering political crisis for the fragile government .
abdirahman abdishakur was released after the attorney general , who had ordered his arrest , had failed to bring evidence against him , judge aweys sheikh abdullahi told a courtroom .
he was released at midnight after reconciliation efforts between the government and traditional leaders before thursday s court ruling , information minister abdirahman omar osman said .
somali attorney general ahmed ali dahir said he planned to appeal the ruling and criticized the court for not granting him five extra days to investigate as he had requested .
the case is in its first phase , he told reporters .
the attorney general s office was not given the investigation period it asked for .
earlier this week , dahir had described abdishakur s house as a hub for the opposition and a gathering point for people who wanted to replace the government .
the arrest of abdishakur , who ran in the february election won by president mohamed abdullahi mohamed , followed mounting pressure on the president and his u.n.-backed government to end an islamist insurgency .
on wednesday , some somali lawmakers said they planned to impeach the president .
[ l4n1ok3z0 ] parliament adjourned last week until the end of february , but some legislators want it to reconvene on an emergency basis , lawmaker mahad salad told reuters .
the political turmoil endangers fragile gains against the islamist al shabaab insurgency .
islamist militants al shabaab have been stepping up pressure on mohamed s government by staging frequent and increasingly large-scale bombings against both civilian and military targets in recent months in the capital mogadishu and elsewhere .
the group is fighting to expel african union peacekeeping force amisom from somalia , topple the federal government and impose rule based on its strict interpretation of islam s sharia law .
more than 500 people were killed in twin bomb blasts in mogadishu in october while this month a suicide bomber killed at least 18 people at a mogadishu police academy .
early on thursday , al shabaab militants ambushed three vehicles belonging to the military s u.s.-trained special forces unit danab on a road between mogadishu and the town of wanlaweyn .
the group said it seized the three cars while residents said they saw two burning cars .
police major ahmed nur told reuters al shabaab had targeted the convoy with a roadside bomb before ambushing it .
we sent reinforcement to the area but we believe many died from both sides , he said .
we ambushed the so-called military commandos and took their pickups , abdiasis abu musab , al shabaab s military operation spokesman , said .
somalia has been locked in lawlessness and violence since the early 1990s , following the ousting of dictator mohamed siad barre .