erbil iraq ( reuters ) - iraqi kurdish president masoud barzani departed office on wednesday , leaving his nephew to reconcile with the central government in baghdad , with regional neighbors and with rival kurdish parties after a failed referendum on independence .
nechirvan barzani , who has served alongside his uncle as prime minister , will now be the main authority figure in the executive of the kurdish autonomous region , following masoud barzani s departure as president , kurdish officials said .
the prime minister will be the key person during this transitional period , said hoshyar zebari , a former iraqi foreign minister , now advisor to the kurdish government and senior member of the ruling kurdistan democratic party ( kdp ) .
the elder barzani , a 71-year-old veteran guerrilla leader , had run the kurdish autonomous region with a firm hand since 2005 , during which it prospered while the rest of iraq was mired in civil war .
but he announced his resignation on sunday , effective on nov. 1 , after a sept. 25 referendum on independence backfired , prompting the central government to send troops to recapture territory held by the kurds outside their autonomous region .
the referendum and government backlash have also revealed deep divisions among the kurds themselves .
during his resignation speech , masoud barzani accused his political rivals of high treason for yielding territory without a fight .
his nephew nechirvan , 51 , who has served as prime minister for all but three years since 2006 , is seen in kurdish politics as a less polarising figure , having warmer relations than his uncle with rival kurdish parties .
he also has a close working relationship with turkey s president tayyip erdogan , who has backed baghdad in the central government s dispute with the kurds since the referendum .
the kurdish regional parliament voted on sunday to divide the president s powers among parliament , the judiciary and the cabinet , until parliamentary and presidential elections are next held .
the elections were originally scheduled for nov. 1 but postponed last month until next year .
before the referendum , barzani s son masrour was seen as his likely successor , but he has been damaged by his backing of the secession vote , which soured relationships with baghdad and regional powers who opposed it .
on monday , the united states commended masoud barzani for stepping down and said it would actively engage with nechirvan barzani and his deputy , qubad talabani , a member of the rival political faction with whom he maintains a good relationship .
uk foreign secretary boris johnson also spoke with nechirvan barzani on monday to encourage dialogue with baghdad .
he also met with met with the french and germany ambassadors to iraq , bruno aubert and cyrill nunn , on tuesday .
as prime minister , nechirvan barzani has been central to brokering the semi-autonomous region s oil dealings , now in jeopardy following iraq s recapture of disputed territories on oct. 16 , including the oil-rich city of kirkuk .
despite no longer being president , masoud barzani will not be retreating from public life , government officials said .
in his televised address on sunday announcing the end of his presidency , barzani said that he would remain a peshmerga , or kurdish fighter , and will continue to battle for his people s lifelong dream of independence .
he will also remain head of the ruling party and will still sit on the high political council , a non-governmental body which emerged after the referendum .
kurdish politics have been dominated for decades by the kdp , led by three generations of the barzani family , and its main rivals the patriotic union of kurdistan ( puk ) , led by the family of jalal talabani , who died in october .
the two parties fought a civil war against each other in the 1990s , but maintained an outward appearance of unity after the fall of saddam hussein in 2003 , with jalal talabani serving as iraq s ceremonial president in baghdad from 2005-2014 while masoud barzani ran the kurdish autonomous region .