beirut ( reuters ) - with the map of syria s conflict decisively redrawn in president bashar al-assad s favor , his russian allies want to convert military gains into a settlement that stabilizes the shattered nation and secures their interests in the region .
a year after the opposition s defeat in aleppo , government forces backed by russia and iran have recovered large swathes of territory as islamic state s caliphate collapses .
as u.n.-backed talks in geneva fail to make any progress , russia is preparing to launch its own political process in 2018 .
president vladimir putin declared mission accomplished for the military on a visit to russia s syrian air base this week , and said conditions were ripe for a political solution .
though washington still insists assad must go , a senior syrian opposition figure told reuters the united states and other governments that have backed the rebellion had finally surrendered to the russian vision on ending the war .
the view in damascus is that this will preserve assad as president .
a syrian official in damascus said it is clear a track is underway , and the russians are overseeing it .
there is a shift in the path of the crisis in syria , a shift for the better , the official said .
but analysts struggle to see how russian diplomacy can bring lasting peace to syria , encourage millions of refugees to return , or secure western reconstruction aid .
there is no sign that assad is ready to compromise with his opponents .
the war has also allowed his other big ally , iran and its revolutionary guard , to expand its regional influence , which tehran will not want to see diluted by any settlement in syria .
having worked closely to secure assad , iran and russia may now differ in ways that could complicate russian policy .
assad and his allies now command the single largest chunk of syria , followed by u.s.-backed kurdish militias who control much of northern and eastern syria and are more concerned with shoring up their regional autonomy than fighting damascus .
anti-assad rebels still cling to patches of territory : a corner of the northwest at the turkish border , a corner of the southwest at the israeli frontier , and the eastern ghouta near damascus .
eastern ghouta and the northwest are now in the firing line .
the revolutionary guards clearly feel they have won this war and the hardliners in iran are not too keen on anything but accommodation with assad , so on that basis it is a little hard to see that there can be any real progress , said rolf holmboe , a former danish ambassador to syria .
assad can not live with a political solution that involves any real power sharing , said holmboe .
the solution he could potentially live with is to freeze the situation you have on the ground right now .
the war has been going assad s way since 2015 , when russia sent its air force to help him .
the scales tipped even more his way this year : russia struck deals with turkey , the united states and jordan that contained in the war in the west , indirectly helping assad s advances in the east , and washington pulled military aid from the rebels .
though assad seems unbeatable , western governments still hope to effect change by linking reconstruction aid to a credible political process leading to a genuine transition .
while paying lip service to the principle that any peace deal should be concluded under u.n. auspices , russia aims to convene its own peace congress in the black sea resort of sochi .
the aim is to draw up a new constitution followed by elections .
the senior syrian opposition figure said the united states and other states that had backed their cause - saudi arabia , qatar , jordan and turkey - had all given way to russia .
sochi , not geneva , would be the focal point for talks .
this is the way it has been understood from talking to the americans , the french , the saudis - all the states , the opposition figure said .
it is clear that this is the plan , and there is no state that will oppose this ... because the entire world is tired of this crisis .
proposals include forming a new government to hold elections that would include syrian refugees .
but the time frame : six months , two years , three years , all depends on the extent of understanding between the russians and americans , the opposition figure said .
if the russians and americans differ greatly , the whole table could be overturned .
russia is serious about accomplishing something with the political process , but on its own terms and turf , said senior international crisis group analyst noah bonsey .
i am not sure they have a good sense of how to accomplish that and to the extent that they seek to accomplish things politically , they may run into the divergence of interests between themselves and their allies , he said .
the syrian kurdish question is one area where russia and iran have signaled different goals .
while a top iranian official recently said the government would take areas held by the u.s.-backed , kurdish-led forces , russia has struck deals with the kurds and their u.s. sponsors .
from the start of the crisis , there s been a difference between the russians and the iranians and the regime , said fawza youssef , a top kurdish politician .
the russians believe the kurds have a cause that should be taken into account .
damascus , while issuing its own warnings to the kurds , may continue to leave them to their own devices as it presses campaigns against the last rebel-held pockets of western syria .
the situation in the southwest is shaped by different factors , namely israel s determination to keep iran-backed forces away from its frontier , which could prompt an israeli military response .
there are still major questions and a lot of potential for escalating violence in various parts of syria , said bonsey .