swiss voters are deciding whether they want to have a national salary for everyone .
everyone gets a paycheck no matter what !
of course , the economists are horrified by this : the argument doesn t sway many economists , who say the fear of poverty is largely what motivates a workforce .
if you pay people to do nothing , they will do nothing voters in switzerland have been asked to decide whether to provide the entire population with a basic , unconditional income an unprecedented idea .
the issue is a contentious one calling into question the value of work.polls opened on sunday in which swiss voters were being asked whether an unconditional basic income should be provided for every man , woman and child.the ballot doesn t give a figure but economists project a minimum of 2,500 swiss francs ( $ 2,560 , 2,225 euros ) per month is needed to make ends meet in the expensive alpine country .
children would need about a quarter of that amount.the question was placed on the ballot after the necessary 100,000 petition signatures were gathered to force the issue.opponents to the initiative warn a mass payout would explode public spending and the swiss government advised voters cast their vote against the measure.but proponents insist the time has come for a minimum monthly wage as sweeping technological changes and advances in automation continue to displace manual workers .
our parents , grandparents and beyond worked hard so that we could produce more by working less , with machines and so forth , ralph kundig , president of the swiss chapter of the basic income earth network said .
the only thing that they did not foresee was that this wealth would only benefit the owners of the means of production .
revolutionary or wacky ? that argument doesn t sway many economists , who say the fear of poverty is largely what motivates a workforce .
if you pay people to do nothing , they will do nothing , charles wyplosz , economics professor at the geneva graduate institute , told the afp news agency.not so , argues kundig , who says some pilot projects indicate most people wouldn t sit idle even if they could , and that entrepreneurship could be boosted if people weren t so afraid of the financial risk .
basic income is much more of a stimulant to employment and the economic activity of a country , he said.observers are watching with interest to see how the vote will go .
international labor organization director general guy ryder said he expected interest in the issue to swell , as technological advances make more and more jobs obsolete , and a growing number of people remain in the ranks of the working poor .
we are going to have to find ways of distributing national income which are not directly related to the work that we do , ryder said.at this point it s all theoretical and it will be up to swiss voters to decide.so who would pay for it ? different models have been posited , including fees on salaries of people who earn more than the minimum , savings from welfare programs that would be discontinued and taxes or spending cuts in the state budget .
via : live leak