( reuters ) - during a 10-month period starting in november 2015 , four firms qualified by illinois governor bruce rauner ’ s administration purchased $ 1.12 billion in unpaid bills due scores of vendors providing critical goods and services .
in return , the firms stood to pocket at least $ 118 million in state-funded late-payment penalties as of late september .
firm receivables acquired * late-payment penalty * vendor assistance program $ 707.2 million $ 82.4 million illinois financing partners $ 275.4 million $ 18.6 million vendor capital finance llc $ 145 million $ 16.9 million payplant $ 475,330 $ 39,530 * as of sept. 28 , 2016 source : illinois department of central management services vendor assistance program ( vap ) vap ’ s february 2014 disclosure , its latest available , identifies six funding sources and 12 owners , including citibank n.a .
and the consulting firm owned by democratic political strategist patti solis doyle , hillary clinton ’ s 2008 presidential campaign manager .
another vap investor listed on that document is manchester securities , which is owned by billionaire hedge fund manager paul singer and had a 4 percent stake .
state records show singer donated $ 250,000 to rauner in september 2014 , two months before rauner ’ s election and 14 months before the launch of the rauner administration ’ s vendor support initiative .
argentina dubbed an affiliated singer-owned company a “ vulture ” investor for its hardball tactics in a decade-plus legal battle with the south american nation over defaulted sovereign debt .
at one point , the singer firm had an argentine naval training vessel briefly impounded by ghana in an attempt to extract money from buenos aires .
illinois financing partners ( ifp ) illinois financing partners , llc ’ s involvement in the program is backed by a $ 500 million bank of america commitment , according to an ifp filing with the state in april .
ifp ’ s purchases have consisted entirely of overdue health alliance bills .
the group ’ s president , founder and majority investor is lindsay trittipoe , who holds a 58 percent stake in the company .
ifp ’ s minority investors include former two-term illinois republican governor jim edgar , who is ifp ’ s board chairman , and former u.s. representative jerry costello , an illinois democrat .
both hold 1 percent stakes in the company .
vendor capital finance llc a february 2014 disclosure to illinois , the most recent available , lists new york municipal finance consultant le chen as vcf ’ s chief executive officer .
lerose , llc , of which chen is identified as the lone member in state business records , reported a 6 percent ownership stake in vcf .
with a nearly 94 percent stake , vcf ’ s largest owner was er illinois llc , based at the same new york address as richmond hill investment co. , lp , vcf ’ s filing showed .
payplant llc the palo alto , california-based firm was co-founded by ronjon nag , an inventor and smartphone pioneer , and neerav berry , a computer engineering expert and co-founder of a mobile app store platform acquired by blackberry .
a february 2014 filing with illinois showed nag and wife sally ann rudd committing $ 5 million to payplant with another $ 5 million coming from the berry & pandey living trust .
the program targets invoices from contractors providing vital state services 90 or more days overdue .
to date , illinois has designated a variety of vendors , including some that supply state employees and retirees with medical services , feed prison inmates and keep illinois ’ computer systems functioning .
the outside groups front unpaid vendors 90 percent of the face value of their receivables .
whenever illinois eventually pays those bills , vendors keep the remaining 10 percent of what they are owed , then forward the balance and late-payment penalties to the lenders .
sources : illinois department of central management services