seoul ( reuters ) - hundreds of thousands of rohingya muslims who fled to bangladesh from violence in myanmar have been drained by the trauma they suffered during the crisis and a struggle to overcome desperate want , the united nations refugee chief said on wednesday .
more than 600,000 rohingya have fled buddhist-majority myanmar since late august this year for neighboring bangladesh , driven out by a military clearance operation in rakhine state .
the refugees suffering has caused an international outcry , spurring appeals by aid agencies for millions of dollars in funds to tackle the crisis .
i found this was a population that had almost no response .
very passive , said filippo grandi , the u.n. high commissioner for refugees , describing his visit late in september to camps where the refugees were staying .
you almost felt there was nothing left and that everything had been drained by this , he told reuters in an interview in his first visit to the south korean capital .
he saw the lassitude as a symptom of trauma , he added .
we haven t seen this kind of trauma for a very long , long time , the italian diplomat said .
maybe i saw it in the 90s in central africa .
grandi coordinated un humanitarian activities in the democratic republic of congo during its 1996-97 civil war .
the success of aid efforts by the united nations and non-government bodies depends on the myanmar government to defuse the hostility facing humanitarian workers in rakhine , grandi said .
it s not political work , it s not to favor one community over the other , he said .
on the contrary , it s directed to all those who are in need .
and when members of the buddhist community are in need , they certainly qualify for that .
i think it s important that they stress that , they do that more , said grandi .
tension had been rising between the government and aid agencies even before the spasm of violence that began in late august .
officials had accused the world food programme of aiding insurgents after high-energy biscuits were discovered in july at a forest encampment the authorities said belonged to a militant group , the arakan rohingya salvation army .
longstanding antipathy among ethnic rakhine buddhists - who say the un and nongovernment bodies favor the rohingya with aid deliveries spiked in august , with protesters demanding that aid agencies leave and the u.n. warning staff against rising hostility .
since the aug. 25 militant attacks in rakhine , the government has barred most aid agencies , except for the red cross organizations , from working in the state s north , and curtailed their activities elsewhere in the state .
in several cases aid deliveries have been forcibly blocked by rakhine buddhists .
the u.n. s office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs has said the world food programme resumed some food distribution in northern rakhine this month , but limited access meant agencies still do not know how many people were internally displaced over the last three months .
access remains restricted for most humanitarian actors in northern rakhine , preventing them from reaching many people in need , the agency said .
in central rakhine , humanitarian organizations also continue to face access constraints .