london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may forced her most senior minister , damian green , to resign for lying about whether he knew pornography had been found on computers in his parliamentary office .
the resignation of one of may s closest political allies , who had helped pacify her deeply divided party , is a blow as she navigates the final year of tortuous negotiations ahead of britain s exit from the european union in march 2019 .
green , who voted to stay in the eu , was appointed as first secretary of state just six months ago in a bid to shore up may s premiership following her disastrous bet on a june snap election that lost her party its majority in parliament .
but green s future was thrust into doubt when the sunday times newspaper reported last month that police in 2008 had found pornography on his office computers in the houses of parliament .
in response , green said the story was untrue .
a review , requested by may and conducted by a senior government official , concluded that green s statements which suggested he was not aware that indecent material had been found on the computers , were inaccurate and misleading .
the inquiry , a summary of which was distributed by may s downing street office , found he had breached rules governing the behavior of ministers because the police had told him about the indecent material .
i apologize that my statements were misleading on this point , green said in a letter to may .
i regret that i ve been asked to resign from the government .
green , 61 , said he did not download or view pornography on his parliamentary computers .
he added that he should have been clearer about his statements after the story broke .
may said she had asked him to resign and accepted his resignation with deep regret .
he is the most senior british politician to fall since the harvey weinstein sexual harassment scandal triggered a debate about a culture of abuse by some powerful men at the heart of westminster .
may s defense minister , michael fallon , quit last month for unspecified conduct which he said had fallen below required standards .
her aid minister resigned a week later after holding undisclosed meetings with israeli officials .
during the turmoil that followed the botched election , may turned to green a university friend from their days at oxford to stabilize her premiership and appease those within the conservative party who wanted her to quit .
one of his key roles was to act as a conduit for disgruntled party members who felt they had been ignored in may s election campaign .
he sought to help her to shed the image of a distant leader who only listens to those in her inner circle .
it s another blow for may but it is not deadly in any way at all , said anand menon , professor of european politics at king s college london .
she has lost her soulmate in cabinet but this is not the end of prime minister may .
may is surviving not because of damian green but because there are sufficient mps in her party who don t want to have a leadership election while brexit is going on and that fundamental calculation has not changed , he said .
the internal investigation found that green s conduct as a minister was generally professional and proper but found two statements he made on nov. 4 and 11 to be inaccurate and misleading .
in the statements , green suggested he was not aware that indecent material had been found on his computers .
the inquiry said green s statements had fallen short of the honesty requirements for those in public life and thus constituted breaches of the ministerial code of conduct .
the allegations about pornography were publicly aired by former metropolitan police assistant commissioner bob quick , drawing a rebuke from the head of the london police , cressida dick , who said officers had a duty of confidentiality .
may , who served as home secretary for six years before winning the top job , said she shared concerns about the comments made by the former police officer .
sexual abuse allegations against hollywood producer weinstein have prompted some women and men to share stories about improper behavior at the heart of british political power in westminster .
the internal investigation also addressed allegations , made by the daughter of a family friend , that green had made an unwanted advance towards her during a social meeting in 2015 , had suggested that this might further her career , and later had sent her an inappropriate text message .
the report said it was not possible to reach a definitive conclusion on the appropriateness of green s behavior in that instance , though the investigation found allegations to be plausible .
green said in his resignation letter that he did not recognize the account of events , but apologized to the woman , academic and critic kate maltby , for making her feel uncomfortable .