ljubljana ( reuters ) - slovenia , birth country of u.s. first lady melania trump , expects revenues from foreign tourists to jump by about 9 percent this year and by at least 5 percent in 2018 , economy minister zdravko pocivalsek said on tuesday .
2017 will be the fourth record year in a row for slovenian tourism after revenues from foreign tourists reached some 2.3 billion euros ( $ 2.71 billion ) last year , pocivalsek told a news conference .
tourism in slovenia rose strongly because of a general increase of tourism in europe and a successful promotion of slovenia as a safe country .
officials say it also got something of a boost from melania trump having been born in the city of sevnica in southeastern slovenia before becoming a fashion model and moving to the united states .
we received a lot of attention from ( international ) journalists because of the u.s. first lady and we managed to present slovenia as an attractive , green country , maja pak , head of the slovenian tourist organisation , told the same news conference .
about 60 percent of slovenia is covered by forests while the country has some resorts on the adriatic sea as well as a number of alpine and spa tourist resorts .
pocivalsek also said slovenia plans to gradually privative all tourist accommodation infrastructure which should further improve tourism business .
at present about 40 percent of hotels in slovenia are in state hands .
i want a well-considered privatization ... which will be in favor of the state and the companies that are being sold , pocivalsek said .
in the first 10 months of 2017 the number of foreign tourists jumped by almost 17 percent year-on-year , the statistics office said last month .
in the first nine months of the year , the latest data available , the number of tourists from the united states rose by 23.4 percent , it added .
according to the government s tourism strategy the revenues from foreign tourists should rise to at least 3.7 billion euros per year by the end of 2021 .
( $ 1 = 0.8472 euros )