adios america census : record 51 million immigrants in 8 years , will account for 82 % of u.s. growthwisconsin gov .
scott walker disrupted the debate this week when he said that legal immigration also needs to be reformed to make sure americans don t suffer by losing jobs to new citizens.but even more , the cis report said that the surge in mostly legal immigrants will have a huge impact on the nation and taxpayers .
these numbers have important implications for workers , schools , infrastructure , congestion and the environment , said steven camarota , the center s director of research .
they also may have implications for our ability to successfully assimilate and integrate immigrants .
yet there has been almost no national debate about bringing in so many people legally each year , which is the primary factor driving these numbers .
those numbers are likely to shake up washington s political debate over the 12 million illegals in america , the expected 70,000 expected to pour over the border this year and the 4.4 million legal immigrants on a state department waiting list who have relatives or jobs in the u.s.a key senator steering the immigration debate , alabama republican jeff sessions , has warned that higher numbers of immigrants will hurt the middle class .
in a letter to the new york times saturday , he wrote , it defies reason to argue that the record admission of new foreign workers has no negative effect on the wages of american workers , including the wages of past immigrants hoping to climb into the middle class .
why would many of the largest business groups in the united states spend millions lobbying for the admission of more foreign workers if such policies did not cut labor costs ?
on friday , key business leaders including the u.s. chamber of commerce and a group associated with former new york mayor michael bloomberg plan to pitch for more immigration .
their schedule is below.the numbers , as seen in the highlights below , will also raise concerns that washington is giving the keys to the nation to new immigrants : the immigrant population will grow four times faster than the native born population , reaching 15.8 percent , or 57 million , of the nation s population in 2030 , 17.1 percent , or 65 million , in 2040 , and 18.8 percent , or 78 million , in 2060 .
net immigration this year will be 1.24 million ; green cards about 1.1 million .
immigrants and their descendants will account for the overwhelming share of population growth , said the center in projecting growth .
they will account for 75.5 percent from 2010-2050 and 82 percent from 2010-2060 .
census bureau projects that in 2023 the nation s immigrant population , legal and illegal , will reach 14.8 percent of the total u.s. population , the highest share ever recorded.via : washington examiner