washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama will ask congress for $ 755 million in his budget next week to jumpstart cancer research in a “ moonshot ” push to find cancer cures and treatments , the white house said on monday .
vice president joe biden , whose son beau died from brain cancer last year , is leading a push to bring together private and public researchers to accelerate their work on cancer , which will kill an estimated 600,000 americans this year .
“ with something as big of cancer , we have to think big .
we need a new model , ” a senior administration official told reporters on a conference call .
obama and biden are slated to meet with cabinet members and health officials at the white house on monday to discuss the path forward .
the push will begin this year with $ 195 million in new cancer work at the national institutes of health ( nih ) .
congress already approved that funding at the end of last year as part of a budget deal .
obama also will ask for $ 755 million in new , mandatory multi-year spending , mainly for the nih .
the money would be spent on developing vaccines , genomic analysis , early cancer detection tests , and cancer immunotherapy and combination therapy research .
rare pediatric cancers will be a specific focus , the white house said .
the food and drug administration would receive $ 75 million under the plan , which would need approval from congress .
the money would be spent on a new “ virtual ” oncology center of excellence , and on data sharing initiatives .
the proposal will include a new “ vice president ’ s exceptional opportunities in cancer research fund ” to provide “ flexible ” competitive funding for high-risk , high-return research , and partnerships with industry and philanthropic groups , the white house said .
more details on that fund will be released in coming weeks .
the administration will also ask for additional funding for the pentagon and veterans affairs for “ centers of excellence ” on specific cancers , the white house said .