dubai ( reuters ) - saudi arabia aims to start issuing tourist visas to foreigners next year , a senior saudi official told cnn , as the government seeks to open up the conservative kingdom and find new sources of revenue to diversify its economy .
at present , foreigners traveling to saudi arabia are largely restricted to resident workers and their dependents , business travelers , and muslim pilgrims who are given special visas to travel to holy sites .
the targets are people who want to come and literally experience this country , and really the grandness of this country , prince sultan bin salman bin abdulaziz , head of the saudi commission for tourism and natural heritage , said in an interview broadcast late on wednesday .
asked about plans for the visas , he replied : hopefully in 2018 , adding that the government would use online technology to make applying for visas easy .
saudi arabia s 32-year-old heir to the throne , crown prince mohammed bin salman , is seeking to develop new industries to wean his country off its dependency on oil exports .
he has also taken some steps to loosen its ultra-strict social restrictions , scaling back the role of religious morality police and announcing plans to allowing women to drive next year .
plans to admit significant numbers of tourists from abroad have been discussed for years , only to be blocked by conservative opinion and bureaucracy ; the commission announced such a plan as long ago as 2006 , but it did not go ahead .
this time , the government appears determined to push through the change , partly because of financial pressures .
it hopes to earn billions of dollars to cover a state budget deficit caused by low oil prices .
economic reforms aim to lift total tourism spending in the country - by local citizens as well as foreigners - to $ 46.6 billion in 2020 from $ 27.9 billion in 2015 .
prince sultan said his commission was focusing mainly on increasing numbers of local tourists .
the commission has estimated saudis spend more than $ 20 billion annually on tourism abroad , and persuading more of them to holiday inside the country would reduce that drain on the economy .
but prince sultan told cnn that his commission was also working to prepare tourist spots for foreigners .
the government announced plans in august to develop resorts on about 50 islands off the red sea coast , with the first phase of the project to be completed in 2022 .
the kingdom also intends to offer visits to historic sites such as mada in saleh , a 2,000-year-old nabatean city carved into the rocks of the northern desert .
heir to the throne prince mohammed would be the first ruler from a new generation since 1953 , after six kings who were all sons of state founder abdulaziz ibn saud .
he has announced wide plans for social and political reforms to the kingdom , which is ruled as an absolute monarchy with a powerful clergy that adheres to wahhabism , an ultra-austere version of sunni islam .