oslo ( reuters ) - the leader of the group that won this year s nobel peace prize on sunday urged nuclear nations to adopt a united nations treaty banning atomic weapons in order to prevent the end of us .
the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons ( ican ) was awarded this year s nobel peace prize by a nobel committee that cited the spread of nuclear weapons and the growing risk of an atomic war .
ican is a coalition of 468 grassroots non-governmental groups that campaigned for a u.n. treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons , adopted by 122 nations in july .
the treaty is not signed by - and would not apply to - any of the states that already have nuclear arms .
beatrice fihn , ican s executive director , urged them to sign the agreement .
it provides a choice .
a choice between the two endings : the end of nuclear weapons or the end of us , she said in her speech at the nobel peace prize ceremony in oslo .
the united states , choose freedom over fear .
russia , choose disarmament over destruction .
britain , choose the rule of law over oppression , she added , before urging france , china , india , pakistan , north korea and israel to do the same .
israel is widely assumed to have nuclear weapons , although it neither confirms nor denies it .
a moment of panic or carelessness , a misconstrued comment or bruised ego , could easily lead us unavoidably to the destruction of entire cities , she added .
a calculated military escalation could lead to the indiscriminate mass murder of civilians .
fihn delivered the nobel lecture together with setsuko thurlow , an 85-year-old survivor of the hiroshima atomic bombing and now an ican campaigner .
thurlow recalled on stage on sunday some of her memories of the attack on aug. 6 , 1945 .
she was rescued from the rubble of a collapsed building about 1.8 kilometers ( 1.1 mile ) from ground zero , she said .
most of her classmates , who were in the same room , were burned alive .
processions of ghostly figures shuffled by .
grotesquely wounded people , they were bleeding , burnt , blackened and swollen , she said .
parts of their bodies were missing .
flesh and skin hung from their bones .
some with their eyeballs hanging in their hands .
some with their bellies burst open , their intestines hanging out .
the foul stench of burnt human flesh filled the air .
the united states , britain and france sent second-rank diplomats to the nobel ceremony , which fihn earlier told reuters was some kind of protest .
japan , which is the only country to suffer atomic bombings and now relies on the u.s. nuclear umbrella , has also not signed the treaty .
in a statement late on sunday , japanese foreign minister taro kono expressed respect for the efforts of atomic bombings survivors toward a nuclear-weapons free world .
but he added : it is essential to steadily seek ways to advance nuclear disarmament realistically , while responding appropriately to real threats , including north korea s nuclear and missile development programs .
graphic of nobel laureates - tmsnrt.rs/2y6atvw