tokyo ( reuters ) - japan is studying plans to cope with an influx of perhaps tens of thousands of north korean evacuees if a military or other crisis breaks out on the peninsula , including ways to weed out spies and terrorists , a domestic newspaper said .
the japan coast guard would escort boats fleeing north korea to designated ports , where police would screen them by checking their identity and possible criminal records and expel those deemed a threat , the yomiuri newspaper said on thursday .
it did not say where those people would be sent , however .
evacuees granted temporary entrance would be transferred to emergency detention centers , probably in southern japan , after completing quarantine and other procedures .
officials would then decide whether they were eligible to remain in japan , the yomiuri said .
regional tension over pyongyang s missile and nuclear arms programs remain high .
a senior chinese diplomat was to visit the north from friday as a special envoy of chinese president xi jinping , just a week after u.s. president donald trump met xi in beijing and pressed for greater action to rein in pyongyang .
junji ito , an official of the justice ministry s immigration bureau , said the japanese government was looking at steps to deal with a possible influx of people from north korea but declined to comment on details .
outspoken deputy prime minister taro aso grabbed headlines in september when he touched on the possibility of shooting armed refugees from north korea .
will police respond and arrest them on charges of illegal immigration ?
media quoted him as saying in a speech .
if the self-defense forces ( military ) are dispatched , will they shoot them down ?
on thursday , the japan coast guard said it had rescued three north korean men on a capsized boat a day earlier and was searching for 12 missing crew .
the men said they were fishermen , not defectors , and japan was arranging to send them home , it added .
japan has strict requirements for recognizing asylum seekers and accepted only three refugees in the first half of 2017 despite a record 8,561 fresh applications .
in january , human rights watch described japan s record on asylum seekers as abysmal .
the country took in more than 11,000 indochinese boat people refugees over three decades to 2005 in the aftermath of the vietnam war , a little-remembered open-door policy .