new york ( reuters ) - democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton leads republican rival donald trump by 8 percentage points among likely voters , according to a reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on friday .
the aug. 14-18 survey showed 42 percent of americans supported clinton ahead of the nov. 8 general election .
that compares with 34 percent support for trump .
another 23 percent of likely voters would not pick either candidate .
clinton has led trump in the poll throughout most of the 2016 campaign , and has maintained her advantage following last month ’ s republican and democratic conventions .
since late july , support for the former secretary of state has ranged between 41 percent and 44 percent of likely voters , while trump ’ s support has varied between 33 percent and 39 percent .
the race was tighter at this point in the 2012 election , with democratic president barack obama ahead of republican nominee mitt romney by less than 2 percentage points .
clinton also led a separate reuters/ipsos poll that asked people to choose between clinton , trump , libertarian candidate gary johnson and jill stein of the green party .
some 41 percent supported clinton and 34 percent supported trump .
among alternative-party candidates , johnson came in third with 7 percent and about 2 percent supported stein .
clinton and trump have both struggled to inspire american voters this year .
according to the poll , neither candidate is regarded favorably by most americans , and two-thirds of u.s. adults believe the country is on the wrong track .
clinton continues to face questions about her handling of classified emails while serving as obama ’ s secretary of state , while trump ’ s off-the-cuff remarks about immigrants , women and muslims have rankled members of his own party .
republican leaders , including former members of congress , have called for the republican national committee to stop helping trump and refocus its resources on helping candidates win down-ballot races for the house of representatives and the senate .
earlier this week , trump reshuffled his campaign leadership while his campaign chief , paul manafort , faced increased scrutiny over his work with pro-russian political groups in the ukraine .
manafort resigned on friday .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english in all 50 states .
it surveyed samples of 1,119 and 1,118 likely voters , respectively , and has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .