are you tired of supporting companies who are couldn t care less about the future of this nation ?
are you tired of giving jobs to people who break laws to enter our country or who are being vetted by the un and coming here through a state department sponsored program on our dime ?
then take a stand and stop supporting them !
when i saw the article at the wall street journal this morning that gushes about how wonderful it is that the international rescue committee is giving out loans to refugees to start businesses , but goes on to talk about the industries in need of cheap immigrant labor , i wanted to scream.four meat giants are changing the face of rural america , cargill is one of those .
it is all about cheap labor !
it is all about money ! meet globalist and ceo of cargill , david maclennan , in davos .
one of the key players in changing rural towns in america by working with the us state department and refugee contractors to bring in large numbers of somali workers.today we posted about how amarillo , tx is under enormous social and economic tension .
it is cargill that was originally responsible for overloading ( with the help of un/us state department refugee resettlement contractors ) that city.last week it was cargill caving to cair demands in a dispute about prayer break times at their plant in ft. morgan , co.one of the most important features of this new blog american resistance 2016 !
is to showcase the enemy .
i want those responsible for mass migration to america to become household names !
here is a list of the products you will find on cargill s website : swift pork productslist of beef productslist of chicken productslist of additional food productshere is a map showing cargill s facilities across north america : and , for your work in election 2016 , i want you all to identify which of your elected officials are in the pockets of big meat !
and expose them ! refugee resettlement is not about humanitarianism !
it is about globalists and greedy industries wanting to improve their bottom lines the social and economic condition of your towns and cities be damned !
via : refugee resettlement watch