let s face it , we have a president who s going rogue and defying the rule of law at every turn .
this is not your mama s lame duck presidency , but a stealth effort to do everything possible to push the agenda at all costs .
the big question is that if obama continues to defy the rule of law like this , shouldn t congress finally take action against him ?
who ll stand up ?
i ve got a pen and i ve got a phone .
and i can use that pen to sign executive orders and take executive actions king obama a newly leaked internal dhs memorandum produced for an off-the-record agency conclave reveals that the obama administration is actively planning to circumvent a federal court injunction that suspended part of last november s deferral-based amnesty initiative .
the document , apparently prepared as follow-up from a dhs regulations retreat last summer , appears sure to re-ignite concerns in congress as well as federal judges in the fifth circuit .
the administration has already been criticized from the bench for handing out work permits to hundreds of thousands of deferred action beneficiaries , in direct violation of a district court s order .
with the fifth circuit court of appeals deciding any day now whether to deny the administration s request to reverse that injunction , this public leak has come at a critical juncture for u.s. enforcement policy .
last june , four months after texas federal judge andrew hanen s order to freeze president s dapa and expanded daca programs disclosure : the immigration reform law institute has filed briefs in these cases dhs s immigration policy makers apparently held a regulations retreat to discuss different options for open market employment authorization document ( ead ) regulatory changes .
ead is the statutory term for work permits .
from a memo recording these discussions , we now know that the obama dhs has , rather than pausing to allow the courts to assess the constitutionality of its enforcement nullification initiatives , been gearing up to roll out one or more of four plans drawn up at the meeting , each one designed to provide eads to millions of nonimmigrants , including those lawfully present and visa overstayers , crippling the actual employment-based visa system on the federal statute-book .
read more : the hill