hong kong ( reuters ) - a hong kong court on tuesday allowed three jailed young activists , who spearheaded pro-democracy protests that brought much of the chinese-ruled city to a halt in 2014 , a final chance to appeal against their sentences .
hong kong s appeals court jailed joshua wong , 21 , alex chow , 27 , and nathan law , 24 , in august for illegal assembly , a ruling that angered rights activists who fear creeping interference by communist party rulers in beijing in the former british colony .
the three are serving six , seven and eight-month jail terms , respectively but have been released on bail .
the trio helped lead the largely peaceful umbrella movement that blocked major roads for 79 days in 2014 , demanding beijing grant hong kong full democracy .
hong kong has been governed under a one country , two systems formula since its return from british to chinese rule in 1997 , allowing freedoms not enjoyed on mainland china that include an independent judiciary but not a fully democratic vote .
in a short hearing on tuesday , hong kong s court of final appeal granted the trio leave to appeal , with the case to be heard on january 16 with the three to remain on bail until then .
the next legal steps will likely be scrutinized closely , with the jailings having shaken confidence in hong kong s vaunted rule of law .
wong , chow and law were sentenced last year to community service for unlawful assembly .
however , reuters reported that justice secretary rimsky yuen had overruled other senior colleagues to re-open the case and push for a harsher sentence that eventually led to their imprisonment .
i know the world is having their eyes on us to see whether the judges , our legal professionals , will restore the confidence of our jurisdiction .
or whether it will smash the confidence of the people , not only in hong kong but also around the world , chow told reporters .
the verdict given in the future will matter a lot and will redefine whether our constitution - the basic law - will value civil liberties more or control stability as claimed by the government .
u.n. human rights experts urged hong kong to respect the rights of the trio , including the legal right to peaceful assembly under the international covenant on civil and political rights , to which hong kong is a party .
[ nl5n1nc5af ] we fear that if their sentences are upheld , this will have the effect of stifling the expression of dissenting opinions , the right to protest and the overall work of human rights defenders , david kaye , u.n. special rapporteur on the right to freedom of opinion and expression , and michel forst , u.n. special rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders , said in a joint statement from geneva on monday .
we call on the hong kong authorities to respect the independence of judicial powers and the rule of law .
on saturday , china s largely rubber-stamp parliament formally extended a law banning disrespect of the national anthem to cover hong kong , another example of a move that critics have said undermines the chinese-ruled city s freedoms .