washington ( reuters ) - germany ’ s foreign minister warned during a trip to washington on tuesday about a rise in the use of populist fear tactics by politicians on both sides of the atlantic , describing this as a threat to europe , the united states and transatlantic relations .
speaking at george washington university on super tuesday , the biggest single day of state-by-state presidential nominating contests , frank-walter steinmeier did not refer to donald trump or other candidates by name but he said he was concerned about the tone of the u.s. campaign .
“ in germany and in europe , something is gaining momentum in our domestic politics - and to be honest , i am also seeing it here in the united states during the primary campaigns .
it ’ s the politics of fear , ” steinmeier said .
politicians in germany and elsewhere in europe have watched nervously as businessman and reality tv star trump has moved from a long shot to the front-runner among republicans seeking the party ’ s nomination to run in the nov. 8 general election .
trump has described chancellor angela merkel ’ s welcoming policy towards refugees as “ insane ” and predicted it would cause rioting in germany .
he has also praised russian president vladimir putin , who has been at odds with europe since moscow ’ s annexation of ukraine ’ s crimea region two years ago .
germany does not face a federal election until next year .
but a new anti-immigrant party , the alternative for germany ( afd ) , has emerged as a threat to merkel ’ s conservatives .
the afd wants germany to shut its border to migrants and use force to repel them if necessary .
“ they pretend that we can seal ourselves off and leave the world outside to deal with its own problems .
but that ’ s wrong , ” steinmeier said , referring to politicians in europe and the united states .
“ the worst thing we could do is seal ourselves off , ” he said .
in a subtle dig at trump , who has promised to build a wall along the u.s. border with mexico and make the mexicans pay for it , the german foreign minister added : “ so if you ask me : building walls is a very bad idea - no matter who pays for them . ”