istanbul/beirut ( reuters ) - turkey is luring militants away from the jihadist alliance that controls syria s northwestern idlib province as a step toward implementing a deal to reduce violence there , foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu said on tuesday .
idlib is one of four de-escalation zones which foreign powers agreed to establish in opposition territory in western syria after years of civil war .
but the former al qaeda branch which controls the province has pledged to keep fighting syrian government forces and their allies .
the ex-nusra front s stance has raised doubt about how turkey , one of three parties to the agreement , can proceed with plans to deploy observers inside idlib .
russia and iran , the other two countries involved , are due to police its edges .
cavusoglu said the first stage , already under way , was to separate moderate rebels from terror organizations - a reference to nusra , which cut ties with al qaeda last year , rebranded itself and now spearheads the tahrir al-sham jihadist alliance that dominates idlib .
his comments endorsed remarks by a rebel source who said that efforts by foreign states were under way to encourage defections from the alliance , to break it up , isolate it and reduce its capacity to oppose any turkish military deployment .
with regards to nusra , they are working to weaken it through intelligence operations , the source told reuters .
those could include assassinations and campaigns to undercut the group s popular support , the source said .
the aim was to encourage jihadist fighters who are not members of al qaeda to melt into society .at least two million people live in idlib , the largest populated syrian area held by rebels - including some nationalist free syrian army factions who sometimes fought alongside jihadists .
the province s population has ballooned as thousands of civilians and combatants have left areas seized by the syrian army in other parts of the country , with the help of russian jets and iran-backed militias .
turkey already controls a swathe of northern syria east of idlib following a military incursion in 2016 .
the rebel source said up to 2,000 fighters being trained by turkish forces could deploy to idlib , where many people have close ties to turkey and could welcome a turkish presence .
turkey has called for the overthrow of president bashar al-assad and supported several rebel factions , but has recently worked with iran and russia , both strong supporters of assad , to stem the violence in syria s six-year conflict .
comparing the array of factions fighting assad to a divided family , cavusoglu said it was vital to avoid indiscriminate bloodshed and criticized the continued russian and syrian air strikes in idlib which he said were killing civilians .
think of a family with four sons , he said in a televised interview .
two of them are members of the free syrian army , which everybody supports , one is not related to anything and the last one is a member of a terror organization .
what do we do ?
will we bomb this family and kill them all ; the mother , father and small children ?
we have to determine the one and separate him from the others .
cavusoglu said work to separate the jihadists from other factions had been going on rapidly , but needed meticulous application and would require broad international support .
tahrir al-sham , which was formed in january , has been hit in recent months by the breakaway of two of its significant fighting factions , nour el-din al-zinki and jaish al-ahrar .
in a change of leadership announced on sunday , abu mohammad al-jolani , the head of nusra front , assumed command of tahrir al-sham after abu jaber al-sheikh quit that post .
tahrir al-sham gave no reason for the resignation , adding in a statement that al-sheikh had been appointed head of its shura council .
insurgent sources in northwest syria say ideological divisions between the groups that form tahrir al-sham have been a big factor leading to the departure of some members .