( reuters ) - demonstrators briefly shut down an arizona highway leading to a campaign rally for donald trump on saturday while protesters rallied outside of trump tower in manhattan to voice their opposition to the front-runner for the republican presidential nomination .
television news footage of the demonstration outside phoenix showed dozens of protesters blocking traffic while holding signs that read “ dump trump ” and “ shut down trump. ” the demonstrators eventually started marching down the highway .
later , some were seen nearing the rally at fountain hills , arizona , before trump arrived .
three people were arrested , according to police in maricopa county , where joe arpaio , a well-known critic of u.s. immigration policy and an ardent trump supporter , serves as sheriff .
video posted on news website arizona central ’ s facebook page showed a truck driving through a large group of protesters .
officers from the county police department worked to clear demonstrators from the motorist ’ s path .
a woman is seen crying and shouting for officers to take responsibility to stop the vehicle , while a deputy sheriff shrugs at the suggestion .
later at a rally in tucson , arizona , trump said the protests were “ disgraceful , ” and thanked police .
“ they arrested three people and everybody else left ...
they left ! ” trump said to roaring cheers from the audience .
“ i love our police , but we should do a little bit more of that , you ’ d have a lot less protesters , you ’ d have a lot less agitators , ” said trump , who is favored to win his party ’ s nomination for the nov. 8 presidential election .
several demonstrations also broke out during the later rally , prompting police to escort out a number of people .
footage of the tucson rally shows an attendee punching and kicking one demonstrator who is being escorted out .
the clip also shows police removing the attacker .
trump has come under fire from rivals for fueling unrest with his rhetoric .
this week , he warned of riots if republicans denied him the nomination at the party ’ s convention .
in trump ’ s home city of new york , about 1,000 demonstrators marched from central park to trump tower , the billionaire developer ’ s signature building on fifth avenue .
the crowd of mostly young people chanted and carried placards denouncing trump .
some said police used pepper spray on them as they marched from the park .
police were seen taking at least one person into custody .
a spokesman for the new york police department could not immediately confirm whether any arrests were made or whether pepper spray was used .
arizona , where political parties will hold primary elections on tuesday , shares a long stretch of border with mexico , and is a flashpoint for the issue of illegal immigration into the united states .
trump has made illegal immigration the signature issue of his campaign , earning the endorsement of arpaio , the outspoken sheriff .
“ donald trump has the right to be heard by the thousands of people who love him , support him and want him to be president of the united states , ” arpaio told cnn .
later , the sheriff , wearing civilian clothes , introduced trump at the rally .
trump rallies have grown increasingly unruly as the months-long campaign has progressed .
an event in chicago a week ago was canceled after protesters swarmed the venue .
last weekend , a man was arrested when he attempted to rush the stage where trump was addressing a rally in ohio .
in another incident , a man who was caught on video punching an anti-trump protester in the face at a north carolina rally was arrested and charged with assault .
trump leads in opinion polls ahead of arizona ’ s march 22 primary , according to a real clear politics polling average , leading senator ted cruz of texas by 13 percentage points .