beirut ( reuters ) - syrian kurdish leaders voiced support on wednesday for a longer-term role for u.s. forces in syria once islamic state is defeated , after the united states signalled it would not pull out before there was progress towards a political solution .
comments by u.s. defense secretary jim mattis on monday have drawn heavy criticism from the iran-backed syrian government , which says washington is making up a new excuse for keeping its illegal occupation forces in syria .
limiting iranian influence in syria and iraq is a key u.s. aim .
syrian kurdish groups have emerged as the main partner on the ground for the u.s.-led coalition fighting islamic state in northern and eastern syria , areas which the syrian state and iran have vowed to take back .
kurdish fighters , with arab allies , u.s. advisers and coalition jets , have driven islamic state from swathes of territory including their former headquarters in raqqa city .
the kurdish ypg militia and its political allies have carved out autonomous cantons in the north , and now control nearly a quarter of syria .
their influence angers neighbour turkey , which considers the ypg an extension of the banned kurdistan workers party that has fought a decades-long insurgency on turkish soil .
the main syrian kurdish political party , the pyd , welcomed a longer-term u.s. role in syria .
the u.s. presence should continue until there was a political solution to the syrian crisis which erupted in 2011 , it said .
in a written message to reuters , the pyd s co-chief , shahoz hasan , agreed this would be beneficial .
without achieving a political solution to the syrian crisis , and with the continuation of the turkish and iranian intervention in syria , and with the continued presence of al qaeda groups in syria , the continued operation of the coalition is better , hasan said .
senior syrian kurdish politician fawza youssef said a u.s. role would be very important for the future .
the united states and the coalition forces played a major role in fighting daesh , and to reach a fair political settlement , we see a need for international guarantees , said youssef , a senior member of the kurdish-led authority running the cantons in northern syria .
she pointed to an increase in humanitarian aid to northern syria by washington and the coalition since the kurdish-led syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) captured raqqa - a sign of a widening u.s. role .
turkey said on monday the united states had 13 bases in syria and russia had five .
as all sides in syria battled islamic state , the u.s.-backed forces have mostly avoided direct confrontation with the syrian government , backed by iran and russia .
but iranian and syrian officials are now signalling their intention to take back areas captured from is by the sdf .
syria s main kurdish groups say they want a federal system for the whole country , and hope for negotiations with damascus to shore up their autonomous rule .
their territorial grip has expanded since joining forces with the united states to fight is , though washington opposes their autonomy plans .
mattis described this week a role for american troops long after islamic state militants lose control of all the territory they hold .
mattis said the u.s. military s longer-term objective would be to prevent the return of an isis 2.0 .
but he also suggested that u.s. forces aimed to help set the conditions for a diplomatic solution in syria .
we re not just going to walk away right now before the geneva process has traction , he said , a reference to u.n.-backed peace talks .
the u.s.-led coalition has repeatedly said it does not seek to fight syrian president bashar al-assad s military .
in response to the mattis comments , the syrian government said on tuesday that washington was presenting a new excuse to keep its forces in syria by linking this presence to a political settlement , having previously said its goal was to fight is .
foreign ministry comments affirmed the government s position that the presence of u.s. and other forces in syria without government approval was an act of aggression .