you are one of the most narcissistic , power-hungry , self-absorbed politicians of this day .
i want liberty , not hillary !
on sunday , cj pearson , the 12-year-old georgia conservative who made headlines with a video saying barack obama doesn t love america , posted another video on youtube slamming hillary clinton .
pearson minced no words in his scathing take-down of the former secretary of state , saying he is sick and tired of her .
i want liberty , not hillary , he said .
pearson described clinton as one of the most narcissistic , power-hungry , self-absorbed politicians of this day .
he also said clinton , who was elected to the senate before being appointed secretary of state , really has no accomplishments to speak of .
the reason she was appointed , he said , was because she has a good last name .
and , he added , that s the only reason she has any respect in washington circles .
you ve done nothing for this nation , and you don t care about this nation , he said .
what you care about is , i don t know , hillary clinton .
i am sick and tired of politicians like you trying to run my country , he added .
pearson , who is a bit young to vote , said he would not cast a ballot for clinton because he wants a commander-in-chief , not a narcissist-in-chief .
as of this writing , the video which can be seen above has been viewed over 16,000 times .
most of those who commented on the video had high praise for pearson .
this is proof that the mainstream media is losing their grip on americans , one person said .
kid , your ( sic ) going to be somebody important !
if we re still here , another person added.there were a few detractors , including one person who said pearson has a future in tv/politics as the uncle tom expressing the interests of white conservative america ( sic ) .
the commenter was called out for his racism.on sunday , clinton announced her run for the white house with a press release that initially said she has fought children and families her entire career .
she then headed to iowa in an armored van nicknamed scooby because it reminds her of the van in the 1960s cartoon.via : joe newby , examiner