president trump gathered the senators in the state dining room today and let it rip on obama awesome ! president trump then called on gop senators to continue working through recess on repealing and replacing obamacare : trump calls on gop senators to continue working through august recess on repealing obamacare : frankly , i don t think we should leave town pic.twitter.com/wf8pwrqn8c buzzfeed news ( @ buzzfeednews ) july 19 , 2017it s a full court press from trump !
he thought the votes were there to pass this yesterday and has said he is very disappointed in the failure of the senate to pass this obamacare repeal and replace : in an impromptu white house presser during president trump s lunch with vice president pence , trump drove home how disappointed he is about health care : let obamacare fail , it will be a lot easier .
and i think we re probably in that position where we ll just let obamacare fail .
we re not going to own it .
i m not going to own it .
i can tell you the republicans are not going to own it .
we ll let obamacare fail and then the democrats are going to come to us .
why it matters : trump is acknowledging defeat and now , rather than support senate majority leader mitch mcconnell s push to repeal with out a replacement bill , he s decided to let barack obama s affordable care act remain the law of the land .
fast forward and mcconnell s straight repeal plan collapses with 3 no votes .
the three no votes came from three women who should really be in the d column : by tuesday afternoon , three republican senators all women had come out against senate majority leader mitch mcconnell s plan to push a vote on a clean obamacare repeal bill enough to sink it altogether .
sens .
susan collins ( r-me ) , shelley moore capito ( r-wv ) , and lisa murkowski ( r-ak ) confirmed they would not vote for a repeal bill that delayed enacting the policy by two years.susan collins needs to go ! president trump also said he was surprised when senators moran and lee came out as no s last night .
we thought they were in fairly good shape .
for 7 years i ve been hearing repeal and replace and when we finally get a chance to repeal and replace , we can t. we are winning the war on the border , we re decimating isis we ve had a lot of victories but we haven t had a victory on health care .
i m very disappointed .
once the affordable care act fails , then everyone needs to come together and fix it , said trump .
democrats have no ideas .
they have no thought process .
all they want to do is obstruct government and obstruct period .
obamacare isn t failing , it s failed .
it s gone .