beijing ( reuters ) - chinese educational services provider ryb education inc said it had removed the head of one of its kindergarten , as allegations of child abuse at the beijing nursery rocked the country s booming childcare industry .
in a statement issued late saturday , new york-listed ryb also said it had fired a 22-year-old female teacher at the ryb education new world kindergarten .
it said the teacher , surnamed liu , had been detained by district police on suspicion of abuse .
beijing police were investigating claims of child abuse at the kindergarten in beijing s chaoyang district , after state-run xinhua news agency reported they were checking allegations that children were reportedly sexually molested , pierced by needles and given unidentified pills .
several teachers at the kindergarten had already been suspended since thursday .
ryb s new york-listed shares plunged 38.4 percent on friday as the scandal sparked outrage among parents and the public .
another woman surnamed liu was also arrested for allegedly disrupting social order by spreading false information about the alleged kindergarten abuse , chaoyang police said .
the second woman , a 31-year-old from beijing , was arrested on thursday .
parents said their children , some as young as three , gave accounts of a naked adult male conducting purported medical check-ups on unclothed pupils , other media said .
the chaoyang district has launched an investigation into all childcare facilities in its area .
it had also dispatched officials to the kindergarten and asked the school to communicate with the parents and make sure that the children there are safe .
founded in 1998 , ryb provides early education services in china .
at the end of june , the beijing-based company was operating 80 kindergartens and had franchised an additional 175 covering 130 cities and towns in china .
it was not the first case of alleged abuse at an ryb school .
in 2015 , a court in jilin province found two teachers guilty of physically abusing children at one of its kindergartens in the city of siping .
in that case , staff at the school on multiple occasions used needles and intimidation tactics to abuse many of the children under their care , according to a court ruling document .
china s education ministry said on thursday that it had begun a special investigation into the operation of kindergartens , and told education departments nationwide to take heed of these types of incidents .
separate cases of children in china being slapped , beaten with a stick and having their mouths sealed shut with duct tape have also gone viral and fueled anger online .