beijing/taipei ( reuters ) - china on tuesday sentenced taiwanese rights activist li ming-che to five years in prison for subverting state power , prompting taiwan s ruling political party to label the verdict totally unacceptable .
li , a community college lecturer and an activist at a human rights non-governmental organisation in taiwan , went missing while on a trip to china in march .
chinese authorities later charged him with subverting state power .
in the first hearing of li s case in september , he confessed to subversion , according to videos of the hearing , though his wife refused to recognise the court s authority .
tuesday s verdict was handed down by the yueyang city intermediate people s court in central hunan province , according to a video of proceedings released by the court s social media account .
a mainland chinese rights activist , peng yuhua , tried alongside li , was sentenced to seven years for the same crime .
taiwan s ruling democratic progressive party ( dpp ) said that it was strongly dissatisfied and regretful of the result , calling for beijing to allow li to return to taiwan .
beijing must ensure the health and well-being of li , respect the law and continue to allow his family to visit him , the dpp said in a statement .
li s wife , li ching-yu , who had travelled to the mainland from taiwan to attend her husband s hearing , was in attendance when the verdict was read , according to the videos .
li ching-yu said in a statement sent to reuters by her supporters that her husband had long realised that his rights work came with a cost and that there were tigers in the mountains .
he came to understand early on that he must accept the torment of being made to accept guilt and of being imprisoned , she said .
peng had been the main actor in the subversion and li had been an active participant , the court authorities said in the video .
both li and peng said that they accepted the ruling and would not appeal , according to the court s video .
ties between beijing and taipei have been strained since taiwan s president tsai ing-wen , leader of the independence-leaning democratic progressive party , took office last year .
tsai s refusal to state that taiwan and china are part of one country has angered beijing , as have her comments about human rights on the mainland .