america keeps waiting for word that hillary will be indicted .
is obama waiting for the right moment or will the fbi be allowed to do their job and put hillary behind bars ?
are joe biden and elizabeth warren standing by in the wings ?
one thing we know for sure , with this corrupt administration , anything could happen .
obama seems to have mastered the art of punishing america .
will the most corrupt president to ever occupy our white house , be the one responsible for finally putting end to the clinton crime syndicate or does she know too much ? hillary clinton posted and shared the names of concealed u.s. intelligence officials on her unprotected email system .
federal records reveal that clinton swapped these highly classified names on an email account that was vulnerable to attack and was breached repeatedly by russia-linked hacker attempts .
these new revelations reminiscent of the valerie plame scandal during george w. bush s tenure could give fbi investigators the evidence they need to make a case that clinton violated the espionage act by mishandling national defense information through gross negligence .
numerous names cited in clinton s emails have been redacted in state department email releases with the classification code b3 cia pers/org , a highly specialized classification that means the information , if released , would violate the central intelligence act of 1949.the state department produced a document to judicial watch in april 2014 that identifies different types of ( b ) ( 3 ) redactions , including cia pers/org , which it defines as information specifically exempted from disclosure by statute central intelligence act of 1949 .
that s what it suggests , judicial watch president tom fitton told breitbart news , referring to the indication that clinton disclosed the names of cia-protected intelligence sources , based on the b3 redactions.the cia justifies ( b ) ( 3 ) redactions with this description : ( b ) ( 3 ) applies to the director s statutory obligations to protect from disclosure intelligence sources and methods , as well as the organization , functions , names , official titles , salaries , or numbers of personnel employed by the agency , in accord with the national security act of 1947 and the cia act of 1949 , respectively .
the state department declined to comment .
per the colleague who handles this issue , we are not speaking to the content of emails , state department spokeswoman nicole thompson told breitbart news.here are some examples of ( b ) ( 3 ) redactions ; naming the defense attach in maltaon october 16 , 2011 , recent u.s .
ambassador to malta douglas kmiec sent an email to cheryl mills with the subject line time sensitive and confidential malta trip backgrounder for the secretary confidential .
kmiec wrote to mills , i know from current events that your life must be a whirlwind .
i know that if there ever was someone who could tame the whirlwind , it would be you .
just read the news report of the secretary s stop in malta next week .
thank you for arranging this .
this letter and the accompanying clips i believe will help make the secretary s visit a highly successful and well received one .
in the memo , kmiec revealed the name of a top defense attach in the country .
that name was later classified by the state department with three different classifications : 1.4 ( d ) to connote foreign relations or foreign activities of the us , including confidential sources , b1 to connote information specifically authorized by an executive order to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy , and b3 cia pers/org .
the largest part of our us team in the embassy is the navy/coast guard/ ncis contingent that has established a maritime training program with the afm to good success .
the defense attach there now is new [ redacted ] beloved and hardworking and to good effect , patrolling the waters and the ports for [ illegible ] traffickers and terror related figures , kmiec wrote.mills forwarded the memo directly to clinton s private email account at clintonemail.com with the note fyi background .
clinton replied to mills and cc ed huma abedin with the confidential information , writing , i need enough time there to meet .
hague is there today and doing all the right meetings .
so , i m copying huma to reinforce my desire to squeeze more out of a too quick trip .
when he sent the memo to mills , douglas kmiec had been out of his ambassador to malta job for several months .
kmiec was a big supporter of president obama .
he garnered criticism in a 2011 inspector general report for ignoring directives from washington and for spending too much time writing articles about religion .
iran insights on september 2 , 2009 , jackie newmyer of long term strategy group in cambridge , massachusetts sent an email directly to clinton s private account with the subject line iran insights from [ redacted ] that included the b3 redaction code : secretary clinton , last week i traveled to israel [ redacted ] in an iran-related seminar and simulation exercise with the idf general who is likely to become israel s next chief of military intelligence and his team and , separately , [ redacted ] .
yesterday , [ redacted ] iran workshop in washington involving dod and think tank experts .
despite the fact that the meetings were with defense [ redacted ] personnel , there was universal sentiment that a strike on iran s nuclear facilities would be counterproductive , on the one hand , and that incremental measures would be perceived by iran as an indication of weakness , on the other.the email included sensitive information including the following : if iran acquires a nuclear capability , no single american/allied countermeasure will be adequate .
something like the flexible response posture from the cold war will be required , necessitating a range of actions from enhancing the us deterrent presence nuclear submarines carrying ballistic missiles in the arabian sea to bolstering regional actors defenses.israeli leaders should be able to contain the damage to the israeli population s morale from an iranian bomb , but this will require careful management of public statements .
there is a tension between building up support for action against the iranian nuclear program now and delivering the kind of reassurance that will be necessary once the capability has been acquired.clinton replied that she would like to discuss the matter with jackie.jackie replied : i will be in washington for a day-long meeting on thursday this week [ b3 redacted ] and my travel plans are flexible , so i could meet you any time on wednesday afternoon , after 5 pm on thursday , or any time on friday morning .
if those times do not work , i would be happy to come down at your convenience.clinton and jake sullivan then set up a meeting with jackie.for entire story : breitbart news