washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama ’ s supreme court selection merrick garland on tuesday resumed meetings with senators in a push to convince republicans who have vowed to block the nomination to reverse course and hold confirmation hearings this year .
“ it ’ s crystal clear after talking to him that judge garland has both a brilliant legal mind and a heart of gold , ” new york senator chuck schumer , the senate ’ s second-ranking democrat , told reporters after huddling with the nominee .
those qualities , schumer predicted , will convince republicans to launch the confirmation process required to elevate garland , an appellate judge and former prosecutor , to the supreme court .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , backed by most of his fellow republicans , has insisted the supreme court vacancy resulting from conservative justice antonin scalia ’ s feb. 13 death be filled by whomever succeeds obama next january after the nov. 8 presidential election .
garland on tuesday also met with senator robert casey in the pennsylvania democrat ’ s office , and will continue a string of “ courtesy calls ” with democrats .
“ i hope that if we can stay at it , maybe we will get a breakthrough where folks ( republicans ) will be willing not just to meet but to actually cast a vote ” on garland , casey told reporters after the meeting .
garland will hold private sessions with the relatively small number of the senate ’ s 54 republicans who have agreed to meet him .
mcconnell has pledged to prevent any senate floor vote on confirming garland and opposes judiciary committee hearings .
garland , while considered a centrist , could tilt the supreme court to the left for the first time in decades .
following tuesday ’ s bombings in brussels that killed at least 30 people , schumer noted garland led the u.s. government ’ s prosecution of the two men convicted in the 1995 oklahoma city federal building bombing that killed 168 people .
“ as someone who lives in new york who has experienced the horrors of terrorism close up and personal , the idea of having someone on the supreme court who understands those issues , as well as their horrible human effect , is very comforting , ” schumer said .
if the senate does not act on garland , the court vacancy could remain unfilled at least until the early months of next year , leaving it divided between four liberal justices and four conservatives .
that creates the possibility of 4-4 split decisions , the first of which came on tuesday and left in place a lower court ruling that two women could not sue a bank for loan discrimination .