so , if the hosts on this show are just comedians , does that mean the low information voters who follow them will stop taking these hacks so seriously ?
friday on abc s the view , republican presidential candidate and former ceo of hewlett-packard carly fiorina fought toe to toe with the co-hosts over their comments disparaging her face as demented and a halloween mask .
after small talk , whoopi goldberg brought up the subject saying , how about humor ?
i m going the bring it up because there are going to be lots of comics saying lots of things .
i wondered , because we saw some of the that you were a little upset with us about a comic comment that was made .
and so , how will you steel your skin ?
how will you get a thicker skin to accept some of the humorous things that will be said about you ?
fiorina said , well , hey , if you meant your comment about my face being demented and a halloween mask as humorous , so be it .
i guess you misinterpreted donald trump s questions .
i have a real thick skin .
joy behar said , i defended you against donald trump s comment .
he s running for president of the united states and he was making a nasty comment about your looks .
i took him on .
on this show , but , we are comedians here .
i make fun of hillary s pantsuits .
hillary s husband s sex life .
rep. john boehner s tan .
who else ?
i don t understand why any politician is exempt from my jokes .
here s the clip from carly s awesome interview : fiorina answered , you know what , joy .
you know what , joy ?
you can say whatever you want .
you always have .
you always will .
i m not going to stop that .
and don t worry , i have skin plenty thick enough to the take whatever people throw at me .
i m making a different point .
the different point is this .
i think that there are real issues in this nation that we ought to be able to discuss in a fact-based , civil fashion .
michelle collins said , i want to add that the demented comment was a poor choice of words .
it was responding to something you said during the debates .
that people were telling you the smile more .
to me , it felt like it was not your natural state of mind .
it was not on your looks , it was on your expression .
it felt like you were being told to smile more .
i m wondering , is that difficult for you ?
do you have people coaching you to act or be a different way ?
will that help you win the election ?
fiorina shot back , first of all , i don t have people coaching me to act a different way or be a different way .
there s a time to smile and a time to be serious .
when you re talking about burying a child , it s not time to smile .
there are serous issues facing the nation .
goldberg said , we had you here .
i thought we were pretty respectful .
i have to tell you , having watched some of the press that you have garnered based on this fake feud with the view , i m a little taken aback .
because you kind of said that that somehow liberal women are that we re made uncomfortable by conservative women .
we were not uncomfortable with you .
did you think we were uncomfortable with you when you were on ?
fiorina said , first of all , whoopi .
i enjoyed being on the show .
the first time .
and i m enjoying being on the show the second time .
and i think the view garnered a lot of publicity over the feud as well .
i think that s why we re on .
goldberg said , we haven t put out any ads or anything .
fiorina said , i haven t put out any ads either , whoopi .
via : breitbart news