samos , greece ( reuters ) - even on the nights muhammad ahlum s children manage to fall asleep , they wake up screaming .
since ahlum and his family fled syria s civil war five months ago , they have been living in a grim and congested camp on the greek island of samos .
like other asylum-seekers in limbo in greece , they are barely coping .
more than 14,500 asylum-seekers , mostly syrians and iraqis , are in five camps on greek islands close to turkey .
aid groups have warned a mental health emergency is developing , fueled by poor living conditions , neglect and violence .
arrivals to greece from turkey had all but stopped after the european union struck a deal with ankara last year .
but asylum procedures can take months , and a small , steady flow had continued .
a recent sharp rise is straining facilities .
i am very depressed .
my wife is sick , said ahlum , 36 , recounting how his children , aged six and eight , have stopped eating food in the camp and are terrified of noises .
this is my life in the camp .
a very difficult life , he said .
sometimes they can t sleep at night .
sometimes they wake up screaming and crying .
over a dozen human rights groups wrote to the greek prime minister on monday urging him to end the containment of asylum seekers on the islands , where camps hold two to three times as many people as they were designed for .
in the last two months , there has been a significant increase in people talking about suicide as a way to escape from this situation , said jayne grimes , manager of mental health activities on samos for doctors without borders .
more than 2,500 asylum-seekers are on samos , in facilities for 700 .
hundreds have set up tents in the surrounding forest .
if we knew it would be like this , we would have stayed under the bombing , said syrian muahab ashaad , 27 , as he sat with his son in their tent under the trees .
the government has said it plans to move 2,000 asylum-seekers from samos and nearby lesbos to the mainland , where about 50,000 more refugees and migrants live in camps .
aid organizations say it may not enough .
the most urgent need is to prepare for the winter , not only for the cold but for the rains , said rose de jong , samos field officer for the united nations refugee agency .
locals on samos , just a few miles from turkish shores , are divided .
some say the island can t cope with the sheer numbers .
the situation has become unbearable , said athanasios terzis , a businessman .
we don t have anything against them .
we just want them to leave and to be taken to the rest of greece .