washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama on tuesday pledged to undertake a historic push to develop a cure for cancer , tapping vice president joe biden to lead the effort .
obama , in the last state of the union address of his presidency , said america must use its spirit of innovation to help tackle the challenge of cancer .
“ for the loved ones we ’ ve all lost , for the family we can still save , let ’ s make america the country that cures cancer once and for all , ” obama said .
as biden smiled from his seat behind the president , obama said he would put the vice president in charge of “ mission control ” for the effort .
biden , who lost his 46-year old son to brain cancer last year , received a standing ovation from lawmakers when obama made the announcement .
following his son ’ s death , biden said he would not run for president in 2016 , but he promised he would focus his remaining time in office on working on a “ moon shot ” to end cancer .
in a blog post released during the state of the union address , biden said the white house would focus on increasing public and private resources to fight the disease and to improve information sharing among researchers and medical professionals .
“ it ’ s personal for me , ” biden said , regarding the push .
he will travel on friday to the university of pennsylvania ’ s perelman school of medicine to speak with physicians and next week he will meet with experts at the world economic forum in davos , switzerland to discuss the initiative .
the cancer initiative will build upon the $ 2 billion increase in funding approved for the national institutes of health last year , white house chief economist jason furman told reporters ahead of obama speech .
earlier this month , private companies and academic cancer centers joined together to launch their own mission to fight cancer .
the cancer moonshot 2020 program is aimed at developing a vaccine-based immunotherapy to combat cancer by the end of the decade .
companies involved include celgene corp ( celg.o ) , amgen ( amgn.o ) inc and nantkwest inc ( nk.o ) .
in his speech , obama also stressed that the united states should continue to help fight against disease in african countries and around the world .
“ right now , we are on track to end the scourge of hiv/aids , and we have the capacity to accomplish the same thing with malaria , ” obama said , noting that he would push congress to fund this effort in 2016 .