london/beirut ( reuters ) - iran signed deals with damascus on tuesday to repair syria s power grid , state media said , a potentially lucrative move for tehran that points to a deepening economic role after years of fighting in the syrian conflict .
shunned by western powers , the syrian government is looking to friendly states such as iran , russia and china to play a major role in rebuilding the country , as the war heads toward its seventh year .
since at least 2012 , iran has provided critical military support to syrian president bashar al-assad s government , helping it regain control of swathes of the country .
iran experts say tehran is now looking to reap a financial dividend .
in january , iran s government and entities close to iran s elite revolutionary guards ( irgc ) signed major telecommunications and mining deals with damascus .
[ nl5n1f84nx ] on tuesday , iran and syria signed a memorandum of understanding during a visit by syria s electricity minister to tehran , including building a power plant the coastal province latakia with a capacity of 540 megawatts , syrian state news agency sana said .
the agreement involves restoring the main control center for syria s electricity grid in the capital damascus , it said .
the new electricity deals could be worth millions of euros , iranian state media said on tuesday .
the agreement also includes rehabilitating a 90-megawatt power station in deir al-zor province , where the syrian army and allied forces have made swift advances against islamic state in recent days .
with russian air power and iran-backed militias , the government has driven rebels from syria s main urban centers in western syria and marched eastwards against islamic state .
the syrian government ... is working relentlessly to restore the power system , sana cited syrian electricity minister mohammad zuhair kharboutli as saying .
iranian companies will have a role in rebuilding syria .
two contracts were also signed , including for iran to supply power to aleppo city , which the syrian military and its allies fully regained last year in a major blow to rebels , sana said .
we will stand by the syrian people to rebuild this country ... we will bring light to houses of the syrian people , sattar mahmoudi , iran s caretaker energy minister , was quoted as saying on the ministry s website .
the deals will be worth hundreds of millions of euros if finalised , and tehran is also keen to expand its cooperation to construct water and sewerage facilities in syria , he said .
more than 1,000 soldiers deployed by the revolutionary guards to syria have died on the front lines of the multi-sided conflict in recent years .
iran s revolutionary guards saved the assad regime from collapsing at a heavy price for damascus for now they own syria , emanuele ottolenghi , senior fellow at the foundation for defense of democracies told reuters .
i expect these to be the first in a wave of tenders won by irgc companies , which will have the best reconstruction projects to iran , he added .
iranian firms are already involved in a series of electricity generation projects in syria .
iran aims to export electricity and create the biggest power network in the islamic world by hooking up iran s national grid with those of iraq and lebanon .
iran said in august that it has exported $ 58 million worth of goods to syria in the first four months of this year , marking a 100 percent increase compared with the same period a year ago .