paul ryan is in a little bit of hot water .
not because he s establishment , not because he s proposing a giant cut to medicare or medicaid , and not because he s thwarting the rnc.no , he s in hot water because he seems to think that lack of diversity is a good thing ! the speaker recently posted a picture on his instagram page celebrating the new interns for the republican party on capitol hill .
the picture , taken with a selfie stick , shows the smiling speaker with an entire whites-only workforce , with the majority of them being men .
no diversity , no color , nothing but lily-white college kids.the speaker wrote , i think this sets a record for the most number of # capitolhill interns in a single selfie .
# speakerselfie .
needless to say , speaker ryan and the republicans faced backlash.but it was the democrats who had the best response.everyone knows the democratic party is the party of inclusiveness .
everyone , no matter their race , ethnicity , religion , gender or sexual orientation is welcome , in all capacities .
while the republicans seem to have a whites only policy when hiring interns , the democrats like to broaden their horizons.congresswoman sheila jackson lee , a democrat from texas , posted on her twitter page a picture of the democratic interns .
and , well , there is a big difference : can anyone tell me what the difference is ?
well , for starters , there s more women .
there s also individuals of all different races and ethnicities.the difference could not be more stark .
as republicans ( yet again ) struggle to appeal to minority voters , it should come as no surprise to them why those who aren t white males have a hard time trusting them.just take a look at their convention .
out of the 2,400 delegates at the rnc ( who nominated trump to be their candidate ) , only 18 were people of color , which amounts to approximately 0.0075 percent.of the 71 prime-time speakers who will be addressing the convention over the four days , 80 percent are white .
only seven speakers are black , and three are latino.when 100 percent of your interns are white , more than 99 percent of your delegates are white , and 80 percent of your speakers are white , you don t deserve the minority vote .
you can not be trusted nor taken seriously if you refuse to have them represented in your most official capacities.no wonder this year s rnc was branded rnc so white .
this year s gop is the least diverse .
it really is now the party of donald trump .
they learned absolutely nothing from their 2012 autopsy report , and they may suffer irreparable damage in november.featured image via sheila jackson lee/twitter