dhaka ( reuters ) - bangladesh is to buy rice from myanmar , putting aside worsening relations over the rohingya refugee crisis as the government races to overcome a shortage of the country s staple food .
normally the world s fourth biggest rice producer , bangladesh has become a major importer this year after floods hit its crops , sending domestic rice prices to record highs .
the government has already secured deals to buy rice from vietnam and cambodia as domestic stocks diminished .
we ll buy 100,000 tonnes of white rice from myanmar at $ 442 a ton , its food minister , qamrul islam , said on monday .
it will take some time to complete formalities .
then shipment will start , he told reporters .
rice is a staple food for bangladesh s 160 million people and high prices pose a problem for the government which faces a national election next year .
the deal with myanmar is the first state-to-state rice deal between the two countries , and comes amid increasingly strained relations .
more than 400,000 rohingya muslims fleeing a military offensive in myanmar have crossed into bangladesh since aug. 25 .
bangladesh has said all refugees must go home and has also accused myanmar of repeatedly violating its air space , warning that any more provocative acts could have unwarranted consequences .
bangladesh recently finalised a deal to import 250,000 tonnes of white rice at $ 453 a ton from cambodia , following a comparatively cheaper deal with vietnam .
it is also engaged in a second round of discussions with thailand for rice after its initial talks with bangkok , and india , suffered a setback over high prices .
high demand from bangladesh could further lift asian rice prices , which hit multi-year highs in recent months after bangladesh and other countries in south asia saw their worst monsoon floods in years .
bangladesh seeks to import 1.5 million tonnes of rice in the year to next june .
the government also started selling rice at a subsidized rate on sunday and last month cut a duty on imports of the grain for the second time in two months .
however , prices of rice have not budged , a situation largely blamed on hoarding by middlemen .
national police chief a.k.m .
shahidul hoque said on monday that tough action would be taken against those found hoarding rice in order to later make windfall profits .
bangladesh produces around 34 million tonnes of rice annually but uses almost all its production to feed its population , and often requires imports to cope with shortages caused by floods or droughts .