austin , texas ( reuters ) - the texas court of criminal appeals on wednesday dismissed an abuse of power indictment against rick perry , ending a case that dragged on the former texas governor ’ s unsuccessful bid for the 2016 republican presidential nomination .
perry , who campaigned for the nomination in 2012 and 2016 , faced a first-degree felony charge in state courts that could have brought up to 99 years in prison because of a funding veto he made in 2013 seen as being intended to force a texas county district attorney to resign .
“ when the only act that is being prosecuted is a veto , then the prosecution itself violates separation of powers , ” the court said .
the longest serving governor in texas history , perry , 65 , was indicted on the two charges in august 2014 by a grand jury in travis county , a democratic stronghold in the heavily republican state .
“ the court ’ s decision today proves that this indictment was nothing less than a baseless political attack , ” perry told a news conference .
“ i have always known that the actions that i took were not only lawful and legal - they were right. ” he first threatened and then vetoed $ 7.5 million for an integrity unit in the travis county district attorney ’ s office .
many said perry played hardball politics to force out county district attorney rosemary lehmberg , a democrat , after she pleaded guilty to drunken driving .
in july 2015 , a texas state appeals court threw out a lesser charge against perry for coercion of a public official , leaving only the abuse-of-power charge .
lawyers for perry , whose term ended at the start of 2015 , have argued the governor was acting within his powers when he made the funding cut .
a prosecutor in the case said that perry acted unlawfully to pressure lehmberg by threatening the funding cut .
lehmberg remained in office .
in september 2015 , perry , struggling to raise money and languishing near the bottom in presidential opinion polls , became the first member of the crowded republican field to drop out of the 2016 white house race .
on the campaign trail , perry tried to rally support among republican voters by saying the indictment was the result of a partisan attack by democrats .
analysts noted , however , the threat of a trial during his campaign likely scared away major donors , dooming a campaign seen as a long-shot .
perry dropped out of a gaffe-filled campaign for the 2012 republican presidential nomination .