( reuters ) - two republicans on the federal communications commission told a congressional panel tuesday the partisan divide at the nation ’ s telecommunications regulatory body is growing .
fcc commissioner ajit pai , a republican , said at a house energy and commerce committee hearing that the number of votes splitting along party lines at the five-member fcc is growing under fcc chairman tom wheeler - and is twice as high as under four prior chairmen .
“ proposals from republican commissioners have been roundly rejected as crossing a ‘ red line , ’ even when an identical proposal from a democratic commissioner is accepted later on , ” pai told a u.s. house panel .
“ collaboration has fallen by the wayside. ” wheeler has a busy agenda in the final year of the obama administration and has drawn the ire of some industry groups and republicans in congress .
he has proposed allowing consumers access to pay tv without renting an expensive set-top cable box .
he also has proposed privacy rules that would require internet service providers to get consent for using consumer data and has unveiled a plan to expand a subsidy for low-income americans that covers mobile phones to include broadband internet access .
kim hart , a spokeswoman for wheeler , said the chairman “ has tackled complex issues resulting in more competition , strong protections and improved access to networks for consumers .
during the first two years of the chairman ’ s tenure , 88 percent of votes have been unanimous. ” fcc commissioner michael o ’ rielly , another republican , criticized wheeler for “ constantly pushing the envelope into questionable directions , at the expense of collegiality , staff morale and soundness of decisions. ” republican commissioners have ramped up the rhetoric in recent months .
after a federal appeals court put on hold two separate fcc decisions , pai said the fcc “ needs to follow the law and return to the tradition of bipartisan , collaborative decision-making. ” many democrats back wheeler ’ s aggressive agenda .
representative anna eshoo , of california , praised wheeler for his aggressive agenda that “ puts the consumer first and strengthens competition. ” representative greg walden , an oregon republican who chairs the panel that held the hearing , lamented the “ sharp divisions ” on the fcc , saying the commission should not give “ short shrift to collaboration in favor of expediency. ” at a senate hearing this month , wheeler declined to confirm he will step down at the end of the obama administration , as is customary for the chair of the commission .
the senate has so far declined to reconfirm a democratic commissioner , jessica rosenworcel , who was renominated in 2015 .