jeju , south korea ( reuters ) - the art of neapolitan pizza making won world heritage status on thursday , joining a horse-riding game from iran and dutch wind mills on unesco s culture list .
unesco accepted the art of neapolitan pizzaiuoli , or pizza makers , on the world body s list of the intangible cultural heritage of humanity .
congratulations # italy !
it said in a tweet after a meeting in jeju , south korea where the decision was made .
italy argued the practice of the pizzaiuoli - preparing and flipping the dough , topping it and baking it in a wood-fired oven - was part of the country s cultural and gastronomic tradition .
in rome , pizzeria owner romano fiore celebrated the decision .
i am honored , like all italians and neapolitans are ... pizza has centuries of history , he said .
archetypal neapolitan pizza has a relatively thin crust with the exception of the rim , which , when baked , bloats like a tiny bicycle tire .
it is made in a wood-burning brick oven and has two classic versions : marinara ( tomato , garlic , oregano and oil ) and , the most famous , margherita ( tomato , mozzarella , oil and basil ) , giving it the red , white and green colors of the italian flag .
tradition holds that the margherita pizza was created in 1889 by a local chef in honor of queen margherita , who was visiting naples , south of rome on italy s tyrrhenian coast .
as pizza has become a favorite dish around the world , foreign innovations in toppings have often left italians perplexed and aghast .
matteo martino , a customer at fiore s pizzeria , said before the expected announcement , i think , and i hope , that this could be the chance to make foreigners understand how pizza is made , without nutella or pineapple .
unesco also accepted chogan , an iranian horse-riding game accompanied by music and storytelling , and the craft of millers operating windmills and watermills in the netherlands .
traditional boat making on the indonesian island of south sulawesi , and nsima , a maize-based culinary tradition from the african country of malawi , also joined the list .
food culture already on the unesco list includes turkish coffee culture and tradition , the gingerbread craft of northern croatia and the traditional ancient georgian method of qvevri wine-making .