brasilia ( reuters ) - brazil s finance minister henrique meirelles has hired social media experts to boost his image ahead of the 2018 election , three sources told reuters on wednesday , the strongest sign yet that the former banker is seriously eyeing a run for president .
meirelles hired analysts linked to the get lio vargas foundation ( fgv ) think tank to study his social media presence on a daily basis and build a communication plan , said one of the sources .
the sources requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the matter .
they have been working for meirelles for more than three months , two of the sources said .
the finance ministry s press office declined comment on meirelles behalf .
the finance minister s potential candidacy adds to political uncertainty ahead of a presidential election marked by a strong anti-establishment climate and a lack of clear favorites .
meirelles , praised by investors for leading a market-friendly agenda of economic reforms , would have to leave his post by april , six months before the election , and could face a wide field of competitive candidates in a first-round vote .
one of the analysts hired by meirelles works alongside the ministry s official communication team in brasilia , although the fgv team has not received any public funds for supporting his potential candidacy , two of the sources said .
the team includes thomas traumann , a former spokesman for impeached president dilma rousseff , according one of the sources and another person familiar with the matter .
traumann confirmed to reuters that he had consulted for meirelles under private contract since 2015 , but he did not work for the finance ministry .
he declined to comment on potential preparations for next year s presidential race .
the finance ministry said fgv has offered consultancy on social media to the ministry as part of a 40-year-long initiative of institutional support , without any connection to the 2018 campaign .
a ministry spokeswoman , who asked not to be named in accordance with ministry policy , said it had no relationship with traumann .
fgv said it had not signed a contract with the finance ministry or meirelles .
reuters reported late in august , citing a source close to meirelles , that meirelles wanted to run for president but knew he would have a strong chance only if the economy improved substantially after two years of recession .
congressmen from his social democratic party ( psd ) last month heard from meirelles that he felt honored to have his name floated as a potential candidate .
other potential candidates from within president michel temer s fragmented coalition include the governor of sao paulo state , geraldo alckmin , and sao paulo mayor joao doria .
meirelles opened a twitter account in june to publicize his actions as minister and has recently left the door open for a potential candidacy , saying he would take a decision on the race by april .
about 2 percent of voters have declared their intention to vote for him , according to a recent datafolha poll .
a civil engineer by training , meirelles is the former president of bankboston , which was eventually acquired by bank of america corp , and a former president of brazil s central bank .