jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia said on monday it had made urgent requests for an explanation why its military chief was barred from traveling to the united states , as anger simmered in the world s largest muslim-majority country over the diplomatic incident .
armed forces commander general gatot nurmantyo was stopped on saturday from boarding an emirates flight to the united states , despite having a visa and an official invitation to a conference from his counterpart , the chairman of the u.s joint chiefs of staff , general joseph dunford .
foreign minister retno marsudi said she had accepted an official apology from the deputy u.s. ambassador in jakarta but awaited a detailed explanation .
we conveyed that we still await clarification , an explanation why this happened , marsudi told reporters after meeting the u.s. envoy .
there is a sense of urgency to this that we have conveyed to them , she said , adding that u.s. officials were trying to coordinate with relevant authorities in the u.s. to find out what really happened .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis apologized for the incident to his indonesian counterpart , ryamizard ryacudu , on the sidelines of an asean meeting in the philippines , and the two were photographed shaking hands .
i can confirm that he did a pull-aside with the indonesian minister and expressed regret and apologized for the inconvenience , captain jeff davis , a spokesman for mattis , told reuters .
in a statement , the u.s. embassy in jakarta said : this issue has been resolved .
there is no restriction on general gatot s travel and we look forward to welcoming ( him ) to the united states .
indonesia generally enjoys good ties with the united states .
but relations have sometimes been strained over u.s. resource companies operating in indonesia or alleged rights abuses involving indonesia s military .
it was not immediately clear whether nurmantyo , who has made official visits to the united states before , would attend the conference as scheduled on monday and tuesday .
in washington , u.s .
homeland security department spokesman dave lapan said the u.s. embassy in jakarta had told nurmantyo s office that he might be delayed in boarding his flight because of unspecified u.s. security protocols .
lapan said the u.s. government was unable to resolve the problem before nurmantyo arrived at the airport and he was denied boarding .
the general was eventually cleared and booked on another flight but he chose not to travel , lapan added .
the u.s. government is dedicated to ensuring that all persons traveling to the united states are screened and properly vetted .
we regret that the passenger and his wife were inconvenienced , lapan said in an emailed statement .
the spokesman declined to respond to a question about the security protocols that led to nurmantyo being denied boarding , saying : we re not able to discuss the specifics of individual cases .
some indonesians reacted indignantly to the incident , putting up banners around the capital calling for the u.s. ambassador to be expelled and for americans to be sent home .
former indonesian ambassador to the united states dino patti djalal called for a stronger government reaction .
the government should not be asking for a clarification , but rather conveying a protest to the u.s. side , he said on twitter .
nurmantyo has frequently courted controversy in indonesia over what analysts perceive to be his political ambitions .
he has been accused of whipping up nationalist sentiment by promoting the notion that indonesia is besieged by proxy wars waged by foreign states looking to undermine the country .
this month , indonesian president joko widodo said the armed forces should stay out of politics and ensure their loyalty was only to the state and the government - a statement many believed referred to nurmantyo s actions .
nurmantyo is due to retire next march and many expect him to run for vice president or even president in 2019 .