bucharest ( reuters ) - romania s ruling social democrats hope to organize this autumn a referendum to restrict the constitutional definition of family , which would effectively rule out the possibility of legalizing same-sex marriage , party leader liviu dragnea said on saturday .
the plan for a referendum came about after the coalition for the family , a civil society group , collected 3 million signatures last year in favor of changing the constitutional definition of marriage as a union strictly between a man and a woman from the existing spouses .
under romanian law , the constitution can be changed after a proposal by the president , the government , a quarter of all lawmakers or at least 500,000 citizens .
parliament must approve any revision , which must then pass a nationwide referendum .
it is known that we are committed ... in this direction , state news agency agerpres quoted dragnea as saying at a party meeting at a resort on the black sea .
our intention is to end up organizing the referendum to change the constitution on the family issue this autumn .
few politicians openly support same sex marriage or even civil partnerships in the socially conservative eastern european nation of 20 million , where the orthodox church yields significant influence .
notable exceptions include centrist president klaus iohannis , an ethnic german , who has said that as a member of an ethnic and religious minority , he supports tolerance and openness towards others who are different while rejecting religious fanaticism and ultimatums .
the opposition save romania union ( usr ) also held an internal vote on the issue and decided to oppose the referendum .
in june , dozens of romanian rights groups jointly asked parliament to reject the proposed constitutional change that they said would push the european union state onto a populist , authoritarian track leading to an erosion of democratic rights and liberties .
the coalition for the family also supports cancelling subsidies for contraception and elective abortion , forcing parents of minors to have counseling if they want to divorce , and lowering some taxes for married couples .
restricting the definition of family based on a marriage between man and woman also would hurt single parents , non-married couples and other non-traditional parenting units , rights groups have said .