washington ( reuters ) - republican u.s .
senator mark kirk , facing a tough re-election fight in illinois , said on monday the senate should vote on whomever president barack obama nominates to the u.s. supreme court , breaking with his party ’ s leadership .
in another defection among republicans , senator susan collins of maine called for hearings on the eventual nominee .
a political fight has erupted over filling the court ’ s vacancy left by the feb. 13 death of conservative justice antonin scalia , with many top republicans threatening to block any nominee put forth by the democratic president .
obama ’ s nominee could shift the court to the left for the first time in decades .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell has said the seat should remain vacant until obama ’ s successor takes office in january so voters can have a say on the selection when they cast ballots in the november presidential election .
kirk wrote in a chicago sun-times opinion piece that he recognized the right of any president to choose a supreme court nominee and he looked forward to obama picking one for the senate to consider for confirmation .
“ i also recognize my duty as a senator to either vote in support or opposition to that nominee following a fair and thorough hearing along with a complete and transparent release of all requested information , ” kirk added .
kirk , who holds obama ’ s old senate seat , said he hoped the president would pick a nominee “ who can bridge differences , a nominee who finds common ground and a nominee who does not speak or act in the extreme. ” kirk ’ s stance illustrates that mcconnell may have trouble keeping senate republicans fully united over filling scalia ’ s seat .
some senators like kirk are seeking re-election this year in states where democrats are competitive .
collins , who is not facing re-election until 2020 , said on monday the senate had an obligation to hold public hearings on obama ’ s nominee .
“ the kind of thorough process that a hearing allows is the best way to evaluate a nominee , ” collins told reporters , according to the hill newspaper .
but it appeared unlikely that enough republicans would peel away from mcconnell to allow a vote on the senate floor .
republican senator orrin hatch of utah said on monday it was up to mcconnell and judiciary committee chairman chuck grassley to decide whether to hold confirmation hearings .
“ i feel like we ought to put it off and get it out of this harsh atmosphere , ” hatch told reporters .