if sane americans have done one stupid thing over the last year , it s not take donald trump seriously .
unfortunately , there s a lot of discontent among the right toward the changing face of the united states and on the left , there s discontent over the fact that the united states isn t changing fast enough , and that discontentment could easily land donald trump in the white house , according to fivethirtyeight s statistical guru , nate silver.while the polls are in a virtual tie , a breakdown of electoral college votes paints a much bleaker picture .
according to silver , trump is ahead of clinton by a whopping 15 points.silver s now-cast , updated with fresh surveys on monday , shows trump s current likelihood of winning at 57.5 percent , compared with clinton s 42.5 percent .
in the 11 battleground states , colorado , virginia and michigan would go to clinton , while florida , nevada , new hampshire , north carolina , ohio , pennsylvania , wisconsin and iowa would go to trump.the breakdown shifts a bit between the electoral college and the popular vote .
silver s model currently predicts the popular vote going 45.4 percent to trump vs. 45.1 percent to clinton , but the electoral college giving trump a wider margin of victory , 285 votes and clinton 252.6.source : politicothis warning alone should be enough to wake up some who are on the fence and some bernie sanders supporters , but not all is lost .
silver notes that polling during conventions is notoriously inaccurate.on the one hand , the conventions are not a particularly good time to sweat every tick in the polls .
instead , they tend to be one of the less accurate times for polling .
historically , it s unusual for candidates not to at least pull into a rough tie after their party convention john mccain and sarah palin did so in 2008 , for example , and even walter mondale led a couple of polls in 1984 .
but those bounces do not always turn out to be predictive.silver has another hand , though , and he s saying that clinton has had a very bad july .
she could get a convention bump this week , but with wikileaks email dump and sanders supporters protesting every single speaker , it s doubtful .
in other words , be afraid , but vote and drive people to the polls if necessary.featured image via slaven vlasic at getty images .