free speech is under attack in america like never before .
any views that are in opposition to views on the left are considered out of bounds and will be dealt with see ben shapiro s awesome speech below.breitbart news editor ben shapiro delivered a speech to the young america s foundation at california state university los angeles on thursday afternoon , despite initial efforts by the university to shut down the event.students were prevented from entering by approximately 150 demonstrators standing outside the front entrance.however , attendees managed to slip into the auditorium through the back entrance , prompting shapiro to observe that in today s america , conservatives were forced to exercise their first amendment rights by the back door .
ben shapiro s response to protestors : facts do n't care about your feelings .
ben shapiro ( @ benshapiro ) february 5 , 2016some demonstrators entered the building and began chanting slogans , such as racists go home !
and no hate speech !
watch free speech terrorists work together to attack and shut down opposing views , by using threat of violence against anyone who disagrees with them : this is how the `` tolerant '' left reacts when one conservative comes to campus .
scary situation at csula.https : //t.co/4ob4wz08np yaf ( @ yaf ) february 26 , 2016earlier , demonstrators from the black student union had assaulted breitbart news reporter adelle nazarian.watch here : and then there was this desperate act to silence an opposing view : .
@ yaf liberal protester pulls fire alarm during ben # shapiro speech ben says `` you are not going to stop us . ''
adam shapiro ( @ ajshaps ) february 25 , 2016initially , administrators at the taxpayer-funded public university tried to force the postponement of the event in favor of a later event where shapiro would have to appear alongside speakers who disagreed with him .
shapiro vowed to speak at the original time scheduled , and the university backed down , releasing a statement thursday : author ben shapiro was invited to speak this afternoon at cal state la by the young americans for freedom , which is a registered student organization .
the event , when diversity becomes a problem , was funded by the associated students , inc. , the student government .. @ yaf # shapiro `` the safe spaces of the people outside ( protesters ) are just fascist spaces cleared of all ideas that could hurt feelings '' adam shapiro ( @ ajshaps ) february 25 , 2016leading up to the event , there were a number of emails and social media posts that caused concern for the campus community .
given threats and expressions of fear , president william a. covino proposed a rescheduled event that would be civil and inclusive , and in which mr. shapiro and speakers with other viewpoints could offer their perspectives in an organized forum .
my decision was made in the interest of safety and security , covino said .
i am disappointed that mr. shapiro has not accepted my invitation to speak in such a forum .
he has indicated that he will come to cal state la to speak today at the university-student union theatre , where he was originally scheduled to deliver his talk , covino told the university community thursday morning.covino added : i strongly disagree with mr. shapiro s views .
but if mr. shapiro does appear , the university will allow him to speak .
we will make every effort to ensure a climate of safety and security .
in his remarks , shapiro blasted covino and other faculty members who tried to stop the event from taking place , and who had threatened violence against shapiro , including professors robert weide and melina abdullah.he called them disgusting and described covino as a totalitarian and an idiot whose behavior exemplified an insane society created by the american left who says that anybody that disagrees with them must be silenced .
he explained that there are three kinds of diversity : diversity of color , diversity of values , and diversity of ideas .
only the last kind , he said , was valuable to society and could create stable and healthy communities .
via : breitbart newshere is ben shapiro s awesome speech :