it can easily be said that donald trump doesn t live in reality .
he lives in his own world filled with delusion and a narrative that he s created on his own .
why ?
who knows , really .
maybe because his fragile ego doesn t allow him to see the fact that he lost the popular vote by three million votes and the majority of america doesn t like him at all.since trump took office there have been protests nationwide to let him know that both he and his agenda are not welcome .
these protests have garnered millions of people outraged and offended that he s in the oval office , especially knowing that his campaign allegedly colluded with russia to put him there.to make his ego feel better , trump supporters , the vile bunch that they are , decided that they would come out on march 4 , and throw support rallies for trump.let s not forget that this was at his request : maybe the millions of people who voted to make america great again should have their own rally .
it would be the biggest of them all !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 25 , 2017so , his supporters listened , jumped on their motorized scooters with american flag decals , and rallied for their supreme leader .
then , after a handful of people showed up in a number of places in varying states , trump decided in his own delusional brain that this was tremendous support you know , whatever helps him sleep at night.he wrote on twitter : thank you for the great rallies all across the country .
tremendous support .
make america great again !
thank you for the great rallies all across the country .
tremendous support .
make america great again !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 5 , 2017however , while there was support , it was far from tremendous .
calling it moderate would even be far too generous.here are some images from his tremendous rallies : west palm beach , fl march 04 : people show their support for president donald trump near his mar-a-lago resort home on march 4 , 2017 in west palm beach , florida .
president trump spent part of the weekend at the house .
( photo by joe raedle/getty images ) west palm beach , fl march 04 : madi page shows her support for president donald trump near his mar-a-lago resort home on march 4 , 2017 in west palm beach , florida .
president trump spent part of the weekend at the house .
( photo by joe raedle/getty images ) olympia , wa march 4 : supporter chuck prater of tacoma , washington takes part in the march 4 trump rally on march 4 , 2017 in olympia , washington .
at the mostly peaceful rally for u.s. president donald trump , officials estimated there were approximately 200 supporters and 125 protesters .
( photo by stephen brashear/getty images ) marching for trump # march4trump ct pic.twitter.com/wurkeoqrw3 ?
? kathy jean ? ?
( @ kathrynjeansays ) march 4 , 2017 thousands attended # march4trump miami rally .thousands attended .
@ realdonaldtrump pic.twitter.com/8apjz4clnx veronica arias ( @ vero00 ) march 4 , 2017more people even seemed to be at these rallies to protest trump than support him : arrests made after some 'march 4 trump ' rallies turn violent https : //t.co/z1ysdxncuw pic.twitter.com/sj3ayaa4lx fox news ( @ foxnews ) march 5 , 2017with several fights breaking out : follow @ eastbaytimes and @ mercnews for other streams guys .
the fight is getting serious here .
pic.twitter.com/skjd9uvhbu aaron davis ( @ baronbavis ) march 4 , 2017but look , guys , his ego seems satisfied , and that s really all that matters , right ? west palm beach , fl march 04 : us president donald trump waves from his vehicle as he stops while being driven past supporters near his mar-a-lago resort home on march 4 , 2017 in west palm beach , florida .
president trump spent part of the weekend at the house .
( photo by joe raedle/getty images ) sad ! featured photo by joe raedle/getty images