daniel greenfield nails it !
this is one of the best resourced and stated takes on what america s going through that i ve ever read .
thank you mr. greenfield !
daniel greenfield , a shillman journalism fellow at the david horowitz freedom center , is a new york writer focusing on radical islam.the congressional black caucus is the most ridiculously corrupt part of an already corrupt congress .
a study two years ago found that a third of black congressmen had been named in an ethics probe during their careers .
5 of the 6 members under review by the house ethics committee that year were cbcers .
in 2009 , every single member of congress under investigation was from the same old gang.like the clinton foundation , the cbc exists to trade money for influence .
the caucus takes in tens of millions from major corporations and spends it on parties for its members and funnels the rest into fake non-profits .
even the minority scholarships endowed with great ceremony as a way of providing opportunity to their underprivileged constituents have a way of going to their own children and friends.the congressional black caucus claims that it s the conscience of the congress when it s actually the tip of a corrupt urban political machine that keeps black people in chains .
its members are lying idiots whose only response to criticism ( including the ethics charges leveled against them ) is to shout racism because that is the job they were chosen for by their real backers and masters.consider representative sheila jackson lee ; the dumbest member of the cbc notorious for believing that we won the vietnam war and that our astronauts had planted a flag on mars.back in 2002 , sheila jackson lee announced on cnn , i happen to represent enron here in houston .
that was an accurate summary .
her campaign had been funded by enron .
after enron disappeared , other companies came along eager to funnel money to sheila jackson lee and the cbc.attempted major mergers between at & t and t-mobile and between time warner and comcast were financed with major donations from the participants to the cbc .
cbc members enthusiastically signed on to the at & t merger claiming that it would help black people.it wouldn t have , but it certainly helped cbc members.cell phone companies , dirty banks and drug companies all benefit from cbc intervention at the expense of their constituents .
like jesse jackson and al sharpton , the cbc is an example of the merger between corporate corruption and urban political corruption masquerading as civil rights .
that s why cbc members are not only noted for being ridiculously corrupt , but also for being ridiculously stupid.in addition to sheila jackson lee , there s hank johnson who claimed that an added marine presence might cause the island of guam to tip over , maxine waters who accused the cia of selling crack in black neighborhoods or frederica wilson who claimed that the term illegal alien is offensive because to me an alien is somebody who is from another planet .
much like the brain of the average cbc member.and who could forget marcia fudge s stirring condemnation of the tea party .
these same people believe if you do not work , you are lazy .
these same people believe that if your children don t get a good education , something is wrong with you .
these are the craziest people i have seen in my life .
just absolute nuts .
they don t understand that the government s job is to take care of its people .
like sheila jackson lee , their stupidity was not an accident.the best corrupt politicians are too stupid to understand the consequences and too shameless to care about ethics .
cbc members are carefully selected for their worst qualities .
they are national examples of the corrupt urban political machine that has crippled black communities around the country.the next wave of cbc members who sought statewide and national office appeared to be made of better stuff .
the wave hit its peak with obama , who campaigned as a modern non-tribal politician striving for national excellence .
unlike jesse jackson , obama appeared to be a fundamentally different type of urban politician .
their mutual hostility only reinforced that.but the cbc s next wave of smooth-talking ivy league pragmatists who were supposed to save black communities proved to be just as rotten .
after all the publicity , cory booker not only didn t turn newark around , he turned out to be using it as a springboard for higher political office .
once in office , obama proved to be every bit as tribally racist as any cbc member and twice as corrupt as the worst of them.as he presides over national race riots that he helped fuel , the whole country is getting a taste of what living under the governance of the urban political machine in the inner city looks like.in baltimore , the latest flash point of obama s race riots , mayor stephanie rawlings-blake , an oberlin grad and the daughter of an important politician , was supposed to be a step up from the incompetence and corruption of her predecessor who had been convicted of stealing gift cards meant for the poor .
instead she promised that casinos would fix everything and when they didn t , she went on spending.even without the # blacklivesmatter riots , baltimore was on the road to financial ruin just like chicago and detroit .
the urban political machine found the riots convenient because while it destroyed businesses , it let them blame the city s economic disaster on racism instead of corruption.state s attorney marilyn mosby s already botched prosecution of the police officers is just more political theater to distract the people of the city from what their political establishment has done to them .
like rawlings-blake , mosby and her husband have shown us that the next generation of the political machine is slicker , but no cleaner or more competent than its predecessors.the baltimore political establishment panders to criminals because it s run by criminals .
this is a city whose mayor only has her job because her predecessor was convicted and whose naacp boss tried to claim that her son s heroin was really insulin which he was using to kill mice in the naacp offices .
meanwhile mosby is claiming that someone hacked her twitter account to favorite racist tweets.when obama moved into the white house , the corruption of the urban political machine joined him there .
his attorney general had been slammed by congress over pardongate s paid pardons for fugitives .
holder set the tone for an administration that casually traded cash for political favors .
it lied about the economy and terrorism , and when the lies were exposed , it touched off race riots to distract everyone.america is now being run just like baltimore.read more : front page