someone is going to empty lots and cordoned off buildings around the country and putting signs on the fences around them .
these aren t ordinary signs , either .
they literally say , lot reserved for : future internment camp .
they carry the presidential seal and donald trump s signature.signs designating future internment camp go up at construction lots https : //t.co/p56nrey5mr pic.twitter.com/gbfufpnl1j laist ( @ laist ) march 6 , 2017prank signs advertising future internment camp pop up at chicago sites https : //t.co/tio9xfmhgw pic.twitter.com/rmxhf08k7m chicagoist ( @ chicagoist ) march 7 , 2017street art hits boston https : //t.co/zutu678wao erin tiernan ( @ erintiernan ) march 8 , 2017 future internment camp signs appear across america a conversation with the # artist behind themhttps : //t.co/4gfdgaphsa satiristas !
( @ satiristas ) march 6 , 2017future internment camp signs across the usa .
a selection from ten us cities .
# immigration # immigrant # humanrights # racism # donaldtrump pic.twitter.com/fit5tbjpmy plastic jesus ( @ plasticjesusart ) march 6 , 2017they aren t real ( yet ) , but they are a frightening reminder of just who we elected to the white house and what it is that trump is trying to do .
they re the work of a street artist known as plastic jesus , who s previously focused most of his work on the entertainment industry .
according to laist , though , these signs are something different , and not just because they re political : we re seeing detention of travelers to the u.s .
they have all the proper credentials , but they re being detained for the country they re coming from , as well as their race .
i have a friend who was detained because her name was lebanese .
she was detained for a couple hours and was questioned .
this was someone who has a visa .
lebanon isn t on trump s list .
it s normal for u.s. customs and border protection to briefly question foreign nationals from everywhere before granting them admission to the country , and it s true that we don t know all the specific circumstances surrounding these detentions .
however , the amount of hours-long detention for people who seem to otherwise check out ( are traveling on the proper visa , have the rest of their travel documents and itineraries in order , etc . )
is alarming.not only are people being unnecessarily , and even wrongly , delayed prior to entering the u.s. , but trump is working to ramp up deportation , including increasing funding for detention beds , for immigrants awaiting deportation .
to ramp up the deportation process the way trump wants could eventually require camps , since detention centers aren t big enough , probably won t be made big enough , and deporting someone isn t as simple as picking them up and driving them across the border.the signs reference executive order 9066 , which is the order fdr signed to create the japanese internment camps we had during wwii .
the idea of camps for immigrants , people who are prohibited from entering the u.s. due to trump s new travel ban but can t be turned around immediately , and possibly more , is eerily evocative of that.there s some backlash , but when art gets political like this , there will always be backlash .
the idea is to stir people up and make them take notice of the events unfolding around them.featured image by john moore via getty images