yangon ( reuters ) - facebook posts from myanmar s army detailing the opening phase of its crackdown last month on rohingya muslim insurgents - an operation now being probed by the united nations - are no longer visible on its official page , reuters found .
posts for the period between aug. 1 and aug. 29 appear to have been hidden on the facebook page of the office of the commander-in-chief , min aung hlaing , which has covered the military s actions , including those in western myanmar , in detailed dispatches .
the posts , which can still be found using specific date or keyword searches , included detailed accounts of the operation launched by the army following attacks on security forces on aug. 25 .
it is unclear why , or when exactly , the posts disappeared .
they were not visible on sunday , monday or tuesday from several locations across asia .
we don t hide anything , it might be some kind of error , said ministry of defense spokesman general aung ye win .
zaw htay , the spokesman for national leader aung san suu kyi , referred questions to aung ye win .
a spokesman for the military-run home affairs ministry , police colonel myo thu soe , said he had no idea about the issue .
a facebook spokesperson said it was at the discretion of page administrators to hide posts if they wished .
around 480,000 rohingya have fled to bangladesh since the military counter-offensive began .
the united nations has described the campaign as ethnic cleansing .
myanmar has rejected that accusation , saying it is waging a legitimate fight against terrorists .
a u.n.-mandated fact-finding mission is looking into alleged recent human rights violations by military and security forces and abuses in myanmar , in particular in rakhine state .
the probe includes the violence that followed the aug. 25 attacks .
it was established after a similar , smaller military operation late last year .
the official military facebook page shows a gap of nearly a month between a post on july 31 and the next one on aug. 30 .
like other news organizations , reuters had used the detailed , timely postings in much of its early coverage of the august crisis .
the august posts can still be seen if searched for with a specific date or a keyword , suggesting they have not been deleted but removed from the page s timeline using facebook s hide function .
keep in mind that if a post you ve hidden was shared , it may still be visible to the audience it was shared with in other places on facebook , says facebook about the function on its website .
the feature can be undone by the account holder to restore the posts .
the hidden august posts include very detailed accounts of clashes with militants , often accompanied by pictures .
the military first posted on the attacks on aug. 25 , attaching a map showing police posts and military base that had been attacked .
the timeline updates resume on the military page after aug. 31 , with more than 360 posts in september , mostly about operations in rakhine .
myawady , a media group which covers the military and publishes daily newspapers , has kept the august issues available online .