great news !
southern methodist university in texas has reversed its decision to relocate an annual 9/11 memorial display made up of nearly 3,000 american flags to a less prominent part of campus after facing backlash from student groups.a huge thank you to the young americans for freedom group !
they had a hand in making this happen !
they also were the ones who had set up the tribute honoring the victims of the september 11 , 2001 , terrorist attacks on smu s dallas hall lawn every year since 2010.but in july officials informed the group to move the display to morrison-mcginnis park because dallas hall lawn is used for classes and a variety of events , said university spokesman kent best.smu officials also had adopted a policy to ensure displays didn t include harmful or triggering messages , but they later removed the language from the then-policy as inappropriate .
by that time , though , some student groups said the new policy was an attack on free speech .
i don t believe it s the responsibility of the university to shield individuals from certain ideas that they might be offended by , said grant wolf , the leader of the young americans for freedom group , according to dallas news .
wolf , along with other leaders from campus groups , sent a letter to university president r. gerald turner to express their frustration with the policy .
people absolutely have to have a right to their own opinions , but this does not come with a right to be shielded from opposing ideas , especially in an environment dedicated to the learning , sharing and developing of new ideas , they wrote.they decried the relocation of the memorial .
moving the 9/11 memorial to an out of the way park is almost the same as not allowing it , said heather hall , president of the university s turning point usa chapter .
that s not free speech , hall said .
that s not american .
that s definitely not what smu stands for .
read more : daily mailour previous report on this ban : the shocker about this is that students on both sides of the political spectrum want the 9/11 flags to be displayed where they ve always been displayed .
the inability of college campuses to stand up to people who are perpetually offended is a sad statement on where we are in american tolerance these days .
it s so ironic that the left wants you to march to their drum beat or else they will destroy you .
note to smu : you had a good thing going with your student body coming together to memorialize 9/11 so let it continue ! dallas , tex .
in a time of extreme political divide , students both republican and democrat at one texas college have found something they can agree on.for the past two years at southern methodist university , a campus group has planted thousands of american flags in front of dallas hall as a memorial to the victims of the 9/11 attacks .
that s simply contradictory to the very definition of free speech , said grant wolf , the young americans for freedom chairman.but in july , smu changed its policy , saying student groups can no longer have displays there.the lawn has historically hosted tributes and protests from students of all political affiliations .
the leaders of two prominent student groups say the policy violates their right to free speech .
they re basically cornering us into a segment of campus and saying you re not allowed to have a display here because it s triggering , harmful or offensive to students over there , said drew wicker , the president of smu college republicans.smu released a statement saying nearby momac park , where displays will be allowed , is larger than the lawn and is along one of the most prominent drives on campus.the university said it respects the rights of all campus community members to express their opinions , as well as their right to be free from coercion or harassment .
via : fox 5 atlanta