washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama said on thursday he would ask the u.s. congress for more than $ 450 million in aid to help colombia end “ half a century of wrenching conflict ” and implement a peace accord aimed at ending latin america ’ s longest war .
if approved , the aid would help with security and fighting the drug trade , as well as educating and retraining members of the revolutionary armed forces of colombia , or farc , the leftist rebel group at war with the government since 1964 .
“ after half a century of wrenching conflict , the time has come for peace , ” obama said after meeting with colombian president juan manual santos .
the u.s. government would also commit $ 33 million to a global program to help the country remove land mines in the next five years , and obama said he would help mobilize more international aid if the peace deal is reached .
three previous attempts at an accord failed , but the government and farc are on the verge of an agreement after four years of talks .
santos thanked the u.s. government for its long-standing bipartisan support for “ plan colombia , ” $ 10 billion in funding between 2000 and 2015 for military and social programs that he said helped keep colombia from becoming a failed state .
the new program , dubbed “ peace colombia , ” would provide about 25 percent more u.s. funding compared with 2016 levels .
“ just as the united states has been colombia ’ s partner in a time of war , i indicated to president santos we will be your partner in waging peace , ” obama said at a white house reception .
a jump in u.s. aid is “ fundamental ” to the success of the peace plan , particularly given a 20 percent hit to colombia ’ s budget from the plunge in oil prices , said douglass cassel of the university of notre dame , who has been an adviser to santos for the past year .
“ the government of colombia will do everything it can , but it ’ s clear that it doesn ’ t have sufficient resources on its own to do the job the way it ought to be done without significant support from the united states and the european union , ” cassel said in an interview .