he had a gun that he stole during a burglary in a suburb of milwaukee , along with 500 rounds of ammo .
the cop told syville smith to put the stolen gun down as he was fleeing from the them after a traffic stop .
he refused .
now he s dead , and they re burning down the city of milwaukee to honor him.a standoff between police and an angry crowd turned violent saturday night in the hours after a milwaukee police officer shot and killed an armed suspect during a foot chase on the city s north side.city police officials said two officers stopped two suspects in a car about 3:30 p.m .
the suspects then took off on foot .
during the pursuit , a six-year veteran of the department shot and killed a 23-year-old milwaukee resident , who was carrying a semiautomatic handgun , police said.the officer was not hurt.during his midnight news conference , barrett said the officer pursuing the 23-year-old man ordered him to drop his gun .
the man didn t and the officer fired several times , the mayor said.the man was hit twice , once in the chest and once in the arm .
he said police determined there were 23 rounds in the man s gun.barrett said the officer was wearing a body camera and his understanding was that the camera was operational during the incident .
milwaukee journal sentinelhere are a few pictures we found on his facebook account : as it turns out , syville had a bit of a record : court records show in february of 2015 , smith was charged with one felony count of first degree recklessly endangering safety and one misdemeanor count of possession of thc .
the charges were dismissed by prosecutors in november.august of 2015 , smith was charged with felony intimidation of a witness/person charged/felony .
that charge was dismissed by prosecutors in september.in july of 2014 , smith was charged with carrying a concealed weapon a misdemeanor charge .
he pleaded guilty in november , and was sentenced to serve one day in the house of correction.in july of 2013 , smith was charged with felony retail theft intentionally taking $ 500 to $ 5,000 as party to a crime .
prosecutors dismissed the charge in october .
fox6nowhere s syville just hanging out with a few upstanding friends : he seems to have a penchant for posing with guns.this man who says he is mr. smith s cousin also seemed to make a threat with this semi-intelligible rant .
police might want to check that out .
h/t weasel zippers