a texas imam agrees with republican presidential candidate donald trump s controversial suggestion that america set-up a total and complete shutdown of muslims entering the united states until further investigation can be done .
the imam also said there should be a ban of syrian refugees of any religion.the imam , nidal alsayyed , who leads a beaumont , texas , mosque agrees with both donald trump and texas governor greg abbott.governor abbott called for a halt to relocation of syrian refugees into texas after the paris terrorist attacks .
he also called upon president obama to stop the importation of these refugees into the u.s. , as reported by breitbart texas bob price.12 news on monday trump called for a total and complete shutdown of muslims entering the united states until our country s representatives can figure out what is going on , as reported by breitbart news.trump said , our country can not be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad , and have no sense of reason or respect for human life .
trump issued a statement saying that americans need to understand radicals within islam before the government authorizes them to come into the country , as reported by breitbart news.alsayyed , the imam from east texas told his local television station , i certainly see it to be wise [ to ] stop temporarily accepting any new muslim immigrants [ refugees and non-refugees ] into the united states .
alsayyed leads the islamic center of triplex .
he said the halt applies to new refugees of any religion and he does not believe that taking this action is unconstitutional .
the muslim religious leader said these actions are acceptable when it comes to peace and safety .
he also added , this should not prevent the united states to fulfill its duties towards international partners .
the texas imam said , it does not matter whether trump said it or anyone else american muslims need to say we are with this country .
he also said they should raise the american flag in support of the nation .
he continued , we american muslims need to be sincere in our religion and to the country we are living in .
peace comes before religion .
we need to be truthful and transparent when we express a viewpoint or feedback .
it does not matter whether trump said it or anyone else , he said.when challenged on his comments the imam responded in a comment via facebook saying : i only said what i believe is right .
trump is not against american muslims ; he is against any new muslim immigrants ( refugees and non-refugees ) !
there is a big difference here !
we can not be emotional.i believe there is a great confusion and lack of understating nationally and among muslim themselves for what mr. trump is calling for .
refugees in general have no clear identity or belief .
they are seeking shelter and opportunity ; but america can not take this risk now ! my advice to trump to stop differentiating among christian vs. muslim refugees ; only because he may get surprised to see all refugees claiming to be christians ! the east texas imam made local headlines last december when he denounces isis and their ruthless conduct .
12newsnow anchor kevin steele asked alsayyed if he would denounce isis .
he strongly replied , come on , no human being would accept this type of animal behavior .
this is like , this is completely , it doesn t belong to any religion this isis .
in trump s statement on monday , he noted a center for security policy poll showing there are segments of the muslim population that hate u.s. citizens .
the poll showed that 25 percent of the muslims polled agreed that violence against americans here in the united states is justified as part of the global jihad .
fifty-one percent of those polled agreed that muslims in america should have the choice of being governed by shariah .
breitbart news has also reported that the economist/you gov poll published in late november shows that americans strongly oppose muslim immigration into america .
the poll showed that of those likely to vote in a primary election , approximately 30 percent believe that all , most , or more than half of muslims worldwide support the islamic state ( isis ) .an ipsos poll in mid-september revealed that even before the paris terrorist attacks , public support for allowing more middle east refugees into the country crashed once americans understood the enormous numbers of refugees , as reported by breitbart news.before the san bernardino , california , attacks , a full 61 percent opposed obama s refugee program , as reported by breitbart news john nolte .
via : breitbart news