has obama sacrificed the freedom of speech we enjoy on the internet , as a way to boost his standing with foreign dictators , as he campaigns to be the next un secretary general ?
an obama-appointed federal judge ruled friday that the transfer of internet domain systems oversight to an international governing body can move forward , overruling opposition from several state attorneys general and lawmakers .
read more : zero hedgein their lawsuit , the attorneys general for arizona , oklahoma , nevada and texas contend that the transition , lacking congressional approval , amounts to an illegal giveaway of u.s. government property .
they also express fear that the proposed new steward of the system , a nonprofit known as icann , would be so unchecked that it could effectively enable or prohibit speech on the internet .
read more : politicosaturday the us hands over the internetwashington ( afp ) the us government on saturday ended its formal oversight role over the internet , handing over management of the online address system to a global non-profit entity.the us commerce department announced that its contract had expired with the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers , which manages the internet s so-called root zone .
that leaves icann as a self-regulating organization that will be operated by the internet s stakeholders engineers , academics , businesses , non-government and government groups.the move is part of a decades-old plan by the us to privatize the internet , and backers have said it would help maintain its integrity around the world.us and icann officials have said the contract had given washington a symbolic role as overseer or the internet s root zone where new online domains and addresses are created.but critics , including some us lawmakers , argued that this was a giveaway by washington that could allow authoritarian regimes to seize control.a last-ditch effort by critics to block the plan a lawsuit filed by four us states failed when a texas federal judge refused to issue an injunction to stop the transition.lawrence strickling , who heads the commerce department unit which has managed these functions , issued a brief statement early saturday confirming the transition of the internet assigned numbers authority ( iana ) .
as of october 1 , 2016 , the iana functions contract has expired , he said.stephen crocker , icann s board chairman and one of the engineers who developed the early internet protocols , welcomed the end of the contract .
this transition was envisioned 18 years ago , yet it was the tireless work of the global internet community , which drafted the final proposal , that made this a reality , he said in a statement .
this community validated the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance .
it has shown that a governance model defined by the inclusion of all voices , including business , academics , technical experts , civil society , governments and many others is the best way to assure that the internet of tomorrow remains as free , open and accessible as the internet of today .
the internet society , a group formed by internet founders aimed at keeping the system open , said the transition was a positive step .
the iana transition is a powerful illustration of the multi-stakeholder model and an affirmation of the principle that the best approach to address challenges is through bottom-up , transparent , and consensus-driven processes , the group said in a statement.via : yahoo