gchq director robert hannigan is stepping down after only two years as chief of the cyber spy agency for personal reasons , the intelligence service has announced .
recall also that judge napolitano said three sources told him the british spy agency had something to do with the witch hunt on trump : judge napolitano was on fox & friends discussing the obama administration s efforts to spy on donald trump .
three intel sources have disclosed to the network that obama went to british intelligence to get the goods on trump , but we may never be able to prove it judge napolitano : three intelligence sources have informed fox news that president obama went outside the chain of command .
he didn t use the nsa , he didn t use the cia , he didn t use the fbi and he didn t use the department of justice he used * gchq .
* gchq is a british intel agency .
@ judgenap : three intel sources have disclosed that pres .
obama turned to british spies to get surveillance on trump pic.twitter.com/ighcfm7qho fox & friends ( @ foxandfriends ) march 14 , 2017 grassley began his investigation after the washington post reported on february 28 that the fbi , a few weeks before the election , agreed to pay former british spy christopher steele to investigate trump.prior to that , supporters of the hillary clinton presidential campaign had paid steele to gather intelligence on clinton s republican rival .
in the end , the fbi did not pay steele , the post reported , after the dossier became the subject of news stories , congressional inquiries and presidential denials .
it is not clear whether steele worked under agreement with the fbi for any period of time before the payment deal fell through .
the idea that the fbi and associates of the clinton campaign would pay mr. steele to investigate the republican nominee for president in the run-up to the election raises further questions about the fbi s independence from politics , as well as the obama administration s use of law enforcement and intelligence agencies for political ends , grassley wrote in a letter to comey dated march 28.mccabe has been on the hot seat before : breaking : crooked va governor , close hillary friend gave wife of fbi official overseeing hillary email investigation $ 467,500the political organization of virginia gov .
terry mcauliffe , an influential democrat with longstanding ties to bill and hillary clinton , gave nearly $ 500,000 to the election campaign of the wife of an official at the federal bureau of investigation who later helped oversee the investigation into mrs. clinton s email use.campaign finance records show mr. mcauliffe s political-action committee donated $ 467,500 to the 2015 state senate campaign of dr. jill mccabe , who is married to andrew mccabe , now the deputy director of the fbi.the virginia democratic party , over which mr. mcauliffe exerts considerable control , donated an additional $ 207,788 worth of support to dr. mccabe s campaign in the form of mailers , according to the records .
that adds up to slightly more than $ 675,000 to her candidacy from entities either directly under mr. mcauliffe s control or strongly influenced by him .
the figure represents more than a third of all the campaign funds dr. mccabe raised in the effort.mr .
mcauliffe and other state party leaders recruited dr. mccabe to run , according to party officials .
she lost the election to incumbent republican dick black.a spokesman for the governor said he supported jill mccabe because he believed she would be a good state senator .
this is a customary practice for virginia governors any insinuation that his support was tied to anything other than his desire to elect candidates who would help pass his agenda is ridiculous .
among political candidates that year , dr. mccabe was the third-largest recipient of funds from common good va , the governor s pac , according to campaign finance records .
dan gecker received $ 781,500 from the pac and $ 214,456 from the state party for a campaign that raised $ 2.9 million , according to records ; and jeremy mcpike received $ 803,500 from the pac and $ 535,162 from the state party , raising more $ 3.8 million that year for his candidacy.the governor could recall only one meeting with mr. mccabe when he and other state democrats met with the couple on march 7 , 2015 , to urge dr. mccabe to run , according to the spokesman .
via : washington examiner