rome ( reuters ) - italy s anti-establishment 5-star movement wants international observers to monitor next year s national election campaign to help ward off fake news , party leader luigi di maio said on sunday .
his comments came after the ruling democratic party ( pd ) accused 5-star supporters of using interlinked internet accounts to spread misinformation and smear the center-left government .
di maio , who was elected 5-star leader in september , said his party was often misrepresented by the traditional media and said the organization for security and cooperation in europe ( osce ) should oversee the forthcoming election .
the problem of fake news exists and we think it is necessary to have the osce monitor news and political debate during the election campaign , di maio said on facebook .
such a request is unlikely to gain traction with 5-star s opponents , who allege that the maverick group is to blame for some of the most egregious smear campaigns .
last week unofficial facebook accounts that back 5-star published a photograph purportedly showing a close ally of pd leader matteo renzi attending the funeral of mafia boss salvatore riina .
in fact it was a photo taken in 2016 at the funeral of a murdered migrant .
di maio says he wants to call up osce monitors .
why doesn t he call up u.n. peacekeepers and the red cross , and while he is at it , why not telephone ( his associates ) who are continuing to post this filth , renzi told a conference on sunday .
the sharing of false or misleading headlines and mass postings by automated social media bots has become a global issue , with accusations that russia tried to influence votes in the united states and france .
moscow has denied this .
some pd leaders called this weekend for legislation ahead of the elections , which are due by may , to crack down on the spread of false news .
renzi ruled that out on sunday , but said his party would release twice-monthly reports on web abuses .
we do not want to shut down any website , but we want accountability , renzi said .
the 5-star party complains that it is unfairly treated by mainstream media , saying state broadcaster rai is under the sway of the government , while the largest private media group is controlled by the family of former center-right prime minister silvio berlusconi .
italy s leading newspapers , which are owned by large industrial concerns , have also been highly critical of 5-star , which has promised a campaign against corruption and is seen as unfriendly to big business .
latest polls show 5-star has built a stable lead over other parties , with support of around 28 percent against 24 percent for the pd and 15 percent for forza italia .
a new electoral law which encourages coalition building ahead of the vote , means berlusconi s center-right bloc should emerge as the single largest political force , albeit without a clear parliamentary majority .