washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama selected merrick garland for the u.s. supreme court on wednesday , choosing a centrist judge meant to win over recalcitrant senate republicans whose leaders wasted no time in spurning the democratic president .
a bruising political fight is brewing over the nomination , which also promises to figure in the already contentious campaign for the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election .
the republican-led senate ’ s leaders have vowed not to hold confirmation hearings or an up-or-down vote on any obama nominee .
garland , 63 , was picked to replace long-serving conservative justice antonin scalia , who died on feb. 13 .
a chicagoan like obama , he serves as chief judge of the influential u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit and is a former prosecutor who in the past has won praise from both republicans and democrats .
wasting no time in pressing its case for senate confirmation , the administration is dispatching garland to capitol hill on thursday to huddle with senator patrick leahy of vermont , the senior judiciary committee democrat and then with senate democratic leader harry reid of nevada .
such meetings are aimed at shoring up senate support for the nominee and generating media coverage .
the lifetime appointment to the high court requires senate confirmation .
obama ’ s announcement prompted a flood of reaction from private groups that will work to advance or kill the nomination .
the uaw , representing automobile , aerospace and some agricultural workers , call garland “ a distinguished , moderate judge with more federal judicial experience than any other supreme court nominee in history. ” national rifle association executive director chris cox said , “ a basic analysis of merrick garland ’ s judicial record shows that he does not respect our fundamental , individual right to keep and bear arms for self-defense. ” republicans , hoping a candidate from their party wins the presidential election , are demanding that obama leave the seat vacant and let his successor , to be sworn in next january , make the selection .
billionaire businessman donald trump is leading among republicans for the nomination .
obama ’ s former secretary of state , hillary clinton , is the front-runner for the democrats .
obama said republican senators should give garland a fair hearing .
he said that failing to do so “ will not only be an abdication of the senate ’ s constitutional duty , it will indicate a process for nominating and confirming judges that is beyond repair. ” such a move , he said , would also undermine the reputation of the supreme court and faith in the american justice system .
“ our democracy will ultimately suffer as well , ” obama added , as he introduced garland at a white house rose garden ceremony .
scalia ’ s death left the nine-member supreme court evenly split with four liberals and four conservative justices .
obama ’ s nominee could tilt the court to the left for the first time in decades , which could affect rulings on contentious issues including abortion , gun rights , the death penalty and political spending .
obama said the supreme court was supposed to be above politics and it should remain so .
obama said that with politics in the united states so polarized , “ this is precisely the time when we should play it straight , and treat the process of appointing a supreme court justice with the seriousness and care it deserves. ” senate majority leader mitch mcconnell of kentucky swiftly reiterated that the senate will not consider the nomination by the president .
a mcconnell spokesman said the senator had spoken by phone with garland and would not hold a “ perfunctory meeting ” with him .
john cornyn of texas , the second-ranking senate republican , added , “ this person will not be confirmed , so there ’ s no reason going through some motions and pretending like it will happen , because it ’ s not going to happen. ” some cracks began appearing in mcconnell ’ s strategy of completely shutting out the nominee .
a handful of republican senators including susan collins of maine , kelly ayotte of new hampshire , jeff flake of arizona , mark kirk of illinois and rob portman of ohio said they would be willing to meet with garland .
collins said the senate judiciary committee should hold confirmation hearings .
judiciary committee member orrin hatch , whose past support of garland was cited by obama , said the pick does not change his view “ at this point ” that no obama nominee should be considered .
senator pat toomey of pennsylvania , who is in a tough re-election battle , said , “ should merrick garland be nominated again by the next president , i would be happy to carefully consider his nomination. ” garland is the oldest supreme court nominee since republican richard nixon in 1971 nominated lewis powell , who was 64 .
presidents tend to pick nominees younger than that so they can serve for decades and extend a president ’ s legacy .
obama may reason that the choice of an older nominee might also entice senate republicans into considering his selection .
garland would become the fourth jewish member of the nine-member court .
there are five roman catholics on the court .
obama considered but passed over garland when he made two prior supreme court appointments .
with solid republican support , the senate voted in 1997 to confirm garland to his present job in a bipartisan 76-23 vote after he was nominated by democratic president bill clinton .
garland is widely viewed as a moderate .
he is a former prosecutor who served in the justice department under clinton .
he oversaw the prosecution in the 1995 oklahoma city bombing case including securing the death penalty for the lead defendant , anti-government militant timothy mcveigh .
in his current post , he is known for narrow , centrist opinions and rhetoric that is measured rather than inflammatory even when in dissent .
standing in between obama and vice president joe biden during the rose garden ceremony , an emotional garland referred to the oklahoma city bombing case , saying , “ once again , i saw the importance of assuring victims and families that the justice system could work. ” obama said he fulfilled his constitutional duty by naming a nominee and said it was time for the senate to do its job .
“ presidents do not stop working in the final year of their term .
neither should a senator , ” obama said .
obama , in office since 2009 , has already named two justices to the supreme court : sonia sotomayor , who at 55 became the first hispanic justice in 2009 , and elena kagan , who was 50 when she became the fourth woman ever to serve on the court in 2010 .
democrats praised his latest choice .
“ if merrick garland can ’ t get bipartisan support no one can , ” democratic senator charles schumer of new york said .
hillary clinton called garland “ a brilliant legal mind , ” urging the senate to move ahead with the confirmation process .
trump said it was critical for republicans to take back the white house to avoid democrats shaping the supreme court for decades to come .