mogadishu ( reuters ) - an islamist attack on a hotel in mogadishu ended on sunday after 29 people were killed during a siege lasting nearly 12 hours , police said , prompting the government to sack two top security officials over their failure to stop repeated attacks .
the attack proved once again that insurgents can carry out deadly assaults in the heart of the somali capital .
twin bombings in mogadishu two weeks ago killed more than 350 people , the worst such attacks in the country s history .
more than 50 people are still missing .
islamist militants al shabaab claimed responsibility for this weekend s attack , which took place ahead of a planned meeting to try to defuse tensions between the federal government and regional states .
government officials had begun to meet at the hotel to discuss strategy .
so far i am sure 29 people died - the death toll may rise , abdullahi nur , a police officer , told reuters .
at least 12 of the dead were police officers , nur said .
a woman was beheaded while her three children were shot dead , he said .
a reuters witness saw seven bodies lying inside the hotel .
( click tmsnrt.rs/2gtg1ds for a graphic showing map where explosion took place ) three militants were captured alive and two others blew themselves up after they were shot , police said .
some militants may have disguised themselves and escaped with the residents who were rescued from the hotel , one police officer said .
the attack began around at 5 p.m. on saturday when a car bomb rammed the gates of nasahablod two hotel , which is close to the presidential palace , and destroyed the hotel s defenses .
then gunmen stormed the building .
the explosion destroyed the front of the three-storey hotel and damaged the hotel next door .
many somali officials live in fortified hotels for the security they offer .
the attack presents a further challenge to the new government of president mohamed abdullahi mohamed , whose defense minister and chief of army staff resigned this month .
they did not give their reasons for leaving .
on sunday , the government sacked the country s police commander , abdihakin dahir saiid , and the director general of the national intelligence security agency , abdullahi mohamed ali , the prime minister s office announced .
abdikadir abdirahman , director of amin ambulances , complained the emergency service had been denied access to the blast sight .
after the hotel operation was over , we wanted to transport the casualties ... all entrances of the scene were blocked by security forces .
al shabaab said 40 people had been killed , including three of its fighters who stormed the hotel .
the government and al shabaab typically give different figures for victims in such attacks .
the twin bombings in mogadishu on oct. 14 killed at least 358 people and ignited nationwide outrage .
al shabaab has not claimed responsibility for that attack , but the method - a large truck bomb - is one it has often used .
the militant group wants to overthrow the weak , u.n.-backed government and impose a strict form of islamic law .