tallinn ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron won backing from angela merkel for plans to reform the european union after brexit , founded on what the german chancellor called intense cooperation between paris and berlin .
but many leaders remained wary of ambitious new projects , doubting the appetite of voters for giving up national control and fearing the continued strength of anti-eu sentiment that is taking britain out of the bloc and saw the far-right win dozens of seats in the german parliament in sunday s election .
last night s discussions showed there s a common realization of a need for a leap forward in europe , macron told reporters on friday after an eu summit dinner that stretched beyond midnight in the estonian capital tallinn .
today we re all convinced europe must move ahead faster and stronger , for more sovereignty , more unity and more democracy .
macron voiced satisfaction with summit chair donald tusk s commitment to report back to eu leaders when they meet again in three weeks with proposals for concrete steps to be taken .
tusk himself referred to a profusion of reform initiatives , such as those from macron in a barnstorming pro-european speech at the sorbonne on tuesday and by european commission president jean-claude juncker earlier this month .
but tusk , a former polish premier , also added a note of caution , urging a step-by-step approach to real problems .
he insisted the eu needed to maintain unity in the face of conflicting views about so many new initiatives : even though some may think it is a kind of a eurovision contest , and perhaps it is , i am personally convinced that together , we will make good use of it , if we sing unisono .
merkel , re-elected for a fourth term on sunday but weakened by the rise of an insurgent eurosceptic opposition , met macron for half an hour before the dinner and , according to a french aide , welcomed his speech as visionary and a return of co-founder france as a driving force in the european union project .
but she also noted differences .
some of her potential new coalition partners , along with northern governments like the dutch and finns , are very dubious about his suggestions for pooling budgets with less fiscally austere states in the south .
as far as the proposals were concerned , there was a high level of agreement between german and france .
we must still discuss the details , but i am of the firm conviction that europe can t just stay still but must continue to develop , she said .
merkel is happy to play what she sees as a traditional role in a partnership that has driven the union for 60 years , german officials say , with france back on form as a creative force and berlin building consensus and helping put ideas into practice .
macron faced a reality check of scepticism from leaders wary of his talk of ambitious horizons for the continent .
the no-nonsense president of euro zone member lithuania , dalia grybauskaite , tweeted during the dinner : european horizons drawn .
important to avoid mirages in the desert on the way .
dutch prime minister mark rutte told reporters countries needed first to reform their own economies : you re starting with the end point ...
there is a discussion about a european finance minister but no one has told me what he would do .
british prime minister theresa may also attended the dinner , despite britain s increasing isolation as it prepares to quit .
she took the opportunity of friday s digital summit in tallinn to visit british troops on a nato mission in northern estonia and pledged post-brexit security cooperation with european neighbors confronting russian threats .
may arrived knowing that a keynote major brexit speech she made last friday succeeded in unblocking talks in brussels this week on britain s divorce package though the leaders in tallinn were at pains to avoid appearing to negotiate with her .
the chief eu negotiator , michel barnier , praised on thursday a new dynamic to brexit negotiations created by concessions made by may , although progress was still not sufficient to allow discussions on future trade relations .
that message was rammed home by juncker , barnier s boss , who told reporters in tallinn that it would take miracles to have sufficient progress by next month and he did not expect that effectively ruling out eu leaders giving a green light to trade talks when they meet in brussels on oct. 19-20 .
friday s talks on a digital agenda for europe ranged from cross-border data flows and privacy to cybersecurity and taxing online businesses .