shanghai ( reuters ) - china has hit the brakes on subway projects in at least three cities and beijing is asking others to slow down their plans , local governments and media have reported , indicating concerns over high debt from city-level infrastructure spending .
china has been in the grips of a metro-building binge with more than 50 cities working on over 1 trillion yuan ( $ 150.8 billion ) worth of projects , after population restrictions were loosened last year to allow more cities to have metro systems .
such infrastructure spending has helped to shore up economic growth but is now being scrutinized more closely after the government pledged to clamp down on financial risks .
policymakers have warned about the risk of asset bubbles due to high levels of corporate and household debt in the economy .
china s overall debt has jumped to more than 250 percent of gdp from 150 percent at the end of 2006 .
financial magazine caixin , citing unnamed sources close to the matter , reported that authorities in inner mongolia s hohhot and baotou cities have scrapped approved projects worth billions of dollars in recent months due to concerns over finances .
xianyang city which wants to build six lines to link up to central shaanxi province s capital of xi an , said in a statement this month some of its plans had not yet been approved by the state planner , the national development and reform commission .
the ndrc has become more cautious about approving metro construction plans and it will be difficult to achieve approval within the year , it said , adding that one of the factors was debt concerns over the baotou metro .
the economic observer newspaper said it was told by the wuhan city planner that the ndrc was re-evaluating the country s subway construction situation .
the baotou city planner declined to comment when contacted by reuters on wednesday .
the ndrc and authorities in hohhot and wuhan did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
guotai junan analyst gary wong said such a crackdown on metro projects was appropriate given that many remote and financially weak cities had undertaken metro projects .
he said he did not anticipate a large impact on locomotive suppliers such as crrc corp who have shifted focus to metros to offset the slowing high-speed rail market .
they are already full with orders , even if they don t get new orders at the moment they will still be busy for the next 2-3 years , he said .
china would overtake europe and the americas if all 50 cities went ahead with their metro plans , data from the international association of public transport showed .
europe has 46 cities with metro systems , and america has 33 cities .
the china association of metros said in july that 30 cities currently have metros .