three are known dead and many wounded when a shooting started at a home but moved to a school .
many have been wounded breaking : at least 3 dead in shooting in tehama co. it started at a home and moved to the school .
shooter shot and killed by police .
pic.twitter.com/xikvyixq4y sara stinson ( @ sarastinsonnews ) november 14 , 2017how this started : brian flint spoke with action news now and said that his truck was stolen and his roommate was shot and killed by the gunman .
he s dead .
he didn t make it , flint said .
for his family and everything , i feel bad , and we ll be there for them .
mentally ill but ignored ?
the roommates lived near the gunman , and flint said that their neighbor had been shooting a lot of rounds recently .
the crazy thing is that the neighbor has been shooting a lot of bullets lately , hundreds of rounds , large magazines , flint said .
we made it aware that this guy has been crazy , and he s been threatening us and everything .
i just feel like there maybe should have been more effort put into stopping things like this .
three killed many wounded : three people were killed in a shooting tuesday morning that started at a home and moved to an elementary school in tehama county , and the shooter was also killed by law enforcement , the sheriff s department said.multiple shots were fired about 8 a.m. at rancho tehama school on the outskirts of corning , northwest of chico , assistant sheriff phil johnston said .
three people were taken by ambulance and a fourth was airlifted to enloe medical center in chico , hospital officials said .
three of them were children and one was an adult , kcra s affiliate action news now reported.the conditions of the victims have not been released .
i know that we have ( airlifted ) a number of students , johnston said .
i know that the school s been cleared .
i know that we have children that were attending school in a safe location at this time .
more than 100 law enforcement officers are investigating at least five scenes in and around the school , johnston said.read more : kcra