baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi forces announced on thursday they had captured islamic state s last stronghold in northern iraq , leaving the militant group holed up near the syrian border as its self-proclaimed caliphate shrinks further .
the town of hawija and the surrounding areas fell in an offensive by u.s.-backed iraqi government troops and iranian-trained and armed shi ite paramilitary groups known as popular mobilisation .
some fighting took place to the north and east of the town where the militants were surrounded .
with the fall of hawija , which lies near the kurdish-held oil city of kirkuk , the only area that remains under control of islamic state in iraq is a stretch alongside the western border with syria , where the militant group is also in retreat .
the capture of hawija was a boost for the iraqi government , which faces a separate crisis in the north of the country , where the kurdish minority last month voted overwhelmingly in support of independence for their autonomous region .
in hawija , state tv showed footage of iraqi forces raising flags in one of the town 's squares while humvees patrolled empty streets littered with car wrecks , houses riddled with bullets and shattered storefronts .
( graphics on 'iraqi kurds ' independence push ' - here ) the army s 9th armored division , the federal police , the emergency response division and ... popular mobilisation liberated hawija , said a statement from the joint operations commander , lieutenant-general abdul ameer rasheed yarallah .
thick black smoke rose from areas surrounding hawija , from oil wells set on fire by the militants to prevent air detection .
the capture of hawija brings iraqi forces into direct contact with kurdish peshmerga fighters who control kirkuk , a multi-ethnic region claimed by both baghdad and the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) .
kirkuk shaped up as a flashpoint last month when the krg included the city in the referendum on kurdish independence in northern iraq .
we don t want any aggression or confrontations but the federal authority must be imposed in the disputed areas , iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi told a news conference in paris with french president emmanuel macron .
macron offered to mediate between the iraqi government and kurdish regional authorities , and promised to maintain a military presence there until islamic state was defeated .
the iraqi government has imposed sanctions in response to the independence vote , but abadi said he could understand the kurds aspirations , provided they were expressed in accordance with the constitution .
the outcome of the referendum has raised concerns in iraq and abroad that a conflict might break out there along ethnic lines , potentially weakening the campaign against islamic state .
turkey , which is battling a three-decade-old insurgency by its own kurdish militants , has led regional opposition to the iraqi kurds independence hopes .
stepping up his rhetoric on the issue , president tayyip erdogan said turkey would soon close its border with northern iraq and shut its air space in response to the referendum .
he added that turkey , iran and iraq would jointly decide on closing the flow of oil from northern iraq , a vital source of earnings for iraqi kurdistan .
on wednesday , russian president vladimir putin , whose country has big energy interests in kurdistan , said it was in no one s interest to cut off oil supplies from the territory .
but erdogan said that if a decision will be made on closing oil taps in the region , that will be made by us .
turkey , iran and iraq s central government will do so together .
erdogan s stance has been backed by iran .
after meeting erdogan in tehran on wednesday , supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei said iran and turkey should prevent the iraqi kurds from declaring independence .
relations have been cool between shi ite iran and mainly sunni turkey .
but both have been alarmed by the independence vote , fearing it will encourage separatism among their own kurdish populations .
the kurds are the region s fourth-largest ethnic group , spread across iran , turkey , syria and iraq , all of which oppose any moves towards a kurdish state .
iraq launched an offensive on sept. 21 to dislodge islamic state from the hawija area , where up to 78,000 people were estimated to be trapped , according to the united nations .
the militants control the border town of al-qaim and the region surrounding it .
they also hold parts of the syrian side of the border , but the area under their control is shrinking as they retreat in the face of two different sets of hostile forces - a u.s.-backed , kurdish-led coalition and syrian government troops with foreign shi ite militias backed by iran and russia .
islamic state s cross-border caliphate effectively collapsed in july , when u.s.-backed iraqi forces captured mosul , the group s de facto capital in iraq , in a grueling battle which lasted nine months .
the militants leader , abu bakr al-baghdadi , who declared the caliphate from mosul in mid-2014 , released an audio recording last week that indicated he was alive , after several reports he had been killed .
he urged his followers to keep up the fight despite setbacks .