united nations ( reuters ) - united nations security council ministers will meet on dec. 15 to discuss north korea s nuclear and missiles programs and the body will also meet separately this month to discuss human rights abuses in the north asian country , an annual meeting that its ally china has tried to prevent for the past three years .
japan s u.n .
ambassador koro bessho , president of the 15-member council for december , said several ministers were confirmed to attend the dec. 15 meeting .
he also said the meeting on human rights in north korea could be held on dec. 11 .
china has unsuccessfully tried to stop three previous human rights meetings by calling a procedural vote .
a minimum of nine votes are needed to win such a vote and china , russia , the united states , britain and france can not wield their vetoes .
this year s meeting has the backing of nine members - the united states , france , britain , italy , japan , senegal , sweden , ukraine and uruguay .
last year , the united states angered north korea by blacklisting its leader kim jong un for human rights abuses .
a landmark 2014 u.n. report on north korean human rights concluded that north korean security chiefs - and possibly kim himself - should face justice for overseeing a state-controlled system of nazi-style atrocities .
michael kirby , chairman of the u.n. commission of inquiry that drew up the report , said at the time that the crimes the team had cataloged were reminiscent of those committed by the nazis during world war two .
some of them are strikingly similar , he told reuters .
north korea has repeatedly rejected accusations of human rights abuses and blames sanctions for a dire humanitarian situation .
pyongyang has been under u.n. sanctions since 2006 over its ballistic missiles and nuclear programs .
despite persistent sanctions and pressure by the u.s. and other hostile forces , my government concentrates all its efforts on improving people s livelihood and providing them with a better future , the north korean permanent mission to the united nations said in a statement on nov. 14 .