london ( reuters ) - north korea s biggest nuclear test to date was condemned around the world on sunday , with several leaders calling for new sanctions and u.s. president donald trump saying appeasement would not work .
the explosion of what north korea said was an advanced hydrogen bomb came just days after it fired a missile over japan .
trump , who said after last week s missile launch that talking to pyongyang is not the answer , tweeted that sunday s test showed north korea s words and actions continue to be very hostile and dangerous to the united states .
u.s. treasury secretary steve mnuchin said he would put together new sanctions to potentially cut off all north korea s global trade .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president emmanuel macron said they planned to tighten european union sanctions .
this latest provocation by the ruler in pyongyang has reached a new dimension , the german government said in a statement after merkel and macron discussed the issue by phone .
britain s foreign minister boris johnson said : they ( north korea ) seem to be moving closer towards a hydrogen bomb which , if fitted to a successful missile , would unquestionably present a new order of threat , adding that there were no palatable military solutions .
british prime minister theresa may said the u.n. security council should urgently look at new measures .
russia struck a cautious tone .
in the emerging conditions it is absolutely essential to keep cool , refrain from any actions that could lead to a further escalation of tensions , russia s foreign ministry said , adding that north korea risked serious consequences .
later on sunday , russian president vladimir putin met his chinese counterpart xi jinping in china where they agreed to appropriately deal with the crisis , chinese state news agency xinhua said .
the two leaders agreed to stick to the goal of denuclearization on the korean peninsula and keep close communication and coordination to deal with the new situation , xinhua said .
earlier , china urged north korea to stop wrong actions and said it would fully enforce u.n. resolutions on the country .
as north korea s most important trading partner , the position of china - a permanent member of the u.n. security council - will be closely watched .
a japanese government source said there would be pressure on beijing to impose an oil embargo .
they will probably act eventually but ... it is possible that will not be before their october ( party ) convention , the source said .
russia does not have real influence on north korea .
it s china that matters .
trump said north korea had become a great threat and embarrassment to china and that beijing had tried but failed to solve the problem .
what he called south korea s talk of appeasement would not work as they ( the north koreans ) only understand one thing !
the international atomic energy agency , which has no access to north korea , called the nuclear test , pyongyang s sixth since 2006 , an extremely regrettable act that was in complete disregard of the repeated demands of the international community .