ankara ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan accused the united states on thursday of mistreating a strategic ally , in a blistering speech which appeared to rule out swift resolution to a dispute between two nato members jointly fighting islamic state .
hours after ankara announced officials would meet soon to settle differences , erdogan accused the u.s. consulate in istanbul of hiding an individual with links to a network he blames for last year s failed coup .
he also condemned u.s. support for kurdish fighters in syria and separate u.s. court cases against a senior turkish banker and the president s own security guards , mocking what he said was washington s claim to be the capital of democracy .
turkey s relations with the united states and many western countries have been strained since last year s failed military coup against erdogan , in which more than 240 people were killed .
turkey felt many allies were slow to condemn the coup attempt and failed to appreciate the danger it faced .
western countries have grown alarmed at the scale of turkey s post-coup crackdown , with 50,000 people detained and 150,000 suspended from work .
ties with the united states hit a low when turkey detained a locally employed worker at the u.s. consulate in istanbul last week .
the united states says it is still seeking an explanation for the arrest - the second detention of a consulate worker this year .
it suspended most visa services in turkey , saying it needed to review turkey s commitment to the security of its mission and staff .
turkey reciprocated within hours .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson spoke with turkish foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu on wednesday and expressed his profound concern , the u.s. state department said .
erdogan has blamed outgoing u.s. ambassador john bass , saying he was putting at risk a decades-old alliance .
let me be very clear , the person who caused this is the ambassador here .
it is unacceptable for the united states to sacrifice a strategic partner to an ambassador who doesn t know his place , erdogan told provincial governors meeting in ankara .
earlier , deputy prime minister bekir bozdag said turkish and u.s. officials would meet to work on resolving the crisis and described talks between their foreign ministers as constructive .
but erdogan aired a list of grievances , accusing washington of sheltering suspected members of the outlawed kurdish workers party ( pkk ) , and supporters of muslim cleric fethullah gulen he blames for last year s coup attempt .
gulen denies involvement .
on the one hand you say you are the capital of democracy , but you hide pkk and feto members , erdogan said , using the label his government has given to gulen s network .
he said washington was defending a feto-linked person hiding in your consulate , and said a christian pastor arrested in western turkey last year was also clearly linked to gulen .
ambassador bass said this week no one was hiding in the u.s. consulate , and that he had seen nothing of merit in the charges against the pastor , andrew brunson .
erdogan said u.s. authorities had wrongly arrested the former head of turkey s majority state-owned halkbank , and were trying to use a detained turkish gold trader as an informant .
both men were arrested on charges of sanctions violations .
referring to a u.s. grand jury indictment of 15 turkish security officials who clashed with protesters during his visit to washington in may , erdogan said most of them had never set foot on u.s. soil .
you issue arrest warrants for 13 of my security staff who have never seen the united states , he said .
if the ambassador in ankara is leading the grand united states , then shame on you , erdogan said .
someone should have said : you can not treat your strategic partner this way , you can t behave like this .