moscow/kiev ( reuters ) - armed men in masks blocked off the center of ukraine s rebel-controlled city of luhansk on tuesday in what the rebel leader said was a revolt by supporters of a sacked regional police chief .
in fighting that broke out in 2014 , russian-backed rebels threw off rule by a new pro-western leadership in kiev and set up two self-proclaimed separatist statelets in eastern ukraine , one centered on luhansk and another around the city of donetsk .
those separatist regions are aided by moscow but not recognized by any state , and they have been dogged by outbreaks of internal tensions that have on occasion turned violent .
the organisation for security and co-operation in europe , which monitors the implementation of a much-violated ceasefire agreement with ukraine , said on tuesday it had observed military-style vehicles and armed men in central luhansk .
the tension in luhansk did not appear to have any direct connection to the conflict between the rebels and ukraine s government , but president petro poroshenko called a meeting of his security and defense council late on tuesday .
the ukrainian armed forces are ready for all developments to ensure the safety of civilians , poroshenko said in a statement .
residents of luhansk , capital of the self-proclaimed luhansk people s republic ( lnr ) , saw unidentified armed men blocking access to downtown streets on tuesday morning , according to local media and a resident of the city .
the osce s monitoring mission posted photos on twitter that showed lines of heavy military trucks and armored personnel carriers in central luhansk .
the lnr s rebel leader , igor plotnitsky , blamed disgruntled supporters of igor kornet , his chief of police whom he said he had fired on monday .
the attempts by certain elements in the interior ministry in this way to challenge the decision .... ( to remove kornet ) have gone beyond the bounds of what is acceptable , plotnitsky said in a statement on his administration s web site .
i can say with confidence that the attempts by certain persons to stay in power by destabilizing the situation ... are futile , and in the very near future will be neutralized .
but kornet said he was still in his job , and demanded that senior figures in the region s rebel leadership be prosecuted .
i want to dispel rumors that i ve been removed , he said in a video message , clad in field camouflage .
we have the situation completely under control .
he said that he had uncovered evidence that several senior lnr officials , acting in collusion with kiev , were involved in criminal activity to the detriment of the interests of the republic and the people of luhansk .
last night i provided all the documents available to the ... igor plotnitsky , who decided to launch criminal cases and arrest those involved , kornet said .
in his statement the luhansk rebel leader contradicted this , saying there were no grounds to arrest the officials identified by kornet .
the conflict in the country s east between ukrainian government forces and pro-russian separatists has killed over 10,000 people .
russia denies accusations from ukraine and nato that it supports the rebels with troops and weapons .