havana ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama pushed cuba to improve human rights during his historic visit to the communist-led island on monday , publicly sparring with president raul castro who showed flashes of anger and hit back at u.s. “ double standards ” .
obama praised castro for openly discussing their differences but he said a “ full flowering ” of the relationship would happen only with progress on the issue of rights .
“ in the absence of that , i think it will continue to be a very powerful irritant , ” obama said in a joint news conference with castro that began with jokes but was tense at times .
“ america believes in democracy .
we believe that freedom of speech and freedom of assembly and freedom of religion are not just american values but are universal values , ” he said .
both men ’ s remarks were broadcast live on cuban state television from cuba ’ s palace of the revolution in a room draped with the stars and stripes and the cuban flag .
castro countered that no country meets all international rights but appeared uncomfortable as he made the rare step of taking questions from journalists in a country where the media is state controlled .
obama , the first u.s. president to visit cuba in 88 years , agreed in 2014 to improve relations with the former cold war foe but he is under pressure at home to push castro ’ s government to allow political dissent and to further open its soviet-style economy .
he said the two sides would hold talks on human rights in havana later this year .
opponents say obama has given away too much as he improves ties , with too little from castro in return , although the leading republican candidate for the nov. 8 presidential election , donald trump , said on monday he would likely continue to normalize ties with cuba if elected .
castro , an army general who became president when his ailing older brother fidel retired in 2008 , had never before taken questions from foreign reporters on live cuban television and was clearly irritated when asked about political prisoners in cuba , demanding the reporter produce a list of those in jail .
“ tell me now .
what political prisoners ?
give me a name , or the names , ” castro said .
“ and if there are these political prisoners they will be free before nightfall. ” cuba says it has no political prisoners and that the dozens listed by dissident groups are instead common criminals .
castro said cuba has a strong record on rights such as health , access to education and women ’ s equality .
his government criticizes the united states on racism , police violence and the use of torture at the guantanamo bay naval base in cuba .
ben rhodes , a senior obama aide , later insisted that cuba has political prisoners and said the u.s. government had shared lists of them with cuba .
he said cuba has shifted from long prisons terms to short-term detentions of political opponents .
later in the evening , castro sat between obama and first lady michelle obama for a dinner of rum flavored soup and pork , at a table that also included the leaders ’ top advisers .
obama ’ s ease with reporters ’ questions contrasted with castro ’ s manner .
the tension was palpable as castro declined to call on a slew of cuban journalists who yearned for the rare chance to ask him questions .
fumbling with a headset providing translation , the 84-year-old leader scolded reporters when he was asked again about rights , saying he agreed to only take one question .
obama playfully encouraged him to address a second but castro seemed reluctant as he obliged .
“ how many countries comply with all 61 human rights ?
do you know ?
i do .
none .
none , ” castro said .
in another awkward moment , as the news conference ended , castro lifted obama ’ s arm in the air as if to form a victory salute .
obama resisted , letting his hand hang limp rather than form a fist .
as part of the diplomatic breakthrough in 2014 , cuba released 53 prisoners that the u.s. government considered political prisoners .
but the dissident cuban commission of human rights and national reconciliation says 79 are still behind bars , among about 40 held for peaceful political protest .
“ this list is here if they want to see it , ” commission leader elizardo sanchez said on monday .
his list also includes armed anti-government militants , convicted hijackers , army deserters and spies , but sanchez said they are political because they were denied due process .
castro offered cuba ’ s recipe for better relations , saying the united states needs to lift its 54-year-old trade embargo on the island and hand back the guantanamo bay base to cuba .
obama did not respond to the demand on guantanamo bay but said he was optimistic about the elimination of sanctions against cuba .
“ the embargo ’ s going to end .
when , i can ’ t be entirely sure , ” obama said .
obama efforts to encourage congress to rescind the embargo has been rejected by the republican leadership .
thwarted , obama has instead used executive authority to loosen restrictions on trade and travel .
obama said direct flights from the united states would start this year .
he said regular tourism to cuba could happen “ very soon , ” in comments to u.s. network abc .
a clutch of deals timed to coincide with the visit appeared to show the strategy was bearing commercial fruit , notably u.s. cruise company carnival ’ s announcement on monday that it would sail the first ship from the united states to cuba in more than 50 years , in a deal that will bring in thousands of u.s. tourists at a time .
about a dozen major u.s. brands have stuck deals or are in talks with cuba .
ahead of the meeting with castro , obama said google would provide more wi-fi and broadband access on the island .
google said later its efforts were in the “ early stages . ”