la paz ( reuters ) - bolivian president evo morales said on thursday that opposition from the united states convinced him to run for a fourth term in 2019 , spurring a second day of protests after the constitutional court eliminated term limits .
morales government earlier brushed off criticism from washington , which said it was deeply concerned over tuesday s court decision .
morales himself then took it a step further , saying the u.s. reaction actually convinced him to run .
i was not so determined ; now i am determined , he said at a public event in the central bolivian region of cochabamba .
i will be a candidate , sisters and brothers , in 2019 .
the court ruling is final and can not be appealed .
groups opposed to the ruling protested in several cities again on thursday , as opponents clashed with police outside an elections office in the city of santa cruz .
bolivia has a constitution and we should respect it , said olga flores , who identified as a human rights activist and was among several hundred protesters braving the rain in la paz .
others chanted bolivia said no !
morales , a former coca farmer in power since 2006 , had previously accepted the results of a referendum in 2016 , when 51 percent of voters rejected his proposal to end term limits .
he later reversed course , saying that while he was willing to leave office , his supporters were pushing for him to stay .
the u.s. state department disputed that position .
twice in the last decade , the bolivian people have expressed their opposition to the concept of indefinite reelection for elected officials , the department s statement said .
it referred to a vote in favor of the current constitution in 2009 and the 2016 referendum .
morales administration dismissed the criticism .
it looks like they are trying to tell us who our candidates should be , the minister of the presidency , rene martinez , said .
he said right-wing political forces in bolivia had joined with the united states and the organization of american states to stop morales from running again .
historically unstable bolivia has enjoyed relative calm and prosperity under morales , the country s first indigenous president .
approval ratings for morales , a fierce critic of capitalism and ally of embattled venezuelan socialist leader nicolas maduro , hover at around 50 percent .
in september , morales movement to socialism party asked the courts to rescind legal limits barring elected authorities from seeking reelection indefinitely .
morales says his first election took place under bolivia s previous constitution and therefore did not count under the now-defunct two-term rule .