rome ( reuters ) - mamadu bassir sits eating a breakfast of warm milk and cookies in a migrants shelter in rome - one of nearly 65,000 lone youngsters who have survived the perilous sea journey from north africa to italy in the past four years .
his meal finished , the gangly 17-year-old tells the story of his trip from guinea , via a libyan prison where a guard knocked out three of his teeth with a club , to his crossing of the mediterranean , where he watched a friend drown in front of him .
both fell into the water as migrants scrabbled out of their deflating rubber boat to reach rescuers .
bassir could not swim but someone threw him a life-jacket just in time .
i fell in the sea , but italians saved me , he says .
then he puts his head on the table and starts to cry .
for many of his fellow young migrants , the dangers do not stop when they reach dry land .
four months ago , italy passed a law aimed at protecting child immigrants , even those who do not qualify as refugees , providing them with housing , food , healthcare and an education .
but without adult guidance and under pressure to send money home , campaigners say thousands end up back in the hands of smugglers or exploited to work long hours for little pay .
many want to reach relatives in other european countries , but increased border security in france , switzerland and austria often means they have to pay high fees to be smuggled north .
they ( the minors ) are the most vulnerable elements of this big phenomenon called migration , said kostas moschochoritis , head of humanitarian group intersos , which operates the shelter for unaccompanied minors in rome where bassir , who has nowhere to go , has been sleeping .
it has hosted 4,000 unaccompanied minors since 2011 , and just opened a new shelter with more beds on the outskirts of the capital .
more than 5,000 minors have left the communities where they had been living this year , said raffaela milano , a director at save the children in italy .
of these , it s inevitable that some are exploited .
we have the stereotype in europe that they are adults because they have been through so much .
it s not true .
they are still kids , milano said .
syed hasnain , a 28-year-old afghan , arrived in italy a decade ago .
his mother sent him away when he was 10 years old to keep the taliban from taking him to fight .
now he helps youngsters like bassir .
the fundamental thing that they want to do when they arrive in italy is to get a job , hasnain said .
italians can not give him jobs because the teenagers , mostly boys , do not yet speak italian , so he goes to the people from his country ... they know that he needs money because his family puts pressure on him to send money home , hasnain said .
the majority of them , they say , i miss my family , my country , my culture , my society , but the main thing that i miss is my mum , he said .
for now , bassir is making his way with the help of charities like intersos .
he is taking italian classes , and has an immigration lawyer helping get the documents he needs to either work legally or to go to school .
he longs to see his mother in guinea , but is determined to stay where he is .
if i stay in europe , i ll have more of a future , he says .