chicago ( reuters ) - a bill to send $ 700 million to cash-starved social services providers breezed through the illinois legislature on thursday , as the state once again turned to stopgap funding measures in lieu of a budget .
the measure passed the house 111-0 and the senate 56-0 .
there was no immediate comment from governor bruce rauner ’ s office on whether he will sign it into law .
a memo from his budget office expressed concerns that language in the bill could actually prevent funding for some programs .
democratic state representative greg harris said the money would be taken from state funds outside of illinois ’ general revenue fund to cover 46 percent of what the state has failed to pay service providers due to the ongoing impasse over the fiscal 2016 budget .
“ this is a $ 700 million piece of legislation that would help the neediest at the time they need help the most , ” he said .
despite the stalemate between the republican governor and democrats who control the legislature , about 90 percent of illinois government is being funded through continuing appropriations , the enactment of a k-12 school bill , and court-ordered spending .
but some parts of the government were left out in the cold .
earlier this month , dozens of unpaid social service providers sued illinois , seeking more than $ 100 million .
andrea durbin , chairman of the pay now illinois coalition that filed the lawsuit , said that if enacted , the bill would not end the litigation .
“ it could provide a downpayment of the money we are owed , but it ’ s not a comprehensive solution for the pay now illinois plaintiffs , ” she said .
in april , the legislature passed and rauner signed a $ 600 million stopgap funding bill for state universities , community colleges , and student tuition grants that covered only 34 percent of the $ 1.7 billion that had been earmarked for higher education spending in the fiscal year that began on july 1 .
illinois is the only u.s. state without a complete fiscal 2016 budget .
rauner earlier on thursday acknowledged that some lawmakers are working on a budget framework .
that framework involves higher taxes , spending cuts , and borrowing , according to local media reports .
“ i ’ m cheering for bipartisan general assembly members to come up with some solutions , ” the governor told reporters .