washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump ’ s former campaign manager paul manafort has agreed to an $ 11.65 million bail agreement with the special counsel investigating trump campaign ties to russia , the longtime republican political consultant ’ s lawyer said on thursday .
manafort , who was indicted along with a business associate richard gates in october , would be released from house arrest and electronic monitoring under the deal , lawyer kevin downing said in a filing in u.s. district court in washington .
manafort , who has been confined to his virginia home , has agreed to forfeit four real estate properties worth about $ 11.65 million if there is a bail violation , the court document said .
manafort previously had an unsecured $ 10 million “ appearance bond ” to guarantee he shows up to court .
agreement on bail had been reached with the office of special counsel robert mueller , downing said in the filing .
a spokesman for mueller could not immediately be reached for comment .
manafort , who ran trump ’ s 2016 campaign for several months , and gates pleaded not guilty in october to a 12-count indictment by a federal grand jury .
they face charges including conspiracy to launder money , conspiracy against the united states and failing to register as foreign agents of ukraine ’ s former pro-russian government .
the charges are part of mueller ’ s investigation into the conclusions of u.s. intelligence agencies that russia undertook a campaign of hacking and misinformation to tilt the election in trump ’ s favor and potential collusion by trump associates , allegations that moscow and the president deny .
mueller and his attorneys have previously argued that the court should only agree to a bail agreement if manafort fully explains his finances to the court and that they considered him a flight risk .
the four properties posted as bail are a bridgehampton , new york home valued at $ 4 million , a new york city property valued at $ 3.7 million , a florida property estimated at $ 1.25 million , and a home in virginia worth $ 2.7 million , the filing said .
manafort ’ s wife , kathleen , and his daughter andrea have agreed to act as sureties on the appearance bond , it said .
to address the issue of flight risk , manafort has agreed to not travel overseas , has handed over his passports , and will restrict his travel to florida , virginia , new york and washington d.c .
downing called the $ 11.65 million a “ substantial portion ” of manafort ’ s assets .
“ simply put , mr. manafort ’ s family would face severe economic consequences if he were not to appear as required . ”