make no mistake about it america is next !
german police were forced to turn water cannons on far-left anti-fascists staging a violent counter demonstration at an anti-islamisation rally on sunday.authorities initially tried to have the demonstration , organised by the anti-islamisation group hooligans against salafists ( hogesa ) , banned .
however , a court dismissed the motion and ruled that protesters would be allowed to gather at a fixed location , but not to march through the streets of cologne , in western germany.police deployed 3,500 officers wearing riot gear , with water cannons and a helicopter at the ready , as they expected up to 23,000 to attend the demonstration and counter demonstration , bild reports.proceedings began at around 2:00pm , with the hogesa demonstrators kettled on a dirt lot between cologne s deutz station and trade fair .
they were surrounded by the far left anti fascists chanting slogans like no human is illegal and open the borders !
as the afternoon progressed the left wing counter demonstration became increasingly aggressive , with a number of anti-fascists attempting to cross police lines and reach the hogesa demonstrators .
they were finally dispersed with the water cannons.swiss police were forced to use water cannon on pro-mass migration anti-fascists in the city of bern last weekend .
demonstrators turned out to protest the anti-mass migration swiss people s party winning the national election , with some turning violent.a shocking new video provides more reason for non-muslims in the west to worry about the ongoing refugee crisis in the middle east .
a muslim cleric and leader was recently explaining what was really going on with the mass muslim migration when he got a bit too honest with the crowd .
the infidels want us to be tormented .
they want us to be humiliated .
the koran says : the jews and the christians will never be pleased with you , but we will never follow their religion .
this dark night will be over , and soon , we will trample them underfoot , allah willing.germany is not a compassionate country that wishes to absorb refugees from syria and iraq , and palestinian refugees in the levant and elsewhere .
europe has become old and decrepit , and needs human reinforcement.no force is more powerful than the human force of us muslims .
oh , muslims , the germans say , in their economic reports , that they need 50,000 young workers .
now , they have got 20,000 , and they want another 30,000 and more , to work in their factories.they are not motivated by compassion for the levant , its people , and its refugees .
throughout europe , all the hearts are infused with hatred toward muslims .
they wish that we were dead .
but they have lost their fertility , so they look for fertility in our midst.we will give them fertility !
we will breed children with them , because we shall conquer their countries whether you like it or not , oh germans , oh americans , oh french , oh italians and all those like you.take the refugees !
we shall soon collect them in the name of the coming caliphate .
we will say to you : these are our sons .
send them , or we will send our armies to you.a new video appears to show islamists marching in the german city of hannover while at least two girls look on and express their fears.https : //youtu.be/-vjykrwqhhmvia : breitbart news