brussels ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may and european commission chief jean-claude juncker agreed over dinner in brussels on monday that the pace of negotiations over britain s departure from the european union should be stepped up .
a joint statement described a constructive and friendly two-hour meeting , during which they reviewed the progress made in the article 50 negotiations so far and agreed that these efforts should accelerate over the months to come .
announced less than 24 hours before they sat down , accompanied by their chief brexit negotiators , david davis and michel barnier , and just three days before may returns to brussels for an eu summit , the meeting was held well away from reporters .
officials offered no immediate detail on the substance beyond the six-sentence communique .
both sides have been calling for a faster pace of talks as time ticks down to britain s withdrawal from the eu in march 2019 and businesses warn that without clarity on what happens after that they may start switching investments early next year .
the joint statement gave little else away , making no reference to the mutual blame game in which london and brussels accuse each other of creating deadlock : may by failing to detail how much she is willing to pay to settle divorce obligations , the eu by sticking rigidly to a refusal to so much as talk about a future trade deal and transition to that until she does so .
wary that the prime minister , beset by feuds in her cabinet over a softer or harder break with the eu , might try to divide the other 27 states , some eu diplomats voiced concern she met juncker and barnier before meeting the other national leaders .
barnier has , diplomats say , suggested accelerating talks by starting internal eu discussions on a transition period in which britain would stay in the single market .
his idea hit resistance from heavyweights germany and france , though the 27 now seem set to agree this gesture in an eu statement to be issued on friday .
a revised text circulated by summit chair donald tusk to eu governments on monday retained wording that offers britain the chance of talks on a transition to a future relationship almost immediately after the next eu summit in december .
but at german and french insistence , it stressed the need for london to meet a series of key demands from the union , notably on money it owes .
may s spokesman , when asked before the meeting whether she would give more detail on britain s financial offer , indicated she would not .
that left some wondering what the point was .
it will either be a very expensive dinner , costing about 30 billion euros , or else what is this ?
one eu diplomat said .