riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabia s king salman bin abdulaziz said on wednesday his government was determined to confront corruption with justice and decisiveness , signalling continued support for a crackdown on sleaze involving mass arrests of top saudis including royals .
in a televised speech to the country s consultative shura council , salman also said the world s largest oil exporter will work to enable the private sector to become a partner in the kingdom s economic diversification drive away from petroleum .
saudi security forces rounded up hundreds of members of the political and business elite , including princes and tycoons , in early november : riyadh said it was a crackdown on corruption but the move was also widely seen as helping crown prince mohammed bin salman tighten his grip on power .
the purge has caused concern about damage to the economy , especially among foreign investors the kingdom is seeking to attract .
but the government has insisted it is respecting due process and that the companies of detained businessmen will continue operating normally .
in a speech focused on economic issues , salman said the kingdom was pushing ahead with its vision 2030 economic reform plan to find new sources of revenue for the opec powerhouse .
but he said that corruption was one of the main threats to economic development .
we have decided , with god s help , to confront it ( corruption ) with justice and decisiveness so that our country can enjoy the renaissance and development that every citizen aspires for , he said .
signaling his support for the campaign of arrests , he said that he had ordered the formation of a higher committee against corruption headed by the crown prince .
thanks be to god that those are a few ( people ) , he said , referring to the number of arrestees .
the public prosecutor said last week that most of those detained in the anti-corruption campaign have agreed to settlements to avoid prosecution , while the rest could be held for months .
salman said the restructuring the kingdom was undertaking did not contradict its islamic values , which he said were based on moderate islam .
there is no place among us for an extremist who sees moderation as deviation , or who would exploit our benevolent faith to achieve his goals , he added .
salman also reiterated saudi arabia s condemnation of president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital and move the u.s. embassy to the city .
in an apparent reference to arch-foe iran , salman also said saudi arabia was working with its allies to confront any tendency for external interference in the internal affairs and fan the flames of sectarian sedition , and undermine regional security and stability .
he did not elaborate .