paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron said turkey remained a vital partner of the european union and ties should be maintained even if the country had strayed from the eu path , according to a newspaper interview published on thursday .
a senior turkish official said eu states must decide whether they wanted turkey as a member , but there was a sense they no longer want the marriage ... ( but ) want cohabitation .
comments from the french president followed german chancellor angela merkel s remarks in a television debate on sunday that the eu should halt membership talks with ankara .
turkey has indeed strayed away from the european union in recent months and worryingly overstepped the mark in ways that can not be ignored , macron told greece s kathimerini newspaper .
but i want to avoid a split because it s a vital partner in many crises we all face , notably the immigration challenge and the terrorist threat .
the eu is eager to preserve a deal with turkey that has stemmed the mass migration via turkish territory of people from conflict areas .
turkey has in the past questioned the eu s sincerity in keeping its side of the arrangement .
relations with ankara and the european union have deteriorated since a failed july 2016 coup that has been followed by the arrests of tens of thousands of people across the country .
critics accuse president tayyip erdogan of using the coup attempt as pretext for a reckoning political opponents .
turkey , which signed an association agreement with the eu in 1963 , began formal negotiations to join the union in 2005 .
however , several members , including france , have opposed talks on certain subjects meaning that only 16 negotiation chapters out of 35 have been opened .
speaking to reporters in paris , turkey s ambassador echoed president erdogan s comments that the eu had to make its mind up about membership and dismissed any notion of an alternative special partnership .
integrating turkey into the eu is not a turkish question , but a european question now .
of course we have the impression of being duped , ismail hakki musa told reporters in paris .
they no longer want the marriage they want cohabitation .
for a privileged partnership it s too late and europe must now be honest and sincere .
turkey s relationship with france is not as bad as that with germany , but ties have been strained following the arrest of french journalists in the country .
the most recent , loup bureau , was seized by turkish border guards on the frontier with iraq in early august .
musa said macron and erdogan had asked their respective interior and justice ministers to find a way to solve the problem .
we have to find a solution without tainting the fundamentals of the turkish system , he said .
france s foreign minister is due in ankara on sept. 14 .
finland s foreign minister timo soini , arriving in brussels for talks with counterparts , said he was against ending membership talks with turkey .
it s always useful to have a dialogue .
we know there are problems with human rights in turkey .
while macron has sought not to anger erdogan since taking office , when responding in an interview last month on why being on the world stage was not so easy , macron appeared to take a veiled swipe at the turkish president .
i am the one who has to talk with erdogan every 10 days , he told le point without elaborating .