clinton sent out a taunting tweet of 3-0 after the three-judge panel from the 9th circuit court of appeals unanimously slapped a halt on trump s executive order on immigrants and refugees.trump tweeted out see you in court hillary responded with a snarky 3-0 her support for the ruling isn t surprising clinton said she was for open borders at one point but the gutter sniping was telling .
the activist judges who based their ruling on their liberal politics instead of the constitution are the same kind she would appoint to the supreme court and all other federal courts if she were in the oval office.thankfully , she won t get the chance , a fact reinforced by trump aide kellyanne conway .
she fired back at clinton with her version of 3-0 , tweeting pa , wi , mi , a reference to three formerly blue states , worth 46 electoral votes , that trump flipped to his column .
touch ! and so it went in week 3 of the trump era , with clinton s taunt , the court ruling , nonstop demonstrations and congressional hijinks combining to illustrate why trump s election was crucial .
it was a necessary course correction and a dramatic rejection of an arrogant government that both overreaches and underperforms.put another way , the hysterical , hateful reaction in many quarters to everything trump says and does is absolute proof that the ruling elite deserved a comeuppance .
the establishment was drunk on power , political and cultural , and never yielded an inch voluntarily or had the decency to admit error .
its rage reflects its sense of entitlement .
this unhinged rage is the new america only it s not new .
it was hiding in plain sight , hinted at by the contempt that hillary clinton , barack obama , tenured radicals , college snowflakes and the democratic media openly held for those who don t share their worldview.trump s victory ripped open the vein , but it would have erupted at any republican president .
modern liberals contempt for others is essential to their sense of superiority and justifies violence in the streets , threats and simple rudeness read more : nyp