new york ( reuters ) - donald trump has taken a more than 20-point lead over u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas in the republican race for the presidential nomination , bolstering his position ahead of the party ’ s primary in south carolina on saturday , according to a national reuters/ipsos poll .
among republicans , trump , a billionaire businessman , drew 40 percent support in the poll conducted from saturday to wednesday , compared with 17 percent for cruz , 11 percent for u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida , 10 percent for retired neurosurgeon ben carson , and 8 percent for former florida governor jeb bush .
the results contrasted with those of a national poll conducted this week by nbc news and the wall street journal that showed trump dropping into a national dead heat with cruz in the race for the republican nomination for the nov. 8 election to succeed democratic president barack obama .
on the democratic side , the reuters/ipsos poll showed former secretary of state hillary clinton maintaining about a 10-point national lead over u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont since last week ’ s new hampshire primary won by sanders .
the republican results marked a nominal gain for trump since his win in the feb. 9 new hampshire primary , when he led cruz by 18.4 points in the national rolling survey , although the increase remained within the poll ’ s credibility interval .
since he announced his candidacy last summer , trump has leveraged his celebrity and deep pockets to wage an unfiltered campaign that has upended the republican primary .
he has led the reuters/ipsos daily tracking poll since nearly the start of his campaign , topping bush in late july .
the reuters/ipsos poll also showed that either clinton or sanders would win a hypothetical general election contest with trump .
clinton would likely win with 44 percent support , compared with 37 percent for trump .
sanders would likely win by 44 percent to 35 percent .
the poll included responses from 476 registered republicans and 543 registered democrats .
it had a credibility interval of about 5 percent .
( editing by richard valdmanis and peter cooney ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .