washington ( reuters ) - a u.s. house panel on friday approved legislation that would renew the national security agency ’ s warrantless internet surveillance program , despite objections from the technology sector and civil liberties groups over inadequate privacy protection .
the house intelligence committee passed 13-8 the measure to reauthorize section 702 of the foreign intelligence surveillance act for a further four years until 2021 .
the act is due to expire on dec. 31 in the absence of congressional action .
the bill ’ s passage signaled that congress remained far from consensus on how to renew section 702 , as several rival bills with various new privacy provisions circulated in the house and senate , with no clear path forward for any measure .
intelligence agencies say section 702 is vital to national security and protecting american allies , and the trump administration wants minimal changes to it .
but privacy advocates criticized the intelligence panel ’ s bill for not requiring a warrant to access collected data belonging to americans .
reform government surveillance , a group representing major tech companies including facebook ( fb.o ) , alphabet ’ s google ( googl.o ) and apple ( aapl.o ) that presses governments around the world to bolster digital privacy protections , issued a lengthy statement thursday denouncing the measure , which it said may expand government surveillance .
all republicans on the intelligence panel supported the measure , while all democrats opposed it due to a mix of concerns , including language that would revise how government officials can “ unmask ” the identity of americans ’ names ’ typically redacted in intelligence intercepts .
republicans , including president donald trump , have accused without evidence the previous administration of president barack obama , a democrat , of improperly unmasking names for political reasons , a charge democrats have rejected .
section 702 allows the nsa to collect vast amounts of digital communications from foreign suspects living outside the united states .
but the program , classified details of which were exposed in 2013 by former nsa contractor edward snowden , incidentally gathers communications of americans for a variety of technical reasons , including if they communicate with a foreign target living overseas .
those communications can then be subject to searches without a warrant , including by the federal bureau of investigation .
the house judiciary committee last month passed by 27-8 another measure that partially restricts the fbi ’ s ability to review american data collected under section 702 by requiring the agency to obtain a warrant when seeking evidence of crime , but not in other cases such as for data related to counterterrorism .