verkhnaya pyshma/yekaterinburg , russia ( reuters ) - one thousand french goats have found a new home in russia s ural mountains as a local company bets on producing european-style cheeses no longer available for import .
russia banned the wholesale import of fresh food from the european union , including dairy products , in response to sanctions imposed on moscow after its 2014 annexation of crimea .
but as images of steamrollers flattening illegally imported european cheeses were beamed across the country , russian businesses were gearing up to fill the gap .
investment in the production of sanctioned foodstuffs has grown , and in the ural mountains the owners of mining company ummc have added goats to their copper and coal assets .
iskandar makhmudov and andrey kozytsin , both on the forbes list of russia s 100 richest people , are among ummc s main shareholders .
their company , ugmk-agro , spent one million euros on trucking the alpine goats 5,000 km from the vendee region in france .
working out of a converted cowshed north of yekaterinburg , it is aiming to be russia s largest producer of white mold goat s cheese , a french delicacy .
the company has invested 200 million rubles ( $ 3.4 million ) in cheese production and expects to turn a profit in six years .
for us , sanctions have of course played a positive role .
we saw a gap in the market - not quite a deficit , but some room for maneuver , ilya bondarev , ceo of ugmk-agro , told reuters .
with most russians accustomed to semi-hard cheeses , part of the challenge will be encouraging buyers to try something new .
i m sorry but goat s cheese smells , and i don t like the taste of moldy cheeses , said 30-year-old alexander , a yekaterinburg resident .
i prefer mozzarella and normal russian cheeses , which remind me of my childhood , he said .
there is also the price .
a kg of ugmk-agro s b che-de-ch vre cheese , sold under the coeur du nord brand , costs 2,200-2,500 rubles ( $ 37- $ 43 ) versus 300-800 rubles per kg for standard russian cheeses .
ugmk-agro plans to produce 500-700 kg of cheese a day by the spring of 2018 .
we are launching in moscow ... and are talking to distributors in st petersburg , bondarev said .
but our main challenge is the creation of a local market .