athens ( reuters ) - a potential deal with the united states to upgrade dozens of greece s f-16 fighter jets is not expected to harm its fiscal progress and should not worry its eu lenders , a greek government spokesman said on thursday .
defense spending has been reduced during greece s seven-year debt crisis , which shrank the size of its economy by more than a quarter and drove its jobless rate to nearly 28 percent .
it ( the deal ) is not expected to impact in any way the country s progress on fiscal targets or the fiscal balance of its budget , spokesman dimitris tzanakopoulos told reporters .
discussions have progressed but the deal over the lockheed martin fighter jets upgrade has not yet been sealed , tzanakopoulos said .
greece has about 160 f-16 fighter jets .
any deal would involve ugrading about 85 to 95 , he added .
the upgrade is not expected to cost more than 1.1 billion euros ( $ 1.3 billion ) , a sum which would be paid in annual instalments of about 110 million euros over a decade .
it is the cheapest and most appropriate solution to upgrade our air defense , he said , adding that athens has paid dozens of billions euros in past decades to purchase such jets .
greece s current eu bailout programme , its third since 2010 , ends in august and the leftist-led government has cut pensions , increased taxes and implemented unpopular reforms to meet targets .
greek media reported on thursday that european union lenders were concerned about the possible arms deal .
asked about the reports , tzanakopoulos said athens was ready to provide any information to the commission .
there is no reason for any concern , he said .
it is logical that the eu commission would want to be briefed and it will get all the necessary information , if requested .
the potential deal came to light during prime minister alexis tsipras s visit to the white house this week .
greece spends about 2 percent of its gross domestic product - roughly 3.5 billion euros - on defence , more than the eu s average , largely due to long-standing tensions with its neighbor and fellow nato member turkey .
spending on arms is expected to reach 475 million euros in 2018 , according to greece s 2018 draft budget .
asked whether greece , as it emerges from crisis , was returning to past habits of overspending on arms , tzanakopoulos said : the government has no intention to reiterate the mistakes of the past .