washington ( reuters ) - u.s. house armed services committee chairman mac thornberry introduced a second batch of legislative proposals on tuesday aimed at speeding up how the pentagon buys weapons and making it easier for firms to retain their intellectual property .
thornberry ’ s legislation follows an initial batch of reforms enacted last year with the 2016 annual defense policy bill , and continues efforts to make weapons programs more transparent .
the proposals are aimed at simplifying the convoluted u.s. defense department acquisition process , with a big push to fund more experimentation and prototyping of new weapons , while driving to get new technologies into the hands of troops faster .
many big weapons programs are over budget and behind schedule , although pentagon officials say changes undertaken since 2009 are starting to have a positive impact .
the new legislation aims to shorten the time it takes from the start of the design phase of a new program until a military service can start using a new weapon in combat to five-to-six years from around nine year currently , the staff said .
the bill requires all weapons systems to have “ open systems architectures ” that will allow the services to hold competitions for more components , and carry out quicker upgrades as new technologies are developed .
it authorizes the air force , army and other military services to use certain funding to pay for prototype upgrades of components and to develop technology faster .
the bill also seeks to end a controversy about how the pentagon treats private companies ’ intellectual property that has made non-traditional suppliers reluctant to do business with the u.s. military and its complex defense acquisition rules .
instead of automatically giving the government broad rights to control intellectual property rights that are jointly funded by industry and government , the bill would mandate that such arrangements would have to be negotiated between the parties .
the legislation would also continue a push to make the military services more responsible and accountable for weapons programs , requiring them to begin overseeing milestone decisions for joint programs after oct. 1 , 2019 .
the bill also requires the secretary of defense , or his staff , to fix the costs and expected fielding date for new weapons programs , and then hold the services accountable for meeting those targets .
to ensure more transparency , the bill also calls for creation of an acquisition scorecard that would compare program cost estimates with those submitted by independent estimators .