as a mother of three young girls , hillary is the last person i would consider a role model for women .
she is cold , calculating and has a long history of disrespect and accounts of violent behavior towards her subordinates and even her husband bill .
more than one secret service agent has come forward to tell the truth about hillary and her violent temper .
one of her secret service agents tells of the disrespect hillary showed for the secret service agents who risked their lives to keep her safe by greeting them with , f * * k off !
it s enough that i have to see you shit-kickers every day , i m not going to talk to you too ! !
just do your g * damn job and keep your mouth shut .
( from the book american evita by christopher anderson , p. 90- hillary to her state trooper bodyguards after one of them greeted her with good morning . )
in the clintons war on women ( skyhorse ) , out oct. 13 , political strategist roger stone details hillary s abusive behavior dating back to the clintons days in arkansas , where bill served as governor .
hillary clinton has a long history of being domestically violent with bill , stone writes .
hillary has beaten bill , hit him with hard objects , scratched and clawed him , and made him bleed .
when you spend your whole life acting like a bully , it should come as no surprise to anyone that hillary would approve of the kind of hateful behavior we ve seen from her supporters towards the only man who has the ability to take away the one goal she s worked for her entire life .
effective leaders inspire movements that exist only when people choose to move in the same direction .
without a leader , movements fragment and get nowhere .
the leader s job is to inspire people to work together in the service of something greater than themselves .
does anyone really believe that trump supporters deserved to be sucker punched , kicked , beaten , or have objects lobbed at their heads and bodies ?
what if the reason innocent trump supporters were randomly attacked is because a certain leader of the democratic party feels her grip on the american people slipping away by an outside force she never counted on ? what if hillary actually condoned violence against trump supporters , as a way to intimidate them , hoping they d be afraid to attend future trump rallies ?
what if the massive number of trump supporters showing up at his rallies caused hillary to panic and fear she may have to explain to the press why she couldn t even fill a high school gym with her supporters ? what if trump represented all that the left has fought so hard to erase from american history and culture ?
and what if hillary was working in conjunction with our current president and other underground figures actually condoned this kind of violence against trump supporters even paid for it ? if you ve seen any of the recently released project veritas videos , you d know that this is not only a possibility , but a shocking reality .
even some of the most ardent supporters of hillary should be sickened by the actions this woman and her party are willing take in order to maintain their power.here are a few videos every american should see before stepping into the voting booths or mailing in their absentee ballots .
every american needs to ask themselves if they want to see a leader who inspires violence , division and hate or , if they desire a true leader of all people , who has one goal to make make america great again here s donald trump on the violence committed against his supporters : here s hillary committing psychological warfare against trump and his supporters , as she attempts to blame donald for the violence being committed against his followers : https : //youtu.be/laoyey6dsscthese violent anti-trump activists will harm anyone who gets in the way of them achieving their goals , even an 8 and 11 year old girl : our very own vice president joe biden says he d like beat up donald trump behind the gym .
hmmmm .sounds like another democrat inciting violence # hillarysbullies are the worst of america pic.twitter.com/jcoi57likh hardhat patriot ( @ hardhat_patriot ) october 26 , 2016who can forget the young man who was walking down the sidewalk holding a trump sign and was sucker punched in the back of his head , then was chased down by a muslim man who tackled to the ground ?
he barely got away from this angry mob who descended on him and threatened his life over his support for trump : here s a hispanic senior citizen who was attacked by what appears to be a mob of angry hispanic hillary supporters ( likely illegal aliens ) : we did a story in march about a disabled veteran who walked 3 miles with a cane to get to the trump rally after anti-trump activists shut down the road that led to his rally : finally , a compilation of attacks on trump supportershttps : //youtu.be/fvbh7f6kjeu