london ( reuters ) - britain s main opposition labour party must commit to staying in the european union s single market after brexit and put an end to prime minister theresa may s destructive brexit , several of its lawmakers said on sunday .
at the beginning of the party s annual conference , labour lawmakers and trade union leaders wrote an open letter to their leader , calling on jeremy corbyn to go further than his current position to press for being part of the single market during any transition after britain leaves in march 2019 .
after months of sticking to a position little different from the governing conservative party s pursuit of a clean break with the eu , labour changed tack last month by saying , if in power , the party would press for full access to the single market during a transition - something that could continue beyond .
we have watched with dismay as the government has used a narrow referendum result to justify an extreme approach to brexit , the lawmakers said in a letter published in britain s observer newspaper .
so at our conference this week , labour should commit to staying in the single market and customs union ruling out no options for how to achieve this .
labour s earlier move was aimed at increasing pressure on may , weakened after losing her party s majority in parliament in a june election she did not need to call and struggling to unite her own party over brexit .
but labour is also keenly aware that many of its supporters , especially in northern and central england , voted for brexit and want controls on immigration which many blame for stretching public services , such as hospitals and schools .
corbyn , who says he is preparing for government , told the bbc he was listening to those members of the labour party who want to keep the closest possible ties with the eu , but he did not say whether he would change the party s policy .
instead , he said he believed a transitional period with full single market access should last for as long as is necessary and offered some support for continued migration .
in the letter , labour lawmakers attacked the conservative party s damaging promise to cut net migration to the tens of thousands .
labour must be clear : migrants are not to blame for falling wages , job insecurity , bad housing and overstretched public services , the letter said .