lisbon ( reuters ) - portugal s parliament on monday approved in the final reading the minority socialist government s 2018 budget bill that aims to trim the deficit to a new low in the country s democratic history thanks to continuing , if slower , economic growth .
the budget was approved by the socialists and their far-left allies in parliament - the communists and left bloc - who together hold 122 seats in the 230-seat house .
the remaining lawmakers voted against the document that set the deficit at 1.1 percent of gross domestic product .
the allies have already reversed many of the austerity policies of the previous center-right administration introduced under an international bailout program in 2011-14 , and next year s plan carries more measures like tax cuts for low to medium incomes and higher pensions .
the socialist administration has debunked the myth that to have balanced accounts it is necessary to sacrifice the economy , jobs and well-being of portuguese , pedro nuno santos , secretary of state for parliament affairs , told lawmakers .
the budget envisages that portugal s strongest economic performance in at least a decade will extend into next year , with investment , tourism and exports remaining robust .
but growth will slow to 2.2 percent from 2017 s 2.6 percent .
despite the approval , some analysts say that during the budget discussions pressure has been building on prime minister antonio costa , who came to power exactly two years ago , from the left and the unions for more state spending .
that could make it more difficult to maintain the budget cuts down the road .
as the 2019 electoral period approaches , there will be more serious pressure on the government , and the trend is no longer that of accelerating growth , said political scientist antonio costa pinto of the university of lisbon .
they ve had good growth and deficit numbers in the first two years but those will be difficult to replicate , he said , adding though that potential tensions between the government and its allies were unlikely to result in any political crisis .
the projected deficit is higher than the initial 1 percent plan due to hundreds of millions of euros added to expenditure on aid and reconstruction after devastating fires in june and october this year , which killed over 100 people and were an embarrassment to the government .
still , the gap is poised to narrow from this year s projected 1.4 percent - the lowest since portugal returned to democracy in 1974 - as the economy is expected to grow for the fifth consecutive year .
nevertheless , brussels has warned portugal , along with several other countries , that their budgeted structural deficit cuts in 2018 fell short of eu requirements while some government spending also caused concerns .
the european commission has also put portugal s overall 2018 budget gap at 1.4 percent , the same as this year .
costa argues that his government will allay brussels concerns with each month that passes , citing his record of beating deficit-busting targets in 2016 and 2017 .