nairobi ( reuters ) - in the run-up to kenya s august presidential election , the ruling party used divisive social media campaigns created by a u.s. company whose previous clients include president donald trump , a britain-based privacy advocacy group said on thursday .
two websites - one detailing the accomplishments of president uhuru kenyatta and the other attacking opposition leader raila odinga - share an ip address with texas-based harris media llc , according to privacy international s report .
privacy international said the company used data analytics to target audiences using information gleaned from social media accounts in kenya , where 1,200 people were killed in inter-ethnic violence after a disputed election a decade ago .
kenyans vote largely along ethnic lines , and candidates appeal to voters on that basis .
this raises serious concerns about the role and responsibility of companies working for political campaigns in kenya , in which tribal affiliation and region of origin are particularly politically sensitive data , and volatile coded language was widely deployed , privacy international said .
social media in the east african nation were flooded with ads linking to the real raila and uhuru for us sites in the weeks before the aug. 26 vote .
an official for kenyatta s jubilee party denied the report , saying it handled all its campaigns locally .
the company , u.s.-based harris media llc , did not respond to a request from reuters for comment on the report .
but the allegations by privacy international recalled how , for the first time in kenya s history , social media including fake news , hashtags and trolls dominated the public discussion and stoked tensions in the run-up to the hotly contested presidential election on aug. 26 .
kenyans went to the polls amid concerns over the credibility of the vote and bitter online hate campaigns stoking ethnic tensions , leading to fears of a return to the bloodshed that followed the disputed 2007 vote .
the august vote was eventually nullified by the supreme court over irregularities .
kenyatta won an october re-run that odinga boycotted .
but violence marred the extended election season , and more than 70 people were killed , mainly by police .
raphael tuju , jubilee party secretary general , denied the party had hired or used harris media .
we have heard a lot of those kinds of accusations .
we were running a campaign from the jubilee headquarters , and we employed local communications experts , led by our own team , and that is it for us , he told reuters by phone .
days before the august vote , facebook released a tool enabling kenyan users to evaluate content displayed prominently when they log on .
the tool contained tips on how to spot fake news , including checking web addresses and looking for other reports on the topic .