amsterdam ( reuters ) - the incoming dutch government rolled out the red carpet for big business on tuesday , firming up plans to lower the corporate tax rate to 21 percent and scrap a 15 percent tax on dividends .
as part of the biggest tax overhaul in years , it also introduced a tax on royalties in a bid to counter a reputation for abetting tax avoidance by housing shell companies that act as a conduit for money destined for tax havens .
i do feel we should be much tougher on mailbox companies ... and we are going to do that , prime minister mark rutte told a news conference at the parliament building .
at the same time if there are serious companies that want to have their headquarters in the netherlands , we d love to have them , he said .
he said britain s decision to leave the european union gave the netherlands a chance to attract firms based in britain but seeking a european headquarters .
the corporate tax rate will be lowered incrementally each year .
other proposals are targeted to go into effect by 2019 , after approval by parliament .
the netherlands is favored by multinationals and is currently battling a fine from the eu for giving starbucks tax advantages that amounted to state aid .
google and apple route money there and reinvest it abroad rather than repatriating it to the united states where it would be subject to higher tax rates .
the netherlands is also popular with rock stars such as the rolling stones and u2 who until now have benefited from the country s favorable treatment of royalties .
tax experts said the package of reforms was a mixed picture .
reducing the corporate tax benefits all businesses and getting rid of dividend withholding is aimed at making the netherlands more interesting for foreign investors , said rudolph de vries , a tax adviser at ernst & young and professor at leiden university .
he said the reduction in corporate taxes will be partially offset by another reform in the works : a move to limit the deductibility of debt .
marcel klok , senior economist at ing , said the rules will lead to about 1.3 billion euros in missed tax revenues from foreign companies , to a large extent due to the abolition of dividend taxes .
he noted the lower corporate tax rate of 21 percent , while a significant cut from 25 percent , is just slightly below the eu average of 21.5 percent .
it seems like the netherlands is shifting towards doing what the oecd and other international partners are asking for , so going in the direction of having less exemptions , he said .
but because they are reducing some tariffs and other measures the net effect is very beneficial for foreign firms to come and invest here .
alexander pechtold , the leader of one of the junior parties in rutte s new four-party coalition , said mailbox companies and others taking advantage of loopholes in the tax code will be better off elsewhere .
you have these singers who are doing all these fabulous charitable things from the money they are not paying in taxes , he said .
we will now take care of the charitable causes ourselves directly , without the singers in between .