seoul ( reuters ) - south korean president moon jae-in comforted mourners in the small scenic city of jecheon on friday amid growing public anger at how fire ripped through an eight-storey building , killing at least 29 people , most of them taking a sauna .
all but one of the victims had been identified by friday morning , including 20 women who were overcome by toxic fumes in the second-floor sauna , jecheon fire chief lee sang-min said .
our crew on the scene said the lockers inside the facility were installed like a labyrinth and it s a glass building with few windows , which apparently made way for the smoke from the first floor to quickly fill up the second floor , lee told reporters .
consoling family members , president moon jae-in said he was devastated and promised a full investigation .
the government as a whole will thoroughly probe this accident s cause and process of response , and although after the fact , the investigation and measures will be such that , at least , there will not be lingering deep sorrow .
moon s predecessor , ousted former president park geun-hye , was widely criticized for her slow and ineffective response to the sewol ferry tragedy in 2014 in which more than 300 people , mostly schoolchildren , drowned .
anger mounted on friday at reports of shoddy construction , broken doors and other problems that may have contributed to the deaths .
one man shouted at officials visiting survivors in hospital , complaining that firefighters failed to break through to the trapped women in time .
media reported that a glass door leading to the sauna had not been working properly for more than a month , and that emergency stairs were often used for storage .
nothing has changed even after the sewol tragedy , parliament member ahn cheol-soo said .
i just can not understand why the same type of accidents happen over and over again , he said , according to the yonhap news agency .
jecheon s mayor told reporters the city was considering a mass funeral and planned to cover most of the costs .
investigators were still trying to find out the cause of the conflagration , but were focusing on a first-floor parking lot , lee said .
there were cars parked on the first floor , and as they were burning , a large amount of toxic gases were released .
tragic stories began to emerge as victims were identified .
one man told yonhap that he lost his mother , wife , and daughter .
another said he received a phone call from his trapped wife as she coughed in the gathering smoke , but was later unable to reach her again .
heavy smoke charred glass facade of the building as firefighters struggled to extinguish the blaze , climbing up and down a ladder in a desperate search for survivors .
organizers called off a leg of the 2018 pyeongchang winter games torch relay in jecheon on what should have been a day of celebration ahead of the games .
we thought that having a torch relay at a place where so many people died in a fire accident is just not right , and therefore canceled today s event in jecheon , ryu hoyon , the torch relay manager for the pyeongchang organizing committee , told reuters .
we are planning to adjust further schedules with those who want to continue the relay .
jecheon is southeast of the capital seoul and is popular with visitors to its mountains and lakes .
( tmsnrt.rs/2bvndg6 ) the games begin in february .