north charleston , s.c. ( reuters ) - two weeks before the first contest of the 2016 presidential race , republicans and business leaders who fear the party has been hijacked by the likes of donald trump and ted cruz found little to comfort them in the latest debate .
both candidates , one a billionaire developer with no political experience and the other a u.s .
senator from texas with a reputation for clashing with his colleagues in washington d.c. , stood center stage thursday night and , for the most part , dominated the proceedings .
more mainstream hopefuls such as former florida governor jeb bush , new jersey governor chris christie , ohio governor john kasich , and u.s .
senator marco rubio from florida were left nipping at their heels and squabbling .
with characteristic bravado , trump dubbed himself the winner on friday .
speaking to 250 people at living history farms in iowa , he called the debate “ interesting ” and said “ even the pundits last night were treating me nicely. ” trump told msnbc the overnight polls showed him winning the debate , saying cruz was “ very strident ” and made “ inappropriate ” comments .
“ i don ’ t know that he ’ s a nice guy , ” trump said on msnbc ’ s “ morning joe ” program .
“ i think he hurt himself last night. ” trump , 69 , and cruz , 45 , whom opinion polls have locked in a tight struggle to win the feb. 1 iowa caucuses , clashed at several points , befitting their leading-men status .
that left little room for rivals hurriedly trying to close the gap before voting begins for real to choose the party ’ s nominee for november ’ s general election .
“ they are digging themselves a bit of a hole , ” said fergus cullen , the former chairman of the new hampshire republican party .
“ it ’ s entirely possible the final two candidates will be trump and cruz , and people like me will be despondent. ” business leaders expressed concern about the direction of the party .
xenophobic views about muslims and latinos , fanned by trump ’ s national dominance in the republican race , risked undermining business hopes of immigration reform , for example .
rhetoric about the country ’ s income gap and china have also eroded prospects for business-friendly solutions on trade and tax reform , some said .
“ policy and politics in this country have become bogged down in a sort of quicksand .
it ’ s almost like the harder we push the deeper we sink , ” said david french , senior vice president for government relations at the national retail federation .
dan danner , president and chief executive officer of the national federation of independent business , a washington group representing 330,000 small businesses that employ around three million people , said he was also worried .
“ small businesses probably represent every ethnic group and are more diverse than many large corporate entities .
i don ’ t think they ’ re for walling us off from the rest of the world , ” he said .
“ and small businesses vote .
and they vote in much higher proportions than the overall population. ” both trump and cruz have called for cracking down on legal and illegal immigration .
trump has also advocated a temporary ban on muslims entering the country after the dec. 2 shooting deaths of 14 people in san bernardino , california inspired by islamist militancy .
thomas donohue , ceo of the u.s. chamber of commerce , which is often viewed as the country ’ s most powerful mainstream business lobby group , fretted in a speech in washington on thursday that the rhetoric in the republican primary campaign was “ damn serious and sometimes a little scary. ” new hampshire holds its primary about a week after iowa ’ s caucuses and perhaps offers the best chance for a more moderate option to surface as a prime challenger .
iowa republicans historically tend to favor more conservative candidates .
but in new hampshire right now , “ the mainstream republicans are as splintered and scattered as ever , ” cullen said , leaving open the possibility that trump could win that state as well .
indeed , there seemed to be some acknowledgement during the debate that only one more serious contender might emerge from the rest of the field .
that had christie and rubio , both of whom hope to win new hampshire , repeatedly locking horns .
“ they know what lane they ’ re in and who they ’ re fighting , ” said chip felkel , a republican strategist in south carolina , which also holds its primary next month .
“ it ’ s trump and cruz , and the other four jockeying for some momentum. ” trump and cruz dominated social media mentions in the debate .
and according to google ’ s analytics , which tracked audience responses , trump and cruz came out the winners .
“ more and more , this is coming down to a two-man race .
the polling , the support , it is more and more looking like it is donald trump and me , ” cruz said in an interview on fox business network afterwards .
even before the debate there were signs of establishment concern about trump and cruz , who are both vying for support from the tea party movement , which advocates for smaller government and fewer taxes .
peter wehner , who worked in the last three republican presidential administrations , wrote a scathing op-ed in the new york times slamming trump on thursday .
in a shift , most of the field left trump alone during the debate , and at times praised him .
even trump ’ s statements about prohibiting muslim immigration drew a strong rebuke only from bush , with other candidates such as cruz and rubio sounding notes of sympathy with trump ’ s position .
new hampshire ’ s cullen held out hope that rubio , or someone else , might still find time to take on his party ’ s more extreme elements .
but , he lamented , “ the odds are dropping . ”