washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court sided with the obama administration on thursday in rebuffing a bid by 20 states to halt an environmental protection agency rule to curb emissions of mercury and other toxic pollutants from power plants .
the action came about a month after the high court put on hold federal regulations to curb carbon dioxide emissions mainly from coal-fired power plants , the centerpiece of president barack obama ’ s strategy to combat climate change .
chief justice john roberts denied a petition made last week by the states , led by michigan , to put the rule on hold after a federal appeals court decided in december to leave it intact while the epa reassessed costs of implementing the regulation .
the states had argued that a stay was necessary because the supreme court had “ already held that the finding on which the rule rests is unlawful and beyond the epa ’ s statutory authority. ” the supreme court ruled last june that the epa should have considered compliance costs when it decided to limit emissions of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants mainly from coal-fired power plants , and returned the case to the appeals court .
the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit subsequently said the regulations could remain in place while the government responds to the high court ’ s june ruling .
the appeals court gave the epa until april 15 to come up with compliance costs .
the epa rule , which went into effect last april , applies to about 1,400 electricity-generating units at 600 power plants .
many are already in compliance .
epa spokeswoman melissa harrison said the agency was “ very pleased ” with roberts ’ action , noting that power plants are the largest source of mercury pollution in the united states .
“ these practical and achievable standards cut harmful pollution from power plants , saving thousands of lives each year and preventing heart and asthma attacks , ” harrison said .
environmental groups and 15 other states that had asked the court to reject the stay request applauded roberts ’ action and called on the attorneys general in the group of states led by michigan to end their legal challenge to the rule .
the rule is “ safeguarding millions of american children from poisons such as mercury , arsenic and acid gases , ” said vickie patton , general counsel for the environmental defense fund anti-pollution advocacy group , a party to the case .