madrid/barcelona ( reuters ) - spanish prime minister mariano rajoy said on saturday he would not rule out using the constitutional powers to remove catalonia s autonomous status if it claimed independence as tens of thousands took to the streets to call for talks .
the wealthy northeastern region of catalonia , with its own language and culture , held a referendum on oct. 1 on independence , in defiance of the spanish constitutional court which had ruled the vote illegal .
until now , rajoy has remained vague on whether he would use article 155 , the so-called nuclear option , of the constitution which enables him to sack the regional government and call a fresh local election .
in an interview with spanish newspaper el pais on saturday rajoy was asked if he was ready to trigger the article 155 of the constitution , and said : i don t rule out absolutely anything that is within the law ...
ideally , it shouldn t be necessary to implement extreme solutions but for that not to happen things would have to be changed .
tens of thousands of people gathered across spain earlier on saturday as catalonia prepared to declare independence from the rest of the country , many dressed in white and calling for talks to defuse spain s worst political crisis for decades .
the catalan authorities say around 90 percent of those who voted supported a split from spain .
madrid says secession is illegal under the spain s 1978 constitution .
residents of catalonia who oppose secession largely boycotted the vote .
the crisis is a political test for rajoy , who has been uncompromising .
some 900 people were injured during the vote when police tried to disrupt voting , firing rubber bullets and charging crowds with truncheons .
the political stand-off has divided the country , pushed banks and companies to move their headquarters outside catalonia and shaken market confidence in the spanish economy , prompting calls from the european commission for catalan and spanish leaders to find a political solution .
i hope that the catalonia that makes pacts , is moderate and for many years contributed to spain s economic growth and improvement in welfare and wealth returns .
it can t be in the hands of extremists , the radicals and the ( far-left secessionist party ) cup , he said .
however , rajoy ruled out using mediators to resolve the crisis and also said the issue would not force a snap national election .
in peaceful protests called across 50 spanish cities on saturday morning , thousands gathered dressed in white and carrying banners calling for peace and dialogue between leaders .
in barcelona , protesters chanted let s talk in catalan , while many carried signs criticizing political leaders for not finding a diplomatic solution to the impasse .
this is producing a social rupture in catalonia and this has to be resolved through dialogue , never via unilateralism , jose manuel garcia , 61 , an economist who attended the protest dressed in white said .
i m very worried .
this will end badly and everyone will lose ( without dialogue ) .
while catalan leader carles puigdemont has said he is open to mediation , rajoy has demanded he give up the independence campaign before discussions can be held .
in madrid thousands gathered beneath the enormous spanish flag in colon plaza waving their own flags , singing and chanting viva espa a and viva catalonia .
i ve come because i feel very spanish and makes me very sad what s happened , said rosa borras , 47 , an unemployed secretary who had joined a noisy gathering in central madrid .
borras , wearing a catalonia , we love you sticker and surrounded by thousands waving spanish flags , added : i wanted to be here for unity , because i also feel very catalan .
my family lives in catalonia .
rajoy s government mobilized thousands of national police to stop sunday s vote , leading to clashes with would-be voters as they tried to close polling stations in schools and remove ballot boxes .
in the el pais interview , rajoy said the around 4,000 extra police shipped in to the region would stay until the conflict had been resolved .
the police violence drew widespread condemnation and forced the government to issue an apology on friday , although tensions continued to rise after reports of plans for the catalan parliament to vote on a unilateral declaration of independence on tuesday .
the crisis has also caused disquiet among spain s european union partners , and german chancellor angela merkel has discussed it with european commission president jean-claude juncker , an eu official told reuters .
[ l8n1mi08f ] concern is growing in eu capitals about the impact of the crisis on the spanish economy , the fourth largest in the euro zone , and on possible spillovers to other economies .
european finance ministers , gathering in brussels on monday and tuesday for a regular meeting , could discuss the issue , although it is not formally on the agenda , eu officials said .
the support given in public statements by eu leaders to rajoy is combined with concern expressed in private about how the spanish government s use of police to prevent catalans from voting last week in the independence referendum could backfire .
some eu states are worried that talk of catalan independence could fuel secessionist feelings in other parts of europe .