in a harsh reminder of just how differently reporters treated the obama administration compared to the current administration .
mika couldn t contain her excitement at getting to talk to jarrett even begging the former advisor repeatedly to get herself , michelle or barack involved in politics again , to save the party .
she began the sympathetic interview by empathizing how rough election night was for democrats .
she cooed to jarrett , there were some rough i mean , election night , what was that like for you ? after jarrett answered that it was gut-wrenching but work still had to be done so they needed to move on , the msnbc host harped on the election night devastation again : i still , though , wonder like , is there any flash in time , election night or in the days after , god , i saw some brutal pictures of some really devastated faces , could you ever have imagined and was there a moment when you realized the next president is going to be the man who rose to power on the birther movement , of all things ? though there s no denying trump did help spread birther conspiracies prior to his campaign , so did hillary clinton .
her campaign was actually the first to raise these conspiracy theories during the 2008 election when she was running against then senator obama.mika then asked jarrett what she wish she d known before her first days in the white house .
jarrett responded with a scathing rebuke of partisan republicans who had obstructed obama from day one and were terrified at giving the power back to the hands of the american people .
newsbustersthe best part of the interview comes near the end when mika implores jarrett to ask barack obama to come back : could he come back and save the party ?
tell them what to do ?
laughter what dingbat leftist mika clearly doesn t understand is that community organizer barack obama is still running the party from dc and doesn t have any plans to go away watch : you know , elections have consequences , jarrett told mika .
it s part of why president obama worked so hard during the campaign .
and so when people show you who they are you can t be surprised when they actually then continue to fulfill what they said they were going to do .
here is the entire video :