washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump on thursday blasted currency devaluations around the world for hurting the u.s. economy and costing american jobs , and defended his calls for a tougher u.s. stance on trade .
asked about the european central bank ’ s decision on thursday to cut interest rates , trump told cnbc that such devaluations were driving manufacturing and other jobs outside of the united states .
“ we just sit back and do nothing , ” trump said .
“ that ’ s getting to be very dangerous as far as i ’ m concerned. ” a more effective economic move than devaluations would be charging a tax on products made abroad and sold in the united states , particularly those from china , trump said .
“ china is the grand master of all , ” trump said .
“ i have great relationships and business relationships with china , and even those people say they can ’ t believe what they ’ re getting away with. ” additionally , the front-runner for the republican nomination in the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election said that while he supports free trade if it is “ fair , ” the united states has been taken advantage of in negotiations .
trump also said if elected president he would move quickly to stop corporate inversions - when a u.s. company acquires an overseas firm and reduces its tax bill by moving its headquarters to the purchased firm ’ s location .
trump said he thinks corporate inversions cost the united states twice as much as estimated .
he said drugmaker pfizer inc and other companies that have recently left the country show “ there are things that are very structurally wrong with what we ’ re doing. ” “ i think it ’ s $ 5 trillion , but i don ’ t think our country has any idea what it is , but i think it ’ s much more than $ 2.5 trillion , ” he said , referring to u.s. tax revenue lost when companies pull off corporate inversions .
trump said republicans and democrats agree they want to halt such inversions , but “ they can ’ t make a deal because they don ’ t have leadership. ” “ i could make a deal in 15 minutes by getting people in a room , ” trump said .
“ everybody wants that money to come into the united states .
...
it would be so easy. ” ( additional reporting by susan heavey ; editing by will dunham ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .