london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may has signaled that she could sack foreign secretary boris johnson , a sunday newspaper said , as she tries to reassert her authority after a series of political disasters .
the sunday times said it asked may about her plans for johnson , who has professed loyalty but is accused by some of the prime minister s allies of undermining her by putting forward his own vision for britain s exit from the european union .
it has never been my style to hide from a challenge and i m not going to start now , it quoted may as replying , in what it called a signal that she was prepared to bring in new ministers to her cabinet and axe those who had caused her problems .
i m the pm , and part of my job is to make sure i always have the best people in my cabinet , to make the most of the wealth of talent available to me in the party .
may has seen her authority over her conservative party erode since she called a snap election in june in which she lost her majority in parliament .
johnson , seen as a potential successor to may , said that conservative lawmakers pushing to unseat her were nutters , adding that a change would lead to demands for another election that could bring a resurgent labour party back to power .
are we really going to be stampeded myopically over the edge of the gorge , with an election that no one wants ?
he said in the sunday telegraph .
johnson wrote a newspaper article last month outlining his vision of brexit just days before may made a major speech on the subject .
while professing loyalty , his interventions have been seen as undermining may and causing unnecessary unrest ahead of the party s conference last week that culminated in a disastrous speech by the prime minister , marred by a coughing fit and letters falling off the slogan on the set behind her .
johnson made a plea for loyalty with a typical rhetorical flourish on sunday .
quo quo scelesti ruitis ?
, as horace put it at the beginning of a fresh bout of rome s ghastly civil wars , and which roughly translates as : what do you think you are doing you nutters ?
on friday , former conservative party chairman grant shapps said he had garnered the support of 30 lawmakers who wanted to remove may from the party leadership , short of the number needed to launch a formal challenge .
former prime minister john major said he was increasingly dismayed by the plotting in the party by those driven by their own personal agenda .
the country has had enough of the self-absorbed and , frankly , disloyal behavior we have witnessed over recent weeks , he said in the mail on sunday .
the speculation about may s position comes ahead of crucial brexit talks between britain and the eu , and the political uncertainty has led to growing concern that no deal would be agreed by march 2019 when britain leaves the bloc .
britain s sunday newspapers were brimming with briefings from unnamed conservative figures suggesting may s days in downing street were numbered .
the sunday times said three cabinet ministers had discussed the need to replace may .
it s a when question now , one of the unnamed ministers told the paper .
it feels to me that this is over before christmas .
a fourth minister was quoted as saying there needed to be an orderly transition to a new leader and there was no prospect of may being in charge for the next election due in 2022 .
the observer newspaper said unnamed senior conservative figures said while may had no long-term future they were pressing her to shake up her team , hoping new blood would re-energise the party as well as frustrate johnson s ambitions .