a transcript from the friday , july 31 , 2015 rush limbaugh show .
rush is truly one of the most brilliant political analysts of our time .
he proves it with this commentary on mitt romney and ted cruz : rush : mitt romney is out there ripping into ted cruz , and i made the observation that i can t recall a presidential candidate losing presidential candidate ripping presidential candidates in his own party in the next election cycle .
i was trying to think , in the modern era , if there was an example of it .
i couldn t think of one .
it wasn t so much trying to think of reagan s 11th commandment as i was thinking more about establishment republican versus upstart tea party conservative.by the way , here s another thing : i ve been doing in the course of show prep , i ve been doing just a voluminous amount of reading about the divide here between the establishment in washington , both parties , and the republican party , what s happening with trump and so forth .
now , i knew !
i knew that the democrats had elevated the tea party into being something horrible and giant and bad , negative .
i had no idea eh , that s not quite true .
i didn t fully appreciate the extent to which the republican party has enmity for the tea party .
the washington establishment treats the tea party they re genuinely afraid of it .
let me put it this way : they re genuinely afraid of it because of its size and its power , and the amazing thing about that is the tea party is not something about which is organized around an individual .
i think this is why they fear it .
it is genuinely bottom-up.it s an effervescent movement of average , ordinary people fed up with washington , just totally fed up with government , totally fed up with what government is doing .
peggy noonan has a piece today , and she says that the tea party and others , it s not hatred for government they have , it s contempt for government .
but the tea party is genuinely feared , and it s genuinely feared because it is thought to be huge , and it s put the whole republican establishment on defense.so , anyway , ted cruz isn t backing off the tough rhetoric he s used to describe the iran nuclear deal , despite criticism leveled by mitt romney yesterday .
cruz fired back at romney in a thursday radio interview so mitt romney s tweet today said , gosh , this rhetoric is not helpful , cruz said .
john adams famously said , facts are stubborn things .
describing the actual facts is not using rhetoric ; it is called speaking the truth . '
cruz then fired another fact .
part of the reason that mitt romney got clobbered by barack obama is because we all remember that third debate where barack obama turned to mitt and said , i said the benghazi attack was terrorism and no one is more upset by benghazi than i am !
and mitt , i guess listening to his own advice , said , well gosh , i don t want to use any rhetoric .
so ok , never mind .
i ll just kind of rearrange the pencil on the podium here , cruz said .
and he s right !
we do remember that debate.i mean , romney must have had three , different , slow-pitch curveballs , softballs , just tailor made for grand-slam home runs , and he just didn t even take a swing at them .
remember that ?
after the first debate , when romney just cleaned obama s clock , do you remember that ?
the democrats and the media were all asking , what happened to obama ?
oh my god , does he even want to be reelected ?
they were scared to death because romney just made mincemeat.after that one , it was like it never happened , almost like romney felt guilty for doing it .
because he went into a defensive mode and did not do anything else that might offend or upset or irritate anybody .
and it was clear that the consultants had gotten hold of him .
maybe they didn t have to .
maybe he believed it himself .
but the consultants had gotten a hold of him and said , look , you can t keep criticizing the president .
the independents don t like that !
we re never going to win .
we have to show we can cooperate .
we have to show we can work with the democrats !
so romney shut up .
but what cruz s point is very simple ( summarized ) : what are you beating up on me for ?
i m not the enemy .
i m not the democrat party .
why don t you start talking about them this way ?
they re the ones actually doing a deal that s going to put this country at risk .
why don t you say that ?
effectively what cruz is saying is , i m not the problem here , mitt !
and this isn t rhetoric .
i m simply citing facts .
so now people are starting to ask : is cruz following in the trump mold ?
is trump serving to show the way for other republicans how to respond ?
well , maybe trump is , but cruz doesn t need to be shown .
this is standard operating procedure for cruz .
i mean , it was just two weeks ago that he went to the floor of the senate and accused the majority leader of lying to him face to face .
now he s firing back at romney .
but try this headline .
well , it s not a headline .
it s a paragraph subhead .
both obama and romney have called cruz s remarks inappropriate .
what has cruz done ?
he s maintained that [ obama ] would become a leading state-sponsor of terror if the agreement it struck with iran makes it past congress .
he and others have argued that iran would use a windfall from sanctions relief to finance terror abroad .
he has said on that basis alone this deal ought not get done !
and then romney piped up and said in a tweet ( paraphrased ) : gosh , this rhetoric isn t helpful .
gosh , this rhetoric isn t helpful !
cruz fired back : you re telling me what s not helpful ?
you got clobbered by obama for a reason !
you got clobbered because you backed off .
you got clobbered because you didn t have the guts to keep going .
so this is i like this , folks .
whatever trump s responsible for it or not.end transcriptvia : rushlimbaugh.com