beijing ( reuters ) - chinese officials on thursday heaped praise on president xi jinping s political ideology , unveiled a day earlier at a key communist party congress , a sign that it could be enshrined in the party s constitution and further cement his power .
some ruling communist party officials were moved on thursday to song , dance and tears in adulation of xi , a day after he opened the twice-a-decade conclave pledging to build a prosperous modern socialist country for a new era .
three outgoing members of the elite seven-man politburo standing committee that xi heads lauded xi jinping thought on socialism with chinese characteristics for a new era , according to the official xinhua news agency .
such statements indicate that xi could cement his power with his new eponymous slogan being incorporated into the party s constitution .
whether the theory is included bearing his name will be a key measure of his status , analysts have said .
no other leader has had an eponymous ideology included in the document while in office since mao zedong , the founder of modern china .
xi is poised to begin a second five-year term next week .
party officials hailed xi as a wise and great lingxiu , or leader , a reverent honorific bestowed on only two others : mao and his short-lived successor hua guofeng - another sign that xi has accumulated more power than his immediate predecessors and could revive a party chairmanship as a precursor to staying on in some capacity beyond the end of his second term in 2022 .
xi jinping ... has obtained the heartfelt love and respect of the entire party , army and people , he deserves to be called wise leader , beijing party secretary cai qi , a xi ally and one-time colleague , said on wednesday at a meeting of the city delegation , according to the official beijing daily .
officials lavishing praise on the party s top leader at a congress is not unusual , but overt displays of emotion or personal adulation are rare .
one female delegate from the southern province of jiangxi broke into song to praise xi s treatment of ethnic minorities , while another from guangdong province said that , listening to xi s speech , her eyes had brimmed with tears .
i feel that the reason for my country s accomplishments is fundamentally the helmsmanship of xi jinping , said jing junhai , beijing s deputy party chief , invoking a phase often used to describe mao .
the 64-year-old xi has consolidated power swiftly since assuming the party leadership in 2012 , locking up rivals for corruption , tightening controls on civil society , revamping the military and asserting china s rising might on the global stage .
some party officials painted xi as a saviour .
because of the party central committee with comrade xi jinping as its core , in five years , the party has been saved , the army has been saved , the country has been saved , liu shiyu , head of china s securities regulator , said on thursday .
others were more restrained .
hu chunhua , party chief in guangdong province and a potential contender for a spot on the new politburo standing committee to be revealed next week , simply referred to xi as general secretary and did not mention his theory during an open session on thursday , in contrast with more than a dozen other delegates who spoke .
state media reported that he had praised xi s theory the day before .
for an interactive graphic on china s economic report card , click tmsnrt.rs/2kt7xuv the exact meaning of xi s new banner term is not yet clear , although it is not unusual for communist party leaders to announce lofty slogans and then fill in the details as they go .
an ideology named after xi to guide china and the party would further consolidate his power , said ryan manuel , a chinese politics expert at the university of hong kong .
this is a good umbrella for him to just keep saying whatever he wants and the system having to respond and study it , he said .
xi s immediate predecessors , hu jintao and jiang zemin , have had their ideological concepts enshrined in the constitution , but not their names .
the party gave xi the title of core leader a year ago , a strengthening of his position ahead of the congress , adding to speculation that xi could retain power beyond a customary second term and even revive mao s chairman title .
for a graphic on china s leadership , click tmsnrt.rs/2xkeeqz