in the end it really all comes down to character .
who can you trust ?
who will look at you with a straight face and tell you what you want to hear , and who will tell you the truth even when it s not popular ?
it s clearly a rhetorical question and one that every voter in america should be asking themselves before risking the security of our nation under the leadership of a self-serving sociopathic liar sociopathic liar : most people have lied in their life .
whether it was to protect feelings , avoid trouble , impress , or to simply get what they want , not many people can say they have never told a lie.however , there is one extreme type of liar that you should beware of ; the sociopathic liar.on first impressions , you may find you actually like or are drawn to the sociopath .
it s not surprising as more often than not they are indeed charming and likable .
watch out , these type of liars can cause untold damage and mayhem once they lead you into their web of lies and deceit.sociopaths lie the most because they are incapable of feelings and do not want to understand the impact of their lies .
they may even get a thrill out of lying at your expense .
once they tell an initial lie they go on to tell many more lies in an attempt to cover up the lies they started , or just for the fun of it.a sociopath rarely reveals his or her feelings or emotions .
you won t often hear them laugh , cry , or get angry .
these kinds of liars tend to live in their own little world and always find ways to justify their dishonest deeds .
they do not respect others and place their own needs first and foremost.if someone questions the sociopath s lies they can be incredibly devious in the way they cover things up .
this can include placing the blame at someone else s door or by inventing complex stories to cover up their untruths.sociopaths can be so good at lying that they are able to pass lie detector tests .
this means they often escape jail or don t even get prosecuted for the crimes they permit .
( that s not to say all sociopathic liars are criminals , of course ) .hillary clinton allowed her staff to mistakenly think that she had a pulled muscle rather than tell them she had a blood clot in 1998.the democratic presidential candidate , who was first lady at the time , did not correct white house staffers when they assumed the problem with her right leg was due to over exercising.according to clinton s doctor at the time , connie mariano , very few people knew the truth and her boss refused to take time of the campaign trail for her husband s re-election.instead a nurse came with her to check on her condition and administer drugs if needed but nobody outside of her secret service detail was told who she was.the incident shows that clinton s habit of choosing secrecy over coming clean has a long history.it would not be until 2003 , five years after the blood clot and two years after her husband left office , that clinton would even disclose it had happened in single paragraph in her memoir.clinton s health has become an issue during the presidential election after she nearly collapsed during the 9/11 memorial event at ground zero in new york on sunday.a video shot by a bystander shows the 68-year-old s legs buckling as tries to get into a waiting van.her campaign team said she was overheated but later that on sunday clinton s personal doctor revealed she had been diagnosed with pneumonia two days before but she kept it a secret.during her decades in public life clinton has suffered a number of health scares and her response to handling them appears to have changed little .
rear admiral ( lower half ) connie mariano .
she revealed clinton s health secrecy in her memoirsthe first of her three blood clots happened in 1998 whilst she was campaigning for her husband bill to get his second term as president in the face of possible impeachment over the lewinsky scandal.according to mariano , who as a navy captain and latterly rear admiral ( lower half ) , was the white house doctor for president clinton , she told his wife that she was at risk for a blood clot and insisted on coming to see her on a saturday .
in her memoir the white house doctor : my patients were presidents , she takes two pages to explain how she told the first lady : i m worried about your leg .
you ve been out on the campaign trail for some months now , sitting in cars for hours at a time .
within an hour mariano was examining clinton s right calf which was swollen .marian s initial examination caused her enough worry to insist clinton go to bethesda naval hospital for an ultrasound .
once they were there and the diagnosis confirmed mrs clinton balked at the idea of being kept into hospital so they agreed to treat her as an outpatient with blood thinning drugs.the book says : hillary was back on the campaign trail within days very few people knew of hillary s blood clot at the time ; she wrote about it after she left the white house .
she did have a pain in her calf but her staff thought she had pulled a muscle exercising .
via : daily mail