the answer is anyone but you .
did you know that american taxpayers gave the u.n. general fund $ 654,778,938 in 2015 ?
did you also know that obama committed an astounding $ 3 billion to a new u.n .
climate fund run by communist and terrorist nations .
it gets better , we just gave africa $ 36.5 million to train african doctors because the world health organization deemed it necessary .
the nih then gives the $ 36.5 million in american money to whomever the who wants it given to .
do you see how this works ?
the national institutes of health is a virtual slush fund for anyone and everyone in the world with a massive budget of $ 30 billion .
the system of giving is a perfect setup for the redistribution of wealth from the west .
i ve heard different pundits call for the defunding of the national institutes of health and it s evident they re not being monitored .
how do i know this ?
all you need to do is go to their website or read the news and you ll be shocked at the ridiculous studies they fund with your money !
like the one where they got monkeys drunk : golden hammer : feds spend millions to study drunken moneys , pilots and studentsit ll make your head explode !
like a good lap dog , the u.s. is dedicating $ 36.5 million to help africa train doctors because the famously corrupt united nations determined that the continent has a terrible shortage of medical personnel and faculty.that means uncle sam must come to the rescue .
the latest africa allocation is in addition to the eye-popping $ 654,778,938 that american taxpayers gave the u.n. general fund in 2015 and billions more to the peacekeeping budget and other u.n. organizations .
the u.s. has always been the single largest contributor to the world body , which is well known as a pillar of fraud and mismanagement .
even the u.n. s human rights council , also funded primarily by american taxpayers , is a huge joke .
a few years ago judicial watch reported that the u.n. awarded a genocidal warlord indicted by an international court for crimes against humanity a seat on its laughable human rights council .
last year president obama committed an astounding $ 3 billion to a new u.n .
climate fund run by communist and terrorist nations.now the world health organization ( who ) , the u.n. s public health arm , has determined that sub-saharan africa is in desperate need of medical personnel .
the region bears almost a quarter of the global disease burden yet has only 3 % of the world s health workforce , according to who .
so this week , the national institutes of health ( nih ) , the nation s medical research agency , kicked in the $ 36.5 million to train africans .
the nih doles out north of $ 31 billion annually to hundreds of thousands of researchers at thousands of universities and institutions around the globe .
a few years ago president obama launched an nih program to boost the number of minorities in biomedical research and he appointed the nation s first ever chief officer for scientific workforce diversity to mastermind a multi-million-dollar effort.the new africa allocation will help the region strengthen medical school curricula , upgrade community-based training sites and expand communications technology , according to an nih announcement .
research must play an integral part in generating sustainable , quality health care in sub-saharan africa , which is the ultimate goal , nih director francis collins said .
it is critical that we increase research capacity so africans can carry out locally relevant investigations themselves , and develop the necessary expertise in areas such as bioethics , informatics , environmental science , and genomics .
that will empower their participation in international collaborations .
read more : jw