washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court challenge to president barack obama ’ s immigration policies could have an impact far beyond determining whether millions of undocumented immigrants can remain in the country .
the case has the potential to constrain the power of obama ’ s successor to bypass congress and act alone .
should obama ’ s order blocking deportations for certain immigrants be invalidated by the justices , the decision could hamper future presidents ’ ability to craft policy through executive fiat , legal experts told reuters .
“ the question is not the merits of the immigration issue , ” said t. gerald treece , a constitutional law professor at the south texas college of law in houston .
“ the question is what the president ’ s power is. ” the high court said tuesday it would hear the lawsuit brought by 26 states that seeks to overturn obama ’ s 2014 executive order that shields more than 4 million immigrants in the country illegally from deportation proceedings .
the democratic obama white house , vexed by a hostile , republican-controlled congress , has employed the president ’ s executive authority with increasing frequency .
in addition to the executive order on deportations , obama has acted alone to alter provisions of the affordable care act , limit carbon emissions to combat climate change and toughen the requirements on firearms merchants .
should obama lose before the supreme court , the case could tie the hands of a future president to act in similar ways .
the immigration case likely will be argued before the supreme court in april , with a decision handed down at the end of june , guaranteeing that presidential power will be a front-burner issue as the race for the white house intensifies .
in taking the case , the justices indicated they will consider whether obama violated not just federal immigration statutes but the constitution as well , raising the possibility that the court could articulate a forward-looking principle that limits the reach of a president ’ s executive authority - particularly with regard to domestic issues .
presidents historically enjoy more freedom to act unilaterally when it comes to foreign affairs .
“ if the supreme court rules against the administration on that ground , that would have a more positive impact on the limits of the president ’ s power on domestic policy , ” said todd gaziano , a constitutional law expert with the conservative pacific legal foundation and a former justice department lawyer .
the justices ’ decision to allow a constitutional challenge to obama ’ s actions was seized upon by senator ted cruz of texas , a leading contender for the republican presidential nomination .
cruz , the former top advocate for the state of texas before the supreme court , published an article last year in a harvard law school journal condemning what he termed the administration ’ s “ lawlessness. ” on the stump , however , cruz has promised to roll back the affordable care act as well as unilaterally terminate the obama administration ’ s nuclear pact with iran , both examples of aggressive presidential action .
presidents tend to favor a generous reading of their authority and resist any court-imposed limitations , said kenneth mayer , an executive power scholar at the university of wisconsin .
indeed , in 2008 , obama ran for president criticizing president george w. bush ’ s expansive use of executive power , which included a warrantless wiretapping program and indefinite detention of terror suspects .
once in office , obama continued many of bush ’ s counterterrorism policies and has zealously guarded presidential power .
during his second term , obama declared a “ year of action ” and vowed to use his “ pen and phone ” to issue policy directives in the face of congressional inaction .
the immigration order came soon thereafter .
cruz could experience a similar conversion should he reach the white house .
“ the world looks very different from the oval office than it does from the campaign trail , ” mayer said .
mayer predicts the court will not go as far as to set limits on a president ’ s executive power , and will instead likely narrowly tailor its ruling to the immigration issue in question .
still , he concedes with conservatives holding a 5-4 majority “ it ’ s possible the court will impose some constraints. ” ( additional reporting by jim forsyth ; editing by lisa shumaker ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .