havana ( reuters ) - president raul castro called on cubans on monday to unite in swiftly rebuilding the caribbean nation in the wake of hurricane irma , which killed at least 10 people during a devastating three-day rampage along the length of the island .
the storm crashed into cuba late on friday , with sustained winds of than 157 miles per hour ( 253 km per hour ) .
it tore along the island s northern shore for some 200 miles ( 322 km ) - lashing tourist resorts on the island s pristine keys - before turning northward to batter florida .
in havana , people set about removing debris from the streets on monday and mopping up homes hit by widespread flooding .
the hurricane - the first category 5 storm to make landfall in cuba since 1932 - tore off roofs , felled trees and downed electricity poles , leaving millions without power and water .
state media said on monday irma had seriously damaged cuba s already dilapidated sugar industry , flooding and flattening an extensive area of sugar cane .
given the immensity of its size , practically no region escaped its impact , castro said in a statement published in state-run media , urging cubans to unite to rebuild the country .
the task we have before us is immense but , with a people like ours , we will win the most important battle : the recovery .
castro , 86 , who has said he will step aside early next year , said authorities had not been able to assess the full extent of damage yet , but the hurricane had impacted housing stock and the power grid , as well as agriculture .
the fatalities in cuba brought the death toll from irma to 39 in the caribbean .
the hurricane dealt a potentially heavy blow to cuba s agriculture- and tourism-reliant economy at a difficult moment , with an economic reform program appearing stalled and aid from key ally venezuela shrinking .
seven of the cuban dead were in the province of havana , which only caught the outer reaches of the hurricane but still saw waves of up to 36 feet ( 12 meters ) pummel its historic seafront boulevard on sunday .
the two youngest victims , mar a del carmen arregoit a and yolendis castillo , both 27 , died when a balcony crashed down onto their bus in central havana , infamous for its creaking infrastructure .
the oldest , nieves mart nez , 89 , was found floating in water in front of her home in the vedado district of havana in the wake of heavy flooding in the capital , according to a statement from civil defense authorities .
large parts of havana remained underwater on monday .
we have absolutely nothing , we lost it all , the fridge , the washing machine , we lost it all here , said ayda herrera , whose home on havana s seafront boulevard was flooded .
fatalities also were reported in matanzas , home to the tourist resort of varadero , and the regions of ciego de avila and camaguey farther east .
while many of cuba s top resorts on the northern islands took a direct hit from the hurricane , castro said they would be fixed up in time for high tourist season at the end of the year .
many tourists flew home ahead of irma , but others hunkered down in hotels and shelters .
tropical paradise turned into hell for us , said spanish tourist michel munoz , 31 , who said he spent the hurricane sheltering in a havana convent and had struggled to find food on sunday as most restaurants were closed .
excavators have started the laborious task of removing debris and fallen trees from roads throughout the island and trucks carried drinkable water to the worst-affected areas .
we are working twice as hard as usual to ensure as much bread as possible to the population , said alain alfonso , a worker at a bakery in central havana .