toronto ( reuters ) - the attention paid by americans to the visit of canadian prime minister justin trudeau to washington this week sparked cynicism and delight back home , as canadians more accustomed to being ignored weren ’ t entirely sure what to make of the fanfare .
with photos of the visit between trudeau and u.s. president barack obama gracing friday ’ s front pages of the new york times and washington post , canadians lined up to dismiss and embrace the high-profile of the visit in equal measure .
“ the american media noticed us ! ” a headline in canada ’ s national post newspaper noted in mock delight , as it devoted the entire front page to a photo of obama and trudeau hugging , eyes closed , and the next four pages to details of the visit , noting the “ budding bromance ” between obama and trudeau .
but columnist rex murphy noted the parallels between the media attention of trudeau and that devoted to the newly elected obama years earlier , and the risk of being judged on style before substance is proven : “ ... while it ’ s always nice for canada , or her representatives , to be in america ’ s and the world ’ s eye , too much should not be made of it. ” the election of the photogenic trudeau , 44 , in october has vaulted canada from obscurity to celebrity abroad , with foreign news outlets and fashion magazines alike praising the liberal prime minister for his progressive take on feminism , the environment and refugees , as well as his good looks .
that global audiences are joining the homegrown “ trudeaumania , ” a phenomenon first seen a generation ago amid the popularity of trudeau ’ s father , former prime minister pierre trudeau , leaves canadians a bit bemused .
“ you would think that this was tantamount to the moon landing ! ” one commenter wrote in response to a canadian broadcasting corp solicitation for comments on what canadians thought of the washington visit .
“ enough with the glitter and love-ins , ” another chimed in , trying to counter a wave of positive comment about the success of trudeau on the world stage .
but while the toronto star , the nation ’ s largest newspaper , acknowledged the high-profile visit would be hard for cynical canadians to take , it cautioned against scorning the fanfare .
“ dismiss showmanship at your peril because without it , we are nothing more than squabbles over soft-wood lumber and country-of-origin labeling .
it may not last .
but right now it is a win for canada , ” columnist tim harper wrote .