thoughts on the first gop presidential primary debate by patty of 100 % fed up ! there are a lot of fox news fans who have been clinging to fox for their fair and balanced news like a beacon of light in a storm since 9-11 .
i know i found myself scratching my head over the behavior of fox news hosts , megyn kelly and bret baier ( i never expected chris wallace to be fair or balanced ) .i thought the most striking question of the night was directed at scott walker about his position on the defense of life .
it s interesting that megyn kelly was so appalled by the planned parenthood video series on her show , yet gave the impression she was going to nail walker with his defense of the unborn in cases of rape and incest .
i watched her discuss this question with pundits following the debate and she actually acknowledged that walker s response to her question could potentially sink his presidential aspirations .
so tell us megyn are you in support of defending the unborn or just the unborn in case of a teen pregnancy ?
where do you draw the line in your outrage ?
after watching her last night , i couldn t help but wonder if her outrage over the planned parenthood issue was genuine or simply staged for ratings .
i also caught her smirking , as she attempted to hide her self satisfaction after one of the pundits suggested her comment about donald trump really hurt him with voters and specifically with republicans.and finally i could barely contain my anger as megyn played right into the hands of the democrats and their false gop war on women narrative .
did she actually believe she swayed woman voters with her gotcha remarks about rosie o donnell , who is the poster child for a progressive feminist social experiment gone bad ?
is there another celebrity out there who is more open about her hate for america and for the values and ideals that have made us the greatest country on earth ?
as far as i m concerned , donald trump did america a favor when he shined the light on her belligerent , arrogant and intolerant attitude as a host of the view toward anyone who disagreed with her radical progressive views .
rosie asked for a fight , and the media gasped when trump fought back !
if america is looking for a candidate who is more concerned about how many people like him because he/she runs away at the first sign of controversy , then trump , cruz , carson , paul , huckabee , fiorina and walker are likely not going to be on your list of top 3 candidates .
( i didn t include christie because i personally think he exposed himself as a fraud during hurricane sandy with his loving embrace of obama when he needed it most .
) megyn was on a mission to make history last night .
i don t think she really changed anything for trump .
trump will wake up today and be as bombastic as he was before he set foot on his first presidential debate stage .
he will call out anyone who dares to attempt to force him to adhere to their narrow view of what a gop candidate should look like , and he will double down on rosie or anyone else who tries to trash america .
the only thing i believe megyn did last night was show her adoring viewers that she really isn t the megyn we all thought we knew.can megyn kelly ever recover from her performance as a fair and balanced moderator at her first ever presidential debate ?
after painting loudmouth , anti-american rosie o donell as a damsel in distress and trump as an evil antagonist , will any sane conservative care what she has to say ever again ? here s the rosie o donnell video where she decides to mock trump : here s trump s response to rosie on the letterman show : so after watching these videos , can someone explain why megyn felt the need to defend rosie from donald trump about a public argument between the two of them in 2006 ?