belgrade ( reuters ) - russia s elite aerobatic team zoomed over serbia s military airport on friday as belgrade exhibited its newest fighter jets in a display demonstrating close ties between the fellow slavic , orthodox christian countries .
serbia has sought to balance ambitions to join the european union with continued warm relations to russia , which backed belgrade s ultimately failed effort to prevent its ex-province of kosovo from seceding and declaring independence .
russian defense minister sergei shoigu attended friday s air show , staged to commemorate the liberation of belgrade from nazi germany by the soviet red army and yugoslav communist partisans in 1944 .
five of six mig-29s donated to serbia by russia in 2016 - serbia now has 10 migs in all , dating to 1987 - were painted in new grey camouflage and parked on the runway of batajnica military base just outside belgrade for the occasion .
dear mr shoigu , thank you for these wonderful presents , thanks to the people of russia and president ( vladimir ) putin , serbian president aleksandar vucic told shoigu in russian .
i hope our cooperation will be even better .
russia s aerobatic team , the swifts , demonstrated their flying skills while serbian jets and air mobile infantry carried out a mock air security operation and assault on ground targets .
serbia has joined nato s partnership for peace program but is not pursuing membership of the alliance , which remains deeply unpopular among serbs because of its 1999 air war to stop then-nationalist president slobodan milosevic s campaign to crush kosovo s uprising by killing and expelling ethnic albanians .
last year , belgrade signed a deal with airbus to buy nine h145m light helicopters with weapon pods to be used by both military and police .
but serbia , which in 2014 opened accession talks with the eu , remains attached to friendship with russia , an ally that , for example , blocked independent kosovo from becoming a member of the united nations , at belgrade s request .