washington ( reuters ) - presidential candidate donald trump says two of his children feel guilty about missing a voter registration deadline , meaning they will not be able to vote for him next week in new york ’ s republican primary .
eric trump , 32 , and ivanka trump , 34 , the republican front-runner ’ s second and third children , have campaigned extensively with their father , but both missed the deadline for registering as republicans to vote in the new york primary on april 19 .
in a telephone interview with “ fox & friends , ” trump joked that he would have to find some way to punish eric and ivanka for their mistake .
“ no more allowance ! ” the new york billionaire said with a laugh .
for already registered voters , any request to switch party affiliation must have been made by early october .
the deadline for new voter registrations was march 25 .
“ they were unaware of the rules , ” trump said monday on fox news .
“ they feel very , very guilty .
“ but it ’ s fine .
i mean , i understand that. ” records from the new york state board of elections show both eric and ivanka are registered voters who are “ not enrolled in a party , ” abc news reported .
like their father , they have made political contributions to both democrats and republicans , federal election commission records show .
trump ’ s oldest child , donald jr. , 38 , already was registered republican .
the registration status of his other voting-age child , tiffany , was not immediately known .
trump ’ s comments on monday brought swift rebukes on twitter from critics who said the trump children ’ s lapse bolsters doubts about whether trump is a true republican .
trump previously supported abortion rights and has donated to democrats , including his now-rival hillary clinton .
“ i for one am shocked as the whole family really seem like lifelong conservatives , ” user awen lake ( @ awenlake ) posted on twitter , adding the hashtag # reallydemocrat .
“ this is so funny .
i always knew he was a liberal , ” a user named allen ( @ alb309o ) wrote .
“ he has his supporters bamboozled . ”