gary kamiya sf chronicleon an elegant dead-end block on the north side of telegraph hill is 225 chestnut st. , a swanky modernist building with panoramic bay views .
it s about the last place you would have expected to find a clandestine cia program during the cold war.yet from 1955 to 1965 , this building was the site of operation midnight climax a top-secret mind-control program in which cia agents used hookers to lure unsuspecting johns from north beach bars to what they called the pad , then dosed the men with lsd and observed the x-rated goings-on through a two-way mirror while sitting on a portable toilet swilling martinis.as john marks notes in his 1977 book , the search for the manchurian candidate : the cia and mind control , the cia s obsession with mind control had its origins during world war ii , when the agency s predecessor , the office of strategic services , set up a truth drug program whose purpose was to discover a substance that would make subjects reveal their secrets.the drug of choice was a concentrated liquid form of marijuana .
the first field test in 1943 was administered to a new york mobster by george white , a tough-guy oss captain who had been an agent in the federal bureau of narcotics .
the results were promising white s sidekick said every ( subject ) but one and he didn t smoke gave us more information than we had before but ultimately inconclusive .
red enemywhen the cia was created in 1947 , it continued to do mind-control experiments , with the enemy now being communism .
eastern bloc show trials like that of hungarian cardinal jozsef mindszenty , who in 1949 confessed to crimes he apparently did not commit , and reports of communist brainwashing during the korean war led the cia to fear there was a mind-control gap and that the u.s. was in second place.so the cia authorized covert mind and behavior control programs .
drugs were given to people deemed expendable , including north korean pows , mental patients , prisoners , addicts and prostitutes .
before the programs were shot down , hundreds of scientists would work on them.in 1943 , a swiss chemist named albert hofmann developed an unbelievably powerful drug called lsd .
when the technical branch of the cia learned about this drug , the gung-ho head of its chemical division , a young chemist named sidney gottlieb , persuaded cia official richard helms that the agency should investigate it as a spy tool .
on april 13 , 1953 , cia director allen dulles approved a program for covert use of biological and chemical materials with an initial budget of $ 300,000 .
its name : mkultra.dangerous gamethe cia began to fund lsd projects at many institutions , including columbia university and mount sinai hospital .
informed consent and other moral niceties were dispensed with .
one researcher kept seven subjects , junkies enticed by promises of hard drugs , on lsd for 77 straight days .
no follow-up on them was ever done.the cia was playing an extremely dangerous game .
in 1953 , gottlieb dosed a cia colleague , frank olson , causing olson to undergo a mental crisis that ended with him falling to his death from a 10th-floor window .
but this horrific incident only put mkultra temporarily on hold continue this story at sf chronicleread more cia news at : 21st century wire cia files