if you had it in your head that the only defense for donald trump s muslim ban is that we should completely ignore reality , you were more right than you knew .
on saturday out borders reopened after judge james robert blocked president asterisk s muslim ban , correctly pointing out that there is no support for the donald s argument that we have to protect the u.s. from individuals from the seven countries affected by the ban.robert s decision , which also block the trump administration from enforcing its limits on refugees , was celebrated nationwide as trump and his allies stewed and our so-called president unleashed a ridiculous attack on the so-called judge who foiled his evil scheme .
after learning about checks , our unbalanced president whined : the opinion of this so-called judge , which essentially takes law-enforcement away from our country , is ridiculous and will be overturned !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 4 , 2017but here s the thing : even the trump administration doesn t believe that their fear and bigotry-based attempt to keep members of an entire religion out of our country .
i m also asked to look and determine if the executive order is rationally based , robart told trump s attorney .
rationally based to me at least implies to some extent i have to find it grounded in facts as opposed to fiction .
trump s attorney s baffled the world , responding that the facts simply do not matter : well your honor , we don t think you re supposed to look at whether it s rationally based .
we think that the standard is facially legitimate .
seriously , she said this : the moment trump lawyer tells judge robart of travel ban : `` we actually do n't think you 're supposed to look at whether it 's rationally based '' pic.twitter.com/u9pry4ckgt rob s silver surfer ( @ robpulsenews ) february 5 , 2017robart is correct , as no one from iraq , syria , iran , libya , somalia , sudan or yemen has committed a terrorist attack in the united states since 9/11 .
i m sorry , there s no other way to put it , robart said of the order .
it s keystone kops .
it really is .
and that s not just me speaking , that s republican members of congress .
robart was referencing incompetent 20th-century cops who appeared in silent films early last century.naturally , she is now the subject of widespread mockery .
@ spencerwoodman @ enterelysium where did that women get a law degree out of a cereal box resender ( @ resender2be ) february 4 , 2017 @ spencerwoodman @ kipperbedwas she 's a career doj lawyer .
she 's forced to defend the indefensible .
the judge confirmed 2x she did her job .
bob blaskiewicz ( @ rjblaskiewicz ) february 4 , 2017 @ spencerwoodman the administration would like to crack down on all rationally based thought , words or actions .
citizen ( @ kathylun ) february 4 , 2017 @ spencerwoodman there you have it folks trumps not interested in anything being rational which is why he is so irrational judy ( @ endhomelesnes ) february 4 , 2017amazing .
trump has gov't arguing that his eos do not have to be rationally based .
trump 's next eo : cows must say bah instead of moo https : //t.co/l8wjtnaeoa ( ( ( professingprof ) ) ) ( @ professing_prof ) february 5 , 2017now that we have seen this , we know for certain that donald trump and his administration don t care about facts ( or reality ) at all and trump s policies reflect that.you can see more of the exchange below : featured image via screengrab