harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwean president robert mugabe on thursday accused unnamed officials of his own party of trying to push him into retiring and likened them to the biblical betrayer judas .
the 93-year-old mugabe , one of the world s oldest leaders , has been in power since zimbabwe , then called rhodesia , gained independence from britain in 1980 .
he intends to seek another five-year term at elections due next year .
in public , his party , zanu-pf , has rallied behind its aging leader .
but in private its members are deeply divided over his continued leadership and who will eventually take over from him .
mugabe , who has repeatedly said his party will choose his successor when the time comes , said he was going nowhere and accused some party officials of supporting him during the day while plotting against him behind his back .
others are like those that jesus spoke about during his last supper , when he said some of you eating with me here shall betray me .
the judas iscariot .
they are here among us , mugabe said during the burial of a party member .
they want to cause leadership change ... for the president to step down .
i did not grab power .
i was chosen by the people .
it s the people s throne , so i don t want with it , he said to loud cheers from some party members .
zanu-pf is divided into two factions .
one backs vice president emmerson mnangagwa to immediately succeed mugabe .
another is rallying behind mugabe s wife , grace , and also want the aging ruler to be president for life .
when the day comes i will say thank you to my zimbabwean family and i will step down so you can choose my successor .
but for now i am the one in charge , mugabe said .
the southern african nation is gripped by a shortage of foreign exchange that has forced some businesses to buy u.s. dollars on the black market , a situation blamed for a recent spike in prices and shortages of some basic goods .
but mugabe , without giving evidence , accused some people of manipulating the currency to trigger inflation and cause panic buying .