backfire alert !
while the left tries to identify the marchers from the charlottesville riot , it might be a good idea for them to read up on what happened to a professor and his wife : a professor and his wife had to go into hiding after the husband was misidentified as being one of the charlottesville marchers .
can you imagine ?
that had to be horrifying ! here s what happened : when social justice warriors spray their holy rage across the internet , innocent people become collateral damage.amateur detectives poring over footage of tiki-torch marchers in charlottesville s unite the right march aug. 11 wrongly identified an engineering professor at the university of arkansas and scared him and his wife into hiding for the weekend , the new york times reports.they sought to shame , harass and cause the firing of supposed white nationalists , and weren t going to let reasonable doubt slow their crusade : after a day of work at the engineering research center at the university of arkansas , kyle quinn had a pleasant friday night in bentonville with his wife and a colleague .
they explored an art exhibition at the crystal bridges museum of american art and dined at an upscale restaurant .
a man at the rally had been photographed wearing an arkansas engineering shirt , and the amateur investigators found a photo of mr. quinn that looked somewhat similar .
they were both bearded and had similar builds.by internet frenzy standards , that was proof enough.quinn said he was hit with a wall of vulgar messages calling for his firing and identifying his home address an example of doxxing , the same practice carried out by alt-right sleuths when they purportedly identified a professor as an antifa thug at the battle for berkeley.commenting on an image identifying quinn as a marcher posted on instagram , user mozel_tov claimed that quinn participated in a hate rally in public where their would be news media and social media .
his very presence was a public statement .
read more : the college fixactress calls for doxxing of marcherslefty actress jennifer lawrence wants to name and shame the marchers but this has already proven to be a move that has backfired on the left : actress jennifer lawrence asked her 16 million facebook followers to help track down the white supremacists who marched in the charlottesville rally saturday .
these are the faces of hate .
look closely and post anyone you find , the oscar winner wrote on facebook , along with photos of the marchers carrying torches and flags with swastikas .
you can t hide with the internet you pathetic cowards !
via : nydn