abuja ( reuters ) - more than half the schools in the state at the epicentre of nigeria s conflict with islamist militant group boko haram are still closed , the united nations children agency said on friday , as the insurgency drags into its ninth year .
the lack of schools could continue to fuel boko haram or similar movements in the future as it means young people in the restive northeast region have few prospects , experts say .
the conflict with boko haram , whose name roughly translates as western education is forbidden in the hausa language that is widely spoken in northern nigeria , has killed more than 20,000 people since 2009 .
it has embroiled the region in one of the world s worst humanitarian crises , with at least 10.7 million people in need of assistance , according to the united nations .
in addition to devastating malnutrition , violence and an outbreak of cholera , the attacks on schools are in danger of creating a lost generation of children , threatening their and the countries future , justin forsyth , a deputy director for the united nations children s fund ( unicef ) , said in a statement .
more than 57 percent of schools are shut in borno state , where most of the conflict and resulting crisis have taken place , as the new academic year begins , the statement said .
more than 2,295 teachers have been killed , at least 19,000 displaced and almost 1,400 schools destroyed , unicef said .
forsyth later said in an interview that three million children in the northeast required some form of education , adding that some attended rudimentary schools .
he said borno state government had returned about 750,000 children to school , but gave no details about the period of time over which they returned .
on the issue of educating children who had been recruited to fight in the conflict , forsyth said military and state government officials had agreed to the release of 600 children and mothers next week .
this is also a process of rehabilitation because these children have been traumatised , he said .
despite aid agencies efforts to set up schools for children in the northeast , particularly those displaced by the insurgency , unicef said it has only received three-fifths of the total funding it needs for 2017 .
combined with climate change taking its toll in recent years on farming , a mainstay of the region , the lack of schooling has left many without job opportunities .