kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - muslim-majority malaysia s former prime minister mahathir mohamad on friday called u.s. president donald trump an international bully and a villain for his move to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital .
trump last week reversed decades of u.s. policy by recognizing jerusalem as the capital of israel , and said the united states would move its embassy to jerusalem from tel aviv in the coming years .
the status of jerusalem is one of the thorniest barriers to a lasting israeli-palestinian peace .
israel considers jerusalem its eternal and indivisible capital and wants all embassies based there .
palestinians want the capital of an independent state of theirs to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in the 1967 middle east war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .
the anger from trump s decision will lead to what is called terrorism , the 93-year-old mahathir told a protest rally in front of the u.s. embassy in kuala lumpur .
today we have an international bully .
trump , go find someone your own size .
this ( jerusalem plan ) will only stir the anger of the muslims , said mahathir , the chairman of malaysia s opposition coalition .
we must use all our power to oppose this villain who is the president of the united states , he said , urging all muslim countries to cut ties with israel .
muhyiddin yassin , another opposition leader , called on the malaysian government to not proceed with planned investments in the united states .
last week , malaysian prime minister najib razak urged muslims worldwide to oppose any recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital .
social media users in muslim-majority malaysia vowed to boycott u.s. companies , such as mcdonald s corp , following trump s decision .
the chain s malaysian franchise said it did not support or engage in any political or religious conflicts .
deputy prime minister zahid ahamd hamidi on friday said najib and the leader of the opposition pan-malaysian islamic party ( pas ) would lead a protest rally next friday in malaysia s administrative capital of putrajaya , media said .