gaza ( reuters ) - it didn t take long after the firework smoke cleared in gaza for some palestinians to start questioning whether a unity deal between their two most powerful factions would hold .
thousands took to the streets overnight celebrating the pact between fatah and hamas sealed in cairo .
loudspeakers blasted national songs as youngsters waving palestinian and egyptian flags danced and hugged one another .
i am happy , no i am the happiest , ali metwaly , a 30-year-old computer engineer , said the morning after .
but i am still afraid it will end in disappointment .
my leaders have taught me they can easily disappoint us .
i hope they don t , this time .
under the reconciliation pact , hamas is handing over administrative control of gaza , including the rafah border crossing - once the main gateway to the world for the two million palestinians in the territory - to a government backed by the mainstream fatah party .
a decade ago , hamas forces seized the gaza strip from fatah forces in a brief civil war .
past egyptian mediation attempts to reconcile the two rivals failed to achieve lasting results .
the latest clinched its elusive agreement after an economic squeeze on hamas .
analysts said the deal is more likely to stick than earlier ones , given hamas s growing isolation and realization of how hard gaza - its economy hobbled by border blockades and infrastructure shattered by wars with israel - was to govern and rebuild .
for huwaida al-hadidi , a 34-year-old mother-of-seven , economic relief can not come soon enough .
like about 250,000 other people in the territory , her husband is unemployed .
unable to pay their rent , the family has been living in a tent since their landlord evicted them three days ago .
now that they signed a reconciliation deal , god-willing the blockade will be lifted and people will find work and be able to earn a living for their children , she said .
control of the gaza border crossings with israel and egypt by the fatah-dominated palestinian authority , which exercises limited self-rule in the occupied west bank , could allow freer movement of people and goods across the frontier .
and under the agreement , about 3,000 fatah security officers are to join the gaza police force , although hamas would remain the most powerful armed palestinian faction , with around 25,000 well-equipped militants .
hamas and fatah are also debating a potential date for presidential and legislative elections and reforms of the palestine liberation organization , which is in charge of long-stalled peace efforts with israel .
the last palestinian legislative election was in 2006 , when hamas scored a surprise victory .
that triggered the political rupture between hamas and fatah , which eventually led to their short civil war in gaza .
palestinian political commentator mustafa ibraham said with major issues , such as an election date and agreement on a common political agenda , still outstanding , palestinians should be cautious .
important details were postponed and open for interpretation and disagreement , he said in a facebook post .
hamas , which has fought three wars with israel since 2008 and is considered a terrorist group by the west , has said it will not abandon the arms of resistance .
israel has said hamas must disarm , or the reconciliation will be meaningless .