war on christmas update : some very clever people are asking you to join their campaign to remind starbucks and their customers that christmas is more than a red holiday ! social media has seized on the year-on-year stripping of christmas-themed symbols from starbucks famous red cups , with angry users tweeting # merrychristmasstarbucks following a breitbart london report on the company s war on christmas .when the coffee chain launched their 2015 seasonal cup design there was a marked difference from prior years , with no actual decoration being offered on the 2015 cups .
the # redcups press release described the cups as a more open way to usher in the holiday .
breitbart london editor-in-chief raheem kassam broke the story last week , with cnn , the huffington post , the telegraph , time magazine and others all following breitbart s lead on the story of christmas being eroded from the annually marketed starbucks christmas cups or red cups .
members of the british parliament , as well as christian charities spoke out against the move , with sir david amess mp telling breitbart london : this is utter madness .
who was the idiot who thought this up ?
he should be sacked !
prior years have brandished illustrations from christmas ornaments over evergreen tree branches to merry carolers and reindeer .
other years have been less obviously christmas , but this year s offering bears zero illustrative reference to the christmas season.several stories have followed pondering the cultural war on christmas and whether this year s starbucks seasonal cups are indicative of a greater cultural cleansing of christmas in the west.some coffee shops haven t forgotten to remember christmas is the reason we celebrate this season : # merrychristmasstarbucks ( from @ dunkindonuts this morning ) pic.twitter.com/4i7isdm5tq michael graham ( @ iammgraham ) november 9 , 2015social media commenters indicated their disappointment with the naked design .
in one video , customer joshua feuerstein suggested that customers give their name as merry christmas to add a measure of christmas back in to their coffee drinking experience.can i get a name for your cup ?
sure .
`` merry christmas '' # merrychristmasstarbucks pic.twitter.com/lfgfasnbsi jay carr ( @ jay_carr ) november 6 , 2015as the red cups story developed , # merrychristmasstarbucks began trending on social media .
both those attempting to re-infuse christmas into the season and those who refuse the idea of a cultural war on christmas to those that just think the new design is simply boring have utilised the hashtag.starbucks ceo howard schultz is no stranger to controversy and political correctness .
one example is the company engaging in efforts to legalize homosexual marriage .
in the wake of a boycott from a pro-traditional marriage group schultz lashed back .
at a shareholder s meeting in march 2013 , schultz proclaimed that a shareholder concerned with effects of the political endeavors on earnings could sell their shares .
via : breitbart news