sulaimaniya , iraq ( reuters ) - some kurdish leaders describe monday s referendum on independence as a historic chance for the ethnic group to shape its own destiny after decades of oppression .
yet there was little enthusiasm for voting in the city of sulaimaniya .
no long queues snaked around buildings in early voting as one might expect of a people who have dreamed of their own nation all their lives .
only about 30 people were casting their ballots nearly two hours after polling stations opened , and much of sulaimaniya was subdued .
the sharp contrast with celebrations in the other major kurdish city of erbil highlighted divisions between the main political parties , suggesting problems ahead for the administration of any future state .
some officials in the patriotic union of kurdistan ( puk ) , based in sulaimaniya , have cautioned that the vote could invite trouble from turkey and iran and a referendum should be held at a more appropriate time .
those neighboring countries fear independence will encourage their own restive kurdish populations to press for change .
the baghdad government says the vote is unconstitutional .
iran banned flights to and from kurdistan on sunday , while baghdad asked foreign companies to stop oil trading with kurdistan and demanded that the krg hand over control of its international airports and border posts with iran , turkey and syria .
tensions are high between kurdish fighters and iranian-backed shi ite militias .
the kurdistan democratic party ( kdp ) in erbil argues that it is time for the kurds to run their own affairs after many years of persecution at the hands of saddam hussein and others .
polling stations opened at 8:00 a.m. ( 0500 gmt ) and should close at 6:00 p.m .
final results are expected within 72 hours .
the vote , expected to deliver a comfortable yes for independence , is not binding and is meant to give masoud barzani s kdp a mandate to negotiate secession of the oil producing region with baghdad and neighboring states .
there were few referendum banners in sulaimaniya urging people to vote .
those who did turn out said they would back an independence from iraq .
i say yes , yes , yes to a kurdish state .
i am from now on the son of a kurdish state , said dirshad ahmed , a writer .
like others who voted , he preferred to enjoy the moment instead of asking tough questions about internal kurdish divisions and hostility to the vote from regional powers and the baghdad government .
kurdistan has long been plagued by political disunity between barzani s kdp and decades-old rival patriotic union of kurdistan ( puk ) , headed by jalal talabani .
it was most recently exacerbated by the extension of barzani s term .
the two sides fought a civil war during the 1990s .
some sulaimaniya residents kept their distance from the referendum , preferring caution .
i will not vote .
the referendum is not good .
it could be dangerous because of the threat from turkey and iran , said shop owner ali ahmed .
the kurds began moving toward semi-autonomy after a u.s.-led invasion toppled saddam hussein , ending what some called genocide against the ethnic group .
but friction with baghdad over oil and other issues led the kurds to press harder for independence in a region that has been relatively stable compared to other parts of the country where sectarian blood spilled between sunnis and shi ites .
iraq has been struggling to come up with a formula for stability since the fall of saddam .
some iraqis have suggested the country should be split into kurdish , sunni and shi ite regions as a way of managing sectarian and ethnic tensions .
kamran ahmed , a university economics professor , said at a polling station : we will never again surrender to any arab leader in iraq .
he had high hopes for a kurdish state and said iraq could be broken up , the kind of talk that infuriates regional powers and baghdad .
if there is a sunni region then that s fine and the same goes for shi ites .
if our experiment is successful it could benefit the sunnis and shi ites , he said .
at another polling station , kurdish security guard sarbast saeed urged the shi ite-led baghdad government to rein in militias instead of complaining about a kurdish state .
they have no right to attack us when they let the militias attack sunnis .
give the sunnis their own state , he said .
it s that kind of bitterness that all sides will face as the kurds work toward a viable state .