reykjavik ( reuters ) - iceland s prime minister called for a snap parliamentary election on friday after one party in the ruling coalition quit the government formed less than nine months ago .
the outgoing party , bright future , cited a breach of trust after prime minister bjarni benediktsson s party allegedly tried to cover up a scandal involving his father .
that leaves the country , whose economy was wrecked by the collapse of its banking system nearly a decade ago , facing its second snap election in less than a year .
the outgoing government would be the shortest-living in iceland s history .
the previous government was felled by the panama papers scandal over offshore tax havens .
we have lost the majority and i don t see anything that indicates we can regain that .
i am calling an election , benediktsson told reporters .
he said he would be looking to hold the election in november though that would mean it would not be possible to finish next year s budget .
it is ultimately up to president gudni johannesson , whom benediktsson will meet with on saturday , to make the decision on a new election .
if he accepts the call for an election he is likely to ask the government to stay in place until a new coalition is formed but he could also ask other parties to try form a majority .
johannesson was not immediately available for comment .
the news knocked more than 1 percent off the value of the icelandic crown against the euro and the dollar .
the scandal revolves around a letter written by benediktsson s father to help an old friend have his criminal record expunged after he was convicted of sex offences against children .
the board of bright future has decided to terminate cooperation with the government of bjarni benediktsson , the party said in a statement .
the reason for the split is a serious breach of trust within the government .
the ministry of justice , under sigridur andersen , a member of benediktsson s independence party , initially refused to disclose who had written the letter of recommendation .
she was later ordered to do so by a parliamentary committee .
andersen told broadcaster stod 2 that she had informed benediktsson about his father s involvement in july but had not told anyone else .
i was told by the justice minister that we were discussing confidential matters , which followed the rules of the ministry ... i decided to handle the issue as a confidential matter , benediktsson said .
he had later informed the chairmen of the coalition parties , he said .
first , it was illegal for me to indulge the information , second , i informed them when i could .
the prime minister s father , benedikt sveinsson , confirmed on friday that he had signed a letter supporting his friend s application to have his honor restored , a procedure that effectively erases a criminal record .
among the requirements is a letter of recommendation from a close friend or associate .
sveinsson said he had not discussed the letter with anyone .
this week , it came forth that my father had written a letter ...
i couldn t have written such a letter myself and i will never try to defend that , bendiktsson told a news conference .
capital economics economist stephen brown said a change of government could frustrate plans to overhaul iceland s monetary policy framework .
benediktsson s administration has asked experts to look at options , including pegging the crown to the euro or the pound to keep sharp shifts in the currency from destabilising the economy .
the central bank cut interest rates four times in the year to june to tame the crown .
the currency has soared on the back of a tourism boom that has helped the economy recover from years of crisis but increased the risks of overheating .
the strong currency is also hurting iceland s exports .
i think if there s going to be another election and possibly the chance of a more left-wing government , then that probably decreases the chance of monetary policy being loosened any further in the future , brown said .
that could be quite important .