riyadh ( reuters ) - all major gulf stock markets slid on tuesday on jitters about saudi arabia s sweeping anti-graft purge , a campaign seen by critics as a populist power grab but by ordinary saudis as an overdue attack on the sleaze of a moneyed ultra-elite .
u.s. president donald trump endorsed the crackdown , saying some of those arrested have been milking saudi arabia for years , but some western officials expressed unease about the possible reaction in riyadh s opaque tribal and royal politics .
authorities detained dozens of top saudis including billionaire prince alwaleed bin talal in a move widely seen as an attempt by crown prince mohammed bin salman to neuter any opposition to his lightening ascent to the pinnacle of power .
admirers see it as an assault on the endemic theft of public funds in the world s top oil exporter , an absolute monarchy where the state and the ruling family are intertwined .
corruption should have been fought a long time ago , because it s corruption that delays society s development , riyadh resident hussein al-dosari told reuters .
god willing , everything that happened ... is only the beginning of what is planned , said faisal bin ali , adding he wanted to see correcting mistakes , correcting ministries and correcting any injustices against the general population .
but some analysts see the arrests as the latest in a string of moves shifting power from a consensus-based system dispersing authority among the ruling al saud to a governing structure centered around 32-year-old prince mohammed himself .
investors worry that his campaign against corruption - involving the arrests of the kingdom s most internationally known businessmen - could see the ownership of businesses and assets become vulnerable to unpredictable policy shifts .
saudi banks have frozen more than 1,200 accounts belonging to individuals and companies in the kingdom and the number keeps rising , bankers and lawyers said .
the authorities sought to reassure the business community late on tuesday , with the central bank saying it was freezing suspects personal bank accounts at the request of the attorney general but not suspending operations of their companies .
in other words , corporate businesses remain unaffected .
it is business as usual for both banks and corporates , the bank said in a statement , adding there were no restrictions on money transfers through proper banking channels .
a separate statement said prince mohammed had directed a powerful ministerial committee , the council for economic affairs and development , to ensure that national and multinational companies , including those wholly or partly owned by individuals under investigation , were not disrupted .
the council recognized the importance of these companies for the national economy , and the importance of ensuring that investors could operate with confidence in saudi arabia , the state news agency spa said .
in washington , heather nauert , spokeswoman for the u.s. state department , said it had urged saudi arabia to undertake any prosecutions of corruption suspects in a fair and transparent manner .
she said the united states had received assurances from the saudi government that it would do so .
but another u.s. official later told reporters she had misspoken and that they had no such assurances that they could discuss in public .
the saudi stock index .tasi sank 0.7 percent in heavy trade , led by shares in companies linked to people detained in the investigation .
the market , which was down 3.1 percent at one stage , would have finished much lower without apparent buying by government-linked funds seeking to prevent a panic , fund managers said .
a mass pull-out of foreign funds was not apparent .
among the companies , prince alwaleed s kingdom holding 4280.se plunged by its 10 percent daily limit , bringing its losses in the three days since the investigation was announced to 21 percent .
the fall has wiped about $ 2 billion off his fortune , previously estimated by forbes magazine at $ 17 billion .
in dubai , where saudis have been significant investors , the index .dfmgi slipped 1.8 percent .
the index in abu dhabi .adi , less exposed to saudi money , fell only 0.4 percent .
but kuwait continued to slide , its index .kwse losing 2.8 percent .
the show of investor nerves coincided with sharply heightened strains between riyadh and tehran , reflected in a fresh denunciation of adversary iran by prince mohammed over its role in yemen , and by continuing mutual acrimony over political turmoil in lebanon , another cockpit of iranian-saudi rivalry .
displaying an apparently undimmed taste for navigating several challenges simultaneously , prince mohammed said iran s supply of rockets to militias in yemen is an act of direct military aggression that could be an act of war .
he was speaking in a phone call with the british foreign minister after saudi forces intercepted a ballistic missile they said was fired toward riyadh on saturday by the houthis .
a saudi-led coalition , which backs yemen s internationally-recognized government , has been targeting the houthis in a war which has killed more than 10,000 people and triggered a humanitarian disaster in one of the region s poorest countries .
iran has denied it was behind the missile launch , rejecting the saudi and u.s. statements condemning tehran as destructive and provocative and slanders .
the coincidence of heightened saudi-iranian tensions and saudi domestic political upheaval has stirred unease among some western governments and analysts about the emergence of an impromptu policy-making style under prince mohammed and turmoil in a region traditionally seen as a haven of stability .
he seems to be pushing the creation of a personalized system of rule without the checks and balances that have typically characterized the saudi system of governance , wrote marc lynch , professor of political science and international affairs at george washington university , in the washington post .
in both domestic and foreign affairs , he has consistently undertaken sudden and wide-ranging campaigns for unclear reasons which shatter prevailing norms .
among those held in the anti-graft purge was prince miteb bin abdullah , who was replaced as minister of the national guard , a pivotal power base rooted in the kingdom s tribes .
that recalled a palace coup in june that ousted mohammed bin nayef , known as mbn , as heir to the throne .
mbn made his first confirmed public appearance since then at the funeral for prince mansour bin muqrin , deputy governor of asir province , who was killed in a helicopter crash on sunday .
no cause has been given for the crash .
a photo shared online by a state media photographer showed mbn greeting another royal at the first major family gathering since the anti-corruption sweep began .
the crackdown removed any remaining political counterweights to the crown prince , according to steffen hertog , a saudi scholar at the london school of economics .
this allows for fast decision-making and reduces costly involvement of princes in state contracts , but also potentially reduces internal criticism and review of new policy initiatives , he said .
a former senior u.s. intelligence official cautioned that given the national guard s loyalties , prince mohammed could face a backlash .
i find it difficult to believe that it ( national guard ) will simply roll over and accept the imposition of new leadership in such an arbitrary fashion , he said .
but the purge may go some way to soothing public disgust over financial abuses by the powerful , some saudis say .
there is no doubt that it ( the detentions ) soothes the anger of the regular citizen who felt that such names and senior leaders who appeared in the list were immune from legal accountability , said saudi-based political analyst mansour al-ameer .
its spread to the general population is evidence that no one is excluded from legal accountability , and this will eventually benefit the citizen and ( national ) development .