vancouver ( reuters ) - canada will not be sending hundreds of peacekeepers to support a united nations mission in mali in the near future , officials said on wednesday , a move likely to disappoint allies who want canadians to play a role in the west african country .
prime minister justin trudeau last year promised to contribute up to 600 troops to peacekeeping operations and canadian defense experts made three trips to mali , where soldiers under the u.n. are fighting islamist militants .
canada said it would split its soldiers among various missions instead , with no more than 200 going to any one spot , and will offer transport aircraft and helicopters in a series of smart pledge initiatives .
it will also help train peacekeepers .
u.n. officials downplayed concerns , saying that if canada had pledged its troops and equipment to a single mission , like mali , then those assets could not be deployed to support other missions in the region .
this is exactly what we need , we need flexibility ... we need to be able to allocate these resources where we need them the most , jean-pierre lacroix , a u.n. under-secretary general for peacekeeping operations , told reporters .
lacroix said talks continue on how canadian assets will be deployed , but added , i m sure there s a strong determination to turn this commitment into a concrete action on the ground .
earlier on wednesday , a canadian official told reporters the option of sending forces to mali one day was still alive , but added the planning process took at least six months , so you re not going to going to see some kind of rapid deployment to any mission , let alone a complex one like mali .
trudeau sidestepped questions about the likely international reaction at a news conference , saying the varied measures canada was proposing would serve the u.n. better .
unhappy allies this year said canada s bid for a u.n. security council seat could suffer unless trudeau lived up to his promises .
this approach will be a disappointment to some , and the canadian government will have to work hard to overcome the credibility it has lost in not following through on its initial pledge , said jane boulden , a security studies expert at queen s university in kingston .
government insiders said enthusiasm for the mali mission faded as the extent of likely casualties and the complex nature of the conflict became clear .
more than 80 members have been killed since 2013 , making mali the world s deadliest peacekeeping operation .