oslo ( reuters ) - following is the text of the nobel peace prize award on friday to the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons : the norwegian nobel committee has decided to award the nobel peace prize for 2017 to the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons ( ican ) .
the organization is receiving the award for its work to draw attention to the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of any use of nuclear weapons and for its ground-breaking efforts to achieve a treaty-based prohibition of such weapons .
we live in a world where the risk of nuclear weapons being used is greater than it has been for a long time .
some states are modernizing their nuclear arsenals , and there is a real danger that more countries will try to procure nuclear weapons , as exemplified by north korea .
nuclear weapons pose a constant threat to humanity and all life on earth .
through binding international agreements , the international community has previously adopted prohibitions against land mines , cluster munitions and biological and chemical weapons .
nuclear weapons are even more destructive , but have not yet been made the object of a similar international legal prohibition .
through its work , ican has helped to fill this legal gap .
an important argument in the rationale for prohibiting nuclear weapons is the unacceptable human suffering that a nuclear war will cause .
ican is a coalition of non-governmental organizations from around 100 different countries around the globe .
the coalition has been a driving force in prevailing upon the world s nations to pledge to cooperate with all relevant stakeholders in efforts to stigmatize , prohibit and eliminate nuclear weapons .
to date , 108 states have made such a commitment , known as the humanitarian pledge .
furthermore , ican has been the leading civil society actor in the endeavor to achieve a prohibition of nuclear weapons under international law .
on 7 july 2017 , 122 of the un member states acceded to the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons .
as soon as the treaty has been ratified by 50 states , the ban on nuclear weapons will enter into force and will be binding under international law for all the countries that are party to the treaty .
the norwegian nobel committee is aware that an international legal prohibition will not in itself eliminate a single nuclear weapon , and that so far neither the states that already have nuclear weapons nor their closest allies support the nuclear weapon ban treaty .
the committee wishes to emphasize that the next steps towards attaining a world free of nuclear weapons must involve the nuclear-armed states .
this year s peace prize is therefore also a call upon these states to initiate serious negotiations with a view to the gradual , balanced and carefully monitored elimination of the almost 15,000 nuclear weapons in the world .
five of the states that currently have nuclear weapons the usa , russia , the united kingdom , france and china have already committed to this objective through their accession to the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons of 1970 .
the non-proliferation treaty will remain the primary international legal instrument for promoting nuclear disarmament and preventing the further spread of such weapons .
it is now 71 years since the un general assembly , in its very first resolution , advocated the importance of nuclear disarmament and a nuclear weapon-free world .
with this year s award , the norwegian nobel committee wishes to pay tribute to ican for giving new momentum to the efforts to achieve this goal .
the decision to award the nobel peace prize for 2017 to the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons has a solid grounding in alfred nobel s will .
the will specifies three different criteria for awarding the peace prize : the promotion of fraternity between nations , the advancement of disarmament and arms control and the holding and promotion of peace congresses .
ican works vigorously to achieve nuclear disarmament .
ican and a majority of un member states have contributed to fraternity between nations by supporting the humanitarian pledge .
and through its inspiring and innovative support for the un negotiations on a treaty banning nuclear weapons , ican has played a major part in bringing about what in our day and age is equivalent to an international peace congress .
it is the firm conviction of the norwegian nobel committee that ican , more than anyone else , has in the past year given the efforts to achieve a world without nuclear weapons a new direction and new vigor .