paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron will set out plans for reforming the european union on tuesday , including proposals for a separate eurozone budget , despite a german election result that is likely to complicate his far-reaching ambitions .
german chancellor angela merkel s conservatives saw their support slide in sunday s election , though they remain the biggest parliamentary bloc .
she is expected to seek a coalition with the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) - who have criticized macron s ideas for europe - and the greens .
elysee officials said macron , who has promised sweeping reforms to europe s monetary union in coordination with merkel , hoped the issues to be raised in his speech would be taken into account in germany s coalition negotiations .
one elysee official said a eurozone budget , one of macron s most contentious ideas , would be necessary in due course and that the president would therefore raise the issue in his speech , to be delivered at the sorbonne university in paris .
since his election in may , macron has made the overhaul of the eu and its institutions one of his major themes .
as well as his eurozone budget idea , he wants to see the appointment of a eurozone finance minister and the creation of a rescue fund that would preemptively help countries facing economic trouble .
ahead of sunday s election , merkel had indicated her willingness to work with macron on a reform agenda , even if her own ideas may not reach as far as his .
but the election results have left merkel facing a difficult coalition-building task which is in turn likely to limit her flexibility on europe .
a coalition of merkel s cdu/csu bloc , the fdp and the greens is unprecedented at the national level - and any attempt by the chancellor and macron to press for greater eu integration will face opposition from the new german lower house bundestag .
the fdp has called for a phasing out of europe s esm bailout fund and changes to eu treaties that would allow countries to leave the euro zone .
and the far-right , eurosceptic alternative for germany is now the third biggest party in the bundestag , further curbing merkel s room for maneuver .
but elysee officials noted that the fdp had reaffirmed its attachment to the eu and to strong franco-german relations , a point macron was likely to emphasize in his speech while at the same time not seeking to impose anything on his partners .
macron , the sources said , would propose that the whole eu move forward together , and that those who did not want to should not stand in the way of those that did .
coming just two days after the german election , macron s speech is likely to be interpreted in germany as an attempt to shape the debate before the coalition talks begin in earnest .
german coalition agreements are strict , with the contours set out in them limiting the government s room for maneuver .
in that respect , merkel s ability to work with macron on eu reform will be pre-determined by whatever coalition deal is struck .
fdp leader christian lindner said on monday he would not agree to any coalition that did not promise a change in the german government s direction .
while that appeared to set the stage for tough talks , he also offered hope for macron , saying when asked about the french president s eurozone budget ideas that the fdp had a strong interest in the strength of france .