berlin ( reuters ) - german parties exploring a coalition government remain divided on the issues of a euro zone budget , europe s banking union and its esm bailout fund ahead of a meeting of party leaders later on friday , according to a draft paper on europe seen by reuters .
the 1-1/2 page document , a blueprint for a new german government s stance on european issues , contains several bracketed sentences , reflecting ongoing areas of disagreement that must be resolved by chancellor angela merkel and other party leaders at their meeting this afternoon .
we reject [ a separate euro zone budget as well as ] the introduction of instruments that would lead to automatic transfers or a mutualization of debt , one passage reads , reflecting differences over whether to rule out french president emmanuel macron s idea for such a budget .
macron sent his finance minister , bruno le maire , to berlin this week to talk with leaders of the german parties and try to persuade them not to reject his ideas for a reform of the euro zone in their coalition agreement .
in addition to merkel s conservatives , the greens and the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) are involved in the talks .
the fdp has been particularly critical of macron s ideas for a euro zone budget , fearful this would open the door to germany subsidizing economically weak members of the 19-nation single currency bloc .
the paper , which included footnotes spelling out where the different parties stood on the divisive issues , showed a degree of fdp isolation on key european issues .
but in an interview with german magazine der spiegel on friday , fdp leader christian lindner signaled a readiness to compromise , notably on europe s rescue fund , saying a party that won 11 percent of the vote in germany could not dictate the path for all of europe .
during the german election campaign , the fdp argued that the european stability mechanism ( esm ) should be wound down , while the other parties argued it should be developed further into a european version of the international monetary fund .
the esm has built up a level of expertise in recent years on the surveillance of stability goals , lindner said .
if it stays , it could be an instrument for more discipline .
the paper contained two alternate phrasings on europe s banking union , one supported by merkel s conservatives and the greens , and a second with more hardline language backed by the fdp , according to the footnotes .
the first variation talks about the step-by-step completion of the banking union .
the second fdp version says the banking union should focus on systemic risks , rather than those to individual banks .
the paper also includes passages agreed by all the german parties that will be welcomed by the french .
it says franco-german cooperation is of particular importance and acknowledges the need for member states and the eu to have an appropriate capacity to invest and counter asymmetric economic shocks .