washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump , like his predecessors , may find that neither negotiations nor economic and military pressure can force north korea to abandon its nuclear program , and that the united states has no choice but to try to contain it and deter north korean leader kim jong un from ever using a nuclear weapon .
north korea conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test on sept. 2 , describing it as an advanced hydrogen bomb for a long-range missile , a dramatic escalation of its stand-off with the united states and its allies .
u.s. officials declined to discuss operational planning , but acknowledge that no existing plan for a preemptive strike could promise to prevent a brutal counterattack by north korea , which has thousands of artillery pieces and rockets trained on seoul .
in an implicit recognition that the military options against the north are unpalatable at best and pyrrhic at worst , u.s. defense secretary jim mattis last week told reporters : we are never out of diplomatic solutions .
u.s. and asian officials believe it is necessary to try negotiations and more economic pressure but concede these are unlikely to curb , let alone eliminate , the nuclear and missile programs that north korean considers essential to its survival .
that leaves washington and its allies in south korea , japan and elsewhere with an unwelcome question : is there any way to live with a nuclear-armed north korea , one that is contained and deterred from using its nuclear weaponry ?
trump declined to answer that question at a news conference on thursday , saying he would not disclose his negotiating strategy publicly and adding it would be a very sad day for north korea if the u.s. military settles the matter .
military action would certainly be an option .
is it inevitable ?
nothing is inevitable , trump said .
still , a senior trump administration official said it is unclear whether the cold war-era deterrence model that washington used with the soviet union could be applied to a rogue state like north korea , adding : i don t think the president wants to take that chance .
we are very concerned that north korea might not be able to be deterred , the official said , speaking to reporters on condition of anonymity shortly after trump s remarks .
among the u.s. options to strengthen its deterrent is the long-planned modernization of america s aging nuclear forces that would assure that north korea would be destroyed if it fired a nuclear-tipped missile at the united states , a u.s. military base , japan , or south korea .
another is stepped-up investment in u.s. missile defenses , particularly testing , research and development of technologies that could defeat a significant number of incoming missiles .
both steps would need to avoid triggering new arms races with beijing and moscow , experts say .
another factor weighing on pentagon planners is their readiness for a major conventional conflict after 16 years of war in afghanistan , iraq , syria and elsewhere .
there has been no sign the white house , which has been cool to the idea of talks and hopes pressure can change the north s calculus , is ready to settle for a containment strategy .
despite pessimism about talks , a u.s. official speaking on condition of anonymity said there was a chance that economic pressure , especially from china , combined with an agreement to negotiate could convince pyongyang to limit its nuclear arsenal or even sign the 1996 comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty .
signing the ctbt would given the north tacit admission to the nuclear club but end its testing program , the official said .
that , along with assured destruction , might be the best that could be done .
the remaining question , however , is whether trump would be willing to settle for that .
discipline and steadiness are not words one usually uses in a sentence that also has the name donald trump , said robert einhorn , a former state department official who negotiated with north korea and is now at the brookings institution think tank .
would he over time recognize that he may have no choice ?
frank jannuzi , president of the mansfield foundation , which promotes u.s.-asia relations , is more optimistic .
does he have the patience to manage a difficult process of deterrence and containment against the ( north ) rather than doing something impulsive ?
i think so , he said .
some of his deals have taken years to come to fruition .