( reuters ) - the u.s. air force has awarded lockheed martin corp and raytheon co separate $ 900 million contracts to continue work on a replacement for the agm-86b air-launched nuclear cruise missile , the pentagon said on wednesday .
although the award for the new long range standoff weapon ( lrso ) comes amid rising tensions with north korea , the air force had asked the defense industry last summer for proposals to replace the aging nuclear cruise missiles and intercontinental ballistic missile system as the military moved ahead with a costly modernization of its aging atomic weapons systems .
“ this weapon will modernize the air-based leg of the nuclear triad , ” said secretary of the air force heather wilson in a statement .
lrso , which is a plane launched weapon , “ will be capable of penetrating and surviving advanced integrated air defense systems from significant standoff range ” lockheed martin said in its statement about the award .
the relatively small contract award is a milestone that allows lockheed and raytheon to continue parallel detailed development and prototyping for the cruise missile replacement .
for the next four and a half years , the companies will perform the technology maturation and risk reduction of the weapon .
once complete , the air force will choose a single contractor for engineering , manufacturing and deployment .
the air force plans to procure approximately 1,000 lrso flight bodies , with development and procurement costs estimated at about $ 10 billion , according to an air force spokesperson .
only some of the bodies will be armed with nuclear weapons , the others will be used for testing or spares .
the air force has said it plans to start fielding lrso by 2030 .
the current cruise missile was first fielded in the early 1980s with a 10-year life .
on monday , the air force awarded boeing co and northrop grumman corp separate contracts to continue work on the replacement of the aging minuteman iii icbm system .
modernization of the u.s. nuclear force was expected to cost more than $ 350 billion over the next decade .
the united states plans to replace its aging systems , including bombs , nuclear bombers , missiles and submarines .
some analysts estimated the cost at $ 1 trillion over 30 years .