we ve seen an escalation in violence against police officers this past week that is really disturbing .
mob rule has taken over in some cities with leaders who are more concerned with the vile and violent protesters than the cops who are protecting their right to be protest.a black boston cop is taunted by a young black woman : you stupid a * * black bitch .
you re suppose to be on our side .
# bostonfreespeechrally pic.twitter.com/nmxptkay93 based monitored ( @ basedmonitored ) august 20 , 2017buried under all of the attention given to the protesters is horrible violence and murder directed at our law enforcement .
two police officers were ambushed and killed last week in kissimmee , fl by a muslim who belongs to a black radical group.the war on our cops is real and it s frightening .
all you have to do is look at the alt-left and black radicals who are plotting and planning to slaughter our police officers exactly like normandy pic.twitter.com/0aottil0wf jack posobiec ( @ jackposobiec ) august 19 , 2017 baltimore bloc s twitter feed is full of hateful posts remember that the baltimore mayor removed 4 confederate statues in the middle of the night .
baltimore bloc had this to say about cops : now that we ve got rid of these white supremacist symbols , it s time to get rid of these white supremacist systems now that we ve got rid of these white supremacist symbols , it s time to get rid of these white supremacist systems pic.twitter.com/z8x247xwqg baltimore bloc ( @ bmorebloc ) august 16 , 2017what we ve found is shocking a lone policeman taunted : a protester was hurt by metal falling from the a monument in atlanta as the group tried to tear it down , ajc photographer john spink reported sunday night .
tensions rose as the lone policeman on the scene was surrounded by black-clad antifa protesters shouting pig .
durham , nc same anti-cop rhetoric cops & klan go hand in hand a protest in dallas got out of control when the protesters started chanting , cops and the klan go hand in hand there s so much more but you get the intent of these people .
they want to push the limits and create anarchy in the streets .
it s time for our pandering politicians to get serious about the necessity to shut this down now .