london ( reuters ) - an iranian official said on tuesday tehran hoped saad al-hariri would remain as lebanon s prime minister and denied hariri had resigned after a tense meeting with him in beirut .
hariri resigned abruptly on nov. 4 while in saudi arabia , saying he believed there was an assassination plot against him and accusing iran and its lebanese ally hezbollah of sowing strife in the arab world .
hariri had flown to riyadh on nov. 3 after a meeting in beirut with ali akbar velayati , the top adviser to iranian supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei .
hariri claims that in our meeting he asked iran to stop interfering in the lebanese affairs , but he did not say such a thing , velayati was quoted as saying by iranian state television s website .
our meeting was not tense or violent at all .
these are all lies , he said .
velayati accused saudi arabia of fanning the flames of tension as it could not tolerate the strategic friendship between tehran and beirut .
hariri s resignation plunged lebanon into a new political crisis and thrust it into the front line of a regional power play between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran that has also buffeted syria , iraq , yemen and bahrain .
velayati said hariri in their meeting offered to mediate between iran and saudi arabia and he welcomed the offer .
saudi arabia cut diplomatic ties with iran in january 2016 after iranian protesters , angered by the execution of a senior shi ite cleric by riyadh , torched the saudi embassy in tehran .
velayati said tehran hoped hariri would return to lebanon and continue as prime minister if lebanese laws allow .
in a television interview on sunday , hariri said he would return to his country within days and held out the possibility he could rescind his resignation if iran-backed hezbollah agreed to stay out of regional conflicts such as yemen .
he said he had talked about the unacceptable iranian interference in arab countries with velayati in beirut .
we can not continue while iran and a political party are interfering , hariri said , in his first public comments since his resignation .