while the main stream media continues to chase anything and everything to try and take down president trump , we have a serious problem with north korea that s heating up .
the madman in charge of north korea continues to stand firm even after sanctions were unanimously voted for at the un .
north korea s missile tests will continue in spite of any move the u.s. makes to stop them dr. sebastian gorka spoke with sean hannity regarding this development : the latest from fox newsdespite the united states insistence that north korea halt its missile tests , u.s. spy agencies detected the rogue communist regime loading two anti-ship cruise missiles on a patrol boat on the country s east coast just days ago.it s the first time these missiles have been deployed on this type of platform since 2014.it also points to more evidence that north korea isn t listening to the diplomatic threats from the west .
the best signal that north korea could give us that they re prepared to talk would be to stop these missile launches , secretary of state rex tillerson said in the philippines monday.tillerson to noko : we are not your enemy tillerson s four no s : the united states does not seek regime change , the collapse of the regime , an accelerated reunification of the peninsula or an excuse to send the u.s. military into north korea.north korea loaded two stormpetrel anti-ship cruise missiles on a wonsan guided-missile patrol boat at toejo dong on north korea s east coast .
north korea is not showing any evidence it plans to halt its missile tests , said one official who requested anonymity to discuss sensitive information .
it s a trend that does not bode well for hopes of de-escalating tensions on the korean peninsula .
the latest moves by pyongyang point to a likely missile test in the days ahead or it could be a defense measure should the u.s. navy dispatch more warships to the korean peninsula , officials said .
read more : fox newsjapan takes the threat from north korea seriously : japan has held its first air-raid drills since world war two amid fears of a nuclear strike by north korea .
people on the country s north-west coast practiced running for cover following kim jong-un s latest ballistic missile tests .
a report filmed by the bbc saw adults and children sprinting indoors or sheltering behind walls as sirens wailed.read more : daily mail