johannesburg ( reuters ) - congolese army commanders orchestrated a wave of massacres that killed hundreds of people between 2014-2016 as they vied for influence with anti-government insurgents in northeastern democratic republic of congo , a new report said on monday .
the report by the congo research group ( crg ) at new york university is the most comprehensive to date on the killings of more than 800 people and the first to offer a definite theory of the perpetrators motives .
it is based on 249 interviews with perpetrators , eyewitnesses and victims as well as internal u.n. reports and arrest records that document participation in the killings .
millions died in eastern congo between 1996-2003 in regional conflicts and dozens of militia groups continue to operate there .
but the massacres around the town of beni were the most macabre and mysterious in recent memory .
crg cited multiple witnesses saying that army commanders , including the former top general in the zone , supported and in some cases organized the killings .
during some massacres , sources told crg , soldiers secured the perimeter so that victims could not escape .
congo government spokesman lambert mende said a number of high-ranking officers had been convicted for their roles in the massacres but criticized crg for trying to revive an old affair .
the general named in the report , muhindo akili mundos , has repeatedly denied any personal responsibility .
the report recommends a parliamentary investigation and u.n security council sanctions against individuals involved in the violence around beni .
several senior congolese militia leaders , including a former vice president in a power-sharing government , have been convicted by the international criminal court in the hague for crimes committed during wars in congo and in neighboring central african republic .
according to the report , the first massacres were orchestrated in 2013 by former leaders of the popular congolese army ( apc ) , the armed wing of a rebellion from congo s 1998-2003 war , who were trying to prepare a new insurrection and undermine confidence in the central government .
these rebels often worked in collaboration with militiamen from the allied democratic forces , a ugandan islamist group active in the area .
congo s government and u.n. peacekeeping missions blamed almost all the killings on the adf .
however , when the large-scale massacres began - one of which claimed as many as 200 lives - in october 2014 , army commanders in the zone co-opted many of the networks of local militia in an effort to weaken their rivals , the report said .
government forces discovered pre-existing plans for killings and responded by co-opting these groups and continuing the massacres , it said .
for these officers , controlling the armed groups in the region was more important - and perhaps more feasible - than bringing an end to the violence .
the new report did not take a position on whether local commanders received orders to conduct the massacres from congo s central government but said it would have been difficult for kinshasa to be unaware of their undertakings .
large-scale killings around beni have mostly abated this year but congolese and u.n. forces continue to clash with rebel groups in the area .
one tanzanian peacekeeper was killed and another wounded on sunday in combat with a local militia , a u.n. mission spokesman told reuters .
meanwhile , violence has otherwise surged across congo , fueled in part by president joseph kabila s refusal to step down when his mandate expired last december .
crg is a non-profit body directed by jason stearns , a former u.n. investigator in congo and author of a book about congo s civil wars .