london ( reuters ) - british gamblers believe u.s. president donald trump is now more likely to leave office before the end of his first term than not , british bookmakers said on wednesday , after a week of tumult at the white house .
betfair said that punters had bet more than 5,000 pounds ( $ 6,470 ) on an early departure for trump in the hours after it was reported he had asked his then-fbi director james comey to shut down an investigation into ties between former white house national security adviser michael flynn and russia .
concerns that businessman and former reality tv star trump ’ s economic reforms could be slowed and he might even face the threat of impeachment has dented demand for the dollar .
on uk betting markets , the odds on trump failing to see out his four-year term dropped to 5/6 from evens on betfair , implying a 55 percent chance that he will leave .
betfair was also offering odds of 12/5 percent that trump would leave office this year , implying a 27 percent chance that he would depart .
betfair said that the odds for such an early departure had never been shorter .
fellow bookmaker ladbrokes said its odds on the president leaving office via impeachment or resignation before the end of his first term had also shortened in the last week to 4/5 after a flurry of bets .
spokeswoman jessica bridge added that ladbrokes had taken close to 50,000 pounds on various wagers over trump ’ s future , including whether he would be impeached and the year he might be replaced .
“ barely a day goes by without a trump scandal , but money talks , and punters are becoming increasingly convinced the president could be impeached sooner rather than later , ” bridge said .
uk political betting markets have exploded in recent years , with millions wagered last year ahead of surprising results of britain ’ s referendum on european union membership and trump ’ s election which was the most bet-upon political event ever .
bookmakers also saw their biggest market for a french election earlier this year , buoyed by growing enthusiasm for political betting , an unpredictable result and a ban on betting on politics in france .