bangkok ( reuters ) - the ashes and bones of thailand s king bhumibol adulyadej were returned to the palace on friday as part of an elaborate , five-day cremation ceremony that drew hundreds of thousands of black-clad mourners to bangkok s historic old quarter .
king bhumibol was the world s longest-reigning monarch when he died a year ago aged 88 .
his seven-decade rule spanned some of the most tumultuous moments in modern thai history , including several coups , a deadly crackdown on student protesters , natural disasters and a regional financial crisis .
his son , new king maha vajiralongkorn , presided over the burning of his father s remains in a golden crematorium at a late-night ceremony in the thai capital on thursday .
many mourners stayed to watch as smoke rose from the crematorium .
some broke down in tears .
the crowds had diminished on friday , but thousands of people still lined the streets to glimpse what they could of a ceremony that in total cost $ 90 million .
i can t express my sadness at the loss .
it s like a child longing for a parent , said boonpherm buatho , 56 , a housekeeper .
shielded from the sun by a large white-and-gold umbrella , king vajiralongkorn led a religious ceremony to return his father s remains to the palace .
he sprinkled the bones with sacred water as classical thai music played .
the remains were blessed by thailand s supreme patriarch , the head of the order of buddhist monks .
the late king s bones will be taken to the grand palace , where he had lain in state since his death last october .
although thailand does not conduct polls on the monarchy s popularity - partly because of strict laws that protect the royal family from insult - the king built up a wide personal following and is often referred to as father .
the ceremony on thursday brought thailand to a standstill as many businesses , including banks , shut to honor the late king .
the late king s nine-spired crematorium , built to honor the ninth king of the chakri dynasty , features intricate carvings and staircases with sculptures of nagas - a half-human , half- cobra beings - among other mythical creatures .
pictures of mourners wearing black and holding photographs of the late king flooded social media in thailand , with many using popular hashtags such as # rama9 , # kingofkings , and # thegreatestking .
on saturday , a religious ceremony for the late king s remains will take place within the palace .
on sunday , the bones will be transferred to the palace hall where the relics of past kings are kept .
a procession will then take his ashes from the palace to be divided between the temples of wat rajabopidh and wat bovoranives .
the first of those temples contains the ashes of many royals .
the second is where king bhumibol was ordained as a monk - a tradition for many thai men - and is the center of the strict thammayut sect founded by the late king s great grandfather .
for an interactive graphic , click tmsnrt.rs/2lewzcq