he d like to build a giant wall , deport illegals , defund planned parenthood and deal with our debt crisis .
these are all issues newt gingrich believes need to be dealt with .
given his past history as speaker , he may just be the guy to get the job done newt gingrich told breitbart editor-in-chief alexander marlow on saturday that if he had the votes in congress to reclaim the speaker of the house position , he would accept.gingrich acknowledged that if he had 218 house members backing him as speaker , who approved of his strategy on the continuing resolution , and his strategy on dealing with the debt ceiling , he would have a moral obligation to serve the country .
gingrich , who served as speaker in the 90 s during the clinton administration , initially made light of this provocative possibility by reminding listeners to breitbart news saturday on sirius xm patriot radio , channel 125 , of the time when conservative icon william f. buckley was asked while running for mayor of new york : if he was elected , what would he do ?
buckley said that the first thing he would do is demand a recount.later in the interview , the consummate historian side of gingrich emerged .
he waxed more philosophical , relating that george washington never sought elected office , but when called upon to serve , he did so.the architect of the contract with america in 1994 , which proposed ten policies the gop promised to a vote on during the first hundred days of the new congress , cautioned current house members to slow down when picking their next speaker .
gingrich asserted that the house chamber must break down into lengthy conferences among themselves and vet candidates not on personality , but on their ability to articulate strategy.the former speaker asserted that house leadership needs to have a sound strategy on how to deal with the continuing resolution that comes up in december and the debt ceiling .
unless they have a strategy in dealing with these kind of issues , they will just rapidly undermine the next speaker and be right back in the middle of a bitter internal fight that they don t need , he said.marlow asked gingrich his position on funding planned parenthood and the possibility of a government shutdown .
i would have a hard time voting for a bill that funded it , he replied .
even if it meant a shutdown ?
inquired marlow .
let me repeat myself .
i would have a very hard time voting for a bill that funded planned parenthood , gingrich replied.gingrich said that republicans have to make it clear that they are not defunding women s health .
here is the money , we are not defunding women s health , needs to be expressed .
he recommends that congress apply the exact same dollars for women s health to other organizations , including religious groups , but not to be complicit in a process that cuts up babies .
we should say how can the president of the unites states defend cutting up babies , and if obama wants to close the government over his commitment to cutting up babies , then i would say let s have the fight .
regarding immigration , gingrich told marlow that he just came back from israel .
you can t spend time in israel and not believe that fences work .
people who say you can t build a fence are just wrong , he maintains .
he added that trump is right on this , and that building 95-story sky-scrapers is more complicated than building fences.the ten time re-elected congressman from georgia stressed that there must be a strong e-verify network in place , but it would be implausible to round up and deport all who came across american borders illegally .
we are not going to deport 11 million people .
we are not going to go into neighborhoods , we re not going to tear up churches , not going to tear up families .
no american system could tolerate that level of personal and dehumanizing process .
gingrich does think , however , that america could aggressively deport criminals .
people in neighborhoods would be grateful that you got rid of the criminals , he insisted .
ms13 gang from el salvador , which is now in 70 cities , should be utterly , totally unacceptable to every american .
the conservative icon added that he finds that when he meets with legal immigrants across the nation , they are the strongest supporters of insisting on legality .
because they paid their dues ; they did the right things .
they followed the law .
they would like to see an america insisting on returning to that .
gingrich maintains there should be a pathway to legality , but rejects offering them citizenship before those waiting patiently who apply legally .
there could be exceptions for some who would enter the military .
if one is willing to risk their lives for america , extenuating circumstances may apply in that case , gingrich believes .
via : breitbart