21st century wire says those who pull the strings behind the curtain will be a lot harder to get rid of than the puppets which they control.watch a video of this report here : tufts university political scientist michael j. glennon gave a strong warning to the american people back in 2014 that you can vote all you want but the secret government won t change.glennon s argument is that a small clique of so-called national security experts , who might otherwise be called elites from the military industrial complex , are always influencing policy makers and over-emphasising security threats.currently , the only candidate posing a real threat to these elites appears to be donald trump , who is claiming he wants to get along with foreign countries , particularly russia.but , what is the main reason why we can not fix this problem ?
glennon says it s the pervasive political ignorance on the part of the american people .here are the key questions and responses from the interview : what evidence exists for saying america has a double government ? glennon : i was curious why a president such as barack obama would embrace the very same national security and counterterrorism policies that he campaigned eloquently against .
why would that president continue those same policies in case after case after case ?
why would policy makers hand over the national-security keys to unelected officials ? glennon : it hasn t been a conscious decision .
members of congress are generalists and need to defer to experts within the national security realm , as elsewhere .
they are particularly concerned about being caught out on a limb having made a wrong judgment about national security and tend , therefore , to defer to experts , who tend to exaggerate threats .
the courts similarly tend to defer to the expertise of the network that defines national security policy.isn t this just another way of saying that big bureaucracies are difficult to change ? glennon : it s much more serious than that .
these particular bureaucracies don t set truck widths or determine railroad freight rates .
they make nerve-center security decisions that in a democracy can be irreversible , that can close down the marketplace of ideas , and can result in some very dire consequences.couldn t obama s national-security decisions just result from the difference in vantage point between being a campaigner and being the commander-in-chief , responsible for 320 million lives ? glennon : there is an element of what you described .
there is not only one explanation or one cause for the amazing continuity of american national security policy .
but obviously there is something else going on when policy after policy after policy all continue virtually the same way that they were in the george w. bush administration.this isn t how we re taught to think of the american political system.glennon : i think the american people are deluded to believe that the institutions that provide the public face actually set american national security policy .
they believe that when they vote for a president or member of congress or succeed in bringing a case before the courts , that policy is going to change .
now , there are many counter-examples in which these branches do affect policy .
but the larger picture is still true policy by and large in the national security realm is made by the concealed institutions.do we have any hope of fixing the problem ? glennon : the ultimate problem is the pervasive political ignorance on the part of the american people .
and indifference to the threat that is emerging from these concealed institutions .
that is where the energy for reform has to come from : the american people .
not from government .
government is very much the problem here .
the people have to take the bull by the horns .
and that s a very difficult thing to do , because the ignorance is in many ways rational .
there is very little profit to be had in learning about , and being active about , problems that you can t affect , policies that you can t change.read mark glennon s 2014 epic op ed from the boston globe here get the full story on the 2016 election : 21st century wire election files