kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - in a room packed with malaysian civil servants , foreign ministry secretary general ramlan ibrahim raised his right hand as he read out an anti-corruption pledge .
he was among thousands of state officials nationwide to take such an oath in the past several weeks , part of an anti-graft campaign called by prime minister najib razak .
the citizens are becoming more informed they ask for public service which is more efficient , transparent and fair , ramlan said after the event in putrajaya , the administrative capital .
the campaign comes as najib prepares to meet president donald trump in the united states this week , where the justice department and the federal bureau of investigation are pursuing investigations into 1malaysia development berhad ( 1mdb ) , a state fund the prime minister oversaw .
najib must also call a general election by mid-2018 although some commentators have suggested he could do so this year itself .
the malaysian anti-corruption commission ( macc ) has arrested dozens of top officials under the anti-graft campaign , including officers at national oil company petronas and state-controlled palm oil firm felda .
more than 600 arrests were made just this year , macc data showed .
the actions are unusual in the southeast asian country , where corruption is seen as widespread .
four out of five malaysians aged 18-35 cited corruption as the most serious issue facing the country , according to a survey released last month by the global shapers community , a programme under the world economic forum .
but critics say the campaign ignores the elephant in the room : 1mdb .
the state fund is being investigated in at least six countries for money-laundering and misappropriation of funds , including an alleged $ 681 million transfer into the prime minister s personal account .
malaysia s attorney-general closed the 1mdb probe in january 2016 , and cleared najib of any wrongdoing .
the u.s. justice department has sought to seize about $ 1.7 billion in assets allegedly bought with stolen 1mdb funds .
its lawsuits say those involved included najib s step-son riza aziz and his close associate jho low .
in court filings last tuesday , the fbi , which is conducting a criminal investigation , alleged that potential witnesses in the case fear for their safety and need protection .
but investigations into 1mdb in malaysia appear to have shut down .
macc had a roomful of files on 1mdb , a former macc official told reuters , but the commission could not pursue it once malaysia s attorney-general declared the case closed .
in a way , this campaign is the macc trying to show that it is doing its job .
even if they can not secure a conviction ( against their targets ) , the macc can show that it has done all it could to stamp out major corruption , said the former official , who declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter .
cynthia gabriel , director of the kuala lumpur-based center to combat corruption and cronyism ( c4 ) , said there was enough substance for macc to reopen the case on 1mdb .
macc declined to comment on whether the commission would reopen its 1mdb investigation .
no comment on that , we are very fair in investigating anybody here , whoever they are , deputy chief commissioner azam baki told reporters in putrajaya .
anti-corruption campaigners say they fear trump s invitation to najib to visit the united states may affect the investigations in the united states .
territorial influence and geopolitical interests of the united states appears to have hollowed out its commitment to fight international corruption , much to the detriment of the future of malaysia and the world , gabriel said .
u.s.-based human rights watch ( hrw ) said trump s invitation was particularly inappropriate , given najib s use of repressive laws to stifle critics .
there s little doubt that najib will use this white house visit to burnish his credentials going into next year s election in malaysia , and redouble his repression of critics using the stamp of approval from this visit , hrw s deputy asia director phil robertson told reuters .
najib has said he hopes his visit will drum up more trade and investment for malaysia .
i would like to see this as a two way mutually beneficial partnership , he told reporters on friday .
i hope the u.s. sees malaysia as a reliable partner on issues such as trade and investment , security partnership , counter terrorism and i also hope that u.s. companies see us as among the best countries to invest in .
a government source said a defense agreement was also on the table , although no details were immediately available .
senior leaders of the ruling united malays national organisation ( umno ) are concerned the party may suffer election losses from the string of graft scandals linked to najib , a source aware of discussions within the party said .
with najib and the macc s clean-up campaign , the source said , the party hopes to appease malaysians frustrated with the corruption and draw back foreign investors who fled as the probe into 1mdb expanded .
besides diverting attention from 1mdb , critics say najib is also using macc s anti-graft campaign to target political opponents such as lim guan eng , an opposition leader who is the top elected official in penang province .
he has been charged with abuse of power in the purchase of a bungalow .
you are going after all sorts of offences , but the biggest one , it stinks to high heaven , said lim , the secretary-general of the democratic action party .
everyone can smell it , except you .