after 8 brutal years of race-baiting , endless stories of victimhood , organizing with black lives matter activists terrorists in our white house , and the worst racial-division we have seen in our nation in decades , this young man s inspirational story is truly a breath of fresh air barack and michelle obama have worked very hard for the past 8 years to make every black american believe the unjust system in america is out to get them .
they d like minorities in america to accept they ve been born into a system that won t allow them to get ahead in life , and without the democrat party they don t stand a chance .
you never hear the obama s tell minorities they have the ability to be anything they want , or that with hard work and commitment to making a better life for themselves , anything is possible .
that s because the democrat party has always believed that unless they can keep the citizens down and dependent on the government , there will no longer be a need for their party .
it s a survival thing , and the black community is paying a heavy price for the democrat party s desire for power .
here s an inspirational story about one smart kid who was blessed to have a mother who didn t buy into obama s victim mentality : a teenage boy in tennessee used hard work , planning and dedication to earn enough money to pay for college before he even starts .
i just stay away from the negativity and try to always be positive , kevuntez king told whbq.king said he grew up in a single-parent home with his mother , whose influence paved his way to success .
she just taught me how to be independent like she had it , ( and ) she just wanted me to go get it myself , he said.from age 12 to 17 , king sold newspapers with one goal : earn enough to pay for his entire college education .
and he did just that .
when it came down to school , my mom didn t have to come out of pocket to do anything or i didn t have to take out any loans to go to school , he told whbq.he earned $ 200 every sunday for five years straight and was just accepted into tennessee state university.king has this piece of advice to share : make sure you surround yourself with people that s trying to go up in life and not trying to bring you down .
just stay positive and always believe in yourself and push for it .
q13fox