every american should know the corrupt un has been , and will continue to be , the one organization who decides which muslim refugees will be flooding your hometown who picks the syrian refugees that resettle in the u.s. ?
homeland security ?
no , the united nations , in concert with a global islamist group .
and they re sending more than 15,000 , not the widely reported 10,000.in fact , washington has no role in selecting the thousands of syrian refugees coming to your hometown .
the u.n. high commissioner for refugees is really behind the effort , and he s referred an additional 5,000-plus syrian nationals here.a new state department report reveals that the u.s. already has accepted at least 15,000 syrian refugee referrals from the unhcr .
the united states is one of 28 countries that have agreed to accept referrals from unhcr as part of its ambitious international effort to secure permanent or temporary resettlement for 130,000 syrian refugees by the end of 2016 , the state department said in proposed refugee admissions for fiscal year 2016 .
as of mid-2015 , unhcr has referred more than 15,000 syrian refugees to the united states , the 71-page report adds .
and these individuals are being screened to determine whether they are eligible .
of course , that security screening is a joke , as the fbi director and his top counterterrorism aide , as well as the homeland security and national intelligence chiefs , have all testified.state notes in its report that security checks include biographic name checks for all refugee applicants and biometric ( fingerprint ) checks for refugee applicants .
only syria is a failed state , and there are no fingerprint databases to check applicants against.the islamic state has publicly vowed to use the refugee program to invade europe and america , and allegedly has already infiltrated some 4,000 warriors among the flood of syrian refugees.the obama administration insists that it will catch any terrorist infiltrators through its interviewing process.but , the state department report said , in some countries , such as syria , yemen and eritrea , department of homeland security adjudicators have been unable to travel to interview applicants for several years .
that s not all .
the unhcr is working hand in hand with an international islamist group of 57 muslim nations the organization of islamic cooperation whose founding charter seeks to propagate legitimate jihad and the norms of islamic shari ah .
saudi-based oic , in fact , is tied to the radical muslim brotherhood .
we are delighted to work with the oic , said u.n. high commissioner for refugees antonio guterres.so it s really the u.n. and radical islamists who are choosing your new muslim neighbors.while the u.n. calls its project refugee resettlement , the islamists call it hijra , or immigration jihad .
via : ibd