lois lerner s criminal behavior with the irs targeting of conservatives was just a test run here s a little reminder for anyone who doesn t believe that what the left really wants is a totalitarian state in which opposition to its agenda is a crime.new york s attorney general eric schneiderman is extreme even by left-wing standards .
he s a radical who ran by promising that violent racist thug al sharpton would have an annex in albany if he won.now schneiderman and a few left-wing congressmembers have come up with a great idea .
charge exxon with securities fraud for not disclosing the risks of global warming.whether on not any charges happen , this is a foot in the door for an agenda list that goes well beyond global warming.after energy companies that aren t paying protection money to al gore , gun manufacturers can be hit with charges for not disclosing the risks of gun violence .
private prisons can be hit for not disclosing the risks of failing to back sentencing reforms .
educational companies can be hit with charges for not disclosing the risks of not adopting common core.basically any company that disagrees with a left-wing policy can be hit with civil and criminal charges .
it helps if the company , like exxon , at one point employed kooks who claimed the sky was falling .
but that just makes the case easier .
if the executives disagree with a left-wing policy , it s securities fraud.under this standard , it becomes child s play to cut off conservative organization from any corporate funding .
furthermore , conservative organizations would be muzzled by extension .
funding organizations and people that dissent from the left would be fraud .
because that is what this is really about.global warming is the testbed for making leftist ideology mandatory .
manufacture a fake consensus , then use the law to make it mandatory.then there can be a pseudo-scientific consensus on a variety of issues , such as the need for higher taxes , and a crackdown on anyone who disagrees.since there s money in pursuing charges like this , and since the best way to get the left off your back is to give their political allies money , this is robbery for tyranny .
and that s how the left does business.this is where the left has always been headed .
this is a totalitarian movement .
via : front page magazine