beijing ( reuters ) - china s domestically developed ag600 , the world s largest amphibious aircraft , performed its maiden flight on sunday from an airport on the shores of the south china sea , the latest step in a military modernization program .
china has stepped up research on advanced military equipment as it adopts a more muscular approach to territorial disputes in places such as the disputed south china sea , rattling nerves in the asia-pacific region and the united states .
state television showed live images of the ag600 lifting off from zhuhai airport in the southern province of guangdong , which sits on the south china sea coast .
it returned about an hour later and taxied to its stand accompanied by martial music and greeted by crowds waving chinese flags .
xinhua news agency said the aircraft was the protector spirit of the sea , islands and reefs .
it had previously been scheduled to make its first flight earlier this year but it is unclear why it was delayed after ground tests took place in april .
state-owned aviation industry corp of china ( avic ) [ sasady.ul ] has spent almost eight years developing the aircraft , which is roughly the size of a boeing co ( ba.n ) 737 and is designed to carry out marine rescues and battle forest fires .
however , state media has also noted its potential use in the south china sea , where china , vietnam , malaysia , the philippines , taiwan and brunei all have overlapping claims .
the ag600 s chief designer , huang lingcai , was quoted in the official china daily earlier this month as saying it can make round trips without refueling from the southern island province of hainan to james shoal , claimed by china but which is located close to sarawak in malaysian borneo .
powered by four turboprop engines , the ag600 can carry 50 people during maritime search-and-rescue missions , and can scoop up 12 metric tons of water within 20 seconds for fire fighting trips , according to state media .
the aircraft has received 17 orders so far from chinese government departments and chinese companies .
it has a maximum flight range of 4,500 km ( 2,800 miles ) and a maximum take-off weight of 53.5 tonnes .
it can use conventional airports and also land and take-off from the sea .
china is in the midst of a massive military modernization program , ranging from testing anti-satellite missiles to building stealth fighters and the country s first indigenous aircraft carrier , to add to an existing one bought from ukraine .