washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. senate on friday backed a plan to name a plaza in front of the chinese embassy for a pro-democracy dissident after what congressional sources called a tit-for-tat deal that led senator ted cruz to stop blocking president barack obama ’ s diplomatic nominations .
by unanimous voice vote , the senate approved a bill introduced by cruz , a leading contender for the 2016 republican presidential nomination , to name the plaza in washington after liu xiaobo , a nobel peace prize winner .
“ it ’ s provocative and counterproductive .
we strongly urge the u.s. side to stop such actions , ” chinese embassy spokesman zhu haiquan said in an emailed statement .
cruz spokesman phil novack said the senator had ended his holds on nominees including obama ’ s new ambassadors to norway and sweden and two top state department officials .
the senate also confirmed those nominations on friday .
senate rules allow any member to block a nomination by a procedure known as a “ hold. ” cruz had imposed the holds last year after washington and other world powers reached a deal with iran in which it agreed to curb its nuclear program in exchange for sanctions relief .
novack said cruz lifted his holds because he had successfully drawn attention to what he considers deep problems with the nuclear pact .
he declined comment on whether there was an agreement over the plaza bill .
“ i am not going to comment or say anything about process , ” novack said .
several senate sources , including high-level republicans and democrats knowledgeable about the process , said cruz had dropped the holds after obama ’ s fellow democrats said they would not oppose the plaza-naming measure .
novack said the issues “ go hand in hand ” in that china and iran are both criticized for rights violations .
a white house spokesman said obama ’ s senior advisers would recommend that he veto the bill , adding : “ while we continue to impress upon china the imperative of respecting human rights and releasing liu xiaobo , as well as other political prisoners , we do not believe senator cruz ’ s ploy to rename a street in washington , dc is an effective way to achieve either goal. ” the nominees held by cruz and confirmed friday included brian egan to be state ’ s legal advisor , thomas shannon as under secretary of state for political affairs , azita raji to be ambassador to sweden , samuel heins to be ambassador to norway , john estrada to be ambassador to trinidad and tobago and david mckean as ambassador to luxembourg .