jerusalem ( reuters ) - two of prime minister benjamin netanyahu s closest allies have initiated legislation in what opponents say is a rearguard action to try to shield him from a police probe into corruption allegations against him .
netanyahu is a suspect in two cases , one into alleged meddling in the media industry and the other into gifts he received from rich businessmen .
he denies any wrongdoing .
but , if charged , he would come under heavy pressure to resign or could call an election to test whether he still had a mandate .
two lawmakers who want netanyahu to stay in power have proposed two new draft laws that have alarmed the attorney-general and the police .
one would bar police from providing prosecutors with the investigators conclusions on whether charges should be brought against suspects .
the second , known as the french law because of similarities with legislation in france , would delay any investigation of a prime minister until he or she leaves office .
netanyahu , a right-wing leader now in his fourth term , has said he has no interest in promoting personal legislation , but he has not ordered his coalition head , david bitan and his co-sponsor of the bills , david amsalem , to withdraw the bills .
bitan said that once police publish their findings , suspects are convicted in the court of public opinion even if they are eventually cleared .
those who oppose the draft bills are more worried about toppling netanyahu than about democracy , he said .
they ( the bills ) protect democracy .
suspects have rights too , bitan told reuters .
the french law has not yet been brought before parliament .
coalition partners are at odds over its phrasing but bitan says he will not shelve the legislation .
the bill , he said , would not apply to the present investigations against the prime minister .
but if passed , it could potentially affect any future legal moves affecting netanyahu in at least one other case in which he is currently not a suspect .
[ l5n1nd240 ] parliament passed the first draft in an initial reading this month but both drafts may ultimately fall through before being written into law .
the french law would not apply to any investigations under way , but the other proposed law would .
in comments leaked to the media , attorney-general avichai mandelblit complained about a multitude of proposals that are meant to harm us all .
lawmakers and cabinet ministers have a right to propose bills , he said in remarks broadcast on army radio .
but , in comments suggesting they were politically motivated , added that this batch is not innocent .
i m being attacked on all fronts with means that are not within the rules of the democratic game , mandelblit said .
police also said , in a statement to reuters , that they had come under pressure from politicians .
police will keep with its determined fight against crime and corruption , keep serving the public and will not be deterred by any attempt to weaken it , the statement said .
the two investigations in which netanyahu is a suspect are known as case 1000 and case 2000 .
case 1000 revolves around gifts he received from businessmen , including cigars and champagne .
netanyahu s lawyers say they were simply presents from long-time friends , with no quid pro quo .
case 2000 focuses on suspicions netanyahu negotiated with the publisher of israel s best-selling newspaper for better coverage in return for curbs on the competition .
the prime minister s lawyers say netanyahu never seriously considered any such deal .
netanyahu has described himself as a victim of a political witch hunt and said of the cases against him : there will be nothing because there is nothing .
the prime minister is under no legal obligation to step down if indicted , but some political analysts predict he would opt for new elections to renew his public mandate if charged .
all four prime ministers of the past two decades have been suspects in police investigations but only ehud olmert was charged and convicted .
he spent 16 months in jail for accepting bribes from real estate developers .
in high-profile cases such as these , police usually say if they have gathered sufficient evidence against the suspects , before handing over to the justice ministry , where the attorney-general and prosecutors decide whether to file charges .
mordechai kremnitzer , a law professor and vice president of the israel democracy institute , said netanyahu s governing coalition was abusing the power of legislation to try to extricate him from his legal problems .
this has set a record and reflects a complete loss of restraint and total shamelessness , he said .