caracas ( reuters ) - members of venezuela s government and opposition coalition failed to reach a deal in a new round of talks in the dominican republic on saturday aimed at resolving the opec nation s protracted political crisis , but planned to meet in two weeks to try again .
various mediation efforts have failed in recent years .
foes accuse president nicolas maduro of exploiting dialogue to buy time , while he says the opposition prefers violence .
few venezuelans expect further talks to yield a breakthrough , with maduro s foes demoralized at seeing him consolidate power ahead of a likely re-election campaign in 2018 .
the disparate democratic unity coalition , which failed to dislodge maduro in months of street protests earlier this year and then succumbed to infighting , is pressing primarily for a guarantee of free and fair voting next year .
it also wants a foreign humanitarian aid corridor to alleviate one of the worst economic crises in modern history , as well as freedom for several hundred jailed activists and respect for the opposition-led congress .
this process is difficult , heavy , hard and full of debate and confrontation , said julio borges , president of the opposition-led congress , adding he hoped the two sides could come closer on dec. 15 .
the government and the opposition did not compromise on any key points , according to one participant in the talks who asked to remain anonymous because he was not authorized to speak to media .
the opposition s bargaining power has been weakened by a surprising defeat in october gubernatorial elections .
furthermore , the multi-party group is divided , with more militant sectors opposing the talks they say simply buy the government more time .
however , debilitating u.s. sanctions against maduro s government have given his administration more impetus for the talks .
maduro wants any potential deal with the opposition to include joint pressure on washington to back off .
we said the true aid should come from putting an end to the attacks on venezuela s economy , said information minister and government negotiator jorge rodriguez , who struck a more positive tone than borges and said his side was deeply satisfied with the two-day talks .
there is no indication that u.s. president donald trump would be prepared to ease pressure on maduro , whom he has called a bad leader who dreams of becoming a dictator .
u.s. officials say washington could strengthen sanctions unless maduro enacts democratic changes .
foreign ministers from chile , mexico , bolivia , nicaragua and host dominican republic acted as guarantors at the talks held at the foreign ministry building in santo domingo .