pattaya , thailand ( reuters ) - the u.s. navy has introduced new measures aimed at avoiding a repeat of two deadly crashes in the asia pacific region involving its warships and commercial vessels following a review of its practices , the seventh fleet commander said on monday .
vice admiral phillip sawyer s comments come after a u.s. guided-missile destroyer was slightly damaged at the weekend when a japanese tug drifted into it during a towing exercise off central japan , the latest incident in the pacific this year involving ships from the fleet .
the u.s. navy announced a series of reforms this month aimed at restoring basic naval skills and alertness at sea after a review of deadly collisions in the asia-pacific region showed sailors were under-trained and over-worked .
two of the incidents - collisions with commercial vessels involving guided-missile destroyers , the fitzgerald in june off japan and then the john s. mccain in august as it approached singapore - have left a total of 17 sailors dead .
the crashes were caused by preventable errors by the sailors on board the ships , navy investigations showed .
speaking to reporters on the sidelines of an international fleet review in the thai seaside town of pattaya , sawyer said the navy made circadian rhythm sleep guidelines a requirement and a new group , the naval surface group western pacific , has been training officers at the fleet s headquarters in yokosuka , south of tokyo , japan .
this is a team that is now in yokosuka and they re charged with doing the man , train , equip aspect of our operations with surface ships , sawyer told reporters .
the second thing we have done is automatic identification system and that s a system onboard ships that puts out signal and it tells whoever is receiving that signal the course , speed and identification of the ship , he said .
the third thing is that we are working on the circadian rhythm onboard the ships to make the sailors more alert .
sawyer took command of the u.s. force in august after the navy removed the fleet s previous commander , vice admiral joseph aucoin , following a series of collisions .
the u.s .
seventh fleet operates in the largest of the u.s. navy s numbered fleets .
it oversees about 70-80 ships and submarines at any given time in the region .
the fleet operates over an area of 124 million square km ( 48 million square miles ) from bases in japan , south korea and singapore .