gay mafia descends in 5 4 3 2 1 given the current body of evidence , the american college of pediatricians believes it is inappropriate , potentially hazardous to children , and dangerously irresponsible to change the age-old prohibition on same-sex parenting , whether by adoption , foster care , or reproductive manipulation , they conclude .
this position is rooted in the best available science .
a utah juvenile court judge ruled tuesday that a 1-year-old girl , who has been in the care of lesbian foster parents , can not be adopted by them and should be sent to a more traditional home , says the utah division of child and family services.according to cnn , the case is the first major challenge to same-sex adoption rights .
lgbt civil rights groups are outraged over the ruling.while judge scott johansen is not commenting on his decision publicly per the utah code of judicial conduct april hoagland , one of the lesbians , married over a year ago to beckie peirce , told kutv that johansen said research indicates children in homosexual homes do not do as well as they do in heterosexual homes .
[ w ] hen they asked to show his research he would not , hoagland added.hoagland and peirce were approved as foster parents by the division of family services and are raising peirce s two children .
they say the state and the child s biological mother are supportive of their desire to adopt the child.as cbs reports , the two women are part of a group of same-sex couples who were permitted to become foster parents in utah following the u.s. supreme court ruling that legalized same-sex marriage nationwide .
deborah lindner , a spokeswoman for the utah foster care foundation , which trains foster parents for the state , said about 20 same-sex couples are caring for children in the foster program .
heartbreaking .
we ve been told to take care like a mother would and i m her mother , and that s who she knows and she s just going to be taken away in seven days to probably another good , loving home , hoagland said .
but it s not fair , and it s not right , and it hurts me very badly , because i have done nothing wrong .
removing a child from a loving home simply because the parents are lgbt is outrageous , shocking and unjust , chad griffin , president of the human rights campaign , said in a statement .
it also flies in the face of overwhelming evidence that children being raised by same-sex parents are just as healthy and well-adjusted as those with different-sex parents .
at a time when so many children in foster care need loving homes , it is sickening to think that a child would be taken from caring parents who planned to adopt , he added.utah child and family services said they are reviewing the ruling to determine their options , including whether to challenge the order .
this is the first time there has been an attempt to deprive gay foster parents of their rights to care for an adoptive child , said cnn legal analyst paul callan .
i believe it was a bizarre and highly unusual decision by the judge based most probably on religious beliefs rather than scientific facts .
he predicted the case would be overturned by utah appeals courts.in 2012 , however , sociologist mark regnerus of the university of texas at austin published research in the journal social science research on a large , random sample of americans of ages 18-39 who were raised in different types of families .
the study of some 3,000 adults found numerous differences that exist among the various family arrangements and that outcomes for children of gay and lesbian parents were suboptimal .
in another study by loren marks of louisiana state university also published in social science research marks debunked a 2005 policy brief on same-sex parents by the american psychological association ( apa ) , in which the organization analyzed 59 studies and concluded [ n ] ot a single study has found children of lesbian or gay parents to be disadvantaged in any significant respect relative to children of heterosexual parents .
marks observed that 55 of the studies analyzed by apa did not even provide evidence of statistical power in accord with apa s own standards .
[ n ] ot one of the 59 studies referenced in the 2005 apa brief compares a large , random , representative sample of lesbian or gay parents and their children with a large , random , representative sample of married parents and their children , marks noted .
[ w ] e have been left with large , scientifically strong studies showing children do best with their married mother and father but which do not make comparisons with homosexual parents or couples , observed peter sprigg , senior fellow for policy studies at family research council , and studies which purportedly show that children of homosexuals do just as well as other children but which are methodologically weak and thus scientifically inconclusive .
however , regnerus s research , called the new family structures study , included comparisons with children raised by same-sex parents and surveyed young adults about their experiences growing up in their family situations as well as their current life .
unlike other studies , regnerus also did not rely on reports of children , while they were still living in their homes , or the potentially biased reports of the parents.regnerus found that children of homosexuals fared worse on 77 out of 80 outcome measures that compared children with same-sex parents to those from other family arrangements .
specifically , compared with children raised by married , biological parents , children of homosexual parents are more likely to be on public assistance , have lower educational attainment , and report both less safety in their childhood families and more continued negative impact from them .
in addition , children of same-sex parents were found to more likely suffer from depression , to have been arrested more often , and to have had more male and female sexual partners if they are female.for children of lesbian mothers , statistical significance in both direct comparisons and with control subjects was found in numerous areas in regnerus s research .
children of lesbian mothers were found to be four times more likely to be on welfare , more than three times more likely to be unemployed , nearly ten times more likely to have been touched sexually by a parent or other adult caregiver , and nearly four times as likely to have been physically forced to have sex against their will.despite numerous statistically significant correlations in his study and his carefully controlled methodology , regnerus still cautions these relationships do not indicate causality .
still , as sprigg noted , the large number of significant negative outcomes in this study gives legitimate reason for concern about the consequences of homosexual parenting .
according to drs .
michelle cretella and den trumbull : [ m ] others and fathers parent differently and make unique contributions to the overall development of the child .
psychological theory of child development has always recognized the critical role that mothers play in the healthy development of children .
more recent research reveals that when fathers are absent , children suffer as well .
girls without fathers perform more poorly in school , are more likely to be sexually active and become pregnant as teenagers .
boys without fathers have higher rates of delinquency , violence , and aggression .
[ t ] radition and science agree that biological ties and dual gender parenting are protective for children , the doctors continue .
the limited research advocating childrearing by same-sex parents has severe methodological limitations .
there is significant risk of harm inherent in exposing a child to the homosexual lifestyle .
via : breitbart news