a fake economy can only sustain itself for so long the fed is out of control , exclaims david stockman perhaps best known for architecting reagan s economic turnaround known as morning in america adding that people don t want to hear the reality and the truth that we re facing .
well , it s one of the scariest moments i think in our history , but also we need to recognize we re in uncharted waters .
no central bank has ever printed this much money this long , kept interest rates at zero , fueled so much speculation .
not just here , but worldwide.-david stockmanfor six years , the world has operated under a complete delusion that central banks somehow fixed the 2008 crisis.all of the arguments claiming this defied common sense .
a 5th grader would tell you that you can not solve a debt problem by issuing more debt .
if the below chart was a problem before 2008 there is no way that things are better now .
after all , we ve just added another $ 10 trillion in debt to the us system.similarly , anyone with a functioning brain could tell you that a bunch of academics with no real-world experience , none of whom have ever started a business or created a single job can t save the economy.however , there is an awful lot of money at stake in believing these lies .
so the media and the banks and the politicians were happy to promote them .
indeed , one could very easily argue that nearly all of the wealth and power held by those at the top of the economy stem from this fiction.so it s little surprise that no one would admit the facts : that the fed and other central banks not only don t have a clue how to fix the problem , but that they actually have almost no incentive to do so.so here are the facts:1 ) the real problem for the financial system is the bond bubble .
in 2008 when the crisis hit it was $ 80 trillion .
it has since grown to over $ 100 trillion.2 ) the derivatives market that uses this bond bubble as collateral is over $ 555 trillion in size.3 ) many of the large multinational corporations , sovereign governments , and even municipalities have used derivatives to fake earnings and hide debt .
no one knows to what degree this has been the case , but given that 20 % of corporate cfos have admitted to faking earnings in the past , it s likely a significant amount.4 ) corporations today are more leveraged than they were in 2007 .
as stanley druckenmiller noted recently , in 2007 corporate bonds were $ 3.5 trillion today they are $ 7 trillion : an amount equal to nearly 50 % of us gdp.5 ) the central banks are now all leveraged at levels greater than or equal to where lehman brothers was when it imploded .
the fed is leveraged at 78 to 1 .
the ecb is leveraged at over 26 to 1 .
lehman brothers was leveraged at 30 to 1.6 ) the central banks have no idea how to exit their strategies .
fed minutes released from 2009 show janet yellen was worried about how to exit when the fed s balance sheet was $ 1.3 trillion ( back in 2009 ) .
today it s over $ 4.5 trillion.we are heading for a crisis that will be exponentially worse than 2008 .
the global central banks have literally bet the financial system that their theories will work .
they haven t. all they ve done is set the stage for an even worse crisis in which entire countries will go bankrupt.the situation is clear : the 2008 crisis was the warm up .
the next crisis will be the real crisis .
the crisis in which central banking itself will fail .
via : zero hedgedavid stockman : well , it s one of the scariest moments i think in our history , but also we need to recognize we re in uncharted waters .
no central bank has ever printed this much money this long , kept interest rates at zero , fueled so much speculation .
not just here , but worldwide .
not just in the normal stocks and bonds , but the whole shale boom , for instance , in the united states was massively funded by cheap debt based on oil prices that weren t sustainable , and now that s all coming unwound .
we have never had deficits of ten percent of gdp back to back , or even still four or five percent four or five years into a recovery.we have a runaway budget where the population is getting older and older , 10,000 people are retiring every day .
nothing is being done about social security .
it s a festering time bomb , and we re not sure how it will explode , but we know it isn t sustainable .
we have a wall street that is more addicted to pure overnight gambling and trading and speculation for the ultra short run that is driven by robo traders , the so-called hft money , like never before .
it s unstable .
that s why we see things happen like the overnight 40 percent gain with the swiss franc when the swiss national bank pulled the pay.forty percent overnight not overnight , but in a couple of minutes or seconds when there were hundreds of billions of short positions in the swiss franc .
all of these things have never existed simultaneously , not only in the united states , but worldwide .
all the central banks are doing it .
we re reaching the point where it s unsustainable , things are going to give and break , but the good thing is it s going to be more a disaster in the financial markets in my view , less some kind of great depression impact on main street .
it will be difficult on main street , but wall street is in the gun sites of this disaster coming .