washington ( reuters ) - as valedictorian of his high school class , merrick garland let his audience know precisely how he felt when parents unplugged the sound system that day in protest at a classmate ’ s speech against the vietnam war .
he may not necessarily have agreed with the topic or tone but , stirred by the sight of a student ’ s voice being silenced , garland abandoned his prepared remarks to deliver instead an impassioned defense of free speech .
u.s. president barack obama told that story on wednesday when he nominated garland , now a 63-year-old judge , on what is often called the second highest court in the land , to a seat on the supreme court , the country ’ s highest court .
obama praised what he called garland ’ s “ track record of building consensus as a thoughtful , fair-minded judge who follows the law. ” although garland faces an uphill fight from a republican-led u.s senate opposed to anyone the democratic president nominates , the judge is praised by politicians left and right , even after 19 years on the federal bench .
the showdown promises to figure in the campaign for the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election with republicans demanding that obama leave the seat vacant and let his successor , to be sworn in next january , make the selection .
garland , picked to replace conservative justice antonin scalia , who died on feb. 13 , has been a judge on the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit since 1997 .
his appointment to that court , by democratic president bill clinton , was confirmed by the senate , 76-23 .
the bipartisan support is one reason obama might have for nominating him .
in 2010 , republican senator orrin hatch of utah , a senior member of the senate judiciary committee , described garland as a “ consensus nominee ” who would “ get a lot of votes. ” the court has served as a launching pad to the nine-member supreme court for several justices including scalia .
chief judge since 2013 , garland is viewed as a moderate whose legal approach was shaped by a lengthy career as a federal prosecutor .
as a senior justice department official , garland oversaw the prosecution in the 1995 oklahoma city bombing case in which 168 people , many of them children , were killed .
he secured the death penalty for the lead defendant , anti-government militant timothy mcveigh .
jamie gorelick , the no .
2 justice department official at the time , said in an interview that garland immediately asked to go to oklahoma to oversee the case .
“ when the bomb went off in oklahoma and we started to see the children being pulled out of the wreckage , merrick , who had young children at the time , was so moved by this and so angered by it he asked if we could send him out to oklahoma to help , ” she said .
his background as a prosecutor has shaped his views as a judge , lawyers who practice before the appeals court said .
garland is viewed as less defendant-friendly than other democratic appointees .
but garland is not afraid to rule against the federal government .
in a 2013 case , he was part of a three-judge panel that ruled against the central intelligence agency in its bid to keep documents secret concerning the use of armed drones .
in 2008 , he wrote on behalf of a three-judge panel when the court ruled in favor of a detainee held at the u.s. naval base at guantanamo bay , cuba .
garland wrote that a u.s. tribunal was wrong to find that detainee huzaifa parhat , an ethnic uighur from china , was an “ enemy combatant. ” garland grew up in chicago .
his mother was a community volunteer and his father ran a small business .
obama said at the white house that garland had to sell his comic book collection to help fund his college education .
garland would become the fourth jewish member of the nine-member court .
the other five are roman catholics .
his education also mirrors those of the other justices .
if confirmed , all of the justices would have studied at either yale or harvard law school .
garland attended harvard .