the list of hypocrites and sore losers who are taking aim at trump instead of the real enemy , hillary clinton , is getting longer every minute .
mitt just can t seem to get over the fact that trump is wildly more appealing to americans from every walk of life than he was in 2012 .
mitt has learned some painful lessons in where he went wrong by watching trump s successes .
trump is a fighter .
from the outset , trump made it clear that he would not allow the media to control the narrative .
romney s inability to fight back cost him the election and he knows it .
while there is no question romney is a wonderful family man , there is a question about why he has remained silent about hillary and her criminal dealings while focusing all of his energy on destroying trump .
his condemnation of trump comes as no surprise .
sadly , his condemnation of hillary is nowhere to be found .
sorry mitt , but your embarrassing behavior is hardly the mark of a true team player hitting on married women ?
condoning assault ?
such vile degradations demean our wives and daughters and corrupt america 's face to the world .
mitt romney ( @ mittromney ) october 8 , 2016senator mark kirk ( r-il ) .
@ realdonaldtrump should drop out .
@ gop should engage rules for emergency replacement .
mark kirk ( @ senatorkirk ) october 8 , 2016in june 2015 , many in the gop were calling for senator kirk to step down after making a comment about fellow senator lindsey graham on a hot mic that many considered to be very offensive : he s a bro with no ho , kirk said of graham .
that s what we d say on the south side .
really ?
a bro with no ho ?
that s what we d say on the south side ? he was referring , of course , to republican presidential hopeful and confirmed bachelor sen. lindsey graham , and the speculation that graham would have a bevy of rotating first ladies .
ctohio governor john kasich ( r ) sore loser # 1 ohio governor john kasich had no intention of voting for trump .
he and jeb !
win prize for biggest sore losers who couldn t find their way out of their own pity parties to support trump and the gop when the rnc was held in his own state .
kasich s statement is about as meaningful as his candidacy was to gop voters .
this little anklei will not vote for a nominee who has behaved in a manner that reflects so poorly on our country .
full statement : https : //t.co/7zufpxvxpa john kasich ( @ johnkasich ) october 8 , 2016 former florida governor jeb bush ( r ) now that we have the biggest loser out of the way , let s focus on the second biggest loser in the gop the guy who believed ( much like hillary ) that it was his turn for the nomination .
when things didn t work for the open-borders candidate , he grabbed his binky and went home to barbara and george sr where they agreed to work together as a family unit to openly disrespect donald j. trump who beat him fair and square in the primaries , in spite of the $ 150 million he received from large donors against trump s self-funded campaign.as the grandfather of two precious girls , i find that no apology can excuse away donald trump 's reprehensible comments degrading women .
jeb bush ( @ jebbush ) october 7 , 2016senator marco rubio ( r-fl ) the 3rd biggest loser marco rubio was supposed to win it all .
he was the establishments golden boy this time around .
things fell apart for him however when america started to question his policies on immigration .
at about the same time , trump s nonexistent campaign was catching fire after he boldly proclaimed he would make defending our borders and getting illegal immigration under control in america .
no one in the out-of-touch gop could have predicted america felt so strongly about the crisis we as a nation are facing after 8 years of obama s reckless open-borders policies .
rubio was stunned by his brutal defeat and he s never recovered.senator ted cruz ( r-tx ) after taking a shellacking in the primaries , by a formidable opponent , senator cruz had the opportunity to make things right after he was invited to speak at the rnc .
he chose instead to use his time in front of millions of republicans to promote himself instead of embracing the man who america chose to be the gop candidate .
at the beginning of the primaries , i donated to cruz s campaign more than once .
i am now sorry i ever supported him.every wife , mother , daughter every person deserves to be treated with dignity and respect .
https : //t.co/avsebastvc ted cruz ( @ tedcruz ) october 8 , 2016by the way , does anyone remember when ted cruz was being accused of having multiple affairs .
does anyone remember when cruz was put on the spot and asked directly if he had been having affairs on his wife , carly fiorina jumped in and answered the question for him .
notice he skillfully deflected and never answered the question .
we re not suggesting he is guilty , but it is curious that he never answered the question.senator john mccain ( r-az ) and then there s the guy who hasn t done a single thing for conservative in years .
while we appreciate and respect the great sacrifices senator john mccain made for our nation , it should not offer him total immunity from being a complete a * shole and a sellout to conservatives .
in addition to my well known differences with donald trump on public policy issues , i have raised questions about his character after his comments on prisoners of war , the khan gold star family , judge curiel and earlier inappropriate comments about women .
just this week , he made outrageous statements about the innocent men in the central park five case.we ve had just about enough of his pandering to the left .
his defense of kzir khan , muslim father of a fallen-soldier with ties to hillary clinton and valerie jarrett was despicable .
he may have been hero on the battlefield , but he s been a coward in the senate when it comes to standing up for conservative principles .
and oh yeah , there s that one time when john mccain called his wife cindy a cunt : john mccain s temper is well documented .
he s called opponents and colleagues shitheads , assholes and in at least one case a fucking jerk .
three reporters from arizona , on the condition of anonymity , also let me in on another incident involving mccain s intemperateness .
in his 1992 senate bid , mccain was joined on the campaign trail by his wife , cindy , as well as campaign aide doug cole and consultant wes gullett .
at one point , cindy playfully twirled mccain s hair and said , you re getting a little thin up there .
mccain s face reddened , and he responded , at least i don t plaster on the makeup like a trollop , you cunt .
mccain s excuse was that it had been a long day .
if elected president of the united states , mccain would have many long days .
hpbut we won t talk about that because he s a war hero .
only trump is responsible for the words he used 10 years ago.there were several other of the usual suspects we all expect to see trashing trump , the ones who usually vote on the other side of the aisle , or those who haven t passed a single piece of meaningful legislation who are just trying to pander to their blue states , but the best denouncement of trump came from of all people , former husband of maria shriver of the kennedy clan , actor and governor of california , arnold schwarznegger and oh yeah the guy who fathered a son with the married family housekeeper and then hid his existence from his wife and children.as proud as i am to label myself a republican , there is one label that i hold above all else american .
my full statement : pic.twitter.com/birvy8s3az arnold ( @ schwarzenegger ) october 8 , 2016hey arnold , there s a big difference between talking about having an affair with a married woman and actually having an affair with a married woman oh yeah and then there s that whole illegitimate child thing