nairobi ( reuters ) - the united states is suspending food and fuel aid for most of somalia s armed forces over corruption concerns , a blow to the military as african peacekeepers start to withdraw this month .
african union ( au ) troops landed in mogadishu a decade ago to fight al shabaab islamist militants and somali forces are supposed to eventually take over their duties .
but the united states , which also funds the 22,000-strong peacekeeping force , has grown frustrated that successive governments have failed to build a viable national army .
diplomats worry that without strong somali forces , al shabaab could be reinvigorated , destabilize the region and offer a safe haven to other al qaeda-linked militants or islamic state fighters .
the u.s. suspension of aid came after the somali military repeatedly failed to account for food and fuel , according to private correspondence between the u.s. and somali governments seen by reuters .
during recent discussions between the united states and the federal government of somalia , both sides agreed that the somali national army had failed to meet the standards for accountability for u.s. assistance , a state department official told reuters last week , on condition of anonymity .
we are adjusting u.s. assistance to sna units , with the exception of units receiving some form of mentorship , to ensure that u.s. assistance is being used effectively and for its intended purpose , the official said .
the u.s. suspension comes at a sensitive time .
the au force - with troops from burundi , djibouti , ethiopia , kenya and uganda - is scheduled to leave by 2020 .
the first 1,000 soldiers will go by the end of 2017 .
the state department official said washington would continue to support small , somali special forces units mentored by u.s. personnel and would work with the somali government to agree criteria that could restore support to other units .
it is true that some concerns have been raised on how support was utilized and distributed .
the federal government is working to address these , somali minister of defence mohamed mursal told reuters .
documents sent from the u.s. mission to somalia to the somali government show u.s. officials are increasingly frustrated that the military is unable to account for its aid .
the documents paint a stark picture of a military hollowed out by corruption , unable to feed , pay or arm its soldiers - despite hundreds of millions of dollars of support .
between may and june , a team of u.s. and somali officials visited nine army bases to assess whether the men were receiving food the united states provides for 5,000 soldiers .
we did not find the expected large quantities of food at any location ... there was no evidence of consumption ( except at two bases ) , the u.s. team wrote to the somali government .
at one base , less than a fifth of the soldiers listed by somali commanders were present .
the best-staffed base had 160 soldiers out of 550 .
only 60 had weapons .
many appeared to be wearing brand new uniforms .
this implied they were assembled merely to improve appearances , the letter , seen by reuters , said .
an ongoing assessment of the somali military this year by the somali government , african union and united nations drew similar conclusions .
the joint report seen by reuters said many soldiers lacked guns , uniforms , food , vehicles or tents .
troops relied on support from au forces or local militias to survive .
the sna is a fragile force with extremely weak command and control , the report said .
they are incapable of conducting effective operations or sustaining themselves .
most units don t have radios , leaving soldiers to rely on runners to get help when mobile networks go down , the report said .
troops lacked paper to write reports , toilets , boots and medical equipment such as tourniquets .
many slept under trees .
sna units were at 62 percent of their authorized strength on average .
only 70 percent of them had weapons , the report said .
although the report was deeply critical , diplomats praised the government for trying to quantify the scope of the problem .
the government deserves massive praise for doing it and being willing to talk about it , michael keating , the u.n. s top official in somalia , told reuters .
the united states also suspended a program paying soldiers $ 100 monthly stipends in june after the federal government refused to share responsibility for receiving the payments with regional forces fighting al shabaab .
washington has spent $ 66 million on stipends over the past seven years but has halted the program several times , concerned the money was not going to frontline soldiers .
one somali document seen by reuters showed members of a 259-strong ceremonial brass band were receiving stipends this year meant for soldiers fighting militants .
the state department s watchdog said in a report published in october there were insufficient checks on the program and u.s. stipends could fund forces that commit abuses - or even support insurgents .
officially , somalia s military is 26,000 strong , but the payroll is stuffed with ghost soldiers , pensioners and the dead , whose families may be receiving their payments , diplomats say .
intermittent payments from the government have forced many active soldiers to sell their weapons , ammunition or seek other work - practices the u.s. stipends were designed to curb .
washington has whittled down the number of troops it pays to 8,000 from over 10,000 but there is still no reliable payroll , said a mogadishu-based security expert .
defence minister mursal said the united nations is creating a biometric database and plans to help the somali government make cash payments directly to soldiers via mobile phones .
the new government will also set up a separate system for widows , orphans , and the wounded so the payroll would adequately represent military strength , he said .
the weakness of somali forces has deadly consequences .
the insurgency is striking with ever larger and more deadly attacks in the capital mogadishu and major towns .
a truck bomb killed more than 500 people in october and a suicide bomber killed at least 18 at a police academy on thursday .
yusuf , a 35-year-old somali soldier stationed near the indian ocean port of kismayu , knows what it s like to depend on local militias and au forces to stay alive .
on sept. 26 , insurgents attacked his base at bula gadud , killing 15 colleagues and wounding scores more before the local jubaland militia and au peacekeepers saved them .
we lost several key members in that battle especially my close friend , he told reuters .
we tried to retreat ... after using all the ammunition we had .
a senior somali security source said when the attack happened , the battalion of more than 1,000 soldiers had only been issued 300 guns .
defence minister mursal said the somali troops at bulagadud have since been sent more weapons .
somalia s national security plan calls for a military of 18,000 soldiers , funded by the central government and operating country-wide .
getting there will be hard .
security experts say the military is dominated by a powerful clan , the hawiye , which would be reluctant to lose control of the lucrative security assistance revenue stream .
many regional governments within somalia already see the hawiye-dominated federal forces as rivals rather than allies .
the government s ability to push reforms depends on balancing demands from federal member states , lawmakers , clan leaders and international partners , the u.n. s keating said .
it s going to take a long time and its going to run into massive clan resistance , he said .
some clans are very dominant in the security forces .
somalia s partners also need to get serious and coordinate better , said matt bryden of the think-tank sahan research .
according to sahan , donors - including the eu , au , turkey and uganda - have trained more than 80,000 somali soldiers since 2004 .
bryden said records are so poor it was not clear if many had taken multiple courses , or just quit afterwards .
it s like sand through your fingers where are they all ?