remember when the first question reporters asked players after winning a national championship went something like this : now that you ve reached the pinnacle of your career , where are you going ?
to which the player would reply , i m going to disneyworld !
since espn has become more of a liberal propaganda network than an actual sports network , their question has changed to asking about whether or not the players will dare to visit the white house , where the one man who liberals fear most currently resides.espn s obsession with president trump is embarrassing .
instead of reporting about sports , they d rather report about how many crybaby , multi-millionaire athletes don t like our president and may choose to stay home in their safe-spaces as opposed to visiting the democratically elected president of the greatest country in the world .
to put this in perspective , in less than 24 hours after winning the nba championship , espn s senior nba writer , the undefeated s marc spears obsessed over whether or not the golden state warrior team would visit the white house .
seriously ?
after winning the coveted nba championship , that s what basketball fans are supposed to care about ?
did anyone at espn even consider that about 99.9 % of their target market couldn t care less about their leftist political propaganda , and they actually want read their articles or tune in to their shows because they re interested in sports ? from espn article titled : the reigning champion golden state warriors addressed speculation about whether they will make the traditional visit to the white house , saying they will make those decisions when and if necessary .
today is all about celebrating our championship , the team said in a statement tuesday .
we have not received an invitation to the white house , but will make those decisions when and if necessary .
shortly before the team issued its statement , warriors owner joe lacob was asked about a potential white house visit during an interview with espn s first take .
i can t believe we re getting this question already , lacob said .
but honestly , that s something we ll worry about at the time .
that s a long time from now .
questions about the warriors plans for a trip to washington , d.c. , arose just hours after they won their second nba title in the last three years , when a cnbc analyst tweeted that the team unanimously decided to skip the white house visit.most of the warriors , in the immediate aftermath of their game 5 victory over the cleveland cavaliers , have not publicly commented on whether they will make the trip.veteran forward david west , who has been outspoken in his disapproval of president donald trump , told the undefeated s marc spears on monday night that he probably will decline the opportunity .
i don t know .
i probably won t , west said .
but i m going to enjoy this .
they re going to have to get me down from this cloud .
i can t describe it .
warriors coach steve kerr expressed his disappointment with the election results last november , saying after the election that trump regularly used racist , misogynist , insulting words during his campaign .