washington ( reuters ) - the united states on thursday presented for the first time pieces of what it said were iranian weapons supplied to the iran-aligned houthi militia in yemen , describing it as conclusive evidence that tehran was violating u.n. resolutions .
the arms included charred remnants of what the pentagon said was an iranian-made short-range ballistic missile fired from yemen on nov. 4 at king khaled international airport outside saudi arabia s capital riyadh , as well as a drone and an anti-tank weapon recovered in yemen by the saudis .
iran has denied supplying the houthis with such weaponry and on thursday described the arms displayed as fabricated .
the united states acknowledged it could not say precisely when the weapons were transferred to the houthis , and , in some cases , could not say when they were used .
there was no immediate way to independently verify where the weapons were made or employed .
but u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley expressed confidence the transfers could be blamed on tehran .
these are iranian made , these are iranian sent , and these were iranian given , haley told a news conference at a military hangar at joint base anacostia-bolling , just outside washington .
all of the recovered weapons were provided to the united states by saudi arabia and the united arab emirates , the pentagon said .
saudi-led forces , which back the yemeni government , have been fighting the houthis in yemen s more than two-year-long civil war .
the unprecedented presentation - which haley said involved intelligence that had to be declassified - is part of president donald trump s new iran policy , which promises a harder line toward tehran .
that would appear to include a new diplomatic initiative .
you will see us build a coalition to really push back against iran and what they re doing , haley said , standing in front of what she said were the remnants of the nov. 4 missile .
israel , saudi arabia and the united arab emirates , who view tehran as a threat , seized upon the u.s. presentation in calls on thursday for international action .
still , it was unclear whether the new evidence would be enough to win support for sanctions on iran from some u.n. security council members , like russia or china .
british u.n .
ambassador matthew rycroft said he didn t think there s anything that could convince some of my council colleagues to take u.n. action against iran .
still , he said we re going to be pursuing with them nonetheless .
under a u.n. resolution that enshrines the iran nuclear deal with world powers , tehran is prohibited from supplying , selling or transferring weapons outside the country unless approved by the u.n. security council .
a separate u.n. resolution on yemen bans the supply of weapons to houthi leaders .
iran rejected the u.s. accusations as unfounded and iran s foreign minister javad zarif , on twitter , drew a parallel to assertions by then-u.s. secretary of state colin powell to the united nations in 2003 about u.s. intelligence on weapons of mass destruction in iraq .
no weapons of mass destruction were found in iraq after the u.s.-led invasion .
the pentagon offered a detailed explanation of all of the reasons why it believed the arms came from iran , noting what it said were iranian corporate logos on arms fragments and the unique nature of the designs of iranian weaponry .
that included the designs of short-range qiam ballistic missiles .
the pentagon said it had obtained fragments of two qiam missiles , one fired on nov. 4 against the airport and another fired on july 22 .
the pentagon cited corporate logos it said matched those of iranian defense firms on jet vanes that help steer the missile s engine and on the circuit board helping drive its guidance system .
it also said the missile s unique valve-design was only found in iran .
iran , it said , appeared to have tried to cover up the shipment by disassembling the missile for transport , given crude welding used to stitch it back together .
the point of this entire display is that only iran makes this missile .
they have not given it to anybody else , pentagon spokeswoman laura seal said .
we haven t seen this in the hands of anyone else except iran and the houthis .
a dec. 8 u.n. report monitoring iran sanctions found that the july 22 and nov. 4 missiles fired at saudi arabia appeared to have a common origin , but u.n. officials were still investigating the claims that iran supplied them .
a separate nov. 24 u.n. report monitoring yemen sanctions said four missiles fired into saudi arabia this year appear to have been designed and manufactured by iran , but as yet there was no evidence as to the identity of the broker or supplier .
the u.n. iran and yemen sanctions monitors saw a majority of the weaponry displayed by haley , said a spokesman for the u.s. mission to the united nations .
the pentagon put on display other weapons with designs it said were unique to iran s defense industry .
it pointed to a key component of a toophan anti-tank guided missile and a small drone aircraft , both of which it said were recovered in yemen by the saudis .
it also showed components of a drone-like navigation system like the one the pentagon says was used by the houthis to ram an exploding boat into a saudi frigate on jan. 30 .
the united arab emirates seized the system in late 2016 in the red sea , the pentagon said .
the u.n. security council is due to be briefed publicly on the latest u.n. report monitoring iran sanctions on tuesday .