vienna ( reuters ) - the fallout from the harvey weinstein scandal spread to austria on saturday as one of the country s best-known politicians said he would give up his seat in parliament over an allegation of sexual assault .
veteran left-wing lawmaker peter pilz , 63 , has been a fixture in austrian politics for decades , having made a name for himself railing against arms deals with countries accused of human rights abuses and leading investigations into corruption like one this year connected to austrian fighter-jet purchases .
he also recently pulled off a political coup - leaving the greens this summer to form his own party , pilz list , which not only beat the greens in last month s parliamentary election , it also passed the 4 percent threshold for entering parliament , which the greens fell just short of .
weekly newspaper falter reported on saturday that pilz had repeatedly groped a female employee of the center-right european people s party during a conference in the alps four years ago .
the article included her description of the incident .
she said pilz was relatively drunk at the time .
pilz one of the more colorful figures in austrian politics , a straight talker fond of singing rock songs like wild thing at party events said he could not remember what happened .
not remembering is no excuse , pilz told a news conference , adding that falter s editor in chief had assured him the report was thoroughly researched .
because of these accusations , which i take extremely seriously , even though i do not remember , i will not take up my mandate in the coming parliament .
i will not be at the swearing-in ceremony on thursday , he said .
in the wake of the weinstein scandal and the resignations over inappropriate behavior that have followed , including that of british defence minister michael fallon this week , austrian media had begun to ask whether there were previously unreported cases of sexual harassment by influential austrians .
u.s. movie mogul weinstein has been accused by numerous women of having sexually harassed or assaulted them in incidents dating back to the 1980s , including three who said they were raped .
weinstein denies having non-consensual sex with anyone .
pilz said he would work to bring all the facts to light in the accusations made against him .
but he also said he rejected separate allegations by a former colleague that he sexually harassed her on dozens of occasions .
that case was first reported by austrian media on friday .
pilz said he would support his party s work in parliament from the outside , though he did not say specifically that he was stepping down as party leader .
a spokeswoman for pilz was not immediately available for comment .
( refiles with vienna dateline )