beijing ( reuters ) - china s ruling communist party will scrap the practice of secretive interrogations known as shuanggui , president xi jinping said on wednesday , part of broader reforms of its anti-corruption architecture .
cadres accused of graft and other disciplinary violations are routinely subjected to extrajudicial detention , isolation and interrogation by the party s much-feared central commission for discipline inspection ( ccdi ) .
the ccdi only hands cases over to police and judiciary for prosecution .
international rights groups have raised concerns of torture , including sleep deprivation , being used to obtain confessions .
in a speech on wednesday opening a key twice-a-decade party congress , xi said shuanggui , which only applies to communist party cadres , will be replaced by detention .
xi did not elaborate and it was not immediately clear what the distinction between the two will be .
officially , china describes shuanggui as an internal disciplinary practice that requires officials under investigation to cooperate with questioning at a designated place and a designated time .
in practice , those under investigation are routinely held incommunicado and without access to legal representation , and a number of high-profile deaths while in custody led to discussion of reforming the system as early as 2013 .
new trial rules released by the ccdi in january made mandatory video and sound recordings for the entire interrogation process .
those summoned are deprived of liberty for days , weeks , or months , during which time they are repeatedly interrogated and often tortured , a human rights watch report said in 2016 .
it said at least 11 people , according to media reports , had died under shuanggui since 2010 .
the move to scrap the practice is part of wide-ranging legal reforms and the creation of a new national supervisory commission that will take over from the ccdi and merge multiple anti-graft units into a single body .
the new agency will also expand the graft campaign s purview to include employees at state-backed institutions who are not necessarily communist party members .
this will ensure that supervision covers everyone in the public sector who exercises public power , xi said .
since coming to power in 2012 , xi s signature anti-corruption drive has jailed or otherwise punished nearly 1.4 million party members and he has emphasized the importance of improving china s rule of law architecture .
in his congress address , xi said china would keep up with the irreversible momentum of the anti-corruption campaign , and announced a central leading group responsible for overseeing china s law-based governance .
the fight against corruption has formed an overwhelming posture and strengthened in development , xi said in the three-and-a-half-hour speech carried live across the nation on state television .