( reuters ) - new jersey taxpayers will owe $ 2.62 million for roughly a year ’ s worth of work by a team of professionals called in to help turn around the distressed gambling hub atlantic city , according to invoices obtained and compiled by reuters .
it is not clear what taxpayers have to show for it .
despite the work by a state-appointed emergency manager and the law and accounting firms he hired , so little progress has been made in reversing the seaside resort ’ s fortunes that lawmakers are now considering a full takeover of city operations .
reuters reported in september that the amount was $ 2.15 million , but invoice reports since then for additional work by restructuring lawyers at skadden , arps , slate , meagher & flom have pushed the total up by 20 percent .
reuters obtained the documents through a public records request .
governor chris christie appointed kevin lavin as emergency manager on jan. 22 , 2015 .
since then , lavin ’ s team has produced one report , in march .
the press of atlantic city this month obtained a non-public draft of a follow-up report .
a spokesman for lavin told reuters last week that a report is expected “ within the coming weeks. ” four of the city ’ s eight casinos closed in 2014 , pummeled by competition from neighboring states .
that contributed to a 70 percent reduction in the city ’ s property tax base , to a projected $ 6 billion this year from $ 20.5 billion in 2010 .
lavin and his team - including skadden , ernst & young llp [ erny.ul ] , and mediator donald steckroth - were to review and propose solutions to the city ’ s immediate fiscal crisis , suggest possible longer-term fixes and negotiate with labor unions .
separately , the state had already appointed a monitor and had to approve the city ’ s budget and hiring .
but lawmakers are seeking an even firmer grasp .
on tuesday , they introduced legislation that would strip atlantic city ’ s elected officials of most of their control , except for the ability to file for municipal bankruptcy .
“ you can ’ t justify a $ 262 million budget for 40,000 people .
it ’ s obscene , ” senate president steve sweeney , a co-sponsor of the bill , said earlier this week .
“ ( the mayor and city council ) need to make the tough decisions now. ” mayor don guardian and city council members denounced the takeover proposal .
guardian said on wednesday the city trimmed $ 14 million from its 2015 budget and expects to cut $ 16 million more this year .