washington ( reuters ) - the white house said on wednesday it will redirect $ 589 million in funds to prepare for the zika virus before the mosquito that carries it begins to emerge in the continental united states , but urged congress to act quickly on its request for more money .
white house budget director shaun donovan said the use of money previously provided for fighting another health crisis , the ebola virus , was only a temporary fix for zika funding .
donovan said some measures to fight zika would have to be delayed , curtailed or stopped unless the u.s. congress approves more than $ 1.8 billion in emergency funds requested by the obama administration in february .
the zika virus , linked to a growing number of cases of the birth defect microcephaly in brazil , is spreading rapidly in latin america and the caribbean and heading north as the weather gets warmer .
“ we should not play with fire here , ” donovan told reporters on a conference call .
without full zika funding , u.s. health and human services secretary sylvia mathews burwell said mosquito control and surveillance may have to be delayed or stopped , vaccine development could be jeopardized and development of faster diagnostic tests could be impaired .
most of the $ 589 million will come from $ 2.7 billion in funds set aside for public health projects aimed at the ebola virus .
west africa was stricken by a two-year ebola epidemic that killed more than 11,300 people starting in december 2013 and led to a small number of cases in the united states .
the republican-controlled congress has said the white house should draw the money needed to fight zika from the ebola funds .
chairman hal rogers and other top republicans on the house of representatives appropriations committee said in a statement they would “ monitor the changing needs resulting from this unpredictable crisis ” to ensure that needed funds are available .
“ republicans are going to look back on this time that they ’ ve had to act on the zika virus and deeply regret it , ” white house spokesman josh earnest said .
burwell said a recent flare-up of ebola in west africa shows the united states can not shortchange its work in the region .
“ we face two global health challenges , ebola and zika , and we don ’ t have an option to set one aside in the name of the other , ” burwell told reporters .
burwell said there were 672 confirmed cases of zika infections in the united states , including 64 pregnant women .
she said there was one confirmed case of zika-related microcephaly in hawaii .
the world health organization has said there is a strong scientific consensus that zika can cause microcephaly as well as guillain-barre syndrome , though proof may take months or years .
microcephaly is a condition defined by unusually small heads in babies that can result in developmental problems .
guillain-barre syndrome is a rare neurological disorder that can result in paralysis .
brazil said it has confirmed more than 940 cases of microcephaly , and considers most to be related to zika infections in the mothers .
brazil is investigating nearly 4,300 additional suspected cases of microcephaly .