budapest ( reuters ) - hungary s main opposition jobbik party could support deeper european integration , its chairman said on friday , in a shift apparently aimed at bringing the far-right group closer to the political mainstream .
jobbik , which used to burn eu flags and was widely accused of racism and anti-semitism , has tried over the past few years to convince voters it has become a more moderate conservative party that supports democratic institutions and civil rights .
chairman gabor vona told foreign journalists jobbik does not want a two-speed eu , in which some member states would enjoy a lesser level of cooperation than others .
instead , it favored waiting until europe s integration plans became clearer and then holding referendums across the eu to see which countries want to stay in .
he also said jobbik would be willing to join the euro zone as fast as economically sensible , which he called an economic issue , rather than a political one .
jobbik is a distant second behind the ruling fidesz party in opinion polls ahead of elections due in april 2018 , but it says poll results might be misleading with many voters hiding their preferences .
its policy proposals have often been echoed by fidesz , which is also a right-wing party with strong anti-immigration views , but which has been seen as closer to the european conservative mainstream than more explicitly nationalist jobbik .
vona said europe was likely to transform in the next few years .
countries should wait for the bloc s trajectory to become clearer , and then all eu states should hold referendums on whether to remain members .
a referendum about membership would be legitimate but not now , he said .
what would we vote about ?
the juncker plan ?
the merkel plan ?
the macron plan ?
we have no idea what the eu means at this moment .
we should clarify this together first .
once we have that we should ask everywhere , not only in hungary , whether people want whatever brussels leaders cooked up or not .
hungarians have warmed considerably to the eu in recent months .
according to eurobarometer , 56 percent of them now say eu membership is a good thing , up 8 percentage points since march .
that is the steepest rise in the eu .
vona said hungary should join the euro currency as soon as possible , once public debt and competitiveness are appropriate .
ostracised in brussels even by other far-right groups , jobbik says it seeks to transcend traditional left-right political divisions and find new allies in the european parliament after elections to the body in 2019 .
we would be happy to see ... a regional alliance of central european politicians who can look past left and right and embody common eastern issues , he said .