less than one year ago , charlie sheen s ex-wife denise richards told reporters that their twin daughters are allegedly scared of him .
sisters sam , 11 , and lola , 10 , are reportedly scared to be alone with their father after an alleged string of abusive texts and threatening outbursts.richards is suing sheen for $ 1.2 million after he allegedly evicted her from the home sheen left to their daughters , sam , 11 , and lola , 10 , in a trust.the suit filed last week alleges that sheen once texted to lola : your dad is a rock star genius .
.
.
your mom is a p s wart , and that he called the girl a [ bleeping ] pig whore while yelling , i m going to kill you and i m going to kill your mom .
in november 2015 , sheen announced he was infected with hiv and had paid upwards of $ 10 million to keep it a secret.it s not that being infected with hiv is in and of itself a crime , but most people who would hide it while continuing to have sex would be in jail .
but then again , hollywood moonbats are not most people and like hillary and other leftist politicians , they have special rules.in november 2015 , the daily mail published a story about sheen with this headline : you are a crack smoking , hooker buying , mentally enslaved moron with hiv .
if anyone is on deaths door , it 's you , charlie .
https : //t.co/iwxmn6bclc mark dice ( @ markdice ) december 29 , 2016keep it up .
you are the reason why trump won and you do n't even realize it .
thanks for the win ! !
howie ( @ dwhowardwayne ) december 29 , 2016no matter how bad life gets , i never actively root for someone to die .
that is a truly evil soul .
nick paredes ( @ npthree ) december 29 , 2016 i defended ur ass through ur one of many breakdowns .
now ur just a piece of shit .
you 're living on a prayer good luck ass !
kristin billitere ( @ specialkmb1969 ) december 29 , 2016trump is a deadly menace to this country & the world .
i hope death comes for him next .
laura p ( @ dsigningwmn ) december 29 , 2016 @ me4hillary throw in pence and the rest of the cabinet and i forever promise to eat all my veggies neolib sheetcake ( @ vicsepulveda ) december 29 , 2016