joy reid is known for her racist slant on the news .
she s one bitter and angry woman we ve reported on numerous times for her over-the-top rhetoric .
this latest rant is surprising even for reid .
she goes after critically injured congressman steve scalise with the aide of a naacp board member .
steve scalise can not defend himself right now the left has no shame ! reid : there s a whole country out there and a lot of people , at least in my twitter timeline , and it s a delicate thing , because everybody is wishing the congressman well and hoping that he recovers , but steve scalise has a history that we ve all been forced to sort of ignore on race .
he did come to leadership after some controversy over attending a white nationalist event , which he says he didn t know what it was .
he also co-sponsored a bill to amend the constitution to define marriage as between a man and a woman .
he co-sponsored the house healthcare bill , which as you said would gut healthcare for millions of people including three million children and he cosponsored a bill to repeal the ban on semiautomatic weapons .
louisiana rep. steve scalise is still hospitalized in critical condition but liberal msnbc host joy ann reid didn t let that stop her from portraying scalise as an extremist just three days after an angry left-winger shot scalise and tried to assassinate dozens of republican congressmen in alexandria , virginia on wednesday.house majority whip steve scalise was in imminent risk of death when he was flown to a trauma center wednesday after being shot during an ambush of a gop congressional baseball team practicing on a virginia field .
he will be in the hospital for a considerable period of time , presumably weeks , said jack sava , trauma director at medstar washington hospital center , who spoke friday about the louisiana republican who remains in critical condition at the hospital in the district.sava added that scalise was as critical as you can be when he came in after a single rifle shot traversed his body from his left hip through internal organs to the other hip as witnesses said he was fielding ground balls.the shot fired at scalise left perhaps hundreds of bullet fragments internally , many of which may never be removed because surgery might be more dangerous than leaving them in place , sava said .
that circumstance is not uncommon for that type of injury , known as a transpelvic gunshot wound , the trauma surgeon said.sava said scalise will require surgeries soon for abdominal and bone injuries , in addition to the two he has undergone to repair a bone in his leg broken by the bullet .
the congressman sustained substantial damage to organs and blood vessels , sava said , and remains in intensive care.how can these idiots keep arguing with a man who is critically injured in the hospital ?
it s horrible because he can not defend himself !