washington ( reuters ) - the obama administration has rejected a plea by billionaire investor william koch to refund as much as $ 14 million in royalties on a now-shut colorado mine , according to a letter explaining the decision .
the interior department last week ruled that oxbow mining , a subsidiary of koch-controlled oxbow carbon llc , is not entitled to a ‘ royalty rate reduction ’ since the move would do nothing to return the mine to life .
reducing royalty rates has been a tool used by the federal government for decades when maximizing coal production was part of a national energy policy .
oxbow closed its elk creek site in western colorado two years ago after setbacks such as a fire and partial collapse made working the underground mine too costly , according to the company and regulatory paperwork .
oxbow has said it has no plans to reopen the facility , which once employed more than 200 people .
machinery is being sold for scrap and the mine is ready to be sealed , according to regulatory paperwork .
“ these circumstances indicate that a royalty rate reduction will not expand recovery or promote further development of the leases , ” the interior department ’ s bureau of land management wrote last week in a letter made public on monday .
‘ royalty rate reduction ’ and other such programs meant to promote coal production on public lands are now under scrutiny since president barack obama has vowed to curb the nation ’ s reliance on fossil fuels , which contribute to global warming .
william koch was an heir to the fred c. koch family fortune , and two of his brothers , charles and david , are leading figures in conservative politics .
while william koch is not as politically prominent as his brothers , he has been a significant political donor to conservative causes in the past .
a spokesman for koch and oxbow did not immediately respond to a call for comment .
rocky mountain coal has been valued at $ 35 a ton or more in the last several years , according to a reuters review of energy information administration data .
because the blm recommends a royalty rate reduction on 13.1 million tons of coal , the decision positions oxbow to receive at least a $ 14 million refund on fuel mined since 2012 , according to a reuters calculation .