riyadh ( reuters ) - lebanon s christian maronite patriarch , visiting saudi arabia in an historic visit to the ultra-conservative muslim kingdom , expressed support on tuesday for the reasons behind lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri s resignation .
hariri , a saudi ally , resigned abruptly on nov. 4 in a move lebanese political leaders ascribed to pressure from riyadh .
hariri said his resignation had been prompted by an assassination plot and accused iran and hezbollah of sowing strife in the region .
he denies there are any constraints on his movement .
patriarch bechara al-rai met hariri as well as king salman and crown prince mohammed bin salman as part of a trip that was planned well before the lebanese political crisis brought on by hariri s resignation .
hariri is returning as fast as possible and i support the reasons for his resignation , rai was quoted as saying by saudi-owned al arabiya television .
hariri said he was fine and would return to lebanon in the next two days .
on twitter , he urged lebanese to remain calm and said his family would stay in saudi arabia , calling it their country .
the events have thrust lebanon back to the forefront of the conflict between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran .
rai s trip has come under heightened scrutiny in light of hariri s resignation , but an official visit to saudi arabia by such a senior non-muslim cleric is significant as a rare act of religious openness by the conservative muslim country .
the kingdom hosts the holiest sites in islam and bans the practice of other religions , forcing christians to risk arrest by praying in private homes .
prince mohammed says he wants saudi arabia to open up more to the world .
in addition to imposing radical economic reforms , the 32-year-old heir-apparent has pledged to relax strict social norms and revive a middle-of-the-road , moderate islam open to the world and all religions , traditions and people .
rai heads the maronite church , which has a presence in lebanon , syria and cyprus and follows an eastern rite of the roman catholic church .
flanked by catholic clerics wearing vestments and gold crosses , rai discussed religious tolerance and combating extremism with the king and his son , the saudi state news agency said .
prince mohammed has taken a harder line on iran since taking on wide-ranging authorities two years ago including as defense minister , with the kingdom waging a two-year-old war in yemen against houthi fighters aligned with iran .
he has also pushed for more social freedoms in a country where authority has rested for decades on an enduring accommodation between the royal family and clerics who control the hardline wahhabi strain of islam that originated in saudi arabia .
the powers of the saudi religious police have been curbed , enforcement of gender segregation has been relaxed and women have been granted some more freedoms , including the right to drive cars starting next year .
rai is the second christian patriarch to visit the country , after another such trip in 1975 .
he said the original invitation had been extended in 2013 by the late king abdullah .