the national archives inspector general investigated the theft .
later emails released by the state department do not indicate if the federal government ever found the hard drive.there s also the separate case of sandy berger who literally stuck documents in his clothes and left the national archives with them .
he was later found cutting the documents up with scissors !
it s understood that he wanted to destroy any papers with writing/notes written in the margins .
he was the national security advisor for the clinton administration and it appears he was a good and loyal soldier to the clintons when he destroyed evidence these two case of stolen documents have not been solved and we feel it s yet another case of a clinton coverup a newly released email from the state department shows that hillary clinton was informed in april 2009 of a massive theft of data pertaining to former president bill clinton s white house records.on april 13 , 2009 , clinton attorney cheryl mills informed newly sworn-in secretary of state hillary clinton via email that the national archives could not account for a two-terabyte hard drive .
the drive may contain a wide range of memos , emails , and other electronic documents from the clinton white house .
the hard drive contained information from the administration of her husband , former president bill clinton.the email was made public from state department files on thursday as part of an ongoing release of recovered emails that had been previously deleted from clinton s private server.the forwarded email said the national archives had a duplicate and was examining it to know what was stolen .
it was stolen or misplaced between jan. 30 , 2009 , and march 24 , 2009.the possible data losses were all serious but only three documents were classified .
social security numbers and dates of births may have been lost to thieves .
political information may have been stolen too .
two terabytes is a very very large amount of data ; the drive may contain a wide range of memos , emails , and other electronic documents from the clinton white house , wrote blake roberts , deputy associate white house counsel for president barack obama .
all the material is unclassified , except for three documents which bill leary has examined and does not believe present any significant risk .
but the loss was still serious .
based on its analysis , nara ( national archives ) believes the drive contains other sensitive material , including : there is at least a 50 % likelihood that the personal information ( including dob and ssn ) of all individuals placed through the clinton presidential personnel office was on the lost hard drive , wrote roberts .
there is a 90 % likelihood that the personal information ( including dob and ssn ) of all clinton wh staff was on the lost hard drive .
there is a 100 % chance that some of it was on the lost hard drive .
the three classified documents were authored by lael brainard , then a top nominee for the department of the treasury , roberts wrote .
there are almost certainly records from many other white house officials , he said.the national archives inspector general investigated the theft .
later emails released by the state department do not indicate if the federal government ever found the hard drive .
the federal government said they would notify affected people of the breach.the national archives later did issue a press release on july 16 , 2009 , updating the public on the search for the hard drive .
it offered a reward of $ 50,000 .
it also said 15,750 individuals had to be notified by mail of the possible theft.it s not clear why the hard drive was stolen eight years after bill clinton left office , and at the start of a new democratic administration that included his wife , hillary clinton , as secretary of state.theft of records from the national archives had happened before.the late sandy berger , bill clinton s national security adviser from 1997 to 2001 , removed several documents from the national archives between sept. 2 , 2003 , and oct. 2 , 2003.berger removed the classified documents from the national archives by sneaking them out in his socks and pants .
berger then stored and retained such documents at his place of employment .
he pleaded guilty in 2005 but received no prison time , according to cnn .