gaza ( reuters ) - mohammad dahlan , who played a key backroom role in a major new effort for palestinian unity , has said a two-state peace agreement with israel was impossible and healing wounds from a civil war that split palestine was now a priority .
once of the fiercest foes of hamas , the islamist group that seized the gaza strip in a civil war in 2007 , dahlan , a member of the rival mainstream fatah party , spoke to reuters after a unity cabinet held its first meeting in the enclave in three years .
the internal palestinian situation is more sacred , is more important and is more useful now than the so-called negotiation , the veteran politician said of talks with israel that collapsed in 2014 over issues such as israeli settlement-building in occupied territory and fatah-hamas reconciliation .
a former peace negotiator with israel who speaks hebrew and who was born in a refugee camp , dahlan , 56 , noted jewish settlement in the occupied west bank and east jerusalem , areas captured in a 1967 war and which palestinians seek along with gaza for a future state .
there is a complete judaisation of the west bank , not only of jerusalem .
it has become impossible for the two-state solution to be implemented , therefore , there is no political horizon , he said in the rare interview .
israel has built about 120 settlements in the west bank .
about 350,000 settlers live there and a further 200,000 in east jerusalem , among about 2.6 million palestinians .
fatah , led by the secular heirs of yasser arafat , runs the west bank , heads the internationally recognized palestinian authority and has been responsible for negotiations with israel .
its rival hamas , an offshoot of the muslim brotherhood , drove fatah forces loyal to president mahmoud abbas from gaza and has run the tiny coastal strip that is home to two million people .
relations eased on monday , when hamas handed over control of gaza to a unity government .
although it agreed to the deal three years ago , the decision to implement it marks a striking reversal for hamas , considered a terrorist group by israel , the united states and most powerful arab countries .
officials on both sides of the palestinian divide and in other arab countries say dahlan , based since 2011 in the united arab emirates , was behind an influx of cash to prop up gaza , and a detente between hamas and arab states including egypt that led the group to dismantle its shadow government last month .
it was an honor for us ... that we succeeded to have those understandings between hamas and egypt , dahlan said by telephone from abu dhabi .
the former gaza security chief said he had kept silent during mediation efforts but decided to speak out now that they have borne fruit .
dahlan said egypt , which has accused hamas of aiding an islamist insurgency in the sinai peninsula across the border from gaza , held meetings with senior officials of the group , which denies aiding the militants .
both sides agreed to shore up security along the border and prevent militants from crossing .
without reconciling with hamas and without hamas understanding the needs of the egyptian national security there can be no serious ( palestinian ) reconciliation , and no one but egypt is capable of playing an effective role , dahlan said .
cairo will host hamas and fatah officials next tuesday for further talks on power-sharing and the holding of palestinian elections long-delayed by the internal rift .
a first sign of discontent surfaced with hamas criticizing abbas s decision to await the outcome of the talks before lifting sanctions he has imposed on gaza .
in the interview , dahlan called on hamas to show more patience because all the good things are on the way thanks to egyptian mediation .
he dismissed any notion that egypt , with the uae and saudi arabia , was pursuing palestinian reconciliation as part of any wider u.s.-initiated push for a regional peace deal with israel .
the chances of the so-called deal of the century is zero because ( israeli prime minister benjamin ) netanyahu does not want peace and he imposed a reality of 700,000 settlers in the west bank and in jerusalem that made it impossible for the two-state solution to be implemented , dahlan said .
netanyahu on tuesday warned palestinians against engaging in bogus reconciliations under which hamas kept its military arm in gaza which bristles with hundreds of its rockets .
turning to palestinian politics , dahlan , who recently formed the fatah reformist and democratic party to challenge abbas - now in the 12th year of a four-year term - accused him of committing crimes and mistakes but said he was ready to reconcile with the 82-year-old leader to reunite the fatah movement .
the ball is in his court and we are ready whenever he is , said dahlan , in exile since 2011 after quarrelling with abbas .
ambitious and charismatic , he has long been suspected of harboring designs to succeed abbas .
dahlan said his strong ties with the uae helped him to raise hundreds of millions of dollars in aid for palestinians in gaza , the west bank and east jerusalem in the past 10 years .
a recent poll by the west bank-based palestinian center for policy and survey showed that those who still support fatah in gaza are shifting loyalty to dahlan .
his popularity among gazans has risen over the past nine months from nine to 23 percent .
dahlan said he was not obsessed by opinion polls and a decision on whether he would run for a president would await until an election date is set .