washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. house of representatives helped pave the way on thursday for deep tax cuts sought by president donald trump and republican leaders , but barely overcame a revolt within party ranks that could foreshadow trouble ahead .
the republican-controlled house voted 216-212 to pass a budget blueprint for the 2018 fiscal year .
the measure will enable the tax legislation , due to be introduced next week , to win congressional approval without any democratic votes .
but house republican leaders came within two votes of failure .
democrats were unified in their opposition , and 20 republicans voted against the bill , many expressing disapproval of a provision that would repeal an income tax deduction for state and local taxes .
discord is also looming over a potential provision to scale back a popular tax-deferred u.s. retirement savings program known as a 401 ( k ) .
both those provisions are aimed at offsetting revenue losses that would result from the planned sweeping tax cuts , particularly for companies .
democrats have called the tax plan a giveaway to the rich and corporations that would swell the federal deficit .
republicans are traditionally opposed to letting the deficit grow .
but in a stark reversal of that stance , the party ’ s budget resolution , previously passed by the senate , called for adding up to $ 1.5 trillion to federal deficits over the next decade to pay for the tax cuts .
several conservative republicans voted against it because of deficit concerns .
one of them , representative justin amash , wrote on twitter , “ what happened to fiscal conservatism ? ” the outline of the republican plan announced last month would cut the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent , the small business rate to 25 percent from up to 39.6 percent and the top individual rate to 35 percent from 39.6 percent .
trump , who promised major tax cuts as a candidate last year , has asked congress to pass the tax legislation by the end of the year .
even though his fellow republicans control both the house and senate , the president has been unable to secure passage of major legislation , having failed to repeal the obamacare law .
republicans are also looking for a signature achievement as the 2018 congressional election year approaches .
“ big news - budget just passed ! ” trump wrote on twitter .
republican house speaker paul ryan , who has said he wants the house to pass the tax overhaul by the nov. 23 thanksgiving holiday , said passage of the budget resolution was an “ enormous step ” toward that goal .
but he declined to take a position on the possibility of capping annual tax-free contributions into 401 ( k ) plans , which for four decades have helped millions of americans save for retirement by offering tax savings .
trump and kevin brady , the republican chairman of the tax-writing house ways and means committee , reopened the door to the possibility of such caps on wednesday as republicans scramble to find sources of revenue to cover the tax cuts .
brady on thursday said he was working toward an agreement on the 401 ( k ) issue with trump and republicans who want to keep the tax break in place .
“ they made it clear .
they need this problem solved before they vote ‘ yes ’ on tax reform , ” brady added .
brady said he planned to introduce the tax bill next wednesday and to begin committee deliberations on it the following week , on nov. 6 .
revolt from high-tax states eliminating the deduction would hit middle-class voters in high-tax states like california , new york , illinois , pennsylvania and new jersey .
republican representative john katko of new york , leaving a meeting with brady , said supporters of the deduction “ stood firm , saying ‘ no ’ as a group today to let them know we ’ re not kidding. ” but one republican senator warned that his party will have to stick to its commitment to eliminate tax breaks .
“ if groups see that you ’ re willing to deal something away if they raise enough cain , the whole thing ’ s going to fall apart .
we ’ ve got ta hang tough , ” senator bob corker of tennessee said on cnbc .
the budget plan will enable the 100-seat senate to pass tax legislation with a simple majority rather than a 60-vote super-majority , hard to reach given democrats ’ opposition .
republicans hold a slim 52-48 margin in the senate .
the white house and congressional republicans excluded democrats as they developed the plan .
“ right here before our eyes , in this house , the republicans are replacing the great american ladders of opportunity with the silver spoon of plutocracy and aristocracy , ” top house democrat nancy pelosi said during the debate on the budget measure .
independent analysts forecast last month that corporations and the wealthiest americans would benefit the most and many upper middle-income people would face higher taxes under the tax outline unveiled by the republicans .
the proposal would cut taxes for companies and individuals by up to $ 6 trillion over the next decade , the analysts said .