mexico city ( reuters ) - the newly unveiled presidential contender of mexico s ruling party , jose antonio meade , lags his main rival , leftist andres manuel lopez obrador , by some 14 percentage points , an opinion poll showed on thursday .
the voter survey , by daily newspaper reforma , showed meade , who resigned as finance minister on nov. 27 to seek the nomination of the institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) , polling 17 percent support against lopez obrador s 31 percent .
mexico elects a new president in july 2018 , and though the pri will not formally choose its candidate until feb. 18 , the party is already swinging behind meade , even though he is not a member .
the credibility of the pri , which has dominated mexican politics for most of the past century , has been seriously undermined by graft , gang violence and accusations of electoral fraud .
meade has , however , avoided corruption scandals in office , and part of his appeal rests on his status as an outsider .
meade also held ministerial posts in the 2006-2012 administration of the center-right national action party ( pan ) , and the pri hopes his pedigree will enable him to pick up votes from rival parties .
the poll , conducted nov. 23-27 , surveyed 1,200 mexicans and had a margin of error of 3.4 percentage points , reforma said .
the dates suggest it was carried out largely before meade announced his intention to succeed president enrique pena nieto , who is constitutionally barred from seeking re-election .
the poll put meade two points behind a third possible contender , ricardo anaya , head of the pan , assuming the latter runs in a cross-party alliance with the center-left party of the democratic revolution ( prd ) , as the two parties have proposed .
the pan has been beset by infighting since it lost power and has yet to agree on a candidate with the prd .
some inside the pan have already indicated they could support meade .
in a scenario in which anaya ran for the pan alone , he and meade each drew 16 percent of the vote , with lopez obrador out in front at 32 percent , the poll showed .
meade said on tuesday he was good with numbers and expressed certainty he would win the presidency , but some of the figures in the reforma poll underlined the challenge he faces .
seven out of ten voters said they did not know meade , and negative opinions of him were five percentage points higher than positive ones .
only 13 percent of voters did not know lopez obrador and the balance of opinion was neutral .