laura loomer of rebel media rushed the stage at the controversial nyc shakespeare in the park performance that takes a modern twist on julius caesar by playing out an assassination of a president trump look-alike .
loomer yelled stop leftist violence before she was escorted off stage.we re huge fans and hope more people will follow her lead .
can you imagine if the tables were turned and they performed the same play using obama as the one to be assassinated ?
the double standard here is unbelievable !
you have the blood of steve scalise on your hands !
the interesting irony is that the liberal crowd screamed and yelled at her .
the left loves civil disobedience -except when it spoils their enjoyment of highbrow assassination porn .
do they advocate for violence against our president ? they literally have antifa chants during julius caesar before trump gets assassinated pic.twitter.com/6abhochsnc jack posobiec ( @ jackposobiec ) june 17 , 2017ms .
loomer was arrested by the the nypd and was released within hours .
laura s press conference : jack posobiec also got up and bravely yelled at the crowd .
he yelled you re all goebbels in case you don t know : goebbels was the nazi propaganda minister : german nazi party member joseph goebbels became adolf hitler s propaganda minister in 1933 , which gave him power over all german radio , press , cinema , and theater.in 1925 goebbels met the party leader adolf hitler .
in 1926 he was made gauleiter , or party leader , for the region of berlin , and in 1927 he founded and became editor of the official national socialist periodical der angriff ( the attack ) .
he was elected to the reichstag , the german parliament , in 1928 .
by exploiting mob emotions and by employing all modern methods of propaganda goebbels helped hitler into power .
his work as a propagandist materially aided hitler s rise to power in 1933 .
when hitler seized power in 1933 , goebbels was appointed reichsminister for propaganda and national enlightenment .
from then until his death , goebbels used all media of education and communications to further nazi propagandistic aims , instilling in the germans the concept of their leader as a veritable god and of their destiny as the rulers of the world .
in 1938 he became a member of the hitler cabinet council .
late in world war ii , in 1944 , hitler placed him in charge of total mobilization .
as reichsminister for propaganda and national enlightenment , goebbels was given complete control over radio , press , cinema , and theater ; later he also regimented all german culture .
goebbels placed his undeniable intelligence and his brilliant insight into mass psychology entirely at the service of his party .
his most virulent propaganda was against the jews .
as a hypnotic orator he was second only to hitler , and in his staging of mass meetings and parades he was unsurpassed .
utterly cynical , he seems to have believed only in the self-justification of power .
he remained loyal to hitler until the end .
on may 1 , 1945 , as soviet troops were storming berlin , goebbels committed suicide.via : whale