moscow ( reuters ) - russia on thursday named nine u.s. government-sponsored news outlets likely to be labeled foreign agents under a new law that is being rushed through parliament in response to what moscow says is unacceptable u.s. pressure on russian media .
russia s lower house of parliament approved the law - allowing moscow to force foreign media to brand news they provide to russians as the work of foreign agents and to disclose their funding sources - on wednesday .
the legislation needs approval from the upper house of parliament , which is likely to happen next week , and the signature of president vladimir putin before it becomes law .
the russian justice ministry on thursday published a list of nine u.s.-backed news outlets that it said could be affected by the changes , which it said in a statement on its website were likely to become law in the near future .
it said it had written to the u.s. government-sponsored voice of america ( voa ) and radio free europe/radio liberty ( rfe/rl ) , along with seven separate russian or local-language news outlets run by rfe/rl .
one of the seven outlets provides news on crimea , which russia annexed from ukraine in 2014 , one on siberia , and one on the predominantly muslim north caucasus region .
another covers provincial russia , one is an online tv station , another covers the mostly muslim region of tatarstan , and the other is a news portal that fact-checks the statements of russian officials .
russia s broadside against u.s. media is part of the fallout from allegations that the kremlin interfered in the u.s. presidential election last year in favor of donald trump .
u.s. intelligence officials accuse the kremlin of using russian media organizations it finances to influence u.s. voters , and this week washington required russian state broadcaster rt to register a u.s.-based affiliate company as a foreign agent .
the kremlin denies meddling in the election and has said the restrictions on russian broadcasters in the united states amount to an attack on free speech .
the new media law in russia is retaliation , it says .
the draft legislation states that russian authorities can designate foreign media as foreign agents , making them subject to the same requirements that are applied to foreign-funded non-governmental organizations under a 2012 law .
under that law , foreign agents must include in any information they publish or broadcast to russian audiences a mention of their foreign agent designation .
they also must apply for inclusion in a government register , submit regular reports on their sources of funding , on their objectives , on how they spend their money , and who their managers are .
they can be subject to spot checks by the authorities to make sure they comply with the rules , according to the 2012 law , which has forced some ngos to close .
rfe/rl said in a statement it did not want to speculate what steps russia might take against it next , and looked forward to continuing its journalistic work .
voa director amanda bennett has said the station remains committed to providing independent news to global audiences .