berlin ( reuters ) - former finance minister wolfgang schaeuble was elected speaker of germany s lower house of parliament on tuesday , tasked with keeping order in a body where decades of conciliatory conventions are under threat from the arrival of the far right .
in an inaugural bundestag session following the sept. 24 federal election , lawmakers from the other parties showed their disdain for the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party by overwhelmingly rejecting its candidate for deputy speaker .
convention holds that each party represented in the bundestag names a deputy speaker .
but lawmakers spurned afd candidate albert glaser in three rounds of voting .
still , the afd , which has become the first far-right group represented in germany s parliament for more than half a century , made clear its intention to shake up german politics on the national stage .
the people have decided , now a new era begins , afd parliamentary leader bernd baumann told the chamber .
schaeuble , who won 501 of 705 votes for the post of speaker , shot back in his maiden speech : nobody on their own represents the people .
germany s longest serving lawmaker , 75-year-old schaeuble is one of the country s most respected politicians and seen as well qualified to tame recalcitrant lawmakers .
by agreeing to move to the bundestag , schaeuble has opened the way for the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) to take over his powerful finance ministry , helping to unblock talks on an expected new three-way coalition with the greens .
the conservatives , fdp and greens convene on tuesday evening for coalition talks .
fdp leader christian lindner told broadcaster n-tv that schaeuble was an extraordinary figure in german politics : he has gravitas , a clear position and a natural authority that will be good to have in a parliament that has just become more diverse , and where some manners may be called into question .
the afd s baumann shocked other lawmakers by suggesting that they had used nazi-era tactics to prevent glaser from taking a deputy speaker post .
fdp politician marco buschmann said the comments were beyond tasteless .
the afd can nominate an alternative candidate for deputy speaker .
although there is precedent for a party s first choice being rejected , there is no precedent for a party failing to have any lawmaker accepted in the post .
the convention that each party in parliament is entitled to one vice speaker is not written into the constitution , and parliamentary business can continue if the afd is unable to get a vice president elected .