kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian opposition figure mikheil saakashvili was freed from detention on monday , after a ukrainian judge turned down the prosecutors request to place him under house arrest - the latest twist in his dramatic standoff with the authorities .
president of his native georgia for nine years until 2013 , saakashvili moved to ukraine after a popular uprising there and served under poroshenko as a regional governor from 2015-2016 , before falling out with the ukrainian leader .
the 49-year-old accuses the ukrainian authorities of widespread corruption .
prosecutors wanted him placed under house arrest while investigators look into accusations he assisted a criminal organization , charges he says were trumped up to undermine his campaign to unseat poroshenko .
the prosecutors petition ... is dismissed , judge larysa tsokol told the court .
a crowd of several hundred supporters , who had remained outside the courthouse throughout the eight-hour hearing , cheered the judge s decision .
the judge is good .
she did everything correctly and in accordance with the law , saakashvili said .
it means not everything is lost in ukraine .
the case against him remains open .
speaking after the ruling , which was attended by several prominent opposition lawmakers , including former prime minister yulia tymoshenko , saakashvili said he planned to continue his political work .
together with other opposition politicians he will prepare for a peaceful but very important and necessary change in leadership in ukraine , he said .
saakashvili , who launched a hunger strike to protest against his detention , sang the ukrainian national anthem at the beginning of the hearing .
the courtroom was so packed with journalists and saakashvili s supporters that his lawyer asked the judge to move the session to a larger room .
the investigation provoked violent clashes between protesters and riot police last week , while on sunday several thousand people attended a peaceful rally in central kiev to support saakashvili and call for poroshenko s impeachment .
while the protest does not represent a significant risk to government stability at the moment , it will likely attract the attention of ukraine s international supporters and donors , london-based research firm teneo intelligence said in a note .
saakashvili is also facing the threat of possible extradition to georgia , where he is wanted on criminal charges .
justice minister pavlo petrenko told reuters the extradition request was being considered but no final decision had yet been made .
he denied the case was politically motivated .
every person who lives in ukraine must respect the basic laws , he said .
unfortunately so far we only see things that are unworthy behavior of such a person .