every american should be demanding answers about why barack hussein obama is in such a hurry to empty gitmo before he leaves office .
illegal alien prisoners are being released at an unprecedented rate .
our borders are being left wide open by a president who s demanded our us border agents stand down .
visas are being given to people coming here with the sole intention of harming innocent americans .
law enforcement has been ridiculed and weakened by a spiteful racist and his willing accomplices in the media .
what do we need to do to alert the kim kardashian followers our united states of america is intentionally being destroyed by a radical in the white house ? national security : the pentagon has cleared the release of 17 more terrorist detainees from guantanamo bay prison .
president obama puts jihadist boots on the ground before mobilizing u.s. troops in the middle east.a congressional aide told fox news on thursday that the white house s strategy in the decision this week to set free more terrorist prisoners from the gitmo facility in u.s.-controlled territory in cuba is to get the number of detainees there to as low as they can get , even if it means a good deal of risk .
the underlying reason is that closing gitmo was a major obama campaign promise in 2008 , and he doesn t want to leave office with it still open.but the promise was to close it in 2009 .
upon taking office , however , obama found himself faced with the fact that gitmo was a rather brilliant idea that the bush administration came up with to prevent captured terrorists from exploiting the u.s. legal system.the spectacle of u.s. courts setting terrorists free , after trials in which the jihadists american legal teams might actually get access to and make public sensitive classified information , was not anything for which obama wanted to be blamed .
he seems amenable , however , to his successor having nowhere to hold captured terrorists.release of the 17 supposedly low-level combatants , many of them from yemen , where war rages , brings the number of gitmo prisoners down to 90 .
we were told that osama bin laden s cook , ibrahim al-qosi , released by obama from gitmo in 2012 , was low-level , but now he cooks up terrorist operations as a celebrity leader of al-qaida in yemen.the pentagon is going along with this politicized emptying of the guantanamo bay holding facility .
and the decision coming right after an islamic state-inspired christmas party attack within the homeland , which slaughtered 14 innocent americans , suggests the u.s. military leadership has become a group of puppets.a major reason for former republican sen. chuck hagel s forced departure as obama s defense secretary last year after a brief tenure , let s not forget , was his hesitation in approving gitmo releases.in last week s gop presidential debate , it was a woman who promised that she would immediately reverse obama s emasculation of the pentagon .
carly fiorina pledged to bring back the warrior class petraeus , mcchrystal , mattis , keane , flynn every one was retired early because they told president obama things that he didn t want to hear .
obama calls gitmo a sad chapter in american history , but it was almost comic when the worst complaint shaker aamer , released from gitmo in october after nearly 14 years , could tell of in a british tv interview was they just suck all your feelings out of you , adding that torture is not about beating .
torture is not about hanging from the ceiling with handcuffs and all that all that presumably being three square halal meals a day , courtesy of the u.s. taxpayer.curiously , the most transparent administration in history is now imposing new , severe restrictions on journalist access to guantanamo bay , with no more visits to the two detention centers where most detainees are housed , and no more interviews of guards and staff .
outgoing u.s. southern command chief marine gen. john kelly told ap that the reason was : we really did have to get some organization to what was going on down there .
after all these years ? under obama , information on the frequency of prisoners assaulting guards and conducting hunger strikes has stopped being made public.it isn t torture or mistreatment that the obama administration is hiding from the world s eyes within the walls of guantanamo bay ; it s that what we have down there is a luxury resort to house terrorists , and that the president is incrementally releasing those soldiers of jihad back onto the battlefield after america has spent years fattening them up .
via : ibd