beijing ( reuters ) - china s military is preparing a sweeping leadership reshuffle , dropping top generals , including two that sources say are under investigation for corruption .
the changes would make room for president xi jinping to install trusted allies in key positions at a key party congress that begins on oct 18 .
a list of 303 military delegates to the communist party congress , published by the army s official newspaper on wednesday , excluded fang fenghui and zhang yang , both members of the central military commission .
the commission is china s top military decision-making body .
reuters reported this week that the 66-year-old fang , who accompanied xi to his first meeting with u.s. president donald trump in april , is being questioned on suspicion of corruption .
three sources familiar with the matter said zhang , the director of the military s political work department , is also the subject of a probe .
china s defense ministry did not respond to a request for comment .
the personnel changes herald a clean sweep of the top-ranking generals heading up the department .
all three of zhang s deputies - jia tingan , du hengyan and wu changde - were also missing from the list of congress delegates .
this is a very clear message : they re out , said cheng li , an expert on chinese elite politics at the brookings institution .
their political careers have come to an end .
on friday , news reports carried by the people s liberation army daily and the official news agency xinhua abruptly referred to the navy s political commissar , miao hua , as the political work department director , despite no official announcement of zhang being replaced in his role .
the department is in charge of imbuing political thought and makes military personnel decisions in a similar vein to the communist party s organisation department .
the political work department used to be headed by xu caihou , who along with a fellow former vice-chairman of the military commission , guo boxiong , was accused of taking bribes in exchange for promotions .
guo was jailed for life last year , while xu died of cancer in 2015 before he could face trial .
also among the key omissions from the list published wednesday were du jincai , who was replaced as the military s anti-corruption chief in march , and cai yingting , who left his post as head of the pla academy of military science in january .
taking into account officials who are likely to retire , as many as seven of the 11 spots on the military commission may be vacated , strengthening talk in chinese political circles that the body may be streamlined .
xi , who is commander-in-chief of china s armed forces , currently chairs the commission , which also comprises two vice-chairmen and eight committee members .
two sources familiar with the matter said the commission may be cut down to xi and four vice-chairmen , doing away with committee members and streamlining reporting lines .
li , the brookings expert , said that among those likely to be central to the army s refreshed leadership were li zuocheng , who took over from fang as chief of the joint staff department last month , miao and the three commanders of the army s ground , air and naval forces : han weiguo , ding laihang and shen jinlong .
the fact that all five were newly-appointed this year and none were members of the communist party s 200-odd strong central committee , li said , reflected the extent to which xi was rejuvenating the leadership as part of his years-long drive to modernize the military and make it more ready for combat .
this is really a major step from xi jinping to consolidate his authority to promote the young , those who have some professional experience , but are not corrupted , and certainly not belonging to the factions of guo boxiong and xu caihou , he said .