this is a sad commentary on a generation who has truly lost their moral compass .
no self respect , dignity or pride it s all about the 15 seconds of fame while we have yet to fathom how for almost three minutes , no one not even an adult or an employee stopped a now infamous fight inside a brooklyn mcdonald s. so far , one arrest has been made .
sixteen-year-old aniah ferguson was one of six girls who attacked 15-year-old ariana taylor and it seemed every teenager inside the mcdonald s was there to witness the violent carnage , for which they also captured cell phone video.the 15-year-old did her best to hold her own in the brawl , which was allegedly arranged via facebook .
new york daily news is reporting that taylor has taken to facebook to brag about her new-found fame .
a user named richey bandz commented on taylor s social media , saying , i applaud u shorty u a icon now , and taylor responded , thanks guys .
and that s when another user , marshonna espinosa said , so sad this little girl think she s getting famous for getting publicly humiliated .
no , you re not famous .
people felt bad for you .
we re not so sure ny daily news and marshonna s assumptions around taylor thinking she s famous are anything but assumptions .
when taylor posted a photo of herself , not to beat up , with the caption , i m gucci , we took it as her addressing the concerned public and letting us all know she s good.reports claim that ferguson had been hunting taylor down since january for some undisclosed disagreement involving a friend .
she suffered injuries and was taken to kings county hospital that same night .
but once the video was shared massively online , and even covered the front page of the new york post and daily news ( though their known for exploiting situations like this ) , moves were made to find the girls who are also students of erasmus hall high school .
even for a world star hip-hop era , the clip shocked most who viewed it .
the 15-year-old was literally a punching and kicking bag .
* * * warning * * * * this video contains extreme violence : after ferguson s arrest yesterday , her criminal record leaked and she has a history of violence at only 16 .
before , she was arrested for stabbing her brother and assaulting her grandmother , who had to take an order of protection against her grandchild .
she s had a total of nine arrests , six of them have been since september .
ferguson is unfortunately epitomizing the image and lifestyle of troubled youth .
from her latest felony , she s being charged as an adult .
obviously there s a bigger story here around teenagers like ferguson who come from troubled pasts and bring that into their present lives , allowing nothing but violence to speak for them.via : hello beautiful