frankfurt ( reuters ) - frankfurt emergency service staff started to evacuate patients from two hospitals in germany s financial capital on saturday ahead of the planned defusing of a massive world war two bomb .
some 60,000 people have to leave their homes early on sunday in germany s biggest evacuation since the war while officials disarm the 1.4 tonne british bomb .
it was discovered on a building site in frankfurt s leafy westend , where many wealthy bankers live .
more than 100 hospital patients , including premature infants and those in intensive care , were evacuated on saturday , frankfurt city councillor markus frank told reuters television .
more than 2,000 tonnes of live bombs and munitions are found each year in germany , even under buildings .
in july , a kindergarten was evacuated after teachers discovered an unexploded world war two bomb on a shelf among some toys .
frankfurt fire and police chiefs said they would use force and incarceration if necessary to clear the area of residents , warning that an uncontrolled explosion of the bomb would be big enough to flatten a city block .
the hc 4000 bomb is assumed to have been dropped by britain s royal air force during the 1939-45 war .
the country was pummeled by 1.5 million tonnes of bombs from british and american warplanes that killed 600,000 people .
german officials estimate 15 percent of the bombs failed to explode , some burrowing six meters ( yards ) deep .
three police explosives experts in goettingen were killed in 2010 while preparing to defuse a 1,000 lb ( 450 kg ) bomb .
the compulsory evacuation radius of 1.5 km ( roughly a mile ) around the bomb includes police headquarters , two hospitals , transport systems and germany s central bank storing $ 70 billion in gold reserves .
frankfurt s residents have to clear the area by 8 a.m. ( 0600 gmt ) on sunday and police will ring every doorbell and use helicopters with heat-sensing cameras to make sure nobody is left behind before they start diffusing the bomb .
roads and transport systems , including the parts of the underground , will be closed during the work and for at least two hours after the bomb is defused , to allow patients to be transported back to hospitals .
air traffic from frankfurt airport could also be affected if there is an easterly wind on sunday .
also , small private planes , helicopters and drones will be banned from the evacuation zone .
frankfurters can spend the day at shelters set up at the trade fair and the jahrhunderthalle convention center .
most museums are offering residents free entry on sunday , and a few of them will open their doors earlier in the morning than usual .