we ve all had questions about huma abedin but did you know how connected she is to the saudi government ?
does anyone doubt that the saudis are bankrolling everything the clintons do ?
the information below is fantastic and should be seen by anyone even remotely considering voting for hillary clinton .
huma abedin is the definition of shady !
the mainstream media has done nothing to seriously vet the connection between the clinton and saudi arabia , and the key role huma abedin plays in the life and work of hillary clinton are one core link .
abedin not only lived in saudi arabia from the time she was two years old , but her mother currently lives in saudi arabia and runs the journal for muslim minority affairs as well as being a dean at a woman s college there.despite the fawning coverage she has received , there are many unanswered questions about abedin , especially given her complete access to hillary clinton , one of the most powerful people in the world , a former secretary of state and possible future president .
as vanity fair william cohan writes in his piece : over the years huma has served in several positions , with increasingly important-sounding titles .
she has been hillary s body woman , her traveling chief of staff , a senior adviser , and a deputy chief of staff when hillary was secretary of state .
now , based in brooklyn , she is the vice-chair of hillary s 2016 presidential campaign.the facts about huma abedin and abdullah omar nasseef to his credit , cohan s vanity fair piece on the secretive abedin confirms a number of facts that have been reported by conservative media for a couple of years but have been twisted and convoluted by the mainstream media.for example , the vanity fair article flatly lays out the information that huma abedin was an assistant editor at a publication called the journal of muslim minority affairs from 1996 until 2008 .
he writes : when ( huma ) abedin was two years old , the family moved to jidda , saudi arabia , where , with the backing of abdullah omar nasseef , then the president of king abdulaziz university , her father founded the institute of muslim minority affairs , a think tank , and became the first editor of its journal of muslim minority affairs , which stated its mission as shedding light on minority muslim communities around the world in the hope of securing the legitimate rights of these communities .
it turns out the journal of muslim minority affairs is an abedin family business .
huma was an assistant editor there between 1996 and 2008 .
her brother , hassan , 45 , is a book-review editor at the journal and was a fellow at the oxford center for islamic studies , where nasseef is chairman of the board of trustees .
huma s sister , heba , 26 , is an assistant editor at the journal.as the masthead of this 1996 issue of the journal of muslim minority affairs shows , huma abedin was an assistant editor at journal .
down the masthead you can see the name of abdullah omar nasseef.aside from helping found the abedin s family business it s beyond dispute that abdullah omar nasseef was the secretary-general of a group called the muslim world league .
that s not controversial and cohan does acknowledge this in vanity fair : in his early years as the patron of the abedins journal , nasseef was the secretary-general of the muslim world league , which andrew mccarthy , the former assistant u.s. attorney who prosecuted the blind sheik , omar abdel rahman , in the wake of the 1993 world trade center bombing , claims has long been the muslim brotherhood s principal vehicle for the international propagation of islamic supremacist ideology .
although it describes itself a nongovernment organization , the muslim world league is an effectively an arm of the saudi arabian government .
as a lawsuit posted on the philadelphia enquirer website states a full time employee of the muslim world league testified as follows : let me tell you one thing , the muslim world league , which is the mother of iiro ( international islamic relief organization ) is a fully government funded organization .
in other words , i work for the government of saudi arabia .
i am an employee of that government.second , the iiro is the relief branch of that organization which means that we are controlled in all of our activities and plans by the government of saudi arabia.keep that in mind , please i am paid by my organization which is funded by the [ saudi ] government the [ iiro ] office , like any other office in the world , here or in the muslim world league , has to abide by the policy of the government of saudi arabia .
if anybody deviates from that , he would be fired ; he would not work at all with iiro or with the muslim world league.according to the group s own website , the muslim world league : is engaged in propagating the religion of islam , elucidating its principles and tenets , refuting suspicious and false allegations made against the religion .
the league also strives to persuade people to abide by the commandments of their lord , and to keep away from prohibited deeds .
the league is also ready to help muslims solve problems facing them anywhere in the world , and carry out their projects in the sphere of da wah , education and culture .
the league , which employs all means that are not at variance with the sharia ( islamic law ) to further its aims , is well known for rejecting all acts of violence and promoting dialogue with the people of other cultures.the group s claim about rejecting all acts of violence is specious given its connection to the saudi government and the kingdom s advocacy for sharia law , which it practices with gusto.desperate to retain the saudi royal family s iron grip , saudi arabia banned all public gatherings .
the saudi arabian government uses both public beheading and crucifixion as punishments , for example , and in 2012 sentenced a 16-year-old who d protested against the government to both .
saudi arabia recently sparked international outrage when it executed over 40 people deemed terrorists .
many were beheaded.following 9/11 , the saudis came under intense government scrutiny for their role in funding terror through ostensively charitable groups .
in 2007 , abc news reported saudis still filling al qaeda s coffers : despite six years of promises , u.s. officials say saudi arabia continues to look the other way at wealthy individuals identified as sending millions of dollars to al qaeda .
if i could somehow snap my fingers and cut off the funding from one country , it would be saudi arabia , stuart levey , the under secretary of the treasury in charge of tracking terror financing , told abc news.the mainstream media has done nothing to serious vet the connection between the clinton and saudi arabia , and the key role huma abedin plays in the life and work of hillary clinton are one core link .
abedin not only lived in saudi arabia from the time she was two years old , but her mother currently lives in saudi arabia and runs the journal for muslim minority affairs as well as being a dean at a woman s college there.further tying the clintons to the saudis is big money .
cnn reported in 2008 that donations to the william j. clinton foundation include amounts of $ 10 million to $ 25 million from the kingdom of saudi arabia .
vanity fair points out huma s ties there after clinton left her role as secretary of state : in addition to the state department and teneo jobs , huma was hired as a consultant to the william j. clinton foundation to help plan for hillary s post-state philanthropic activities , and as a personal employee of hillary s.the saudis have denied the accusation they ve funded terrorism and also say they complied with u.s. orders , telling abc that after the sept. 11 attacks , the country took prompt action and required saudi banks to identify and freeze all assets relating to terrorist suspects and entities per the list issued by the united states government .
one of the organizations specifically singled out for funding terrorism was founded by the abedin family benefactor .
in 1988 , naseef also founded the charitable giving arm of the muslim world league , an entity called rabita trust.remember the league s connection to the saudis as stated earlier and it s clear that naseef was not a loose cannon but effectively acting as an employee of the kingdom.one of the other founders of the rabita trust was wa el hamza julaidan , who that same year would also become one of the four founders of al qaeda .
in 1984 , julaidan had worked with osama bin laden to set up mujahedin training camps in afghanistan .
as u.s. news reported in 2003 : afghanistan forged not only financial networks but important bonds among those who believe in violent jihad .
during the afghan war , the man who ran the muslim world league office in peshawar , pakistan , was bin laden s mentor , abdullah azzam .
another official there was wael julaidan , a saudi fundraiser who would join bin laden in founding al qaeda in 1988 .
documents seized in raids after 9/11 reveal just how close those ties were .
one record , taken from a saudi-backed charity in bosnia , bears the handwritten minutes of a meeting between bin laden and three men , scrawled beneath the letterhead of the iiro and muslim world league .
the notes call for the opening of league offices .
.
.
for the pakistanis , so that attacks can be made from them .
a note on letterhead of the saudi red crescent saudi arabia s red cross in peshawar asks that weapons be inventoried .
it is accompanied by a plea from bin laden to julaidan , citing an extreme need for weapons .
shortly after the 9/11 attacks , the government froze the assets of the rabita trust for funding terrorism .
as the new york times reported in october , 2001 : the bush administration vowed today to seize the assets of more individuals it says support terrorism , including a prominent businessman from saudi arabia , a united states ally whose reluctance to move against people and groups with ties to osama bin laden has become a politically sensitive also on the list is rabita trust , a pakistani charity that at least until recently had pakistan s president , gen. pervez musharraf , on its board .
administration officials said they warned president musharraf of the impending order against the rabita trust and encouraged him to disassociate himself from what they described as its founder s links to al qaeda , mr. bin laden s terrorist network.in march , 2002 federal law-enforcement officials conducted raids on 15 organizations that the treasury department suspected of laundering money .
the new york times reported : one other place searched today was the office of the international islamic relief organization at 360 south washington street in falls church , va. , another washington suburb.that charity has a parent , the muslim world league , that officials said was also searched .
corporate records show that the muslim world league , which is financed in part by the saudi government , is based at the same address as the relief organization , in falls church , but that it has used the herndon building as a mailing address.last october , the treasury department listed another islamic charity financed by the muslim world league , the rabita trust , as having connections to al qaeda.the connection of abdullah omar nasseef to terror funding in general and al qaeda specifically is clear and convincing ; just as clear and persuading as his connection to the abedin family is.the muslim world league was the mother organization of two groups the government believed were involved in funneling money to terrorists the rabita trust and the international islamic relief organization ( iiro ) .
both groups are listed on the treasury department s website .
both naseef s co-founder wa el hamza julaidan himself and the rabita trust as an organization were placed by lists of terror funders by both the united states and the united nations.the treasury department met cited the rabita trust for providing logistical and financial support to al qaida .
the treasury department s discussion of the iiro goes into detail about the money and logistics support they provided terror groups and includes information that shows that these provide both legitimate charity services but also act as a money laundering operation to get funds to terror groups : international islamic relief organization ( iiro ) the iiro was established in 1978 and , according to its website , the organization has branch offices in over 20 countries in africa , europe , asia , and the middle east.abd al hamid sulaiman al-mujil ( al-mujil ) is the executive director of the iiro eastern province ( iiro-ep ) branch office in the kingdom of saudi arabia .
al-mujil has been called the million dollar man for supporting islamic militant groups .
al-mujil provided donor funds directly to al qaida and is identified as a major fundraiser for the abu sayyaf group ( asg ) and jemaah islamiyah ( ji ) .read more : breitbart news