agua bonita , colombia ( reuters ) - colombia s former marxist farc rebels have begun to construct communes in rural areas once torn apart by violence , part of their bid to reintegrate into society following a peace deal with the government .
more than 11,000 fighters and supporters of the revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) have demobilized under last year s deal , ending its part in a half-century war that has killed more than 220,000 people .
the group is now a political party , known as the people s revolutionary alternative force , maintaining the farc acronym in spanish .
the deal has been met with skepticism by many colombians , who oppose ex-rebel participation in politics and have demanded jail sentences for leaders accused of murder , kidnapping and sexual violence .
former rebels living in the nascent town of agua bonita , in southern caqueta province , say a communal model will help alleviate deep socio-economic inequalities in colombia , where the rural poor often lack access to public services .
this is a project that will create conditions for a dignified life , where people aren t just guaranteed dignified housing , but also health , employment , education , federico montes , an ex-rebel and community leader told reuters .
the town , which has 65 modest houses , is carved from caqueta s jungle and plains , long the scene of battles between the rebels and the military .
it is so far home to 250 former combatants and their families , and has a library , health center , communal store and bakery .
towns like agua bonita will help fight the country s high poverty rate and offer a model for communal living in line with leftist beliefs , montes said .
we want to build a small model of what a more just , more equal and most of all more humane colombia could be , where people have basic services and jobs , he said .
the farc were founded in 1964 as the armed wing of the country s communist party and revere marxist leaders like che guevara .
the group has long nurtured ties with socialist and communists governments in venezuela and cuba .
while local ex-rebels see the commune projects as a chance to build local left-wing utopias , national farc leaders are more cautious .
when asked whether the communities would be run as communist enclaves , pastor alape , a leader of the farc party , angrily denied they would have such an ideology and said any suggestion would open them up to criticism that they want to run independent states .
many farc members have expressed fears they could be targeted for assassinations in a repeat of the 1980s killings of some 5,000 members of the rebel-allied patriotic union party , which grew out of a failed peace process with the government .
residents have begun to plant pineapple , plantain and cassava and plan to hand over the $ 2,700 they are supposed to receive from the government after demobilization to the community .
agua bonita is protected by the police , while the army operates nearby in an effort to combat crime gangs who are trying to move into former rebel territory and take control of lucrative coca crops , the base ingredient in cocaine .
we need to be united to survive , said 34-year-old danilo ortiz , who spent two decades as a farc fighter , as he sewed a boot in the town s shoe-making workshop , set along a neat red dirt street .
rebels are looking for opportunities in areas that have not had state presence for years , joshua mitrotti , the head of the country s reintegration agency , said on a visit to agua bonita .
the town is a good start to integrating rural areas and could be replicated if it gets sufficient support from the government , said jean arnault , the head of the united nation s verification mission in colombia .