for anyone who thinks trump s comments have crossed over the line , perhaps they ve forgotten about the obama supported arab spring in egypt that resulted in the violent overthrow of president hosni mubarak who was replaced by the radical muslim brotherhood leader mohamed morsi .
and that s just one example donald trump accused president barack obama on wednesday of founding the islamic state group that is wreaking havoc from the middle east to european cities .
a moment later , on another topic , he referred to the president by his full legal name : barack hussein obama .
in many respects , you know , they honor president obama , trump said during a raucous campaign rally outside fort lauderdale , florida .
he is the founder of isis .
he repeated the allegation three more times for emphasis.the republican presidential nominee in the past has accused his opponent , democrat hillary clinton , of founding the militant group .
as he shifted the blame to obama on wednesday , he said crooked hillary clinton was actually the group s co-founder.trump has long blamed obama and his former secretary of state clinton for pursuing mideast policies that created a power vacuum in iraq that was exploited by is , another acronym for the group .
he s sharply criticized obama for announcing he would pull u.s. troops out of iraq , a decision that many obama critics say created the kind of instability in which extremist groups like is thrive.the white house declined to comment on trump s accusation.the islamic state group began as iraq s local affiliate of al-qaida , the group that attacked the u.s. on sept. 11 , 2001 .
the group carried out massive attacks against iraq s shiite muslim majority , fueling tensions with al-qaida s central leadership .
the local group s then-leader , jordanian-born abu musab al-zarqawi , was killed in 2006 in a u.s. airstrike but is still seen as the islamic state group s founder.trump s accusation and his use of the president s middle name , hussein echoed previous instances where he s questioned obama s loyalties.in june , when a shooter who claimed allegiance to is killed 49 people in an orlando , florida , nightclub , trump seemed to suggest obama was sympathetic to the group when he said obama doesn t get it , or he gets it better than anybody understands .
in the past , trump has also falsely suggested obama is a muslim or was born in kenya , where obama s father was from .
via : ap