in case you hadn t heard , obama signed a new un development plan to make america a socialist nation by 2030 .
yes , it s true and the un is celebrating by unveiling a statue celebrating our global citizenship .
here are a few of the important points in the plan that spell out the shared responsibility with the globe and then information below about the statue in nyc : communists say that socialism is the stepping stone to communism , and the un 2030 sustainable development agenda won t fail to disappoint them .
socialism hinges on several economic factors which coincide with sustainable development goals .
they are universal healthcare , universal education , universal employment , and wealth redistribution .
all of these are outlined clearly in the un agreement.for example on the subject of universal healthcare , on page 6 , section 26 of transforming our world : the 2030 agenda for sustainable development in the section titled the new agenda it states:26 .
to promote physical and mental health and well-being , and to extend life expectancy for all , we must achieve universal health coverage and access to quality health care .
no one must be left behind .
we commit to accelerating the progress made to date in reducing newborn , child and maternal mortality by ending all such preventable deaths before 2030 .
we are committed to ensuring universal access to sexual and reproductive health-care services , including for family planning , information and education.this goal is also repeated as sustainable development goal # 3 , page 14 , section 3.8:3.8 achieve universal health coverage , including financial risk protection , access to quality essential health-care services and access to safe , effective , quality and affordable essential medicines and vaccines for all.as it pertains to wealth redistribution and universal employment the proof is found on page 7 , section 27:27 .
we will seek to build strong economic foundations for all our countries .
sustained , inclusive and sustainable economic growth is essential for prosperity .
this will only be possible if wealth is shared and income inequality is addressed .
we will work to build dynamic , sustainable , innovative and people-centred economies , promoting youth employment and women s economic empowerment , in particular , and decent work for all.universal employment is also mentioned on page 12 as sustainable development goal # 8 : goal 8 .
promote sustained , inclusive and sustainable economic growth , full and productive employment and decent work for all.the last time i read the words shared responsibility it was when i discovered that the obamacare fine imposed by the irs for failing to have health insurance was called the individual shared responsibility payment .
while i thought this had to be a veiled reference to some marxist dictator s quote , it now appears that it has more to do with the progressive globalization movement.this weekend the united nations is set to celebrate its 70th anniversary .
as apart of those celebrations the u.n. will unveil a new work of art in new york city titled enlightened universe .
the u.n. claims this new sculpture is all about global citizenship and shared responsibility : in celebration of the seventieth anniversary of the united nations , a monumental art installation entitled enlightened universe will be unveiled on saturday , 24 october , at 4:30 p.m. at the rumsey playfield in central park .
the installation created by spanish artist crist bal gabarr n is presented by the gabarron foundation in partnership with the united nations.the commemorative work of art depicts 70 life-size figures joined in hand around a central globe , creating a human chain of global citizenship , respect for nature and shared responsibility .
the sphere measures 6,371 millimetres in diameter to correspond to the earth s average radius of 6,371 kilometres .
the 70 figures represent the 70 years of the united nations .
rumsey playfield , where the sculpture is to be erected , is an area of the central park where concerts and other events are held.considering that the new united nations sustainable development plan calls for the united states to become a socialist nation by 2030 , it s not surprising that obamacare , which was designed to push the u.s. towards government run healthcare , and the united nations , would share the same collectivist , albeit marxist , vocabulary.via : progressives today