berlin ( reuters ) - the mayor of a small town in western germany known for pursuing liberal migrant policies was stabbed in the neck at a kebab shop on monday evening and seriously hurt in an attack that officials suspected was politically motivated .
the conservative mayor of altena , andreas hollstein , appeared at a news conference on tuesday to describe the attack which left him with a 15 cm long cut on his neck , covered in a white plaster .
i feared for my life , said the 57-year-old mayor who has received a german integration prize from chancellor angela merkel .
he said the attack took place in an atmosphere of growing social tension and hate .
the attacker asked him if he was the mayor , before saying : you let me die of thirst and let 200 refugees into altena , hollstein recalled .
then the man plunged a 30 cm long kitchen knife into him .
police told reporters that the suspect , identified only as werner s. , had been arrested .
they believed his motives were xenophobic and political , although they took it to be a spontaneous attack , adding he had alcohol in his system .
the attack comes as germany struggles to deal with an increasingly fractured society .
many voters are still angry about the influx of more than 1.6 million people seeking asylum in the two years to the end of 2016 .
in a september election , some 13 percent of germans voted for the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) which campaigned hard against merkel s open-door migrant policy .
it brings us no further forward if we transmit political views with hate , hollstein said .
he said his wife had warned him about possible attacks due to his policies but he was determined to continue his work .
i will push for refugees and for other people in a weaker social situation , he vowed , thanking the owner of the shop and his son for probably saving his life .
under his leadership , the town of altena , with 17,000 residents and 450 refugees , has taken in more migrants than it was allocated .
politicians including merkel expressed their shock .
i am horrified by the knife attack on the mayor andreas hollstein - and very relieved that he can already be back with his family .
thanks also to those who helped him , merkel said via her spokesman on twitter .
the attack is reminiscent of the stabbing two years ago of a candidate for mayor of cologne , henriette reker , in an anti-refugee attack .
she was seriously hurt but went on to win the election and become mayor .