kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - kim jong nam , the murdered half-brother of north korea s leader , had a dozen vials of antidote for lethal nerve agent vx in his sling bag on the day he was poisoned , a malaysian court was told this week .
two women , indonesian siti aisyah and doan thi huong , a vietnamese , are charged with conspiring with four north korean fugitives in the murder , making use of banned chemical weapon vx at the kuala lumpur international airport on feb. 13 .
the vials contained atropine , an antidote for poisons such as vx and insecticides , toxicologist dr k. sharmilah told the court on wednesday , state news agency bernama said .
however , she did not know if the vials were marked in korean , she said when cross-examined by siti aisyah s lawyer , gooi soon seng .
kim jong nam , who was living in exile in macau , had criticized his family s dynastic rule of north korea and his brother had issued a standing order for his execution , some south korean lawmakers have said .
malaysia was forced to return kim jong nam s body and allow the suspects hiding in the embassy to return home , in exchange for the release of nine malaysians barred from leaving pyongyang .
on thursday , a police witness told the court huong had the opportunity to dispose of a t-shirt and short skirt she had worn during the alleged attack .
the t-shirt , bearing the word lol , and the skirt could have easily been found in a pile of clothes in the hotel room where huong stayed , the witness , nasrol sain hamzah , an assistant superintendent , told huong s lawyer , hisyam teh poh teik .
earlier , nasrol told the court that he needed huong to point out the clothes which had been concealed when the police raided .
defence lawyers say siti aisyah and huong , arrested in kuala lumpur within days of the killing , were duped into thinking they were playing a prank for a reality tv show and did not know they were poisoning kim jong nam .
north korea has denied accusations by south korean and u.s. officials that kim jong un s regime was behind the killing .
the court hearings , which have run more than a month , are to resume on jan. 22 .