beijing ( reuters ) - china must step up its battle against corruption in order to safeguard against a soviet-style collapse , the country s second most senior graft buster said in an editorial on wednesday .
yang xiaodu , the deputy secretary of the central commission for discipline inspection , who was promoted to the ruling communist party s 25-strong politburo last month , said failure would risk the red country changing color .
in unusually direct and strongly worded criticism of previous administrations , yang said in a previous period , corruption had been allowed to fester to such an extent that the party s leadership had weakened , with supervision soft , and ideology apathetic .
it had developed to the point where if not rectified , the country could change color , yang wrote in the official people s daily .
the future fate of the party and the country s people could follow the same old road to ruin as the soviet union and the eastern bloc .
president xi jinping , like many officials before him , is steeped in the party s long-held belief that loosening control too quickly or even at all could lead to chaos and the break up of the country .
the party regularly implores cadres to study the collapse of the soviet union in the early 1990s .
yang s editorial is the latest salvo signaling that the intensity of xi s signature war on corruption would not wane despite the departure of xi s right-hand man , wang qishan , who was widely seen as china s second most powerful politician before being replaced as anti-corruption chief in a leadership reshuffle last month .
wang s replacement , zhao leji , wrote a similarly strongly worded editorial in the people s daily on saturday .
yang said xi s anti-corruption achievements had been revolutionary in turning the blade of the knife inward .
but he said unhealthy pollutants within the party s political ecosystem had yet to be completely cleansed , and the anti-corruption fight remained grave and complex .
there is no road for retreat , only forward in attack , and definitely no pause or relax , yang wrote .
china has plans for a national supervision law and a new commission next year to oversee the expansion of xi s graft fight .
yang , who is also minister of supervision , had been wang s deputy since 2014 and his promotion to the politburo is seen as another display of the importance the central leadership attaches to fighting corruption .