( reuters ) - late birdies from thomas pieters and zach johnson gave the duo a share of the lead after the third round of the world golf championship-bridgestone invitational on saturday .
pieters , looking to become the first belgian winner on the pga tour , birdied the 18th hole for a four-under-par 66 that moved him to nine-under-par 201 at firestone country club in akron , ohio .
his late birdie moved him level with twice major winner johnson , who moments earlier had also birdied the last for a five-under-par 65 that briefly gave him the outright lead .
the pair are one shot clear of australian scott hend ( 63 ) , with japan ’ s hideki matsuyama ( 67 ) two shots back , and rory mcilroy ( 68 ) tied with two others another shot further adrift .
“ if i would have walked off today with a 65 or a 66 , i would have felt that was a fair reflection of how i played , ” said mcilroy .
“ but only three behind going into tomorrow , i can get off to a fast start and try and put a bit of pressure on the guys up ahead of me. ” overnight leader jimmy walker fell back after mixing two double-bogeys with two bogeys and two birdies for a four-over 74 that left him six back in a share of 10th with bubba watson ( 66 ) , jason day ( 70 ) and u.s. open champion brooks koepka ( 67 ) .
day was frustrated after following a birdie at the par-five 16th with two bogeys that left him with much more work to do in the final round .
“ i ’ m pretty angry right now , to be honest , ” said day .
“ going bogey-bogey is pretty poor coming down the stretch .
i ’ ve got to do something special tomorrow so i get my chances back to try and win this thing. ” british open champion jordan spieth ( 71 ) saw his hopes fade after two bogeys over his final three holes left him seven shots back in a share of 16th .
pieters started the round two shots back of walker and got off to a sizzling start with four birdies in his first five holes but started to unravel down the stretch .
the long-hitting belgian made a pair of bogeys starting at the 13th that dropped him back into a share of the lead .
he did well to make birdie two holes later but then fell back into a share of the lead again after a bogey at the 17th .
hend ’ s 63 , the lowest round of the day by two shots , was built on four birdies on each nine with his only blemish coming in the form of a three-putt bogey at the par-three seventh .