london ( reuters ) - british lawmakers will debate legislation underpinning the government s plan to leave the european union this week , the latest stage in an arduous journey through parliament .
the first two days of debate in the current stage of the process will be held in parliament on nov. 14 and 15 .
a total of eight days of debate are planned during this committee stage , used to make changes to the government s proposed wording of the bill .
formally known as the european union ( withdrawal ) bill , the legislation will then face several more stages of approval in the lower house of parliament , and must also make its way through a multi-stage process in the upper house .
both chambers must agree on the wording before it can become law .
what is the bill and what does it do ?
the legislation serves two main functions : 1 .
repealing the 1972 european communities act which made britain a member of the european communities , forerunner to the european union .
this effectively ends britain s eu membership .
2 .
transferring the existing body of eu law into british law .
this is designed to provide legal certainty about the complex process of leaving .
why is it controversial ?
the bill has faced criticism from opposition lawmakers , campaign groups and members of may s conservative party .
brexit is still divisive in britain after a referendum in june last year , and many people , including some lawmakers , want to retain as much of the country s current eu membership as possible .
others would like to reverse the vote .
may runs a minority government , which has a slim 13-seat working majority in the 650-seat parliament thanks to a deal with a small northern irish party .
a rebellion of seven or more conservative lawmakers could see her lose a vote in parliament and forced into making concessions .
the objections are mainly based on two themes : 1 .
the power for the government to amend eu laws as they are brought onto the british statute book .
these are often referred to as henry viii powers after the 16th century english monarch who ruled by proclamation .
the government says it needs to be able to fix the wording of laws to ensure they work correctly after brexit .
for example , where a law refers to an eu institution which will no longer have jurisdiction in britain , the law must be changed to point to the correct british equivalent .
critics say the bill gives ministers too much power to make changes , and creates the potential for policy shifts to be implemented without full parliamentary scrutiny .
the process through which the government would make the changes already exists and is known as secondary legislation .
it does allow for some degree of scrutiny by lawmakers , but would not submit changes to the full legislative process .
2 .
the bill does not contain a provision for parliament to vote on the final brexit deal .
the government has promised lawmakers they will get a meaningful vote on the outcome of negotiations in brussels to decide the terms of britain s exit and its future relationship with the bloc .
as it currently stands , this vote will be on whether to accept the terms of the deal , or reject it and walk away without a deal .
but critics says the promise of a vote should be written into the bill .
some also say that it should give lawmakers more options than the current take it or leave it vote .
this could mean an option to send britain back to the negotiating table .
what has happened so far ?
the bill cleared its first parliamentary hurdle in september when , after two days of debate , lawmakers voted 326 to 290 in favor of the principles of the bill .
although the government won the vote , several conservatives indicated they were unhappy with the details of it , and said they wanted to see concessions during the next stage .
what happens next ?
the first two days of the committee stage have been scheduled for tuesday and wednesday but the remaining six days have not yet been scheduled .
any lawmaker can submit changes for consideration .
so far , 186 pages of so-called amendments have been submitted .
the list will be scrutinized by parliament s deputy speaker , whittled down and grouped according to subject .
the amendments to be considered will be announced at the start of each day s debate .
the first two days will focus on the part of the bill that repeals the 1972 european communities act , the retention , conversion and interpretation of existing eu laws , and eu rights .
at the end of the debate over each group of amendments , some will be put to a vote .
if supported by a majority of lawmakers , the changes will be made to the bill .
they can still be reversed .
once all the groups of amendments have been debated , the bill is reprinted to include any amendments passed and it moves on to the next stage in the process .
which is ... ?
the bill will be subject to several more stages of votes in the lower chamber and the upper chamber of parliament .
the entire process will take months to complete , and there is no target end date .
report stage : any amendments voted by the house at committee stage will pass to report stage .
this is a new opportunity to add amendments .
the speaker of the house oversees this process .
third reading : this takes place immediately after report stage .
it usually lasts an hour and is a general discussion of the bill followed by a vote .
no amendments can be made .
house of lords : the bill passes to the unelected upper chamber of parliament , the house of lords .
lords can put forward their own amendments , each of which will be discussed and decided on in turn .
if the lords agree to any amendments , the bill passes back to the house of commons for its approval .
ping pong : if the bill passes back to the commons , they debate and vote on the lords amendments .
no new amendments can be introduced .
in theory the bill can continue passing back and forth between the lords and commons until the final bill is agreed upon .
royal assent : once the bill has been agreed by both houses of parliament , it is given royal assent , when the queen formally agrees to make the bill into an act of parliament .