the security of our nation has never been more threatened than it is today , under the incompetent leadership of barack hussein obama .
the idea that we have one of the most highly trained group of warriors in our us military paying for their own combat gear is unconscionable .
meanwhile , we are about the spend $ 50 million or $ 42,000 per tortoise , to transplant them from a desert in ca to a new environment , where they may or may not survive , is a perfect example of how upside down our nation s priorities are today breitbart congressman rep. duncan hunter ( r-ca ) , a marine with three combat deployments to iraq and afghanistan on his resume , says navy seals have been telling him they are running short on combat rifles.the associated press reports hunter describing a weapons carousel in which seals returning from deployment hand their weapons off to outgoing troops , a practice he described as undermining the train like you fight ideal , and disrupting the personal connection special operators develop with their finely-tuned weapons .
hunter stressed the importance of allowing special operators to train with the same weapons they bring into the field .
as it currently stands , following a deployment , a seal will have his weapon taken from him , which has been fine-tuned to certain specifications , and given to a different operator to use .
this means that seals standing by to deploy are waiting for different teams to come back stateside just so they can use their weapons , said hunter .
they want their rifles .
it s their lifeline .
so let them keep their guns until they re assigned desk jobs at the pentagon , the congressman urged.according to the navy times , some seals have been forced to spend their own money on combat gear .
former active-duty special operator lt. cmdr .
sean matson , visiting capitol hill at hunter s invitation , said he had to put up $ 900 of his own money to buy a high-quality ballistic helmet when the navy dragged its heels on upgrading his kit .
hunter portrayed the seal rifle shortage as a consequence of wasteful spending , noting that abundant funds for purchasing rifles , which are far less expensive than most of the equipment the military buys , should be available , based on congressional spending authorizations for special ops forces.hunter s chief of staff joe kasper told the navy times shortages of optics , night vision , and laser attachments have also been reported , even as the budget for navy special warfare increased .
so there are obviously some trade-offs being made , but they re occurring at the expense of operators and their firepower and those are the absolute worst trade-offs to make , said kasper .
meanwhile daily caller the marine corps is getting ready to conduct a massive operation to move hundreds of desert tortoises living on combat training grounds so they won t be crushed to death by military vehicles.the operation s total cost : $ 50 million to move 1,185 tortoises , or about $ 42,000 per tortoise .