london ( reuters ) - a man who refused to provide passwords to his electronic devices when stopped by british police was found guilty under terrorism laws at a court in london on monday , in a case that campaigners say threatens personal privacy .
muhammad rabbani , 36 , the international director of campaign group cage was found guilty of wilfully obstructing or seeking to frustrate an examination or search , and given a conditional 12-month discharge , and was ordered to pay a 620 pound ( $ 830 ) fine .
cage is an advocacy group which campaigns against the impact of counter-terrorism policies , and came to international attention over its links to jihadi john , a british islamic militant , before he went to syria .
rabbani said he was returning from a wedding in qatar when he was stopped at heathrow last november .
police seized his phone and computer , and demanded the passwords for the devices .
rabbani said that he had not provided the passwords as he wanted to protect the privacy of a client who he was working with on an anti-torture case .
however , judge emma arbuthnot found that rabbani was lawfully required to provide the passwords .
rabbani said he would appeal the decision .
he was held under schedule 7 of the terrorism act 2000 , which was used to detain david miranda , the partner of the journalist who brought leaks from former u.s. spy agency contractor edward snowden to world attention in 2013 .
rabbani said that the law poses a threat to personal privacy , and told reporters and supporters outside the court that the decision highlights the absurdity of the schedule 7 law .
they accept that at no point was i under suspicion , and that ultimately this was a matter of having been profiled , he said , referring to the judge and prosecution .
there are important implications for our collective privacy , as schedule 7 acts as a digital strip-search .
but the police welcomed the verdict .
today s verdict is an important one .
it s crucial that police are able to use the legislation that exists to help keep the public safe , said commander dean haydon , head of the met police counter terrorism command , in a statement , adding that schedule 7 was a vital tool in the fight against terrorism .
the met has retained rabbani s phone and laptop and is continuing its efforts to examine the contents .
( $ 1 = 0.7437 pounds )