cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - the world health organization ( who ) began distributing 900,000 doses of cholera vaccine on tuesday in bangladesh s camps for rohingya refugees fleeing from myanmar , as authorities rush to prevent a major outbreak of the deadly disease .
more than 10,000 cases of diarrhea have been reported in the past week alone , the who said .
doctors in two clinics have told reuters that there have been several cases of patients with the symptoms of cholera , a virulent diarrhea that kills within 36 hours if not treated .
cholera has not been identified in testing of patient samples by bangladesh s health ministry , although clinics say they are waiting for results for some samples sent last week .
there is a clear risk for cholera , said dr n. paranietharan , the who s representative in bangladesh .
sporadic cases are inevitable ( but ) we are not expecting a major outbreak like yemen , he said .
war-torn yemen is in the grip of a cholera crisis , with more than 750,000 sufferers afflicted by the bacteria , which is spread when contaminated faeces is ingested by humans , usually through the water supply .
the cholera vaccination campaign in bangladesh , the second largest in history , will be crucial to containing any outbreak , said paranietharan .
more than 1,000 people will fan out across the sprawling camps on the southern tip of bangladesh that are home to more than 519,000 rohingya muslims .
the rohingya fled buddhist-majority myanmar when government forces launched a ferocious offensive , denounced by the united nations as ethnic cleansing , in response to a series of rohingya militant attacks on security posts on aug. 25 .
in pounding heat and stifling humidity , traumatized and malnourished refugees are crammed into bamboo and canvas huts packed across muddy hillsides .
faeces lies in lanes that flood in the pouring rain .
more than 3,000 latrines have been installed but many overflow and sit above pools and creeks where refugees bathe .
many new wells for drinking water are shallow and have become contaminated by sewage , said paranietharan .
while we are doing this vaccination , it is not an alternative to fixing the water , sanitation and hygiene intervention , it just buys us time , he said .
sanitary facilities and hygiene promotion have still not met the standards .
they need to be improved quickly .
in a dysentery clinic in kutupalong camp run by the medical teams international group , patients with severe diarrhea lie motionless , moaning as intravenous fluid flows into them .
i believe we are facing a tsunami .
we just don t know if it s going to be 10 feet or 50 feet , said bruce murray , a physician at the clinic .
cholera is known to be endemic in bangladesh and now we are bringing in half a million people in squalid conditions and it s got to be inevitable .
it s a matter of when it hits , rather than if , he said .
murray said there could be tens of thousands of victims in an outbreak .
paranietharan said his organization had the capacity to handle 70,000 cholera cases .
as well as a handful of clinics , mobile teams are ready to go to inaccessible parts of the camps with oral rehydration salts that can save cholera patients if they can t get access to intravenous fluids .
aid workers worry they lack the staff to get the vaccines out quickly , while the who says it urgently needs $ 10.2 million to do the job properly .
the first round of the vaccination campaign will cover 650,000 people aged one year and older .
a second round will target 250,000 children aged between one and five with an additional dose for extra protection .