ames , iowa ( reuters ) - sarah palin , the politician-turned-reality tv star offered a passionate endorsement on tuesday to republican presidential front-runner donald trump , the reality tv star-turned-politician , declaring that “ the status quo has got to go. ” palin , a former alaska governor who was republican senator john mccain ’ s running mate in the 2008 election won by democrats barack obama and joe biden , appeared with trump at a rally in ames , iowa , two weeks before the state ’ s feb. 1 caucus , the country ’ s first nominating process ahead of the nov. 8 election .
trump is in a close race in iowa with fellow conservative republican ted cruz .
palin ’ s folksy , plain-speaking style has won her a loyal following among some conservatives , but she remains a polarizing figure , even among republicans .
it is unclear whether she can attract additional support to trump , whose own blunt rhetoric has helped lift him to the top of the crowded republican field .
“ he is from the private sector , not a politician , ” palin said in an animated speech after joining the business mogul and former host of tv ’ s “ the apprentice ” onstage .
“ can i get a hallelujah ? ” she described trump as an anti-establishment candidate who would “ kick isis ’ ass , ” referring to the islamic state militant group .
just hours after palin backed trump , police in alaska said they had arrested her eldest son , track palin , on suspicion of assaulting a woman and carrying a gun while intoxicated .
palin said there was nothing wrong with trump being a multibillionaire and that it did not make him an elitist , citing all the time he had spent with construction workers as a real-estate developer .
as trump stood alongside , palin said : “ the status quo has got to go , ” adding that the political establishment had been “ wearing political correctness kind of like a suicide vest. ” in a statement before the event , trump said he was “ greatly honored ” by the endorsement .
“ she is a friend , and a high-quality person whom i have great respect for. ” trump has led national opinion polls among republicans for months but is in a tight contest with cruz , a u.s. senator from texas , for the support of iowa republicans , who lean conservative and whose evangelical christians comprise a major voting bloc .
palin , who often discusses her christian faith , is popular among that group and endorsed cruz when he ran for the u.s. senate in 2012 .
cruz responded to her switch of allegiance with magnanimity .
“ regardless of what she does in 2016 , ” he tweeted , “ i will always be a big fan. ” she devoted a large portion of her speech to deflecting criticism from cruz and others that trump , who did not oppose legal abortion at least for a time , was not a true conservative .
despite the democratic victory , palin ’ s 2008 vice presidential run made her a national celebrity .
suggesting there were no fiercer fighters for conservative values than a small-town “ hockey mom , ” the former beauty-pageant winner professed a love of hunting with guns and thought it more important that the united states increase drilling for oil than fret about climate change .
since resigning her governorship in 2009 , palin has worked as a conservative political commentator and as the producer and star of lightly staged television shows about her large family enjoying alaska ’ s rugged landscapes .
but even some former admirers have wondered if her moment had passed , particularly after a speech a year ago before conservative iowa voters that at times was hard to transcribe and even harder to follow .
joe brettell , a republican strategist in texas , said he thought palin would not help trump much “ beyond a jolt in the news cycle. ” the crowd in ames listened to palin warmly but was divided afterward as to how valuable she would be .
june heidn , 62 , said palin was “ inspiring ” and might help trump appeal to female voters .
mike caruso , 40 , said it did not help him as he weighs giving trump his vote .
“ i think he ’ s pretty solid without her , ” he said .
( writing by jonathan allen ; additional reporting by eric beech , amy tennery and melissa fares ; editing by jonathan oatis , peter cooney and simon cameron-moore ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .