prague ( reuters ) - andrej babis , whose ano movement is heavily tipped to win this weekend s czech national election , is his country s second-richest man with an empire of chemicals , food processing , farming and media firms .
he also owns a restaurant on the french riviera with two michelin stars .
forbes magazine puts his worth at $ 4 billion , behind only petr kellner at $ 14.2 billion .
babis said in an interview with blesk daily this week he had valued his main asset agrofert at $ 4.6 billion .
babis set up fertilizer trader agrofert in 1993 as the czech unit of slovakia-based and formerly state-owned trading firm petrimex that had babis worked for since the 1970s .
he took control of agrofert in 1995 and has since expanded it , often through acquisitions .
babis moved ownership of agrofert and his other main firm synbiol to two trust funds at the beginning of this year .
the step was required by new conflict-of-interest legislation that applied to him as finance minister at the time .
the two trust funds ab private trust i and ab private trust ii are managed by long-term collaborators of babis , agrofert chairman zbynek prusa and board member alexej bilek .
babis s firms receive national and eu subsidies , both regular farming payments and investment aid , have numerous business deals with the public sector , and also depend on government regulation in sectors such as biofuels .
babis , finance minister from 2014 until may this year , has admitted being at some points in conflict of interest but has denied abusing the position .
police charged babis earlier this month over a 2 million euro eu subsidy awarded in 2008 to one of his projects , stork nest , and have also been looking into his past tax strategies which cost him the finance ministry in may .
he denies any wrongdoing .
a group of over 250 firms and 34,000 employees , it has activities in 18 countries , notably the czech republic , slovakia , germany and hungary , focusing on chemicals , farming , food processing , forestry and media .
agrofert had sales of 155.3 billion crowns ( $ 7.16 billion ) and earnings before interest , tax , depreciation and amortization of 14.7 billion crowns in 2016 .
it reported receiving subsidies , mostly eu farming funding , of 1.5 billion crowns last year .
- about 9,000 people work for a host of firms including deza , lovochemie , precheza , synthesia , fatra , slovakia s duslo and germany s stickstoffwerke piesteritz .
- products include fertilisers , sulfur , aromatic reactants , phenols , tar oils , pigments , acids , salts , pvc , polymers , pesticides , urea .
- 103,000 farmed hectares - grains trade , storage , seeds , feed , crop growing and livestock .
- forestry and timber - 16,500 employees - meat , poultry , dairy , bakeries - operations in czech republic , slovakia , germany - includes a large new bakery plant in germany - the largest czech producer of rapeseed-based biofuels , which are by law mixed into motor fuels .
- major supplier to state-owned fuels distribution firm cepro .
- babis s most criticized acquisition , including 23 newspapers and magazines , 3 small tv stations and a national radio .
the main asset is mafra , the publisher of two national broadsheet daily newspapers , mlada fronta dnes and lidove noviny as well as free newspapers , magazines and a number of news and entertainment websites , which babis acquired when he was running in the 2013 election .
mafra says it reaches 2.5 million print and 2.8 million internet readers .
the purchase sparked an exodus of staff who said they would not work for an owner who was a politician .
babis has denied ever influencing content although a leaked tape earlier this year suggested he discussed coverage of opponents with a journalist .
the journalist was fired .
media holdings also include radio impuls , the largest private radio station by number of listeners .
firm controlling other main investments .
assets include futurelife , a network of fertility clinics valued at over 100 million euros ; smaller biotech , food and real estate investments .
an arm looking after real estate , some farming and other projects , including the conference center and mini-zoo capi hnizdo ( stork nest ) , the source of babis s biggest legal trouble .
police charged babis with hiding ownership of the project a decade ago so it qualified for a 2 million euro european union development subsidy which was meant for small business .
he denies any wrongdoing .
he faces possibly years in jail if convicted .
a restaurant near cannes , france , that has received two michelin stars .
it features dinner tasting menus costing 98 to 185 euros per head .
( $ 1 = 21.6940 czech crowns )