bishkek ( reuters ) - european observers said on monday vote-buying and significant procedural problems marred kyrgyzstan s presidential vote , though they praised the move towards an orderly transfer of power in the volatile ex-soviet state .
sooronbai jeenbekov , a protege of the outgoing president , won on sunday with 55 percent - a stronger result than the near tie polls had predicted .
opposition leader omurbek babanov conceded defeat but said he would investigate irregularities .
the election is seen as a test of stability in the central asian country where russia still holds considerable sway and two previous leaders were ousted in violent riots .
kyrgyz news website turmush.kg published a video showing hundreds of babanov supporters rallying outside a local government building in his home talas region .
but there were no reports of violence .
the vote was competitive and candidates could , in general , campaign freely , the organisation for security and cooperation in europe ( osce ) said .
but cases of misuse of public resources , pressure on voters and vote-buying remained a concern , it added .
the mission s statement mentioned numerous and significant procedural problems during the vote count and initial stages of tabulation .
but it said the election had contributed to the strengthening of democratic institutions by providing for an orderly transfer of power .
an official confirmation of the figures is expected within a week .
a unchallenged result would mark the first peaceful transition of power between full-time presidents in the mostly muslim nation .
pre-election polls had suggested both candidates would fail to get 50 percent and have to proceed to a second-round runoff .
russian president vladimir putin on monday became the first foreign leader to congratulate jeenbekov on his victory .
outgoing president almazbek atambayev - who developed particularly close ties with moscow during his six years in office - dismissed western criticism as biased .
of course , they would be singing praise if a pro-american candidate won the election , kyrgyz news website 24.kg quoted him as telling foreign diplomats in a meeting on monday .
both candidates differed little on the main points of policy during the campaign : a secular state and hewing close to russia in a region where moscow vies for influence with the united states and china .
however , they represent rival interest groups and clans inside kyrgyzstan that are fighting for access to power and state resources .
atambayev and jeenbekov s social democratic party has the biggest faction in parliament and dominates the coalition cabinet .
jeenbekov has pledged to continue his predecessor s policies .
kyrgyzstan hosts a russian military base .