madrid ( reuters ) - catalan leader carles puigdemont has until 10:00 a.m. local ( 0800 gmt ) on monday to clarify whether he is calling for the region s independence from spain , with madrid threatening a return to direct rule if his stance remains ambiguous .
the wealthy region s threat to break away following a referendum that spain s constitutional court said was illegal has plunged spain into its worst political crisis since an attempted military coup in 1981 , just six years after the death of dictator francisco franco .
puigdemont made a symbolic declaration of independence last tuesday , only to suspend it seconds later and call for negotiations with madrid on the region s future .
spain s prime minister mariano rajoy then gave him a monday deadline to clarify his position and until thursday to change his mind if he insists on a split and said madrid would suspend catalonia s autonomy if he chooses independence .
the spanish government said puigdemont should answer the formal requirement with a simple yes or no and that any ambiguous response would be considered a confirmation that a declaration of independence had been made .
this would trigger the article 155 of the 1978 constitution , under which the government in madrid can install direct rule in any of spain s 17 autonomous communities if they break the law .
the central government can then sack the local administration and install a new governing team , take control of the police and finances , and call for a snap election .
sources close to the catalan government said puigdemont would send rajoy a letter before the deadline expires , although they declined to say what his answer would be .
local media , including catalan public broadcaster tv-3 and barcelona-based newspaper la vanguardia , said on sunday puigdemont was unlikely to say clearly whether he had declared independence and send instead a more elaborate response .
puigdemont , who is consulting local parties to prepare his answer , faces a dilemma .
if he says he did proclaim independence , the central government will step in .
if he says he did not , the far-left catalan party cup would probably withdraw its support for his minority government .
the catalan government says 90 percent of catalans voted for a breakaway in an oct. 1 referendum that central authorities in madrid declared illegal and which most opponents of independence boycotted , reducing turnout to around 43 percent .
puigdemont said on sunday his answer would be inspired by democracy , something most political observers in spain said was a sign he would push ahead with secession plans .
if this was the case , and article 155 was invoked , rajoy would then replace the catalan government with a new set-up to manage the region , which could be run by politicians or technocrats , madrid-based newspaper el mundo reported on sunday .
elections to the catalan parliament would then be held within three months .