new delhi ( reuters ) - rahul gandhi , the scion of india s most fabled political dynasty , will within weeks be crowned leader of the congress party , handing him a freer rein to prove if he can mount a credible challenge to the dominance of prime minister narendra modi .
the great-grandson of india s founding prime minister , jawaharlal nehru , has struggled to convince voters - and many in his party - that he is leadership material , especially after a drubbing in the 2014 general election .
modi s depiction of the 47-year-old as an undeserving prince has helped sideline gandhi since the last national vote , during which time congress has suffered some of its worst ever local election results .
but this year the economy has stumbled , and congress politicians hope a round of state elections , beginning in modi s home state of gujarat , offer them - and their leader - a shot at revival ahead of the next national poll in 2019 .
gandhi will soon take over as congress president from his 70-year-old mother , sonia gandhi , a symbolic promotion that three congress officials said they hoped would free his hand to shift the narrative from a clash of personalities - which modi has so far resoundingly won - to a debate about policies .
you will see many changes and every change will be a reaffirmation of what congress s core beliefs are , said party mp and senior leader jyotiraditya scindia , who works closely with rahul gandhi .
the right time has come to strike a chord with the masses against modi s governance style , and we will not miss it .
congress insiders acknowledge their leader has sometimes made it easy for modi s bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) to question his commitment to politics .
the key problem with rahul gandhi has been his lack of consistency , said a senior party figure , who declined to be identified .
he frequently takes a break after few roadshows and it is this inconsistency that has been a huge issue .
but congress officials say gandhi has recently been finding his stride criticizing modi for failing to create jobs , while the party has won a handful of recent by-elections .
gandhi is traversing gujarat , the western state where modi made his name , to fire up his party workers .
he has ditched some of the party rallies for one-on-one meetings with trade unions , dairy workers and small traders - a traditional modi powerbase that has been hit hard by recent economic reforms championed by the prime minister .
modi has taken notice .
last week he told workers from his hindu nationalist bjp that the nehru-gandhi dynasty would destroy gujarat .
his party president , recently dispatched to the gandhi family heartland in northern india , said this month that gandhi needed to swap his italian glasses for gujarati spectacles to see the economic development the bjp had brought to the region , in a jibe at his italian-born mother s roots .
bjp would love it to be a war of personalities .
congress has to frame it as a war of two different approaches , even ideologies , said sandeep shastri , a political scientist and congress expert at jain university .
gandhi , who rarely talks to the media , declined a reuters interview request .
rahul s father , grandmother and great-grandfather were all prime ministers in post-independence india .
but critics deride gandhi as a political lightweight who depends on his family name for power .
bursts of political energy have been followed by lengthy absences .
in 2015 he took nearly two months of leave , prompting modi s party to accuse him of holidaying while parliament was in session .
congress now governs states home to less than 10 percent of india s 1.3 billion population , its powerbase shriveled under the onslaught of modi s popularity .
congress insiders acknowledge the party is unlikely to win the december election in gujarat , but cutting into the bjp majority in the state would send a powerful signal that congress under gandhi has a fighting chance against a still-popular modi .
gandhi has set up a new social media team in new delhi to work on his image , and officials say he has been forging better ties with regional parties that are often key powerbrokers in india politics .
on a recent tour of gujarat , gandhi reached out to the frustrations of the state s powerful business community with a new tax regime , including small traders such as those selling dry fruits .
different tax rates on almonds and cashews , imposed under a new national sales tax modi s government launched in july , had left traders confused and damaged sales during the peak festival season .
we have to show him as the face of the party before gujarat elections , said a close aide , who declined to be named .
bjp leaders say they are untroubled , and that any small bounce in gandhi s standing will die down once the economy strengthens .
modi has called the slowdown a blip .
what does his claim to fame rest on ? , said nalin kohli , a national spokesman for the bjp .
two months of campaigning does not make him an active politician .