tunis ( reuters ) - a group of 25 refugees have been evacuated from libya to niger to have resettlement claims processed , in the first operation of its kind from the north african country , the united nations said on sunday .
the move is part of efforts to provide protection for refugees and other vulnerable migrants who travel to libya , often intending to attempt the dangerous sea crossing to italy .
many are trapped in smuggling networks or detention centers where they are exposed to a range of abuses including rape and torture that have been widely documented by human rights organizations and u.n. agencies .
about 43,000 refugees and asylum seekers registered by u.n. refugee agency unhcr are now in libya .
it is hard to resettle refugees directly from libya partly because most countries closed their embassies in tripoli after fighting escalated there in 2014 .
the initial group evacuated by air from tripoli to niamey on saturday was made up of 15 women , six men and four children from eritrea , ethiopia and sudan , according to the united nations .
today s evacuation symbolizes hope in finding safe solutions for vulnerable refugees in libya , roberto mignone , the unhcr representative for libya , said in a statement .
the operation was the result of a joint initiative by unhcr and the governments of libya and niger , and niger has agreed to host the group until their claims to be resettled in third countries are dealt with , it said .
we hope to be able to carry out more evacuations in the near future , said vincent cochetel , unhcr s special envoy for the central mediterranean .
but he said the scheme would remain limited in scale as long as commitments to resettle refugees remained insufficient .
these refugee evacuations can only be part of broader asylum-building and migration management efforts to address the complex movement of migrants and refugees who embark on perilous journeys across the sahara desert and the mediterranean sea , he said .
most migrants traveling through libya towards europe come from sub-saharan african countries .
many fleeing poverty , repression or conflict journey across the desert through niger , algeria or sudan .
the libya to italy crossing has become the main migrant route to europe since an agreement between the eu and turkey shut down smuggling through greece last year .
more than 600,000 have crossed by boat to italy since 2014 .
european states have pledged tens of millions of euros to libya , niger and migrants countries of origin in an effort to stem the flows .
departures from libya have dropped since july due to changes in smuggling activity and increased activity by libya s european-backed coastguard .
european policy has drawn criticism from human rights groups that say it traps migrants in libya , exposing them to further abuse there .
unhcr is seeking to open a refugee transit center in tripoli early next year to shelter some of the most vulnerable refugees as they await evacuation or resettlement .
the international organization for migration carries out voluntary repatriations of migrants from libya , flying home more than 10,600 so far this year .