san francisco ( reuters ) - affordable housing advocates are closely watching a package of bills currently under consideration by california lawmakers that would invest billions of dollars in helping to alleviate the state ’ s severe housing crisis .
for years , california residents have struggled to afford surging real estate and rental prices in many of the country ’ s most expensive housing markets .
nearly one-third of california renters pay more than 50 percent of their income toward rent .
if passed , the bills would create a permanent $ 300 million-a-year fund for affordable housing , streamline the approval process for housing construction in cities and authorize a $ 3 billion bond for the 2018 ballot , the first housing bond in california for over a decade .
the state ’ s senate has approved the package , but the assembly , which is expected to vote next week , has shown more reticence over costs .
lawmakers worked closely with democratic governor jerry brown , who in july announced his support for a general obligation bond , a permanent funding source for affordable housing and regulatory reform .
“ this comprehensive approach does what ’ s long been needed in california , ” brown said in july .
“ astronomical housing costs are straining family budgets and stressing employees who can ’ t afford to live where they work .
that ’ s unacceptable. ” on thursday , california treasurer john chiang urged state lawmakers to quickly pass the package as well as to increase the general obligation bond to between $ 6 billion and $ 9 billion to kick-start construction .
“ we have the opportunity now to move decisively to ease a 1.5 million-unit shortfall in affordable housing .
but we must think big and act boldly , ” chiang in a statement .
senate president pro tempore kevin de león and assembly speaker anthony rendon have also expressed support for a housing deal .
homeownership rates in california are at their lowest since the 1940s and the lack of supply is seen as a major contributor to the problem .
production of new homes across the state averaged less than 80,000 annually over the last decade , far below the projected need of 180,000 additional homes annually , according to the california department of housing and community development .