kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - lawyers for two women accused of murdering the estranged half-brother of north korean leader kim jong un said on tuesday low enzyme levels in his blood may have been caused by liver disease or hormone pills rather than a lethal nerve agent .
indonesian siti aisyah , 25 , and doan thi huong , 28 , a vietnamese , are charged with murdering kim jong nam by smearing his face with vx , a chemical poison banned by the united nations , at kuala lumpur airport on feb. 13 .
the women have pleaded not guilty , saying they thought they were involved in some sort of prank for a reality tv show .
they face the death penalty if convicted .
nor ashikin othman , a chemical pathologist with kuala lumpur hospital , told the court outside kuala lumpur blood samples taken from the victim showed low levels of cholinesterase - an enzyme needed in muscle control - which could be caused by exposure to poison such as insecticide or a nerve agent such as vx or sarin .
but she agreed with the defense that low enzyme levels could also have been due to other causes such as liver disease or the taking of female hormones by a man .
yes , the enzyme levels could be slightly lower by the taking of hormone pills by a man , she said .
in response to a question , nor ashikin also said it was possible the accused had had no contact with vx whatsoever as their blood samples yielded normal levels of cholinesterase .
but they could have also been exposed to a low dose of the poison , washed their hands with soap and water or ingested an antidote , she said .
siti and huong are accused of smearing the deadly nerve agent on the victim s face and eyes .
the trial has so far referred to the victim as kim chol , the name on the passport used by kim jong nam .
the post mortem report , made available to the media , said that vx was detected on swabs of kim jong nam s eyes and face , in the blood , plasma and urine .
the report described the victim s body as covered with tattoos .
these include a large black tattoo on the chest of a man with two fish-like fingers , and one of abstract-like motifs on his upper right arm that extends to his upper back .
police have also named four north koreans as suspects in the case and an interpol red notice , an international alert just short of an arrest warrant , has been issued for the four , who remain at large .
the trial continues on wednesday .