copenhagen ( reuters ) - denmark looks set to become the next european country to restrict the burqa and the niqab , worn by some muslim women , after most parties in the danish parliament backed some sort of ban on facial coverings .
full and partial face veils such as burqas and niqabs divide opinion across europe , setting advocates of religious freedom against secularists and those who argue that such garments are culturally alien or a symbol of the oppression of women .
the niqab covers everything but the eyes , while the burqa also covers the eyes with a transparent veil .
france , belgium , the netherlands , bulgaria and the german state of bavaria have all imposed some restrictions on the wearing of full-face veils in public places .
this is not a ban on religious clothing , this is a ban on masking , jacob ellemann-jensen , spokesman for the liberal party , told reporters on friday after his party , the largest in the coalition government , decided to back a ban .
this would effectively mean a ban on the niqab and the burqa , he added .
around 200 women in denmark wear such garments , according to researchers .
the three-party center-right minority government , its ally the danish people s party and the main opposition social democrats have all said they are in favor of a ban , though they are still discussing how the ban should be designed and enforced .
there will come a masking ban in denmark .
that s how it is , foreign minister anders samuelsen said on facebook .
his party , the liberal alliance , had previously been one of the staunchest opponents of a ban , saying it limited people s ability to freely choose their attire , but has now aligned its stance with that of the other coalition parties , the conservatives and the liberals .
so if it is practically possible to have such a ban without betraying ourselves or our own values , then the liberal alliance will vote for it , samuelsen said .
the social democrats , denmark s biggest party , has also signaled support in principle for a ban on garments such as the burqa , which it said oppressed women .
we are ready to ban the burqa if that is what it takes ...
but there are some dilemmas , not least with regards to how such a ban would be enforced , said the social democrats leader mette fredriksen during a debate in parliament on thursday .
norway s government in june proposed a ban on face-covering muslim veils in kindergartens , schools and universities .