the irony in obama s radical treasury secretary s decision to remove racist andrew jackson from the $ 20 bill , lies in the fact that jackson was the first democrat to be elected president .
rabid bernie sanders supporters are hell-bent on seeing bernie sanders fulfill his promise of breaking up the big bank monopolies .
andrew jackson was pioneer in staving off banking domination in his day.but alas it s official .moments ago politico reported that the u.s. treasury will announce that it plans to replace former president andrew jackson on the $ 20 bill with harriet tubman , the sources said .
there will also be changes to the $ 5 bill to depict civil rights era leaders.not every dead president is being scraped however : treasury secretary jack lew on wednesday will announce a decision to keep alexander hamilton on the front of the $ 10 bill and put leaders of the movement to give women the right to vote on the back of the bill.lew s decision comes after he announced last summer that he was considering replacing hamilton on the $ 10 bill with a woman .
the announcement drew swift rebukes from fans of hamilton , who helped create the treasury department and the modern american financial system .
critics immediately suggested hamilton take jackson off the $ 20 bill given the former president s role in moving native americans off their land.jackson may remain on the $ 20 bill in some capacity , but will clearly be demoted.while some pointed to the many accomplishments and qualities of hamilton for why he should stay on the currency printed by the very treasury the man created , the more popular argument for the founding father s retention was an argument about how awful the man on the $ 20 dollar bill was.the daily beast described jackson as villainous and linked to a february article that called him a mass murderer .
the new york post argued that old hickory may well have been our most racist president and was a vicious , power-mad kook .
lew told politico last july that treasury was exploring ways to respond to critics .
there are a number of options of how we can resolve this , lew said .
we re not taking alexander hamilton off our currency .
confused ?
disturbed ?
angry ?
you are not alone .
the following rant by mac slavo expressed many feeling about the proposed change.andrew jackson , who fought central bank , removed from $ 20 as public concern for liberty erasedjackson narrowly succeeded in staving off banker domination of the u.s. during his day.of course , andrew jackson , who was the united states seventh president , was also a complete controversy his entire lifetime .
it is no surprise that the same people who took down the confederate flag from the south on the back of a mass shooting tragedy are now trying to tear down the image of a particularly controversial and intriguing figure from the american past.jackson was a recalcitrant and unyielding general and war hero , and later an outsider riding a wave of populist support into the white house , bringing in sometimes unscrupulous companions , and plenty of masons .
many of his backers were diametrically opposed to the entrenched power of new york bankers and speculators , as well as patrician politicians who dominated the first phase of politics in the nation s history .
jackson played a nasty role in the trail of tears affairs with indians , too , and with the south and western expansion of slave-friendly territories .
many shades of grey.erasing andrew jackson from the faces of the fiat funny-money that is passed around by an increasingly ignorant and dependent society ( which itself has adopted digital currency as the new norm ) will further cut off the past from the masses , and ensure their enslavement.for entire story : zero hedge