bogor , indonesia ( reuters ) - south korean president moon jae-in on thursday unveiled a new policy aimed at deepening ties with southeast asia , as the north asian economic powerhouse seeks to curb its reliance on traditional trading partners like china and the united states .
moon made indonesia , southeast asia s biggest economy , his first state visit to the region and was accompanied by a delegation of around 200 business leaders .
the new southern policy aims to better connect south korea to the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) grouping and expand the economic influence of asia s fourth-largest economy in the region home to more than half a billion people .
korean diplomacy in asia has been more toward japan , china and russia .
but i see that it should expand to new horizons , moon told a business forum in jakarta , where he pledged to dramatically strengthen cooperation with asean .
south korea s presidential blue house has said the policy will mirror moon s new northern policy aimed at expanding cooperation with china , japan , russia , and mongolia .
indonesia and south korea signed on thursday a memorandum of understanding on a light rail transit ( lrt ) system in jakarta , part of a series of pacts reported to be worth up to $ 1.9 billion .
a recent year-long diplomatic standoff between seoul and beijing over the deployment of a u.s. anti-missile system has exposed the dependence of korean companies on chinese customers and likely exacerbated seoul s urgency to diversify ties .
during a joint news conference with u.s. president donald trump this week , moon said he was aiming for a more balanced diplomacy , which would include russia , asean countries , and members of the european union .
moon held talks with indonesian president joko widodo at a state palace in bogor , south of jakarta , and discussed infrastructure , trade , and also tension on the korean peninsula .
i appreciate president moon s position that he remains open to resolving any disputes through dialogue , widodo told a news conference in the dutch colonial-style palace .
indonesia has traditionally had good relations with north korea and maintains diplomatic ties and is one of a small number of countries with an embassy in pyongyang .
a number of south korean companies already have or are planning big investments in indonesia .
steel giant posco has a multi-billion-dollar joint venture with indonesia s krakatau steel , hyundai motor is setting up a car factory , and samsung electronics co assembles smartphones in the country .
indonesia is also emerging as an important market for south korean defense equipment and the countries are cooperating on a venture to jointly build a fighter plane , dubbed kf-x .
moon said south korea aimed to boost trade with indonesia to $ 30 billion by 2022 and eventually to more than $ 50 billion .
trade between the countries was worth about $ 10 billion in the first nine months of 2017 , up nearly a fifth from the corresponding 2016 period .
korean foreign direct investment rose about a quarter to $ 1.37 billion .
both leaders said the relationship between the countries had been redefined as a special strategic partnership .
south koreans make up one of indonesia s largest expatriate groups , with numerous korean restaurants and bars in parts of jakarta .
besides corporate muscle , korea s soft power has also grown in indonesia alongside other countries in southeast asia .
korean k-pop is hugely popular among indonesians , with long-established fan clubs and bands , like bts , touring the southeast asian country .
indonesian twitter accounts dedicated to korean pop idols have around a million followers .