tripoli/benghazi , libya ( reuters ) - a hundred meters from the office of libyan prime minister fayaz al-seraj in tripoli , guards at a detention center for migrants had a message for a visiting french delegation : no minister , no journalists , nobody is allowed in .
french foreign minister jean-yves le drian went to libya on thursday to revive u.n. talks between rival groups controlling the west and east , with a view to stabilizing a nation in turmoil since the fall of muammar gaddafi in 2011 .
but the tripoli leg of the visit showed how difficult it will be to find anyone capable of imposing authority , with a weak u.n.-backed government depending on an array of armed factions , each with its own agenda .
after meeting seraj in his impressive office , le drian was meant to visit the nearby detention facility to see conditions for african migrants caught as they try to reach europe .
but after cnn aired a video appearing to show migrants being auctioned off as slaves , libyan officials are on edge , with guards refusing to let the french visitors through the detention camp s thick steel door .
what do you want to call it ?
said a visibly tetchy man who described himself as the supervisor .
it is a detention center .
nobody is allowed .
not the minister and not journalists .
not allowed .
french officials played down the incident , saying there had been no time for a visit anyway .
but it was symptomatic of how seraj s government is struggling to make an impact , failing to fix anything from electric power cuts to a collapsing currency .
seraj promised to tackle migrant trafficking , but french officials say that will depend on which armed groups are prepared to help him .
while armed factions are vying for control in tripoli , power in benghazi is in the hands of one man , general khalifa haftar , whose forces have driven out islamist fighters .
it s a lot more ordered here .
there s no doubt here that there is just one chief , said a european security contractor in benghazi .
haftar s self-styled libyan national army is made up of different groups , which he struggles at times to control .
but the general , who hopes to run for the libyan presidency next year , sought to impress his french visitor with as much fanfare as possible .
soldiers stood at strategic points , uniforms spotless and boots polished , in contrast to other parts of libya , where armed groups are more informally dressed in a mixture of uniforms and civilian clothes .
opponents accuse haftar of gaddafi-style high-handedness and of trying to revive a police state , something his supporters vehemently deny .
he did not leave his office during the french visit , leaving le drian to review air , sea and land forces as a military band struggled to play la marseillaise .
haftar s aides did not allow journalists to film his meeting with le drian with their phones .
i appreciate the frankness of our exchanges , le drian said after an hour-long discussion .
that s quite natural , haftar responded loftily .
haftar is attempting to position himself as a presidential candidate , but there is still sporadic fighting in benghazi despite his having declared victory in july .
one diplomat recalled how haftar was envious of seraj after he met u.s. president donald trump in washington last month , perhaps sensing a shift in the libyan balance of power .
i don t know how comfortable he ( haftar ) is feeling , because i sense that this time the security was much more stringent than when we were last here ( in august ) , said a french official .
he may be feeling some pressure .