carly fiorina and chris christie dropped out of the campaign for the republican nomination for president today .
the prospect of not making saturday s gop debate on cbs as a result of poor finishes in new hampshire last night possibly triggered the pullout .
the 2016 presidential race is quickly dwindling down but questions linger regarding the two who dropped out today : did chris christie miss his opportunity to have success at a run for president in 2012 ?
he said at the time that he wasn t ready to run and then the bridgegate scandal happened tarnishing his chances for a clean entrance into the 2016 campaign .
if he had remained in the race , there s no doubt the scandal would have been a topic for discussion .
one thing is for sure , christie was able to damage rubio in the last debate with his repeated claims that rubio was spitting out canned sound bites he d memorized .
ouch !
he also claimed that rubio wasn t ready to be president.new jersey gov .
chris christie formally suspended his presidential campaign today.the new jersey governor held a meeting with his campaign staff at 4pm this afternoon to thank them and announce the news , a spokesperson to the campaign confirms to abc news.the decision comes a day after the new jersey governor came in a disappointing 6th place in new hampshire , despite a heavy investment of time and funds into the first-in-the-nation primary contest .
we came to new hampshire to bring the message , christie told gathered supporters in nashua , new hampshire as election results rolled in last night .
the message was heard by a lot of folks .
and it was stood for by a lot of folks here in new hampshire , just not enough .
via : abc carly fiorina ends her bid for the republican nominationwas carly fiorina s campaign for president harmed by abc demoting her to the undercard debate stage ?
it s certainly a question that s been asked since the night of the debate .
she really never recovered after that night.carly fiorina is exiting the republican presidential race after a seventh-place showing in last night s new hampshire primary .
while i suspend my candidacy today , i will continue to travel this country and fight for those americans who refuse to settle for the way things are and a status quo that no longer works for them , said fiorina in a statement.fiorina was an unconventional candidate .
her only previous political effort had been a 10-point loss in a race for u.s. senate in california , and her tenure at hewlett-packard was most notable for her being fired by the board of directors after an unsuccessful merger with compaq.still , fiorina struck a chord with many republican voters , many of whom were especially drawn to her fierce anti-abortion viewpoints and spirited appearances on the campaign trail and in debates .
via : npr