moscow ( reuters ) - russia has freed two prominent crimean tatar activists opposed to moscow s annexation of ukraine s crimea region , their lawyer said on wednesday .
ukraine s leader thanked turkey s president for helping broker the release .
ilmi umerov , deputy head of the crimean tatars semi-official mejlis legislature before it was suspended by moscow , was sentenced last month by a russian court to two years in jail for separatism .
ahtem chiygoz , another crimean tatar leader , was sentenced at the same time to eight years for stirring anti-russian protests .
what everyone had been waiting for so long , has happened , a defense lawyer for the crimean tatars , nikolai polozov , wrote on his facebook page .
two more hostages , two ukrainian political prisoners have gained their freedom .
there was no immediate confirmation of their release from russian authorities .
the tatars , a mainly muslim turkic community that makes up about 15 percent of crimea s population , have largely opposed russian rule in the peninsula and say the 2014 annexation was illegal , a view supported by the west .
they suffered mass deportation under soviet dictator josef stalin .
nariman dzhelyalov , a crimean tatar leader , told reuters the two , ilmi umerov and ahtem chiygoz , had landed in turkey .
this is the result of turkey s talks with russia with ukraine s participation , he told reuters .
after erdogan s visit to kiev , representatives of russian competent bodies turned up at umerov s house in crimea to agree the terms ( of the release ) .
ukrainian president petro poroshenko thanked turkish president tayyip erdogan for his role in helping free the pair .
moscow says the overwhelming majority of crimeans voted to join russia in a proper and fair referendum .
western governments and human rights groups had alleged the two crimean tatar leaders were imprisoned for speaking out against russia s annexation of crimea , and pressed moscow to release them .
umerov s supporters said at the time that the two-year jail term handed to him actually amounted to a death penalty for the elderly man who suffers from parkinson s disease .
russian officials denied the prosecutions were politically-motivated .
a u.n. human rights report said last month that russia had committed grave human rights violations in crimea , including its imposition of citizenship and deporting of prisoners .
moscow said it deemed those allegations groundless .