valletta ( reuters ) - a magistrate on tuesday charged three men with murder over a car-bomb blast that killed anti-corruption journalist daphne caruana galizia , court officials said .
caruana galizia died instantly when her car was blown up as she drove out of her home on oct. 16 , a killing that shocked malta and raised concern within the european union about the rule of law on the tiny mediterranean island .
all three pleaded not guilty at the arraignment , which was attended by her husband , peter caruana galizia .
the men were named as vince muscat and brothers alfred and george degiorgio .
it was not immediately clear whether police thought they had acted on their own or were hit men working for others .
caruana galizia wrote a popular blog in which she relentlessly highlighted cases of alleged graft targeting politicians of all colors , including prime minister joseph muscat .
vince muscat was not a relative .
[ ] police arrested 10 men on monday in connection with their investigation into the killing .
the other seven were released on bail .
a close friend of caruana galizia told reuters that she did not think the journalist had ever investigated the three men charged on tuesday .
she wrote about government officials , politicians and wealthy business types , the friend said , declining to be named because of the sensitivity of the case .
the malta government had offered a 1 million euro reward leading to information on the murder .
it also called in the u.s. federal bureau of investigation and europol to assist in investigations .
maltese media said investigators had homed in on the suspects following telephone intercepts known as triangulation data that included the call from a mobile phone which triggered the car bomb .
malta , the smallest nation in the european union , has been engulfed by a wave of graft scandals in recent months , including accusations of money laundering and influence peddling in government - all of which have been denied .
caruana galizia exposed many of these cases and was loved by her readers as a fearless , anti-corruption crusader .
critics saw her as a muck-raking fantasist and she had been hit with 36 libel lawsuits in the nine months preceding her death .
much of her criticism was leveled against prime minister muscat and his leftist labour party , which won power in 2013 after a nearly quarter of a century of uninterrupted rule by the conservative nationalist party .
in the months before her death , she had also regularly targeted senior nationalist figures .
italian newspapers have speculated that she might have fallen foul of men who were making a fortune by smuggling fuel out of lawless libya .
however , her friend said she had never looked into the illegal trade and any mention of it in her blog related to articles already published elsewhere .