make the netherlands great again is one of geert wilders campaign slogans .
while wilders may have many similarities to donald trump when it comes to being outspoken , the dutch firebrand is much more outspoken about how the radical ideology of islam has harmed europe and specifically the netherlands .
he makes it very clear that there are moderate muslims , but there is no moderate islam .
( watch video at bottom of article to see his lengthy speech about islam and how it affects european nations where islamists have migrated ) .the french presidential election will take place in april and may .
in september , german chancellor angela merkel will be seeking a fourth term.all three elections will be critical for the future of the eu , as the rise of right-wing populism and nationalism threatens some of the key bedrocks of the european project.all eyes this week will be on the freedom party s geert wilders as he gets a chance to test his electoral popularity in an era of massive political upsets.the international media like to portray him as the dutch donald trump .
but beyond the big hair , the twitter tirades and the brash personalities there are a number of key differences between the two.only a 21-mile drive from the legalised prostitute booths and cannabis coffee shops of liberal bastion amsterdam , almere is another world.it is a multicultural melting pot where nearly 40 per cent are immigrants.it is also the heartland of extremist wilders pvv , or freedom party , whose nexit and anti-islam rhetoric has propelled it to the top of opinion polls in a country where six per cent of the population is muslim.wilders whose campaign mottos include make the netherlands great again has won popularity by tempering his anti-islam outbursts with traditional dutch liberalism .
he pointed out that immigrants are sometimes very hostile to homosexuals , jews and women s rights .
wilders , who is progressive on gay and women s rights , has taken this message and radicalised it further .
and that message resonates with people in almere s bustling market.he is vowing to de-islamise the netherlands by shutting mosques and islamic schools , banning the koran and having zero asylum seekers and no immigrants anymore from islamic countries .https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=8lyjz2p393omuslims make up about 6 per cent of the dutch population , mostly from moroccan and turkish backgrounds.while campaigning in february , mr wilders said , there is a lot of moroccan scum in holland who make the streets unsafe , mostly young people and that should change .
the first paragraph of his manifesto states : millions of dutch citizens have simply had enough of the islamisation of our country .
enough of mass immigration and asylum , terror , violence and insecurity .
mr wilders could win the popular vote , but he is unlikely to be his country s next prime minister.he had led the polls since november , but a poll of polls two weeks out from the vote had him just behind prime minister mark rutte .
mr wilders was on 15.7 per cent , mr rutte 16.3 per cent.the dutch house of representatives has 150 members who are elected in four-year terms .
like the australian senate , their lower house is elected by a system of proportional representation.this means the seats are split between an array of major and minor parties .
the next prime minister will probably have to form a coalition with a range of parties.all major parties have ruled out striking a power-sharing agreement with mr wilders , even if he wins the popular vote .
they consider his policies to be either too extreme or simply unconstitutional.this does not mean a high vote for mr wilders would be meaningless .
if he does do well on wednesday , it will put pressure on whoever wins to move closer to his agenda.-abcwilders explains the difference between muslims and islamists and how the islamists will destroy countries where they migrate : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=b9pxfa_oolo