rome ( reuters ) - police using water cannon and batons clashed on thursday with refugees who had occupied a small rome square in defiance of an order to leave a building where they had been squatting .
the clashes were the latest example of tensions in italy as the country deals with an influx of migrants .
they quickly became fodder for political debate , particularly on the police handling of the incident .
refugees were screaming and trying to hit police , who were dressed in riot gear , with sticks .
the square , just one block from rome s main train station , was strewn with mattresses , overturned rubbish bins and broken plastic chairs .
some 100 refugees had occupied piazza independenza since saturday , when most of about 800 squatters were evicted from an adjacent office building they had occupied for about five years .
hung on the building was a sheet with writing reading we are refugees , not terrorists in italian .
a small fire burned on the pavement and a sheet hanging from a first-floor window was set alight by squatters inside .
most of the squatters were eritreans who had been granted asylum .
police said they had refused to accept lodging offered by the city .
in a statement , the police said the refugees had gas canisters , some of which they had opened , and officers had been hit by rocks , bottles and pepper spray .
two people were arrested and doctors without borders said in a statement that its medics had given first aid to 13 refugees , including one for a broken bone .
human rights watch and members of some leftist political parties criticized the police handling of the situation , saying the use of such force was disproportionate .
the authorities need to urgently find appropriate , alternative housing , and investigate the use of force by the police during the eviction , said judith sunderland , associate director for europe at human rights watch .
it s hard to see how the use of water cannon on people was necessary or proportionate , she said .
various roman catholic groups that help immigrants also criticized police conduct .
but the italian police union coisip said officers were forced to use water cannon because of the risk of explosions caused by flammable liquids .
police said they were looking at possible irregularities after what appeared to be a policeman told a colleague to break the arm of any squatter who threw anything while being chased , according to a video that circulated widely on social media .
another video showed a woman fly to the ground after being hit in the face by water cannon , and later put in an ambulance .
squatters had put cooking gas tanks on the railing of a first-floor balcony , apparently ready to be opened to be used as makeshift flamethrowers , or dropped onto the square , reuters photographers said on wednesday .
matteo salvini , head of the right-wing , anti-immigrant northern league , tweeted his unequivocal support of police , saying go boys : evictions , order , cleaning up and expulsions !
italians are with you .
more than 600,000 boat migrants have arrived in italy from north africa since 2014 .
some 200,000 asylum seekers now stay in state-run shelters .