for like the eleventy-billionth time , sarah palin posted a broken link to a facebook post on twitter sunday .
now , at first glance her months of posting dead links and not figuring out how to fix the problem might seem moderately stupid until you see the content of the actual post on the half-term , half-wit former governor of alaska s facebook timeline.referencing clinton s recent , mundane campaign stop at a bar , palin who regularly appears to be heavily intoxicated whenever she has a camera in front of her and was involved in a drunken hillbilly brawl in 2014 quipped , she s gon na drive us all to drink .
thinking she is clever , she then adds that clinton should have been thinking sam adams rather than drinking sam adams .
naturally , as palin brought up drinking , the internet decided it couldn t let this one go : @ sarahpalinusa i see you 've already started clodagh smith ( @ clodagh831 ) october 30 , 2016 @ sarahpalinusa any excuse to drink , eh sarah ?
# lush john yuma ( @ johnyuma ) october 30 , 2016 @ sarahpalinusa have you been day drinking again ?
mr. wolfcastle ( @ tew156 ) october 30 , 2016 @ sarahpalinusa oh sarah , remember when you mattered ? me neither .
open another box o ' wine .
jmsullivan ( @ jfordhamusn ) october 30 , 2016 @ sarahpalinusa have you been sober during your speaking engagements ?
i always thought you were drunk as a skunk .
jeff bender ( @ jeffbikebender ) october 30 , 2016 @ sarahpalinusayour kid keeps shacking up with different dudes and hillary 's driving you to drink ?
hot takes ( @ hottakes1 ) october 30 , 2016 @ sarahpalinusa from what i 've seen , you 've been drinking non stop for years !
steve derebey ( @ sderebey ) october 30 , 2016yes , as was heavily pointed out , we have been enjoying palin s drunken rants for years .
unfortunately for her , she is so irrelevant that mockery is all she has warranted since she helped john mccain lose in 2008.you can enjoy one of her best drunken ravings below : classic : visibly drunk sarah palin fumbles response to elizabeth warrenfeatured image via getty images ( darren hauck ) /screengrab