manila ( reuters ) - the police chief of the philippines on wednesday stood by the head of a secretive unit behind dozens of killings in the country s war on drugs , saying officers fired only in self-defence and the death toll reflected the danger and the scale of the narcotics problem .
national police chief ronald dela rosa was responding to a reuters special report that spent four months examining killings by one group of policemen from or near davao city , the hometown of philippine president rodrigo duterte .
dela rosa said police district 6 in quezon city had metro manila s most serious drug problem and he personally sent squad commander lito patay there because he was a very professional and very dedicated officer capable of dealing with it .
patay handpicked and headed a unit of 10 men who called themselves the davao boys , which racked up the highest number of kills in quezon city , a violent frontline in duterte s ferocious anti-narcotics campaign .
police station 6 officers killed 108 people in anti-drug operations from july 2016 through june 2017 , the campaign s first year , accounting for 39 percent of quezon city s body count , according to official crime reports analyzed by reuters .
a majority of the killings were carried out by the squad run by patay , who was reassigned to quezon city just a few weeks after duterte unleashed his crackdown .
he ( patay ) was chosen because i have big trust in him , he has the balls to face the problems .
he will fight , dela rosa told reporters .
he is not an officer who is after money , who will be assigned in an area only to collect money , he is not that kind of officer .
he has focus .
i assigned him there because i know he can deliver .
asked about the high rate of killings in areas under patay , he said deaths were inevitable where the drugs trade was rampant .
so what s the problem ?
the worst drug problem is there in station 6 , so if you hit the problem head on , you face the problem head on then , there would always result in casualties , he said .
nearly 4,000 mostly urban poor filipinos have been killed in anti-drug operations since july 2016 .
police reject activists allegations they have executed drug users and peddlers and say they kill only when their lives are in danger .
dela rosa said patay has since been reassigned to another province to make him eligible for promotion , reflecting his success in convincing drug suspects in quezon city to surrender to the authorities .
he said patay had been given a free hand at station 6 and had command responsibility over his operations .
it is his own call whatever he does there , he has to solve the drug problem , dela rosa said .
the story of the davao boys also highlights a larger dynamic : many of the drug war s key police officers - dela rosa included - hail from or served in duterte s hometown , where the campaign s brutal methods originated during his time as mayor .
duterte has repeatedly denied he ordered the killings of criminals and drug dealers during his 22 years as davao mayor , or his 17 months as president .
dela rosa appeared frustrated when asked by a reporter if he personally had ordered the deaths of drug suspects in quezon city .
he said patay s men had no alternative but to kill armed criminals who refused to go quietly .
he was placed there to address the drug problem , and not to kill those who deserved to be killed , he said of patay .
if they resist , why would you risk your life ?
you have to fight back .