mexico city ( reuters ) - a former mexican governor wanted on corruption charges was arrested on friday , officials said , marking the fourth detention of an ex-governor from the country s ruling party so far this year .
eugenio hernandez , who served as governor of the northern border state of tamaulipas from 2005-2010 , was arrested in the state capital of ciudad victoria .
he is accused by both mexican and u.s. authorities of embezzlement and money laundering .
hernandez served as a member of president enrique pena nieto s institutional revolutionary party , or pri , which for decades has been battered by corruption scandals .
corruption promises to be one of the major issues in mexico s july 2018 presidential election , with public discontent widespread over a spate of conflict-of-interest rows that have dogged the cabinet and pena nieto himself .
the rows could play into the hands of leftist presidential hopeful andres manuel lopez obrador , a two-time runner-up who presents himself as an anti-corruption crusader and is the front-runner in the polls .
prosecutors alleged that in 2007 hernandez bought a state-owned 1,600-hectare property through an associate , allegedly paying 16 million pesos ( $ 862,730 ) for the land despite an estimated value at the time of slightly more than 1 billion pesos .
the land was previously sold in 2002 to an associate of tomas yarrington , hernandez s predecessor as governor of tamaulipas , for 14 million pesos , while at the time its value was pegged at 866 million pesos , the prosecutors said .
hernandez and his lawyer could not immediately be contacted for a response and have not made a public statement .
yarrington himself was arrested in april in italy and has been charged in the united states for presumed ties to drug trafficking .
he has not made a public statement since his arrest .
two other former pri governors were also arrested earlier this year .
in april , javier duarte of veracruz state was arrested in guatemala , accused of siphoning off millions of dollars from state coffers .
he has denied any wrongdoing .
meanwhile , roberto borge of quintana roo state was arrested in panama in june just as he was about to board a flight to paris .
mexican authorities have requested his extradition .
borge is accused of illicit enrichment , embezzlement and abuse of public office .
he has denied the allegations .
( $ 1 = 18.5458 mexican pesos )