it s always the will of the people ultimately that wins out trump the vote to brexit a hard-fought campaign by nationalist populists in the united kingdom puts the world elite on their heels , as a similar but bigger and stronger such movement is brewing right here in the united states.donald j. trump , the presumptive 2016 gop presidential nominee , has run a campaign so far and since winning the nomination focused squarely on the exact same issues that the leave campaigners ran on in the united kingdom .
uncontrolled migration , out-of-whack trade deals , national sovereignty , popular control of government , and rejection of world elites are what propelled leave campaigners to a stunning victory in the united kingdom .
those same issues are what has propelled trump to a similarly shocking victory over 16 other republican presidential candidates in the primaries , where he as breitbart news has documented received millions more votes than anyone else who has ever won the gop nomination has.they also set the stage for the 2016 general election .
trump has not shown a sign of backing down at all , on any of this , and in his speech earlier in the week laying out the case against hillary rodham clinton the presumptive 2016 democratic presidential nominee , his opponent in november he set the stage for this battle.here s trump on the uk brexit : everywhere i look , i see the possibilities of what our country could be .
but we can t solve any of these problems by relying on the politicians who created them , trump said in his tuesday address .
we will never be able to fix a rigged system by counting on the same people who rigged it in the first place .
the insiders wrote the rules of the game to keep themselves in power and in the money .
throughout the speech , trump excoriated clinton for her ties to the world s international elite citing peter schweizer s clinton cash to detail how she and her husband , former u.s. president bill clinton , used the state department to enrich their family at america s expense .
she gets rich making you poor , trump said of hillary clinton , talking directly to the voters.the matching themes of trump s campaign , and the successful brexit campaign in the united kingdom , are in large part why trump s well-timed trip to scotland purportedly for opening a golf course with his children , but seemingly because of the leave success makes him the captain of an international populist rejection of the world s elite.trump seized the mantle of the movement on friday morning in scotland , embracing the populism that has propelled him this far and sustained him even as the most sinister and brutal of attacks come his way from inside his own party and from the other side .
this is an amazing honor , trump said on friday , almost taking credit for brexit .
after noting brexit won , and by a bigger margin than pundits , analysts , and prognosticators could have ever predicted , trump noted that the will of the public is all powerful .
it s always the will of the people ultimately that wins out , trump said .
via : breitbart newstrump was on the right side yet again .
he supported the brexit from the get-go :