rancho mirage , calif./washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama has held preliminary discussions with his team about whom to nominate to the supreme court , the white house said on monday , while accusing senate republicans of “ bluster ” for saying they would not confirm his pick .
white house spokesman eric schultz told reporters administration officials had started talking with senate offices about the process , which is shaping up to be an epic fight between republicans and democrats in a presidential election year .
republicans , who control the senate , say obama should put off naming a replacement for conservative justice antonin scalia , who died over the weekend , and leave it to the next president to decide .
democrats say it is the president ’ s responsibility and right to make the choice .
americans will choose a new president in the nov. 8 elections .
obama leaves office in january 2017 .
scalia ’ s death leaves the court evenly divided between liberal and conservative justices just as it is set to decide major cases on abortion , voting rights and immigration .
a growing number of republican senators have already said they will not support an obama nominee , including a dozen who are up for reelection in november .
on monday , pat toomey of pennsylvania and rob portman of ohio each announced their opposition .
both are up for reelection this year .
“ this is not the first time that republicans have come out with a lot of bluster , only to have reality ultimately sink in , ” schultz said , citing recent spats over raising the u.s. debt limit and approving a nuclear deal with iran .
“ at each pass , they took a hard line .
they tried to play politics .
but ultimately , they were not able to back up their threats , ” schultz said .
republicans shrugged off the criticism , pointing to past political battles over supreme court nominees .
in 2006 , democratic leaders in the senate , as well as then-senator obama , tried but failed to block president george w. bush ’ s nomination of samuel alito to the supreme court , noted don stewart , a spokesman for senate republican majority leader mitch mcconnell .
“ memories tend to be short around here sometimes , ” he said .
obama , in california for a long-planned summit with southeast asian leaders , will return to washington on tuesday after a press conference at which he is sure to face questions about his strategy for filling the supreme court vacancy .
david axelrod , a former adviser to the president , said the white house should not make an “ overtly political ” pick while republicans were behaving in a such a political manner themselves .
“ to me , it makes sense to nominate one of the stellar judges he ’ s already chosen who has been approved by this same senate that now refuses to act , ” axelrod said .
one possible contender is sri srinivasan , who republican senators supported in 2013 when he was confirmed to the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit .
schultz declined to speculate on names or strategy .
obama will look for a nominee with “ impeccable credentials ” who believes in adherence to precedent and bringing one ’ s own ethics and moral bearings to decisions on the court in which the law is not clear , he said .
“ the president seeks judges who understand that justice is not about some abstract legal theory , or a footnote in a casebook , but it is also about how our laws affect the daily realities of peoples ’ lives , ” schultz said .
leaving the vacancy unfilled could affect the court both this year and next , schultz said , calling on the senate to act .
“ the constitution does not include exemptions for election years or for the president ’ s last term in office .
there ’ s no exemptions for when a vacancy could tip the balance of the court , ” he said .