berlin ( reuters ) - in 2008 , in a fit of pique over angela merkel s cautious response to the global financial crisis , the french president , nicolas sarkozy , lashed out at his german counterpart .
while france is acting , germany is just thinking about it , sarkozy seethed .
nearly a decade later , after an election that has weakened merkel and vaulted a new far-right party into the german parliament , european fears of a risk-averse , inward-looking germany are back .
if you are sitting in other european capitals , you are watching nervously , said robin niblett , director of the chatham house think tank in london .
merkel s room to take conciliatory positions , to play a leadership role and to move europe forward has narrowed .
back in 2008 , the complexity of the fast-moving financial crisis and an aversion to big stimulus measures made merkel cautious .
this time , domestic politics is the driver .
at a time when new french president emmanuel macron is pressing merkel to work with him to reshape europe and brexit negotiations with britain are nearing crunch time , the german chancellor faces months of difficult coalition negotiations that could lead to a dead-end .
if she is able to cobble together a three-way coalition with the business-friendly free democrats ( fdp ) and environmentalist greens her only option for now it would almost surely be a less stable construction than her current government .
this new coalition would have to cope with a more confrontational opposition in the bundestag , led by merkel s bitter outgoing partner , the social democrats ( spd ) , and the disruptive alternative for germany ( afd ) , the first far-right party to sit in parliament in over half a century .
the weakness of merkel s conservative bloc its score of 32.9 percent was the lowest since 1949 and the strength of the afd is a result of her decision in 2015 to allow hundreds of thousands of refugees into germany .
that has hurt her standing within her own party and spooked her bavarian allies , the christian social union ( csu ) , who bled support to the afd in sunday s vote .
the csu is likely to be an even more difficult partner for merkel than the fdp and greens .
merkel presided over the entry into the bundestag of an extreme right wing party and that is an indictment of sorts .
it has weakened her , without a doubt , said niblett .
europe s political establishment entered 2017 concerned that the populist tsunami that led to brexit in britain and donald trump s election win in united states would sweep over the continent .
instead , the dutch backed liberal incumbent mark rutte over far-right firebrand geert wilders and the french chose the unabashedly pro-european centrist macron over marine le pen .
in germany on sunday , the political center also held .
parties of the center-right and center-left won over 73 percent against roughly 22 percent for the far-right afd and hard-left linke .
but the vote was also a reminder to europe that the populists are not going away .
and it exposed cracks in the pillar of stability that germany and merkel have come to represent in perhaps the most challenging decade for europe since world war two .
the german election was a double blow from a european perspective , said pascal lamy , the former head of the world trade organization ( wto ) .
on the one hand , merkel who has come to exemplify stability , has emerged politically weakened .
on the other , anti-european forces have gained .
some people in berlin and other capitals are describing the result as the beginning of the end of the merkel era .
although she pledged on monday to serve a full four-year term , many expect her to hand over to a successor in two to three years .
carsten brzeski , chief economist for germany at ing , said on monday that the election result could turn merkel into a lame duck much faster than anyone anticipated .
officials in paris and other capitals suggested the next big european reform may have to be done without her .
others expressed concern about the direction germany could take in the post-merkel era .
those fears are probably overdone .
merkel is a survivor who is at her best when mediating between different camps , as she will have to do over the coming months if she wants to convince disparate parties like the csu , greens and fdp to work together .
while agreeing a reform of the euro zone with macron has become more challenging because of the fdp s hardline views , other priorities , such as european defense cooperation , may become easier with the social democrats ( spd ) out of government , advisers to the french president note .
senior officials at the european commission say months of german coalition talks could actually provide the space needed for macron s ideas to gain traction .
still , the negotiations carry risks .
after twelve years in power , merkel has gained a reputation for smothering her coalition partners .
the csu and the spd were the victims in sunday s election .
four years ago it was the fdp , which was booted out of parliament for the first time in the post-war era after serving as her junior partner .
this will lead all of her potential partners to push a hard bargain .
failing to form a stable majority government would probably spell the end of ( merkel s ) chancellorship .
and , more broadly , it could usher in a new period of political chaos , former german foreign minister joschka fischer said in a project syndicate commentary on tuesday .
no one should wish that on germany or on europe .