melbourne ( reuters ) - australia s high court rejected two legal challenges on thursday against a proposed postal ballot on whether to legalize same-sex marriage , clearing the way for a vote on an issue that has wide support but which has also threatened to divide the government .
australians will now begin voting in the non-compulsory ballot as early as next week , with a result expected some time in november .
the court s decision to reject the legal challenges , both of which argued that the center-right government needed the support of parliament to hold the ballot , comes as a welcome relief for prime minister malcolm turnbull .
turnbull supports same-sex marriage , as do two-thirds of australians , but his government holds a razor-thin majority and more conservative elements in his liberal-national coalition have used the issue to threaten his leadership .
some conservative lawmakers threatened to resign if the court ruled against the proposal , while more liberal members said they would side with the labor opposition to secure same-sex marriage before turnbull offered the postal vote as an alternative .
a rejection would have led to increased pressure on turnbull to hold a vote in parliament , which has already twice rejected a national ballot .
every australian can have a say and we can , as a commonwealth of australia , embrace this important social change , turnbull told parliament in canberra after the court s decision was announced .
turnbull has said australia s marriage act would be changed by the end of the year if the public backed same-sex marriage in the postal ballot .
although the court s verdict provides a viable pathway to same-sex marriage , advocates fear an escalation in an already vitriolic campaign .
turnbull called for mutual respect last month as the issue gathered heat .
opponents of same-sex marriage launched a contentious no campaign advertisement last week that the government immediately rejected as inaccurate .
activists fear a surge in malicious campaigning for the ballot , which is not a formal election and is therefore not subject to the usual rules on political advertisements .
many supporters of same-sex marriage in australia had backed the legal challenges , insisting that the campaign would hurt people who were already vulnerable , but said they would now support the ballot .
we now get out there and campaign long and hard for a yes vote , alex greenwich , co-chair of australian marriage equality , told reporters in melbourne .
when we win this , we can all come together , having finally achieved marriage equality .