oslo/london ( reuters ) - the united states will play a big role at global talks next month on shaping the paris agreement on climate change , to the dismay of some nations that want washington sidelined because of president donald trump s plan to withdraw from the deal .
u.s. officials have said they will be constructive at the annual 195-nation climate meeting in bonn , germany , from nov. 6-17 to work on a rule book for the 2015 paris plan to shift the world economy from fossil fuels this century .
but other nations are torn between welcoming or berating washington s envoys after trump s decided in june to pull out and instead promote the u.s. fossil fuel industry .
washington retains its place in the talks because the paris pact stipulates that no country can formally pull out before november 2020 .
the trump regime really needs to walk away and not hold the rest of the world hostage to the president s ineptitude , said ian fry , who represents tuvalu , a low-lying pacific island nation at risk of rising sea levels and storm surges .
he told reuters that trump s pro-coal policies , and doubts that climate change is caused by man-made greenhouse gas emissions , could undermine urgency at the meeting of senior officials and environment ministers .
the white house did not respond to requests for comment and the state department has not set up a briefing ahead of the meeting , as it traditionally has .
this year is on track to be the second warmest since records began in the 19th century , behind 2016 .
scientists say rising temperatures will stoke ever more powerful hurricanes , floods and wildfires .
but u.s. delegates at preparatory meetings said they will play a positive role in bonn , said nazhat shameem khan , chief negotiator of fiji which will preside at the meeting .
the u.s. approach send positive signals ... that this will not be a destructive cop , she said , using the shorthand for conference of the parties .
it is not yet clear if any u.s. political leaders will attend .
many u.s. allies , including france , canada and britain , hope to coax trump to end up staying in the pact which is backed by all nations except syria .
nicaragua , which had judged the deal too weak , ratified it this month .
in a sign that most nations are willing to permit a strong u.s. role , an internal u.n. document obtained by reuters shows that a u.s. official , andrew rakestraw , will co-lead a section of the talks with a chinese counterpart on ensuring transparent rules for the paris agreement .
and the u.s. delegation will be led by thomas shannon , a career diplomat who gave a speech in 2015 calling climate change one of the world s greatest challenges .
the meeting will work on a rule book , due to be completed in 2018 , for implementing the paris agreement on issues such as the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and how national emissions will be checked .
washington and many other developed nations have long sought tough rules to bind emerging nations such as china and india , which have been wary of outside oversight .
and many delegates expect the u.s. officials , many of whom were architects of the paris accord under former president barack obama , will contribute to clear , enforceable rules that will be in u.s. interests whether it is in or out of the deal .
having the united states at the table with good negotiators who can take this forward is a win-win , said paula caballero , a director of the world resources institute think-tank and formerly a climate negotiator for colombia .
the treatment of the united states is likely to hinge on whether washington limits itself to technical details of the rule book or promotes trump s pro-coal political agenda .
it is quite likely that the u.s. will be sidelined ... unless they play a constructive role , said elisa de wit , head of climate change at global law firm norton rose fulbright .
outside the conference center , a u.s. network called we are still in will highlight actions by states , cities and other non-federal groups to implement the paris agreement and shift to wind , solar and other clean energies .
it says trump s pro-coal policies will be only a blip in a long-term economic shift this century .
we need to make sure the world maintains confidence in our ability to move forward , said washington state governor jay inslee .