new york ( reuters ) - democratic presidential hopeful hillary clinton extended her lead over republican rival donald trump to 13 percentage points in a reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on tuesday , up from 10 points at the end of last week .
the july 8-12 poll showed 46 percent of likely voters supported clinton , the former secretary of state , while 33 percent supported trump , a celebrity real estate developer .
another 21 percent did not support either candidate .
that compared with 45 percent who supported clinton and 35 percent who supported trump in the five days to july 8 .
clinton , the presumptive democratic nominee , has mostly led in the national online poll this year .
the last time trump came close to clinton ’ s popularity was in early may , when his last two rivals for the republican nomination dropped out of the race and party leaders started to line up behind his campaign .
trump , who is expected to become the official republican nominee at the party ’ s convention next week , has since lost ground in the poll as he struggled to refocus his campaign from the republican nominating contests to the nov. 8 general election .
over the past several weeks , trump has faced criticism for his past business dealings and has quarreled with republican leaders over his rejection of international trade agreements and his promises to crack down on immigration .
clinton , meanwhile , has been dogged by criticisms of how she handled classified information as secretary of state .
james comey , director of the federal bureau of investigation , said last week that clinton and her staff were “ extremely careless ” with sensitive information but recommended that the government not seek criminal charges against her .
still , americans have become increasingly positive about clinton this month , with half of likely voters now saying they have a favorable view of her , according to the poll , up from 46 percent on july 1 .
some 60 percent of likely voters have an unfavorable view of trump , compared with 58 percent on july 1 .
the reuters/ipsos poll surveyed 1,146 likely voters across the continental united states , alaska and hawaii .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .