peter certo other wordseven in an election year as shot through with conspiracy theories as this one , it would have been hard to imagine a bigger bombshell than russia intervening to help donald trump .
but that s exactly what the cia believes happened , or so unnamed officials brief on the matter told the washington post.while russia had long been blamed for hacking email accounts linked to the clinton campaign , its motives had been shrouded in mystery .
according to the post , though , cia officials recently presented congress with a a growing body of intelligence from multiple sources that electing trump was russia s goal .
now , the cia hasn t made any of its evidence public , and the cia and fbi are reportedly divided on the subject .
though it s too soon to draw conclusions , the charges warrant a serious public investigation.even some republicans who backed trump seem to agree .
the russians are not our friends , said senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , announcing his support for a congressional probe .
it s warfare , added senator john mccain.there s a grim irony to this .
the cia is accusing russia of interfering in our free and fair elections to install a right-wing candidate it deemed more favorable to its interests .
yet during the cold war , that s exactly what the cia did to the rest of the world.most americans probably don t know that history .
but in much of the world it s a crucial part of how washington is viewed even today.in the post-world war ii years , as moscow and washington jockeyed for global influence , the two capitals tried to game every foreign election they could get their hands on.from europe to vietnam and chile to the philippines , american agents delivered briefcases of cash to hand-picked politicians , launched smear campaigns against their left-leaning rivals , and spread hysterical fake news stories like the ones some now accuse russia of spreading here.together , political scientist dov levin estimates , russia and the u.s. interfered in 117 elections this way in the second half the 20th century .
even worse is what happened when the cia s chosen candidates lost.in iran , when elected leader mohammad mossadegh tried to nationalize the country s bp-held oil reserves , cia agent kermit roosevelt led an operation to oust mossadegh in favor of shah mohammad reza pahlavi .
the shah s secret police tortured dissidents by the thousands , leading directly to the islamic revolution in 1979.in guatemala , when the democratically elected jacobo arbez tried to loosen the u.s.-based united fruit company s grip on guatemalan land , the cia backed a coup against him .
in the decades of civil war that followed , u.s.-backed security forces were accused of carrying out a genocide against indigenous guatemalans .
chile s democratically elected leader allende was murdered in a brutal cia coup d etat on september 11 , 1973 ( image source : evergreen.edu ) in chile , after voters elected the socialist salvador allende , the cia spearheaded a bloody coup to install the right-wing dictator augusto pinochet , who went on to torture and disappear tens of thousands of chileans .
i don t see why we need to stand by and watch a country go communist due to the irresponsibility of its own people , u.s. secretary of state henry kissinger purportedly said about the coup he helped orchestrate there.and those are only the most well-known examples continue this article at other wordsread more more election news at : 21wire 2016 filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv