kobani , syria ( reuters ) - almost three years after kurdish fighters defeated islamic state in the syrian town of kobani , residents still mourn the dead and feel abandoned by their foreign allies as they struggle to rebuild .
islamic state s defeat in predominately kurdish kobani in early 2015 helped turn the tide against the ultra-militant group and marked the start of a more open u.s. military relationship with the kurdish ypg militia .
but much of the town near the border with turkey was destroyed , leaving it facing a huge reconstruction challenge and in need of help from the allies that had supported the fight to defeat islamic state , including the united states .
electricity still works only a few hours a day and regularly cuts out .
the internet , using a turkish communications signal , is expensive and unreliable .
that , local officials say , is because aid quickly dried up , and the town s problems could soon be replicated across parts of northern syria as islamic state cedes ground .
there were never ( reconstruction ) projects that reflected the scale of destruction , said khaled barkal , a vice president in the local government .
kurdish ties with the west are complicated by local rivalries and alliances , and by kurdish efforts to assert autonomy in areas captured from islamic state .
local officials also accuse the west of trying to appease nato ally turkey , which sees the ypg as an extension of the pkk , a kurdish group waging an insurgency against the turkish government .
turkey doesn t want life to return here , barkal said .
ankara opposes the ypg role in capturing arab-majority areas such as raqqa , saying it threatens demographic change .
kurdish self-assertion in iraq and syria has also brought charges of mistreatment of arabs , which officials deny .
western diplomats in the region say support for the ypg in the battle against islamic state can not extend to bolstering a kurdish-led project to cement an autonomous region .
washington opposes plans for autonomy in northern syria , with the international community seeking a nationwide resolution to syria s more than six-year-old civil war .
the people of kobani fear more upheaval lies ahead .
syrian president bashar al-assad wants to win back control of all syria , and kurdish-led authorities are seeking to cement regional autonomy through elections , which could increase tensions .
residents say they willingly paid the price of defeating islamic state and are grateful for u.s. help in the victory .
but the price was high , in terms of lives and destruction .
shereen hassan was among the first fighters killed defending kobani , which was under siege from islamic state for four months .
family members learned of her death when they tried to call her and islamic state militants answered her phone .
they said : we ve killed your daughter and we re posting a picture of her head on facebook , hassan s brother ednan hassan said at their home .
the image was later posted , showing a grinning militant holding the 19-year-old s severed head .
fighters are buried in a military cemetery on the edge of town where yellow ypg flags flutter above gravestones .
portraits of dead kurdish fighters dot the walls of the local administration and hang from rows of lamp posts .
the violence did not end completely when the battle for kobani was won .
in june 2015 , months after islamic state was defeated in the town , the group launched a raid that killed nearly 150 people there including 11 members of hassan s family .
such experiences have militarized society and the small scale of aid leaves people unwilling to rely on outside help .
the international community left us , hassan said .
before the war , every home had a gun .
now it s every man .
men in the town run a night watch , taking turns to drive around armed with kalashnikov assault rifles .
we protect ourselves , said locksmith khaled aldamr , cutting keys in his shop .
aldamr , whose home was leveled by an air strike , said business had improved for him , but that reflected the scale of the damage that during the fighting , not an improvement in the local economy .
when daesh ( islamic state ) came , they kicked down doors to occupy houses , breaking the locks .
people need new ones , he said , pointing at a pile of locks displayed in the window .
his services are required as new buildings spring up where homes were reduced to rubble .
many are empty so far .
the population of kobani and nearby areas has neared its original 200,000 after people returned , barkal said , although only 40,000 live in the town itself with fewer inhabitable spaces .
kobani is tired .
i m lucky .
many have no work , aldamr said .
we hope to rebuild better than before , which could happen if skilled kurds abroad come back or send money .
but we re trapped .
borders are closed .
turkey closed its crossing with kobani in 2015 , and has since built a concrete wall that stretches hundreds of kilometers along the frontier .
goods come through iraq s kurdish region , or are smuggled from areas under assad s control .
people complain of a lack of medicine .
despite the problems , and the possibility of more violence , the people of kobani say they will not give up .
we ll defend ourselves against whoever comes , to the last drop of blood , barkal said .