aden/geneva ( reuters ) - the saudi-led military coalition fighting against yemen s houthi movement reopened a land border crossing , partly easing a blockade imposed earlier this week , but aid agencies warned of famine and a health catastrophe if other ports stay shut .
the coalition said on monday it would close all air , land and sea ports in yemen to stem the flow of arms to the houthis from iran , after saudi arabia intercepted a missile fired toward its capital riyadh .
the al wadea border crossing , linking saudi arabia with territory in eastern yemen controlled by the saudi-backed government , was reopened on thursday , a yemeni official and witnesses said , letting food and other supplies across .
the united nations has said that a total blockade of yemen could cause a famine that could kill millions .
the government-held southern port of aden was reopened on wednesday , but ports in houthi-held areas are still shut .
the houthis , drawn mainly from yemen s zaidi shi ite minority and allied to long-serving former president ali abdullah saleh , control much of the country including the capital san aa .
saudi arabia and its arab allies have been waging war against them on behalf of the government of president abd-rabbu mansour hadi , based in aden .
the saudis and their allies say the houthis get weapons from their arch-foe , iran .
iran denies arming the houthis and blames the conflict in yemen on riyadh .
yemen s stocks of fuel and vaccines will run out in a month unless the saudi-led coalition allows aid into the blockaded port of hodeidah and the airport at san aa , unicef s representative in the country said on friday .
meritxell relano , speaking by phone to reporters in geneva , said fuel prices had risen 60 percent and there were urgent concerns about a diphtheria outbreak , as well as food shortages because of the port closure .
the situation that was already catastrophic is just getting worse , she said .
the impact of this is unimaginable in terms of health and diseases .
after two years of civil war , yemen has 7 million people on the brink of famine and has had 900,000 suspected cholera cases in the past six months .
united nations aid chief mark lowcock said on wednesday that if the coalition did not allow humanitarian aid access to yemen , it would cause the largest famine the world has seen for many decades , with millions of victims .
the cholera epidemic had abated in recent weeks with the number of cases slowing amid a major push to fight the disease .
but the world health organization said the progress could be reversed by the blockade .
if the closure is not stopped in the coming days , we may see that the progress is stopped , who spokeswoman fadela chaib told a briefing in geneva .
we can see even more cases and more deaths as a result of not being able to get access to people .
the closure of hodeidah port prevented a ship setting sail from djibouti with 250 tonnes of who medical supplies on wednesday .
trauma kits in particular are running short .
if the hostilities continue and the ports remain closed , we will not be able to perform life-saving surgeries or provide basic healthcare , chaib said .
germany will double its aid to unicef for yemen to 20 million euros this year to help deal with looming famine , bringing its total annual aid to yemen to 70 million , a spokeswoman for the development ministry said on friday .
the suffering of the people in yemen is inconceivable and it threatens to become much worse , development minister gerd mueller told passauer neue presse newspaper .
we must act now to prevent the death by starvation of millions of women , children and men .