beijing ( reuters ) - a scooter driver in a bright blue jacket on a food delivery run dashes across a busy intersection slick with rain , hits a turning car and is hurled along the tarmac in a video posted by chinese police warning that couriers should slow down .
china s home delivery boom , powered by an estimated three million couriers , most of them riding quiet electric scooters or boxy three-wheelers , has triggered a surge in road accidents , prompting warnings from police and complaints from drivers who say they feel pressure to put speed before safety .
accidents happen all the time at rush hour .
i have a friend who was hit by a car and could not work for two months , said a food courier in beijing surnamed zhang , declining to give his full name .
the number of users of china s online food delivery market , dominated by services backed by technology giants alibaba group holding ltd and tencent holdings ltd , surged 41.6 percent to 300 million in the first half of 2017 , according to a report by the state-controlled china internet network information center .
after 76 injuries and deaths involving food delivery drivers in shanghai were recorded in the first half of 2017 alone , police called in china s largest food delivery companies in late august to warn them to improve safety standards .
drivers from china s two largest food delivery companies , meituan-dianping and ele.me , were responsible for about a quarter of all the incidents , the shanghai police said .
the news sparked a countrywide reaction as city police and state media came out to chastise the industry for accidents .
police in the eastern city of nanjing met with food delivery companies on sept 20 after couriers were involved in more than 3,000 accidents in the first half of 2017 , over 90 percent of which were deemed their fault , state media reported .
the official legal daily urged authorities to mobilise the masses to use phone cameras to catch offenders and punish their employers , identified by distinctively colored uniforms .
a spokesman for meituan , whose drivers wear a fluorescent yellow , said that the company has safety training for drivers and conducted more than 300 driver training courses in july .
he said there was a 13.6 percent drop in traffic incidents in the following month .
a spokeswoman for ele.me said it tells drivers that safety is first , speed is second and that the company recently launched a system to track traffic violations by drivers , as well as offering rewards to onlookers who report incidents .
china s drivers are rarely mugged or shot - a risk facing their counterparts in parts of the united states and some other countries - but they often suffer injuries on the country s hectic city roads .
while drivers typically take the blame for accidents , labor activists and numerous drivers said incentives make speed a necessity .
the hong kong-based china labour bulletin , which tracks labor action in china , said couriers are increasingly airing their grievances , staging protests and strikes to demand better wages and accident insurance .
drivers can face fines for late deliveries or poor customer ratings , the drivers said , adding that companies do not always provide insurance or coverage for accidents .
companies say drivers are covered by public and third party liability insurance .
food delivery drivers told reuters that they are expected to do up to 40 deliveries in one 10-to-12-hour shift , usually with a time limit of under half an hour per delivery .
being on time and getting good reviews from customers can mean an extra 5 yuan ( 0.75 u.s. cents ) or so per delivery .
couriers are also usually not hired directly by the companies that design the ordering software .
instead , they work freelance or for third party companies , leaving them without direct contracts with the platform operators .
in august , dozens of meituan drivers staged a strike in the southern city of yixing to complain about pay and injury compensation , showing off their scab-covered legs and using hand-written equations to show how a build up of fines for late deliveries can eat into their salaries .
the vast majority of drivers are migrant workers under the age of 26 who send most of their income home to support their families , according to a 2016 report by meituan-dianping .
food delivery platforms management needs to become more humane , the official people s daily newspaper said in a recent commentary .
switch from an operating model that only seeks speed to one that only seeks stability ... don t let delivery drivers risk their lives delivering meals .
an ele.me spokeswoman acknowledged that balancing delivery speed and traffic safety is indeed very hard , adding that the company is working to use artificial intelligence to optimize routes and monitor drivers .
criticism has mostly targeted food delivery companies as their drivers face greater time pressure and have less well-defined routes than those delivering other packages .
but the wider delivery industry also has its problems .
niu hongqiang , 23 , a driver from hebei province working for a package delivery company in beijing said that the safety training he received was useless .
when something goes wrong , it goes wrong in a big way .