budapest ( reuters ) - hungarian prosecutors said on friday they had launched an investigation into the financial reporting practices of the main opposition party , jobbik , prompting a furious accusation of political bias from the radical nationalist party .
political tensions are rising in hungary ahead of an april 2018 parliamentary election , in which prime minister viktor orban s ruling conservative fidesz party is expected to defy the challenge from jobbik and win a fresh four-year mandate .
the state audit office ( asz ) requires all parliamentary parties to report on their finances , and has made routine biannual checks at half a dozen opposition parties for 2015 and 2016 .
but asz , which is headed by former fidesz lawmaker laszlo domokos , has also asked jobbik to provide paperwork for the first half of 2017 .
asz spokesman balint horvath told reuters it made that decision after receiving reports of possible financial irregularities behind a spring poster campaign conducted by jobbik .
in its ad campaign jobbik accused orban and some of his associates of corruption , using the advertising space of lajos simicska , an estranged key orban ally .
both the party and simicska have declined to say how much jobbik paid for the ads .
jobbik , which denies any financial impropriety , said it had agreed to let asz check its books for this year .
but it said the inspectors had visited its office when it was shut and had then promptly asked the prosecutors to get involved .
only stinking third-world dictatorships use nominally independent authorities , actually subordinated to party politics and a thieving government , to neuter the main opposition force , which in hungary is jobbik , said party vice-chairman janos volner .
asz said volner s comment was a politically motivated attack on our independence .
hungary s chief prosecutor , peter polt , is also a former fidesz member who was twice appointed to his post by fidesz-dominated parliaments .
jobbik , which has somewhat modified its right-wing , anti-immigrant rhetoric in recent years , is expected to come second in next year s election , after orban s fidesz but ahead of the centre-left socialists .