prague ( reuters ) - the next czech government should spread the benefits of strong growth with workers and shift to a higher wage economy , lubomir zaoralek , who will lead the ruling social democrats into next month s election , said on wednesday .
( for graphic , click tmsnrt.rs/2xrmcax ) the center left party trails its coalition partner , the ano movement , by double digits ahead of the oct. 20-21 vote but foreign minister zaoralek says it can attract voters concerned with economic fairness .
the czech republic is heavily industrialized and has a large auto sector .
strong growth , which stood at 4.7 percent in the second quarter , has led to labor shortages and increased wage demands .
private sector wage growth has led public sector workers to demand higher pay and the government has increased salaries for health and education workers who have long lagged behind .
if the society is to remain united ... when there is prosperity , then that has to be for all , zaoralek , 61 , said in an interview .
he said his priorities were wage growth , education and lifting living standards to those of western europe .
the outgoing government has raised the minimum wage each year .
the latest rise set wages at 12,200 crowns ( $ 561.23 ) per month and takes effect next year .
it also agreed to increase teacher salaries .
teachers are the worst paid as compared to other skilled professions in oecd countries .
zaoralek said the country needed a new economic model that could produce higher margin goods even it meant some companies dependent on cheap labor shut .
such a shift would echo developments in export industries where wage growth has forced companies to innovate to maintain margins .
czech workers make about a third of their german counterparts .
to catch up with western neighbors the country needs to keep in step with eu partners as the bloc debates its post-brexit future , he said , adding that the country is interested in getting observer status in the euro zone .
but it should not push to join the euro zone quickly , he said .
such a push could encounter opposition from potential coalition partners .
zaoralek s stance differs from that of outgoing prime minister bohuslav sobotka who says the next government should set a date for joining .
most czechs do not want the country to join the currency bloc .
zaoralek said elections are often decided in the final days of campaigning so the social democrats could still form the next government .
no party is expected to win an absolute majority and opinion polls have proved inaccurate in previous elections .
one headache for both ano and potential coalition partners is that parliament voted this month to allow police to charge ano founder and chairman , billionaire andrej babis , with fraud in drawing eu subsidies .
he denies wrongdoing .
zaoralek said he could not see babis in the next cabinet if he were charged .
he did not rule out a coalition with the ano movement if babis is not prime minister .
it is tough to build a coalition with someone who is being prosecuted .... that is unimaginable , he said .