london ( reuters ) - rupert murdoch s british newspaper group said on friday one of its titles had hacked the computer of a former intelligence officer , an admission which critics said showed why his takeover of european broadcaster sky should be blocked .
in a hearing at london s high court , murdoch s news group newspapers admitted vicarious liability for the hacking of computers belonging to ian hurst , who worked for british military intelligence .
the case comes a month after britain s media minister said regulators should scrutinize murdoch s planned $ 15 billion takeover of sky over concerns about broadcasting standards and its impact on media plurality .
hurst s lawyer jeremy reed said in a court statement the irish edition of the news of the world newspaper had hired a private investigator to intercept his client s emails in 2006 .
hurst had served in northern ireland and later wrote a book about his experiences , including details of britain s top spy in the irish republican army ( ira ) , alfredo scappaticci , known by the codename stakeknife .
reed said it was likely he was targeted because an employee of the newspaper wanted to trace scappaticci .
i confirm that news group newspapers ... accepts vicarious liability for the wrongful acts of computer interception , said anthony hudson , the lawyer for the newspaper group , adding it had paid substantial damages to hurst and his family .
news group newspapers accepts that such activity happened , accepts that it should never have happened , and has undertaken to the court that it will never happen again .
opponents of murdoch s takeover said the case was evidence the deal should not be allowed to go through and they would send a dossier to the competition & markets authority ( cma ) which is examining the proposed deal .
it s vital that the cma is able to take this new evidence of criminality and corporate failure into account as it assesses the murdochs bid to take over sky , said tom watson , deputy leader of britain s opposition labour party .
murdoch shut the news of the world in 2011 after its journalists were found to have been involved in widespread phone-hacking .
his original attempt to buy full control of sky was ditched in the wake of the scandal .
since then the company has been split in two , separating the newspapers from entertainment assets to help to smooth the deal s passage .
last month murdoch s son james said he was confident regulators would assess the deal on its merits and not be swayed by those with grievances against his father s newspapers , saying the company had dealt effectively with past problems .