erbil , iraq/baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi prime minister hayder al-abadi declared victory over islamic state militants in tal afar and the entire province of nineveh on thursday , despite continued fighting in the small town of al- ayadiya .
tal afar had become the next target of the u.s.-backed war on the jihadist group following the capture of mosul , where it had declared its caliphate over parts of iraq and syria in 2014 .
tal afar has been liberated , abadi said in a statement .
we say to the islamic state fighters : wherever you are , we are coming for you , and you have no choice but to surrender or die .
the defeat in mosul , nineveh s provincial capital , marked the latest in a string of territorial losses for the group .
however , the militants still control areas on both sides of the syrian-iraqi border .
this includes hawija , a city between mosul and baghdad that iraqi officials have said will be the coalition s next target .
the iraqi army dropped millions of leaflets over hawija on thursday , warning residents it was preparing an offensive to recapture the city from islamic state , the military said in a statement .
the leaflets urged residents to stay away from militants headquarters , to drop weapons and turn themselves in to avoid being killed .
iraqi forces had been waiting to clear al- ayadiya , 11 km ( 7 miles ) northwest of tal afar , before declaring complete victory in the offensive .
islamic state militants had retreated to the town .
divisions from the iraqi army and federal police , backed by units from shi ite paramilitaries , retook al- ayadiya on thursday , military officers told reuters , after several days of unexpectedly fierce fighting .
however , pockets of resistance remained and iraqi forces were still working to clear the remaining militants from the town .
we have to make sure that no more terrorists remain hiding inside the town s houses , army lieutenant colonel salah kareem told reuters .
two military officers whose units are leading the fight in al- ayadiya on thursday said scattered groups of militants were still hiding in houses and using tunnel networks to move through the town .
four soldiers were killed and 10 more wounded as clashes continued in parts of al- ayadiya on thursday night , despite the announcement hours earlier by the prime minister .
three soldiers were killed on thursday evening and seven more wounded when a woman detonated a suicide vest , kareem said .
soldiers thought the woman was a civilian trying to escape the fighting , but as soon as she came close to the soldiers , she blew herself up and killed three , an army officer said .
in a separate incident , an islamic state sniper killed a soldier and wounded three others during a search .
we are still being shot at by snipers and coming under heavy gunfire from daesh fighters , kareem said .
iraqi forces will intensify their operations on friday , to dislodge the militants still entrenched inside scattered houses , army officers said .
hundreds of additional troops had been sent into al- ayadiya on wednesday , as iraqi forces came under increasing pressure to clear islamic state fighters before the start of the muslim holiday of eid on thursday evening .
the battle was unexpectedly tough , with house-to-house fighting in the center of town .
if reclaiming the town was harder than expected , the larger battle for tal afar was easier .
the city s rapid collapse on sunday after just eight days of fighting lent support to iraqi military reports that the militants lack sturdy command and control structures west of mosul .
up to 2,000 battle-hardened militants were believed to be defending tal afar against around 50,000 government troops last week .
it was unclear how many had retreated to al- ayadiya .
u.s. army lieutenant general stephen townsend congratulated the iraqi forces on achieving a stunningly swift and decisive victory in tal afar .
this is iraq liberating iraqis , he told a pentagon teleconference from baghdad .
townsend added however , that a quick victory in tal afar did not necessarily mean the fight to retake islamic state s remaining territory would be easy .
while i would like to say that we would see this elsewhere in iraq and syria , we are not really planning for that , townsend said .
we pledge to you , our people , that we will continue to liberate every inch of iraq , abadi said in his statement .
tens of thousands of people had fled tal afar , a city with a pre-war population of about 200,000 , in recent months .
the united nations estimated that 20,000 people had fled the city and its surrounding areas between aug. 14 and 22 alone .
civilians who fled tal afar in recent weeks told reuters they had faced months of starvation and brutal treatment by the militants , who threatened them with death if they tried to escape .