so am i getting this right ?
everyone needs to let the high schoolers rampage through the museum or else they ll scream racism ?
if we want everyone to be treated equally , then we should apply the rules set forth by the museum equally .
isn t it more racist to expect and accept bad behavior from minorities attending a museum ?
this could be a teaching moment for all involved but pointing the finger at the museum and screaming racism is so much easier .
does this sound familiar to anyone out there baltimore ?
the upper east side museum banned a brooklyn high school for life after its students were deemed too rowdy on a recent visit a move that some call discipline and others discrimination .
a group of about 80 kids from downtown brooklyn s science skills center hs were kicked out after just 20 minutes after a student allegedly spat off the museum s swirling rotunda lobby and another threw a penny off its winding walkway .
the coin was rumored to have hit a security guard .
it was only a handful of troublemakers , but the whole group of ninth- and 10-graders got the boot , with the museum forcing them to wait outside for an hour for their bus to arrive .
many never got to glimpse the gallery s picassos , van goghs and monets or even finish checking out the main display by japanese artist on kawara .
i thought , if anything , they [ museum staff ] should just tell the teachers to control the children more and let us finish the exhibit , but they didn t even do that .
they just kicked us out , said student yosmeris martinez , 14 , from east new york .
shortly afterward , the school was told it was not welcome back .
just last week , first lady michelle obama pleaded for art institutions to be more welcoming of kids from all backgrounds .
you see , there are so many kids in this country who look at places like museums and concert halls and other cultural centers and they think to themselves , well , that s not a place for me , for someone who looks like me , for someone who comes from my neighborhood , she said , speaking at the opening of the new whitney museum in the meatpacking district .
guggenheim rules state that people should speak quietly , not run and not disturb other visitors .
however , gallery visitors complained about the students obnoxious behavior , with one angrily requesting a refund because of the troublesome teens .
some workers at the guggenheim suggested the ban may have been a knee-jerk reaction to racist stereotypes .
it was pretty much the first .
.
.
group of black kids i have ever seen there , said asha walker , who has spent two years working at the guggenheim distributing audio guides .
it s unfair , because children are going to be children .
so just tell us that we re wrong rather than holding us back from going .
yosmeris martinez , student walker , who is black and from bedford-stuyvesant , said that she didn t see any spitting or throwing , but that the boisterous teens were yelling at one another across the rotunda , with very little supervision from teachers .
this is the first time since i have been there that there are a majority of black students .
.
.
and the first time i am hearing about a school being banned .
but it s not the first time i am hearing about kids being rowdy in the museum or there being a behavior issue in the museum , said walker .
another guggenheim staffer , who requested anonymity , said : i think it s a real shame that the guggenheim s automatic reaction was to say no and ban the school , instead of considering that maybe the students haven t been there before .
it s a pretty dramatic step to me .
the guggenheim declined to comment on the ban.via : nyp