drawing muhammad is not illegal under american law , but only under islamic law .
violence that arises over the cartoons is solely the responsibility of the islamic jihadists who perpetrate it .
because freedom of speech is under violent assault , the human rights advocacy group the american freedom defense initiative ( afdi ) has announced a new ad campaign to defend freedom of speech and stand up to violent intimidation kicking off in the nation s capital.i said in a statement : because the media and the cultural and political elites continue to self-enforce the sharia without the consent of the american people by refusing to show any depictions of muhammad or showing what it was in texas that had jihadists opening fire , we are running an ad featuring the winning cartoon by former muslim bosch fawstin from our muhammad art exhibit and cartoon contest in garland , texas .
let the american people see what the cowardly press is censoring in accordance with the blasphemy laws under the sharia ( islamic law ) .the ad campaign has been submitted to the washington , d.c. mta to run on buses and train dioramas in the foggy bottom , capitol south , bethesda , l enfant plaza , and shady grove stations .
drawing muhammad is not illegal under american law , but only under islamic law .
violence that arises over the cartoons is solely the responsibility of the islamic jihadists who perpetrate it .
either america will stand now against attempts to suppress the freedom of speech by violence , or will submit and give the violent the signal that we can be silenced by threats and murder .
we can not submit to the assassin s veto .
it was the jihadis , not i , who made the cartoons a flash point .
if we surrender on that point and stop drawing muhammad , we ve established a precedent of surrendering to violent sharia enforcement , and once established , we will be made to reinforce it again and again .
islamist government is a unique threat to free speech and libertyfreedom of speech is the foundation of a free society .
without it , a tyrant can wreak havoc unopposed , while his opponents are silenced.putting up with being offended is essential in a pluralistic society in which people differ on basic truths .
if a group will not bear being offended without resorting to violence , that group will rule unopposed while everyone else lives in fear , while other groups curtail their activities to appease the violent group .
this results in the violent group being able to tyrannize the others.i added : there is nothing about this cartoon that incites violence .
it is within the established american tradition of satire .
if america surrenders on this point , the freedom of speech is a relic of history .
afdi vice president robert spencer stated : many people on both the left and the right are saying that we should do nothing to provoke islamic fundamentalism .
the immediate answer would seem to be that we should do nothing to provoke violent jihadis , that the prudent thing to do would be to avoid doing things that anger them .
but if we did that , they would not they stop coming at us .
last september , an islamic state spokesman boasted : we will conquer your rome , break your crosses , and enslave your women , by the permission of allah , the exalted .
this is his promise to us ; he is glorified and he does not fail in his promise .
if we do not reach that time , then our children and grandchildren will reach it , and they will sell your sons as slaves at the slave market .
in light of that , what is the point of asking whether or not we should provoke them ?
they re already provoked , he continued .
a more useful question now is whether it is really productive and helpful to signal to them that we will acquiesce to their threats of violence and change our behavior accordingly , or whether we will instead signal to them that their violent threats are not going to frighten us into submission .
the ads have been submitted to run on buses in washington , d.c.afdi stands for : the freedom of speech as opposed to islamic prohibitions of blasphemy and slander , which are used effectively to quash honest discussion of jihad and islamic supremacism ; the freedom of conscience as opposed to the islamic death penalty for apostasy ; the equality of rights of all people before the law as opposed to sharia s institutionalized discrimination against women and non-muslims .
via : breitbart news