a judge just told us all what we ve known for 7 years the obama administration lies like a rug to cover up or to further their agenda .
this is the third time a judge has slapped down the obama white house for their lack of transparency liars all !
the funny thing is that the judge said he s troubled by all this lying and misleading the court yes , we are too ; 0the white house showed bad faith in how it handled an open-records request for global warming data , a federal court ruled monday , issuing yet another stinging rebuke to the administration for showing a lack of transparency.for president obama , who vowed to run the most transparent government in u.s. history , judge amit p. mehta s ruling granting legal discovery in an open-records case the third time this year a judge has ordered discovery is an embarrassing black eye.in this most recent case , the competitive enterprise institute was trying to force the white house office of science and technology policy to release documents backing up director john c. holdren s finding that global warming was making winters colder a claim disputed by climate scientists .
mr. holdren s staffers first claimed they couldn t find many documents , then tried to hide their release , saying they were all internal or were similar to what was already public.but each of those claims turned out not to be true .
at some point , the government s inconsistent representations about the scope and completeness of its searches must give way to the truth-seeking function of the adversarial process , including the tools available through discovery .
this case has crossed that threshold , the judge wrote.discovery is considered exceedingly rare in freedom of information act cases , because the government is given the benefit of the doubt in claiming it tried to search for and release documents .
but in three cases so far this year , judges have said called the obama administration s efforts into question , finding severe oversights that suggest bad faith .
both of the other cases involve the state department s handling of former secretary hillary clinton s emails.in the ostp case , conservative activists were trying to get a look at how the agency director , john p. holdren came to the conclusion that global warming was causing more severe winters a finding that scientists generally dispute.the ostp repeatedly botched its efforts to search for and produce the chain of work for mr. holdren s conclusions .
initially the office said it found just 11 pages of documents , none of which included drafts of the director s final conclusions .
later , the office admitted it found 47 pages of drafts , but tried to withhold them , claiming they were protected from release because they were only seen within the administration .
both of those impressions turned out to be mistaken , judge mehta said.ostp then said there were 52 total pages of drafts , only one person outside the administration saw a draft and that document was similar to what the ostp had already produced .
all three of those impressions also turned out to be mistaken , judge mehta wrote , adding in a footnote that he was troubled by the government s statements that misled the court.read more : wt