manila ( reuters ) - maoist rebels attacked soldiers delivering relief aid to parts of the central philippines where a typhoon killed at least 32 people , army and disaster officials said on monday .
typhoon kai-tak , which triggered landslides and floods in the deadliest storm to hit the country this year , also left 46 people missing .
military spokesman colonel edgard arevalo said two soldiers were wounded when about 50 rebels of the new people s army ( npa ) , the military arm of a communist movement , fired on a convoy of troops carrying relief aid on samar island on saturday .
the npa has yet to comment on the accusation and it was not possible to contact the group due to power outages and disrupted communications .
the philippines has not declared a christmas truce with the rebels for the first time in three decades after president rodrigo duterte halted peace talks and this month designated the npa a terrorist organization .
( the attacks ) only validated the aptness of the government s decision to terminate the peace negotiations and to discontinue the traditional christmas truce , arevalo said .
the 3,000-member maoist rebel forces have been waging a protracted guerrilla warfare for nearly 50 years in a conflict that has killed more than 40,000 people and stunted growth in resource-rich rural areas .
the philippines also faces islamist insurgencies in the south .
the npa guerrillas have been targeting mines , plantations and other businesses , demanding revolutionary taxation to finance arms purchases and recruitment .
mina marasigan , spokeswoman for the national disaster risk reduction and management council , called on the npa to halt the violence .
this is not an armed conflict , she said , adding the rebels should let relief work to go unhampered .
marasigan said emergency workers were working around the clock to restore power , clear debris and make roads and bridges passable to allow humanitarian assistance to reach about 220,000 people affected by the storm .
duterte is expected to visit the worst-hit typhoon areas later in the day to assess the damage .
storms regularly batter the philippines .
in 2013 , typhoon haiyan killed about 8,000 people and left millions homeless in the same region .