new york ( reuters ) - the ranking democrat on the u.s. senate subcommittee on children and families wants a congressional watchdog agency to investigate whether states are complying with a federal law meant to protect newborns in drug withdrawal and help their families .
in a letter sent this week to the u.s. government accountability office , senator robert casey of pennsylvania asked that the probe examine what steps congress or the obama administration could take “ to improve compliance and save the lives of vulnerable infants. ” the request comes in response to a reuters investigation in december that identified the preventable deaths of 110 babies whose mothers used opioids during pregnancy and were subsequently sent home to families ill-equipped to care for them .
a 2003 federal law calls on states to require that healthcare workers notify child protection services when a baby is born affected by illegal substance abuse or has symptoms of drug withdrawal .
such reports are not to be used as evidence of abuse , the law says , but rather to help develop a “ plan of safe care ” for the newborns after they leave the hospital .
reuters found that no more than nine states and the district of columbia appear to follow the law .
even so , no state had lost federal funding from failing to abide by the provision .
more than 27,000 newborns in the united states were diagnosed with drug withdrawal syndrome in 2013 – five times the number diagnosed with the condition in 2003 .
“ reuters ’ groundbreaking report on the condition of children born with opioid dependencies should be a call to action for all members of congress , ” casey said in a separate statement .
cathleen palm , executive director of the center for children ’ s justice , a pennsylvania non-profit advocacy group , supported casey ’ s action .
“ by gao and congress saying we want states to tangibly tell us what they are doing , it ’ s going to force them to really look at it , ” palm said .
“ it just feels like we ’ re about to get a whole lot more motivated about these babies and their families. ” mark weber , a spokesman for the u.s. department of health and human services , which oversees compliance with the law , said the agency will “ work with the gao when an inquiry is made. ” the reuters investigation , “ helpless & hooked , ” can be found at reut.rs/1nsc7uc