amman ( reuters ) - russian and syrian jets killed at least 150 civilians and injured dozens in over a week of heavy bombing that shattered a six-month halt in intensive aerial raids in opposition-held northwestern parts of syria , opposition rescue workers said on wednesday .
the renewed bombing campaign came after an array of jihadist rebels led by the former qaeda offshoot in syria last week waged a wide-scale offensive against government-controlled areas in northern hama .
we have pulled 152 bodies and we have rescued 279 civilians since the russian and regime bombing campaign , said salem abu al azem , a senior rescue worker from the opposition-run civil defence in idlib , adding bodies were still being pulled out of the wreckage of buildings flattened by air raids .
russia s defense ministry says it is attacking hard-line islamist militants .
it denies accusations it has targeted infrastructure and medical centers to force rebels into local truces that effectively restore president bashar al assad s grip on the country .
civil defense officials and other humanitarian aid workers have documented the destruction of six hospitals , five defense centers , and power stations in the first few days of the bombing campaign alongside hitting camps where displaced civilians have been sheltering .
rebels and witnesses differentiate easily russian jets from syrian planes with the former flying in sorties at high altitudes making drops with devastating impact .
the strikes began with intensive bombing of towns and cities in southern idlib where the jihadists have a large presence but in recent days have spread to most towns across the province that borders turkey .
thousands of families have fled from towns such as jisr al shqour and jabal al zawya to rural areas less exposed to daily bombing and shelling , aid workers said .
the bombing campaign however comes shortly after a tripartite deal struck by moscow , ankara and tehran to deploy an observer force in idlib , a province where the former al qaeda syrian offshoot has cemented its control after it crushed opponents .
the kremlin said earlier this week russia s president vladimir putin was expected to meet his turkish counterpart tayyip erdogan on a visit to ankara on thursday .
syrian rebel officials says turkey wants to get the approval of moscow , the power with the dominant role in syria , to press ahead with its widely anticipated plan to deploy troops in idlib .