kabul ( reuters ) - human rights activists are urging afganistan s president ashraf ghani to expand anti-torture laws enacted months ago to allow victims abused by security forces to seek restitution and compensation .
a redress annex attached to the anti-torture law would allow victims to take the government to civil court , something not currently allowed under the law , say activists .
the annex has been drafted and its backers hope ghani will sign a decree making it an official part of the law .
a spokesman for ghani s office did not respond to requests for comment .
as of now , it is up to the government to investigate and prosecute members of its own security forces who are accused of torture , something activists and investigators say is rare .
the pervasiveness of torture in afghanistan makes its criminalization and the prosecution of alleged torturers an urgent priority , human rights watch senior researcher patricia gossman wrote in a post calling for the annex to be enacted .
but the government also needs to enshrine in law the rights of torture victims to redress for their suffering .
if prosecutors delay , a compensation system would create a new avenue for holding the government accountable , she said .
human rights investigators have praised recent moves by ghani s administration to criminalize torture , but at a practical level reports of torture continue to be widespread .
in april , a u.n. report said measures by the government had failed to reduce torture , with nearly 40 percent of conflict-related detainees interviewed by the investigators reporting that they had been tortured or mistreated by afghan security forces , mostly the police and intelligence services .
among the methods described in the report were severe beatings to the body and soles of the feet with sticks , plastic pipes or cables , electric shocks , including to the genitals , prolonged suspension by the arms , and suffocation .
allowing victims to sue in civil court would ensure that they receive compensation and create a public record of torture cases , said shaharzad akbar , a civil society activist who works on anti-torture causes .
governments across the world are hesitant to prosecute their employees , so redress creates a civil mechanism for the public to hold government accountable , she said .
this leads to an internal conversation in the government about the responsibility of government entities to prevent torture .