ankara ( reuters ) - turkey detained the main opposition leader s lawyer on friday for alleged links to the network accused of carrying out last year s failed coup , in a widening government crackdown .
lawyer celal celik was a former top court judge who resigned from his post in september 2011 in protest of the rising influence of u.s.-based muslim cleric fethullah gulen s network in the judiciary .
however , celik had now been detained at his home in the capital ankara as part of operations targeting the network .
turkey accuses cleric gulen of orchestrating the abortive putsch in july 2016 .
gulen , who has lived in self-imposed exile in the united states since 1999 , denies involvement .
what happened today is a disgrace in the name of democracy .
the detention decision concerning my lawyer is an eclipse of the mind , main opposition republican people s party ( chp ) chairman kemal kilicdaroglu was cited as saying by broadcaster cnn turk .
president tayyip erdogan and his ruling ak party have recently adapted a harsher rhetoric against kilicdaroglu , repeatedly accusing him and the chp of being linked to gulen s network and acting together with what it calls the terrorist organization .
using erdogan s acronym for the gulen network , kilicdaroglu said the government was supporting the feto under the banner of a fight against the feto .
prime minister binali yildirim told reporters after friday prayers that celik s detention was a legal process , and that he hoped a correct decision would come from the investigations .
chp spokesman bulent tezcan said the detention was a plot against the party .
celik had resigned from his judgeship at the court of appeals to battle the feto when it was at its most powerful .
if calik s home can be raided , then let it be known that every single person faces this threat , tezcan said .
more than 50,000 people have been jailed pending trial for alleged ties to gulen s movement and some 150,000 people , including journalists and opposition figures , have been sacked or suspended from jobs in the public and private sectors for the same reason .
rights groups and turkey s western allies have expressed concern about the crackdown and suspect the government has used the coup as a pretext to quash dissent .
the government says the purges are necessary due to the gravity of the threats it has faced since the failed putsch , in which more than 240 people were killed .