( reuters ) - attacks by rohingya muslim insurgents on the myanmar security forces in rakhine state triggered a response by the army and buddhist vigilantes so brutal a senior u.n. official denounced it as a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
days , weeks and months after the aug. 25 violence , more than 600,000 rohingya fled to muslim bangladesh , trekking over mountains and through forests and rice fields inundated by monsoon rain .
many of the refugees were traumatized , exhausted and hungry , some wounded by bullets , knives or clubs , many with burns .
many women said they had been raped .
all of the refugees brought accounts of a campaign of murderous violence and arson by the myanmar security forces and buddhist civilians that they believed was aimed at driving them out of the country .
mostly buddhist myanmar denies the accusations .
( click on reut.rs/2jc8rze to view a photo essay on the rohingya refugee crisis . )
myanmar says the rebels responsible for the aug. 25 attacks on about 30 security posts and an army camp - the arakan rohingya salvation army - are terrorists and it is they who unleashed most of the violence and arson that reduced hundreds of rohingya villages nestled in emerald-green rice fields to ash .
the rohingya have long faced discrimination and repression in rakhine state where bad blood with ethnic rakhine buddhists , stemming from violence by both sides , goes back generations .
rohingya are not regarded as an indigenous ethnic minority in myanmar - the government even refuses to recognize the term rohingya , instead labeling them illegal immigrants from bangladesh .
most have been denied citizenship under a law that links nationality to ethnicity .
they have long lived under apartheid-like conditions , with little access to even the limited opportunities in education and employment open to their buddhist neighbors in one of myanmar s poorest regions .
about one million rohingya were believed to have been living in rakhine state before the latest violence .
bangladesh was already home to 400,000 of them who had fled earlier repression .
the new arrivals , many landing by boat after being ferried across a border river , crammed into the existing refugee camps in the cox s bazar district , many camping out in the rain - lucky ones able to string up a piece of plastic - beside muddy tracks .
bangladesh , one of the world s poorest and most crowded countries , initially said the rohingya were not welcome and ordered border guards to push them back .
but it quickly changed its stand in the face of the scale of the exodus and began gearing up , with the help of u.n. and other aid agencies , to cope with the fastest-developing refugee crisis the world had seen in years .
the crisis has raised grave doubts about myanmar s transition from military-ruled pariah to budding democracy , and about the commitment to human rights of the democracy leader who struggled to end nearly 50 years of harsh military rule - aung san suu kyi .
the generals remain in full charge of security under a constitution they drafted , even though suu kyi runs the government .
analysts say suu kyi has to avoid angering the army and alienating supporters by being seen to take the side of a muslim minority that enjoys little sympathy in a country that has seen a surge of buddhist nationalism .
nevertheless , the failure of the nobel peace laureate to speak out forcefully in defense of the rohingya would seem to have irreparably damaged her reputation overseas .
the international community is demanding that the rohingya be allowed to go home in safety , and bangladesh and myanmar have begun talks on repatriation , but huge doubts remain about the rohingya ever being able to return in peace to rebuild their homes and till their fields .