do you hear that sucking sound ?
that s the obama regime sucking more and more of your freedoms away every day in northern idaho , residents are standing guard against a federal government determined to disarm those they deem unworthy .
about 100 locals in bonner county are stationed outside the home of u.s. navy veteran john arnold , including sheriff daryl wheeler and two state lawmakers.arnold , who lives in priest river , received a letter from the department of veterans affairs warning him he is not permitted to purchase or possess firearms , the ap is reporting.rep .
matthew shea of spokane valley , who described the event as a defiance against tyranny .
i took an oath to uphold the u.s. constitution and uphold the laws of idaho , wheeler said .
this seemed appropriate to show my support .
i was going to make sure mr. arnold s rights weren t going to be breached .
during thursday s demonstration , the group at times broke out in song to sing god bless america and pray while waving both the american flag and the don t tread on me flag .
with a population of just 1,700 , priest river is near the tip of northern idaho- a region known for its strong tea party roots and gun-rights activism.arnold had a stroke one year ago .
in january , paperwork filed with the va stated that arnold was financially incompetent and could not handle his own affairs.arnold claimed the box that was checked was done in error and he was always competent to handle himself .
however , the va said that due to the paperwork , arnold was no longer allowed to buy , sell or possess firearms .
if somebody else makes an error and they cause you grief they should fix it , said arnold .
that s all i want is that stuff to get fixed .
the department of veterans affairs can declare a vet incompetent by fiat if they so wish , in direct violation of the second amendment.republican u.s. sen. john cornyn of texas proposed legislation that would require court action before barring gun purchases by veterans declared incompetent.via : downtrend