geneva ( reuters ) - switzerland opened a war-crimes investigation into rifaat al-assad , an uncle of syrian leader bashar al-assad , almost four years ago , but it has stalled despite compelling evidence , an activist group and lawyers said on monday .
the geneva-based group trial international said that it had brought the complaint against rifaat al-assad for alleged massacres in tadmor in 1980 and hama in 1982 , and was joined by swiss lawyers for six syrian plaintiffs seeking justice .
he was in command of the defense brigades the country s elite commando troops in the 1980s , the group said in a statement .
under his lead , the brigades are suspected of participating in the massacre of several thousand people in tadmor and hama .
following trial s complaint , an investigation of assad - the uncle of bashar al-assad and the younger brother of his father , hafez assad , syria s former president - began in 2013 , the group said .
but the criminal inquiry seems to be at a standstill , the plaintiffs lawyers , led by damien chervaz , said in a statement .
the swiss attorney general confirmed that an investigation into war crimes was opened in december 2013 against a syrian national who was the alleged commander of a military unit in the 1980s , but declined to confirm his identity .
its investigations were time-consuming because of the complex nature of incidents that occurred long ago in another country , the attorney general s office said in a statement .
a spokeswoman said it had no further comment on any criticisms .
marc hassberger , geneva lawyer for rifaat , told radio television suisse ( rts ) on monday night that his client rejected the accusations .
he added : obviously one must be wary of outrageous simplifications regarding a procedure that concerns facts which may have happened several decades ago and also thousands of kilometers away from here .
a former syrian vice president who was sent into exile in the 1980s , assad lives in france , where he was put under investigation for tax fraud and money-laundering last year .
in april , spain confiscated property he owned , as part of a investigation into alleged money-laundering .
khaled al-khani , a syrian artist who said that his father was tortured and killed in the crackdown on hama in 1982 , when he was a child , is a plaintiff in the swiss case .
if justice can be rendered to victims of srebrenica or rwanda , one must do the same for those whom we have lost , he told swiss television .