yeah , because taking trump down is more important to these flame throwers on the left ( and right ) than exposing the truth about obama s overt allegiance to muslims living in america and the actual muslim training camps that are taking place across america right now.donald trump pulled out of a republican gathering in south carolina friday as he took hits from members of both parties for failing to correct a questioner who said president obama is a muslim .
mr. trump has a significant business transaction that was expected to close thursday .
due to the delay he is unable to attend today s heritage action presidential forum , trump s campaign announced in a release friday.trump had been scheduled to join most of the republican field at the meeting of the influential conservative group.trump drew condemnation friday from some of his rivals for his failure to confront the questioner at a new hampshire town hall who had labeled the president a muslim , asked what he would do to get rid of muslims and mentioned islamic training camps .
new jersey gov .
chris christie told nbc friday , i wouldn t have permitted that .
if someone brought that up at a town hall meeting of mine , i would ve said , no , listen .
before we answer , let s clear some things up for the rest of the audience .
and i think you have an obligation as a leader to do that .
if that person had been in my event i would have called him out in it , hillary clinton said at a press conference after a campaign event in new hampshire .
not only is it out of place and wrong it is totally factually untrue .
sen. bernie sanders demanded that trump apologize for continuing the lie that the president is not an american and not a christian .
fox news hidden in a remote area off a primitive dirt road lies a mysterious 70-acre compound in which more than 100 muslims live in seclusion , following the teachings of its founder , a radical cleric with alleged ties to terrorism.it s neither a taliban stronghold outside jalalabad , nor an extremist madrassa on the outskirts of karachi.it s a place called islamberg , a closed and seemingly quiet community at the foot of the catskill mountains in upstate new york , about three hours north of manhattan.it s also a compound shrouded in local rumors , mystery and fear sitting near the huge reservoir system that provides new york city with most of its drinking water.quietly nestled in the woods , islamberg remained unnoticed for the two decades leading up to sept. 11 , 2001 , when the world trade center and the pentagon were attacked by a determined band of islamic extremists.that s when people started questioning the community s ties to a pakistani cleric allegedly connected to worldwide terrorism .
they also started talking about the unusual sounds of gunfire and explosions some said they heard emanating from the compound.but before you leap to conclusions and head to the catskills to personally fight the war on terror you need to know the entire story .
the truth , as is often the case , is a lot more complicated than the headlines suggest.islamberg got its start about 20 years ago , when inspired by the words of the sufi cleric sheikh syed mubarik ali shah gilani a group of primarily black muslims from brooklyn left new york city to escape crime , poverty and racism .
aiming to lead what they believed was a peaceful and holy muslim life , they built a community of some 40 family houses , their own grocery store and a bookstore.and they weren t alone .
other groups , also inspired by gilani , have set up similiar communities in 19 other states .
according to the group s own web site , the islamberg community is still struggling , and is asking for donations to complete its mosque.according to locals , the land previously belonged to a deposit , n.y. , woman who opened up her home in the in the late 1970s or early 80s to disadvantaged youths from the city so that they could avoid being led astray by a financially and morally bankrupt urban environment.those boys , according to locals who were friendly with some of the group , eventually went on to form islamberg , and at some point they were joined by another group of more militant muslims , who created something of a rival faction within the community.the group lived quietly there for years with little interaction with the local communities except for forays into town for supplies or to sell baked goods at the weekly flea market .
some of the men had jobs at a local credit-processing center or working for the port authority in new york city ( where they are said to maintain a residence near a bridge that runs between two boroughs ) .in the few instances when they did have relationships with the locals , they were almost always friendly , many said .
sometimes local children would visit their friends in the compound .
there was a sense of camaraderie with them , one woman said.watch video here : there was a notable exception , a situation involving the local schools in the late 1990s when some of the islamberg boys got into a scuffle with local boys .
they broke my nephew s nose , said a hancock , n.y. , woman , who asked that her name not be used.another man said the muslim boys trashed the school in deposit.locals variously blamed the fighting on an angry attitude on the part of the muslim boys , racism on the part of the local boys or the usual relatively trivial events that lead almost all teenage boys into a confrontation at one point or another in their lives.according to joy felber , 62 , a retired taxidermist who s lived in deposit for 19 years , the cause lay with a group of local boys who picked a fight with the muslims .
we had some young boys in town who were causing trouble not from the muslim community but they were antagonizing the boys in the muslim community , felber said .
it was lack of knowledge .
when people don t know other people , they have a tendency to lash out .
and you put two teenage boys together and sparks fly .
after a further controversy about whether the islamberg boys should have been going to public school in deposit or hancock ( the compound lies on the border between the two towns , and even longtime residents differ on whether it s technically in deposit , hancock or nearby tompkins ) , the boys were pulled from the schools and the muslim community drew away from town life.all islamberg children are now schooled on the compound in a school that , according to one report , has a total of 62 students .