brussels ( reuters ) - nato s pledge to send more troops to afghanistan still falls short of commitments , u.s. commanders said on thursday , concerned that fewer reinforcements could threaten the already precarious security situation in the country .
at a meeting of nato defence ministers , commanders said that nearly three months after president donald trump announced his south asia strategy , the promised troop numbers do expand the nato training presence but not by as much as hoped .
we have made it very clear to the allies that we really need their help in filling these billets that we have identified , said general john nicholson , the top u.s. commander in afghanistan and head of the nato training mission .
nato secretary general jens stoltenberg said this week that nato allies and the united states would split the burden of providing some 3,000 more troops , an increase that would take nato s training mission to about 16,000 troops .
two diplomats said that at this stage , the united states is likely to provide 2,800 troops , while non-u.s. nato allies and partners will send an additional 700 troops , potentially making up a 3,500-strong personnel increase .
germany , one of the main european troop contributors , said it was not increasing its contribution for next year , which german defence minister ursula von der leyen defended .
the commitments received so far are sufficient .
we will not reach the total troop level , but to a high degree , von der leyen told reporters .
european nato s focus has partly shifted to deterring russia on its eastern flank , diplomats said , after moscow s seizure of crimea in 2014 helped take east-west ties to post-cold war lows .
nicholson said he was concerned that the united states would be put in a position where it would have to fill the shortfall .
right now my plan is to have u.s. forces focused on the things that only u.s. forces can do , so i would not like to have to divert u.s. forces to do things that allies can perform , nicholson said .
security in afghanistan has deteriorated in recent months , 16 years after the united states invaded to topple the islamist taliban government that gave al qaeda the sanctuary where it plotted the sept. 11 , 2001 attacks .
we fought ... at the lowest year level of capability that we have ever had in the 16 years .
so it was the lowest level of capability and the highest level of risk we have faced in this time , nicholson said .
before the ministers meeting , u.s. officials said about 80 percent of the troop commitments had been met by the allies .
u.s. defence secretary jim mattis said that about two dozen countries had signalled their intent to increase their troop commitment , but declined to publicly give concrete numbers .
i don t give the enemy information they can use to their advantage , he told a news conference .
officials said there was a 10 percent shortfall even after the nato meeting .
according to u.s. estimates , about 43 percent of afghanistan s districts are either under taliban control or being contested .
one area in particular where there was a need for nato troops was in training afghan soldiers and police officers .
a total of 2,531 afghan security forces were killed and 4,238 wounded in the first four months of the year , according to figures in a recent report by the special inspector general for afghanistan ( sigar ) , a u.s. congressional watchdog .
i am most concerned about police training in particular , because we are trying as part of this four-year road map to get the police out of paramilitary policing and ( into ) civilian policing , nicholson said .
the four-star general said that while contractors could potentially be used to fill the gaps , ideally it would be filled by nato members .
a recent report published by sigar said that tens of billions of dollars could be wasted unless changes are made in the training of afghan security forces .
u.s. intelligence agencies have assessed that the conditions in afghanistan will almost certainly deteriorate through next year , even with a modest increase in military assistance from america and its allies .