washington/san juan ( reuters ) - a u.s. congressional draft bill to steer puerto rico through its economic crisis was released on tuesday with elements of u.s. bankruptcy law opposed by creditors who want to keep the island ’ s debt talks out of court .
the draft , circulated by the u.s. house of representatives committee on natural resources , includes sections of the u.s. bankruptcy code that allow bankrupt entities under certain circumstances to force creditors to take reduced payouts .
an official draft of the bill is expected to be released on april 11 after a public comment period .
puerto rico has $ 70 billion in debt , with major bond payments due in coming months .
it also has an unfunded state pension liability of nearly $ 44 billion .
the bill “ provides puerto rico with tools to impose discipline over its finances , meet its obligations and restore confidence in its institutions , ” utah republican rob bishop , the committee ’ s chairman , said in a statement .
“ we appreciate the constructive efforts by chairman bishop and the house natural resources committee to begin drafting legislation to address puerto rico ’ s fiscal and economic crisis .
but the current draft needs improvements , ” said a statement from a treasury spokesperson .
“ final legislation must provide puerto rico with tools to achieve a lasting , workable solution to this crisis and create a path to recovery for the people of puerto rico. ” the republican-led panel ’ s bill would create a federal board to oversee the island ’ s finances , monitor its accounting and help curb spending .
it would also require puerto rico to make efforts to restructure debt consensually with creditors .
if those talks failed , the island or its public entities could file for a court-supervised debt restructuring process based on key statutes within u.s. bankruptcy law .
that would allow puerto rico to force such deals on holdout creditors .
the bill ’ s elements were unexpected because creditors and house republicans had largely opposed bankruptcy for puerto rico .
the natural resources committee had said that “ retroactively adding territories ” like puerto rico to the federal bankruptcy code “ is ill-conceived and would undermine the rule of law. ” a congressional aide stressed that the draft legislation was not a bankruptcy law , and does not directly add puerto rico to u.s. bankruptcy code , though it follows similar language .
the obama administration has advocated to allow puerto rico to restructure its debt in a court-sanctioned process .
house minority leader nancy pelosi criticized the “ sweeping powers of the oversight board proposed ” in the bill .
the bill in its final form may include language that protects an existing consensual restructuring deal between creditors and the power utility , prepa , the congressional aide said .
prepa earlier this year reached the deal with creditors holding roughly 70 percent of its $ 8.3 billion in debt .
“ the bill in its current form is fiscally irresponsible , ” financial adviser stephen spencer of houlihan lokey said in an emailed statement .
the company ’ s clients include major puerto rico creditors such as oppenheimerfunds and franklin advisers .
“ as we showed with the prepa deal , fair solutions can be reached between puerto rico and its creditors that benefit all stakeholders .
however , the discussion draft bill is worse for creditors than chapter 9 , ” spencer said .
how the oversight board treats the island ’ s general obligation bonds , which is typically regarded as the most senior debt , versus pension payments is also a source of concern for creditors .
the oversight board will look at each bond issued and make a determination on how it relates to other creditors under the existing law , the congressional aide said .
if the go bonds are constitutionally protected and within their limits then the board would take that into consideration , the aide said .