baghdad ( reuters ) - iraq demanded on thursday that the u.s. government backtrack on a decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital and summoned the u.s. ambassador in baghdad to protest the decision .
u.s. president donald trump reversed decades of u.s. policy on wednesday and recognized jerusalem as the capital of israel , imperiling middle east peace efforts and upsetting the arab world and western allies alike .
shi ite-majority iraq is the only country to have an alliance with regional powerhouse iran and the united states , who do not see eye-to-eye .
the iraqi foreign ministry said it had summoned the u.s. ambassador in baghdad and that it would hand him a memo protesting trump s decision .
we caution against the dangerous repercussions of this decision on the stability of the region and the world , an iraqi government statement said .
the u.s. administration has to backtrack on this decision to stop any dangerous escalation that would fuel extremism and create conditions favorable to terrorism , it said .
iraq s top shi ite cleric grand ayatollah ali al-sistani condemned the decision and called on the umma , or islamic nation , to unite its efforts and reclaim jerusalem .
this decision is condemned and decried , it hurt the feelings of hundreds of millions of arabs and muslims , his office said in a statement .
but it won t change the reality that jerusalem is an occupied land which should return to the sovereignty of its palestinian owners no matter how long it takes , it said .
dozens of iraqis protested the decision in baghdad , carrying signs saying jerusalem is arab and vowing to return in greater numbers the following day after friday prayers .
a prominent iraqi militia , the iran-backed harakat hezbollah al-nujaba , said trump s decision could become a legitimate reason to attack u.s. forces in iraq .
trump s stupid decision to make jerusalem a capital for the zionist will be the big spark for removing this entity from the body of the islamic nation , and a legitimate reason to target american forces , said the group s leader akram al-kaabi .
the united states is leading an international coalition helping iraq fight islamic state and has provided air and ground support .
it has more than 5,000 troops in iraq .
nujaba , which has about 10,000 fighters , is one of the most important militias in iraq .
though made up of iraqis , it is loyal to iran and is helping tehran create a supply route through iraq to damascus .
it fights under the umbrella of the popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ) , a mostly iranian-backed coalition of shi ite militias that played a role in combating islamic state .
the pmf is government sanctioned and formally reports to prime minister haider al-abadi s office .