madrid ( reuters ) - eight former catalan cabinet members currently in custody awaiting trial will appear before the supreme court on friday , after requesting their release ahead of a regional election dec. 21 in the wake of a disputed independence referendum .
sacked regional vice-president oriol junqueras , one of his erc party s main candidates for the election , has asked to be allowed to leave jail in order to campaign in the vote which was called by madrid .
junqueras and seven other former members of the catalonia regional cabinet were jailed on nov. 2 pending trial on charges of sedition , rebellion and misappropriation of funds after the catalan government declared independence from spain .
the oct. 1 referendum , declared unconstitutional by spain , and the subsequent proclamation of independence by the wealthy northeastern region pushed spain into its worst political crisis in decades and led madrid to impose direct rule on barcelona .
the eight jailed cabinet members , whose original hearing was at the spanish high court , had their case moved to the supreme court after the presiding judge argued the different catalan cases should be tried in the same court .
earlier november , the supreme court released catalan parliament speaker carme forcadell on bail of 150,000 euros after she agreed to renounce any political activity that went against the spanish constitution .
all the eight former cabinet members have said they would abide by a ruling giving madrid control over the region , according to their lawyers , although some of them said they did not agree with this unprecedented move stripping power from the rebel administration .
campaigning for the dec. 21 election , seen by pro-independence parties as a de facto plebiscite on secession from spain , starts on monday at midnight .
the former leader of catalonia , carles puigdemont , in self-imposed exile in belgium and subject to an arrest warrant from spain for rebellion and misuse of public funds , has called the elections the most important in the region s history .
barely a quarter of catalans want to continue with the project of creating an independent state , a recent survey by pollsters metroscopia showed .
however , polls show the vote split evenly between parties seeking independence from spain and those wanting to remain part of a united country .
the leaders of catalan civic groups asamblea nacional catalana ( anc ) and omnium cultural jordi sanchez and jordi cuixart - who were imprisoned last month - also testify before the supreme court over their role in the independence drive .