moscow/beirut ( reuters ) - russia said on tuesday that the resignation of radically minded syrian opposition figures such as riyad hijab would help unite the disparate opponents of president bashar al-assad around a more realistic platform .
hijab , a former syrian prime minister , stepped down on monday as head of the high negotiations committee ( hnc ) which was formed nearly two years ago with saudi backing to bring together political and armed opponents of assad .
the retreat of radically minded opposition figures from playing the main role will make it possible to unite this motley opposition internal and external on a more reasonable , realistic and constructive platform , russia s rossiya 24 state television showed russian foreign minister sergei lavrov saying at a news briefing .
we will support the efforts made by saudi arabia in this respect .
after intervening decisively in syria s war in 2015 to support assad , russia now hopes to build on the collapse of militant group islamic state to revive a political process to end the more than six-year-old war .
hijab is one of up to 10 hnc members who have quit the opposition umbrella group , including riyad naasan agha , who told reuters its work had now been brought to an end .
agha said the hnc , which has insisted on assad s removal from power at the start of a political transition , had been marginalized ahead of a conference of the syrian opposition which saudi arabia is due to host this week .
the expanded conference aims to forge a united position ahead of a new round of u.n.-backed peace talks toward ending the conflict that erupted in 2011 .
but yahya al-aridi , an hnc member who will be taking part in the riyadh conference , said : the hnc is not finished ... it is a technical group with a particular function to carry out , which is negotiations .
there are other syrians who are still committed to the rights of syrian people for freedom and liberty , aridi said .
hijab did not spell out his reasons for stepping down in a statement on monday night .
the syrian opposition has long been weakened by ideological and political divisions , exacerbated by ties to regional states with competing agendas such as qatar and saudi arabia countries that have been at loggerheads since june .
in a telephone interview with reuters , agha said hnc members including hijab and himself had not been invited to the nov. 22-24 conference , and in practical terms its work has been brought to an end .
agha said he did not know who had taken the decision to marginalize the hnc but would not blame the saudi hosts .
russia is behind overturning the scales of the opposition to be in the interest of assad and not against him , he said .