are the most criminal , brazen and crooked group of people to ever act as public servants in our government watching their house of cards fall ?
i told you about the obama justice department s incompetence and corruption when , over four months ago , i called for attorney general loretta lynch s resignation.remember when attorney general loretta lynch and the husband of the former secretary of state met on a plane on the tarmac : i told you about general lynch s decision to hold a secret meeting on her airplane with former president bill clinton just days before the fbi interviewed his wife , the former secretary of state , as part of a criminal investigation ; and just days before general lynch announced the former secretary of state would not be indicted .
here s what i said in june : misconduct .
dishonesty .
impropriety .
no matter what word you choose , attorney general lynch s secret meeting with former president bill clinton was flat-out wrong .
she s clearly disqualified from participating in the investigations into former secretary of state clinton s private email server.and she must resign.i m leading our senior litigation team preparing to file legal demands and ethics complaints .
if the doj doesn t respond and she doesn t resign , we ll be back in federal court .
as promised , we took action .
we sent freedom of information act ( foia ) requests to the obama justice department and the fbi , demanding answers on how such a careless and perhaps intentionally underhanded meeting was allowed to happen.the fbi acknowledged our foia requests , and even granted our request for expedited processing by determining that we had shown our requests concerned [ a ] matter of widespread and exceptional media interest in which there exist possible questions about the government s integrity which affect public confidence .
the justice department remained silent.then , last week s earth-shattering news hit that the fbi a component of the justice department was reopening the underlying criminal investigation.and early this week , the fbi advised the aclj government accountability project that [ n ] o records responsive to your request were located .
hard to believe .
what may be even harder to believe , though , is the fact that the department of justice completely ignored our lawful requests for records .
or maybe that s just par for the course.so today , we re forcing their hand .
we re taking the obama administration to federal court .
again .
we re filing a lawsuit against the department of justice , to ensure true justice .
if the corruption and flippant disregard for the law won t stop , neither will our government accountability project , and neither will our lawsuits.as we explained in our complaint , we re demanding records like this : any and all records containing the names of any doj official , staff or employee who participated in any discussion regarding the meeting between general lynch and bill clinton that occurred on monday , june 27 , 2016 , at sky harbor international airport in phoenix , arizona.any and all records , communications or briefings prepared , sent , received or reviewed by general lynch or any other doj official , staff or employee , at any time , containing any discussion of or in any way regarding the meeting between general lynch and bill clinton that occurred on monday , june 27 , 2016 , at sky harbor international airport in phoenix , arizona.any and all records of any communication or briefing received by general lynch , any doj official , staff or employee from bill clinton or his staff regarding the meeting between general lynch and bill clinton that occurred on monday , june 27 , 2016 , at sky harbor international airport in phoenix , arizona , regardless of whether the communication or briefing was received before , during , or after the meeting.for entire story : aclj