shawn helton 21st century wirewhen looking at the deeply entangled mystery surrounding the las vegas mass shooting , there s been no shortage of questionable details and information that just doesn t add up.you know the old adage , truth is often stranger than fiction vegas questions who is working behind the scenes concerning the high desert phoenix foundation ?
( photo illustration 21wire s shawn helton ) the shooting involving the las vegas mandalay bay resort and route 91 harvest festival , has ushered in the brutal return of politicized mass tragedy in america .
the dramatic nature of the surreal as of yet still motiveless crime , only adds to a traumatic event that is now being described as the 9/11 of mass shootings .
similarly , over this past week , a story of concerning the sudden tragic death of a las vegas shooting survivor sent shock waves through both mainstream media and alternative media alike.as a chorus of gripping media reports detailed the unexpected death of 28 year-old kymberley jo ( synder ) suchomel ( left photo daily press ) in the days after the las vegas mass shooting , those still in search of answers in the aftermath of the tragedy were left captivated by her tale.by now , many may already be familiar with media accounts of suchomel s harrowing tale of survival , who along with close friends , was said to have attended the route 91 harvest festival the night of the las vegas shooting massacre.as the untimely circumstances of suchomel s death have been conflated with the unexplained events in las vegas , many in alternative media have hastily assumed that the young fund raiser s death was somehow linked to her dispute of the las vegas mass shooting storyline via social media posts on a facebook account associated with her .
subsequently , online interpretations of the suchomel story have led to a digital firestorm on social media , producing a wave of speculation prior to a more complete analysis of the survivor s tale.despite sensationalized reportage , at this time , there s no concrete evidence to prove a social media-based conspiracy concerning the death of suchomel according to the original story first published by the daily press , we re told suchomel died in her sleep as she was said to have suffered from epilepsy and had been prone to seizures .
additionally , suchomel , who was reportedly taking medication for a pituitary tumor , was discovered dead by her grandmother julie norton at 8:30am on october 9th at her apple valley , california home .
at this moment , an autopsy of suchomel s death is still pending.question : is it possible that open source investigators were being led into a virtual cul-de-sac and thus missing the real story ? media tripwire ? undoubtedly , the uncanny timing of suchomel s death has come on the heels of a brewing controversy over the las vegas mass shooting .
this has led to increased speculation , turbo-charging even more spurious internet-based conspiracies and allegations .
these now viral stories have simultaneously been published , as anonymous survivor claims from those close to suchomel have presented facebook messages associated with her account .
suchomel s claims also allude to multiple shooters involved in the las vegas shooting , as she allegedly planned to organize a group of survivors , and that the media can suck it .
they have no idea what went down !
while suchomel s story is compelling , you have to wonder is there more than we ve been told ? at face value , suchomel s public account of the las vegas shooting is persuasive and does appear to question the official narrative .
however , one should look at information from multiple angles in order to formulate a more full spectrum understanding of complex multilayered criminality .
* update * below are two screen shots associated with a linkedin profile under the name of kymberley suchomel .
we at 21wire can not verify if this profile is connected in anyway to the las vegas shooting survivor or not , but several similarities in the appearance of the individual , home location and the inclusion of an aero-space industry government contractor aero-zone , along with others , raises some serious questions the inclusion of the above linkedin profile is not necessarily an endorsement of a larger conspiracy concerning the suchomel saga .
however , the linkedin revelations above have surfaced at or around the same time as other government contractor links have been uncovered regarding the las vegas shooting survivor s charitable foundation .
( see below ) question : is the linkedin profile above a ruse , someone else or another mysterious part of the suchomel story ? see also : the las vegas mass shooting more to the story than we ve been toldalthough the police dispatch communication , along with eye-witness testimony reveals some startling information contradicting the official story surrounding the las vegas mass shooting , one must be cautious when looking at all of the available evidence of a suspicious crime however difficult that may be.as larger outlets in alternative media such as infowars have sensationalized this highly emotive aspect of the las vegas tragedy , a series of formulaic polarizing political points have become an echo chamber in its aftermath .
this type of conjecture rapidly descends into wild speculation only serving to magnify emotionally driven elements of a particular story , something that could be used to deliberately steer public perception away from any potential forensic clues.it s important to remember that during same time site intelligence injected an isis meme into the las vegas tragedy without revealing any solid evidence , infowars quickly followed suit .
this then prompted an apparent official statement that echoed those dubious claims from the terror group isis .
although these claims still linger , they ve failed to produce any real connection to isis.as we ve noted numerous times here at 21wire , the intelligence monitoring group called site , has ties to both the cia and israeli intelligence .
the group has also had ethical concerns raised over the nature of their intel gathering in the last decade and according to the group s founder , rita katz they ve managed to release terror related material linked to isis prior to the group itself .
geo group a private-for-profit corrections and detention firm formerly known as wackenhut corrections corporation under the umbrella of the wackenhut corporation .
( image source corporatewatch ) strange bedfellows : follow the moneywhat you re about to see below , is a collection of material revealing what appears to be a rather incredible financial component connected to the high desert phoenix foundation , a charitable organization co-founded by the recently deceased las vegas mass shooting survivor kymberley suchomel .
the high desert phoenix foundation claims to have raised funds for grieving families affected by trauma since 2008 .
this amazing coincidence , rather incredibly , has not been mentioned once in any of the conspiratorial claims surrounding the suchomel story at alternative media outlets .
put another way , a survivor of a traumatic event has been a long time co-founder of a foundation that contends to have helped those who have endured a traumatic tragedy themselves .
it s a difficult question to ask but what are the chances of this uncanny coincidence ? furthermore , new evidence uncovers details concerning the high desert phoenix foundation s high-profile sponsors , one that includes the the geo group , inc ( geo ) .
this long time financial donor , is also linked to well-known government contractor security firms .
is this also a coincidence ? in recent years , controversy has enveloped the multi-billion-dollar corporation known as geo group .
critics of geo group contend that politically motivated contributions have led to an expansion of its for-profit prisons system through federal , state and government contractual agreements at the expense of public safety .
even more concerning , is that critics argue that geo group has fostered a dangerous work environment via it s under staffed operations , inadequate training and apparent mistreatment of detainees and other inmates .
this has led to a potentially volatile situation for communities nearby geo group s facilities .
question : does this sound like a suitable donor for a charitable foundation known for helping grieving families ? in 1984 , wackenhut corrections corporation ( wcc ) had been formed as a part of the wackenhut corporation .
in 2003 , wcc management bought up all stock held by its subsidiary g4s , altering its name to the geo group , inc.in 2004 , other divisions of the wackenhut corporation were purchased by group 4 falck , a security focused subsidiary known as g4s wackenhut , was later renamed again as g4s secure solutions.here s a screen shot of the high desert phoenix foundation s mission statement .
notice the modest look of the website an organization with the financial backing of the multi-billion dollar geo group , one of the nation s largest for-profit prison operators the reason why the geo group link is so significant , is that prior to modern america s largest mass shooting in las vegas , an apparent survivor of the incident was operating a foundation that was accepting financial support from a large-scale company formerly known as the wackenhut corporation , a subsidiary of g4s secure solutions , one of the world s largest security firms , and a department of homeland security connected conglomerate tied to the suspicious orlando shooting in the summer of 2016 an event , that was previously the country s largest mass shooting .
if you remember , 29-year old omar mateen , an afghani-american was located in port st. lucie , florida , about 120 miles outside of orlando .
in 2013 , mateen was placed under a terror watch list for 10 months ( interviewed two to three times by the fbi 2013-14 ) and had worked for g4s secure solutions , headquartered in jupiter , florida , a company which was formerly part of a cia-linked government contractor and security firm known as the wackenhut corporation.g4s , as it turns out , was the very first designated and certified department of homeland security ( dhs ) contractor and recently secured a $ 234 million dollar contract with the federal cabinet department .
in addition to apparently providing security solutions for 90 percent of u.s. nuclear facilities , g4s , according to border patrol sources has also been tasked with the transportation and release of illegal immigrants inside the interior of the united states .
at least one of mateen s roles with g4s , was to transport and provide security for prisoner youths in florida.here s a screen shot from the high desert phoenix foundation s website that proudly displays their billion dollar government contract linked diamond donor , the geo group below is a link to the first discussion about the geo group connection as it relates to the las vegas mass shooting boiler room : stranger than fiction new anomalies in the las vegas mass shooting with shawn helton & heshersee also : the las vegas and weinstein cover-ups : boiler room ep # 132the amount of independent examination regarding the las vegas shooting case thus far is fairly staggering and in the wake of any multilayered event , one must proceed with caution when reviewing the available evidence , as the doorway for a trial by media frenzy in both mainstream media and alternative media could be used to derail sincere analysis.what should the public make of the the high desert phoenix foundation s long time financial links to a high-profile government contractor ? all of this comes , as the las vegas shooting star witness , mandalay bay security guard jesus campos resurfaced to appear in what the public has been told will be his only media appearance to discuss this bizarre and highly questionable case.it s also worth mentioning that campos failed to shed any more light on the shifting timeline of events associated with the las vegas mass shooting .
watch campos break his silence in an interview that appeared on ellen stay tuned for any updates to this story 21wire associate editor shawn helton is a researcher and writer , specializing in forensic analysis of high-profile crime scene and counter terrorism investigations , and the deconstruction and analysis of the mass-media coverage surrounding those cases .
he has compiled an extensive body of work covering a number of high-profile events since 2012.read more daily shooter news at : 21st century wire daily shooter filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv