21st century wire says investigative reporter robert parry broke many of the iran-contra stories for the associated press and newsweek in the 1980s.as the mainstream media in the united states continues to double down on russia-gate , parry begs the question , why not probe an israel-gate.robert parry is a past guest of patrick henningsen live on 1100kfnx and alternate current radio and his last interview can be found heremore on this article from consortium news ( image by brendan smialowski afp ) robert parry consortium newsthe other day , i asked a longtime democratic party insider who is working on the russia-gate investigation which country interfered more in u.s. politics , russia or israel .
without a moment s hesitation , he replied , israel , of course .
which underscores my concern about the hysteria raging across official washington about russian meddling in the 2016 presidential campaign : there is no proportionality applied to the question of foreign interference in u.s. politics .
if there were , we would have a far more substantive investigation of israel-gate.the problem is that if anyone mentions the truth about israel s clout , the person is immediately smeared as anti-semitic and targeted by israel s extraordinarily sophisticated lobby and its many media/political allies for vilification and marginalization.so , the open secret of israeli influence is studiously ignored , even as presidential candidates prostrate themselves before the annual conference of the american israel public affairs committee .
hillary clinton and donald trump both appeared before aipac in 2016 , with clinton promising to take the u.s.-israeli relationship to the next level whatever that meant and trump vowing not to pander and then pandering like crazy.congress is no different .
it has given israel s controversial prime minister benjamin netanyahu a record-tying three invitations to address joint sessions of congress ( matching the number of times british prime minister winston churchill appeared ) .
we then witnessed the republicans and democrats competing to see how often their members could bounce up and down and who could cheer netanyahu the loudest , even when the israeli prime minister was instructing the congress to follow his position on iran rather than president obama s.israeli officials and aipac also coordinate their strategies to maximize political influence , which is derived in large part by who gets the lobby s largesse and who doesn t. on the rare occasion when members of congress step out of line and take a stand that offends israeli leaders they can expect a well-funded opponent in their next race , a tactic that dates back decades.well-respected members , such as rep. paul findley and sen. charles percy ( both republicans from illinois ) , were early victims of the israeli lobby s wrath when they opened channels of communication with the palestine liberation organization in the cause of seeking peace .
findley was targeted and defeated in 1982 ; percy in 1984.findley recounted his experience in a 1985 book , they dare to speak out : people and institutions confront israel s lobby , in which findley called the lobby the 700-pound gorilla in washington .
the book was harshly criticized in a new york times review by adam clymer , who called it an angry , one-sided book that seems often to be little more than a stringing together of stray incidents .
enforced silencesince then , there have been fewer and fewer members of congress or other american politicians who have dared to speak out , judging that when it comes to the israeli lobby discretion is the better part of valor .
today , many u.s. pols grovel before the israeli government seeking a sign of favor from prime minister netanyahu , almost like medieval kings courting the blessings of the pope at the vatican.during the 2008 campaign , then-sen. barack obama , whom netanyahu viewed with suspicion , traveled to israel to demonstrate sympathy for israelis within rocket-range of gaza while steering clear of showing much empathy for the palestinians.in 2012 , republican nominee mitt romney tried to exploit the tense obama-netanyahu relationship by stopping in israel to win a tacit endorsement from netanyahu .
the 2016 campaign was no exception with both clinton and trump stressing their love of israel in their appearances before aipac.money , of course , has become the lifeblood of american politics and american supporters of israel have been particularly strategic in how they have exploited that reality.one of israel s most devoted advocates , casino magnate sheldon adelson , has poured millions of dollars in dark money into political candidates and groups that support israel s interests .
adelson , who has advocated dropping a nuclear bomb inside iran to coerce its government , is a trump favorite having donated a record $ 5 million to trump s inaugural celebration.of course , many israel-connected political donations are much smaller but no less influential .
a quarter century ago , i was told how an aide to a democratic foreign policy chairman , who faced a surprisingly tough race after redistricting , turned to the head of aipac for help and , almost overnight , donations were pouring in from all over the country .
the chairman was most thankful.the october surprise mysteryisrael s involvement in u.s. politics also can be covert .
for instance , the evidence is now overwhelming that the israeli government of right-wing prime minister menachem begin played a key role in helping ronald reagan s campaign in 1980 strike a deal with iran to frustrate president jimmy carter s efforts to free 52 american hostages before election day.begin despised carter for the camp david accords that forced israel to give back the sinai to egypt .
begin also believed that carter was too sympathetic to the palestinians and if he won a second term would conspire with egyptian president anwar sadat to impose a two-state solution on israel.begin s contempt for carter was not even a secret .
in a 1991 book , the last option , senior israeli intelligence and foreign policy official david kimche explained begin s motive for dreading carter s re-election .
kimche said israeli officials had gotten wind of collusion between carter and sadat to force israel to abandon her refusal to withdraw from territories occupied in 1967 , including jerusalem , and to agree to the establishment of a palestinian state .
kimche continued , this plan prepared behind israel s back and without her knowledge must rank as a unique attempt in united states s diplomatic history of short-changing a friend and ally by deceit and manipulation .
but begin recognized that the scheme required carter winning a second term in 1980 when , kimche wrote , he would be free to compel israel to accept a settlement of the palestinian problem on his and egyptian terms , without having to fear the backlash of the american jewish lobby .
in a 1992 memoir , profits of war , former israeli intelligence officer ari ben-menashe also noted that begin and other likud leaders held carter in contempt .
begin loathed carter for the peace agreement forced upon him at camp david , ben-menashe wrote .
as begin saw it , the agreement took away sinai from israel , did not create a comprehensive peace , and left the palestinian issue hanging on israel s back .
so , in order to buy time for israel to change the facts on the ground by moving jewish settlers into the west bank , begin felt carter s reelection had to be prevented .
a different president also presumably would give israel a freer hand to deal with problems on its northern border with lebanon.ben-menashe was among a couple of dozen government officials and intelligence operatives who described how reagan s campaign , mostly through future cia director william casey and past cia director george h.w .
bush , struck a deal in 1980 with senior iranians who got promises of arms via israel in exchange for keeping the hostages through the election and thus humiliating carter .
( the hostages were finally released on jan. 20 , 1981 , after reagan was sworn in as president ) continue this article at consortium newsread more middle east news at : 21st century wire middle east filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv