cnn cut away from a senate judiciary committee hearing this morning seconds after sen. lindsey graham ( r-sc ) raised concerns that special counsel robert mueller had hired a former clinton foundation attorney to assist with the probe into alleged russian interference in the 2016 presidential election .
graham was questioning deputy attorney general rod rosenstein : we found the video exchange cnn censored : democrats have been accusing trump of colluding with russia but no evidence has been found ! reports have emerged that mueller has hired four attorneys for his investigative team who had donated to hillary clinton in the past .
one of the attorneys even represented the clinton foundation in its effort to block freedom of information act requests for e-mails on clinton s private server !
no , we re not kidding ! here s a portion of the exchange between graham and rosenstein : graham : is giving political donations a reason to disqualify somebody for serving in the special counsel s office ? rosenstein : no , senator , it is not a disqualification .
it is not.graham : as a matter of fact , many states , the judges and prosecutors are actually elected .
donations are a part of that system , is that correct ? rosenstein : yes , that s true.graham : would it be a disqualification for somebody in the special counsel s office who had represented mrs. clinton in the past to serve ? rosenstein : you know , senator , it would depend on facts and circumstances .
as a general matter , i think the answer is no.graham : isn t that much closer to a conflict of interest ? rosenstein : i don t want to answer a hypothetical , senator .
everybody needs to make a determination based on the facts and circumstances of the individual case.graham : how would you get it before the special counsel ?
what process could a member of the senate use to inform the special counsel that you d have a concern about hiring someone that represented clinton ? rosenstein : we have a process within the department of justice , senator , so i would encourage you , if you have those concerns , to raise them with [ former ] director mueller or to raise them with me , and i ll make sure graham : so should i do it to you or to him ? rosenstein : well , you could do it to both.graham : okay .
that s fair enough.rosenstein : and we have career graham : and i don t know if i ll do that , but i ve read some things that were i don t think donations are disqualifying at all , but if you represented the clinton foundation or clinton herself , that would be disturbing to me , but i ll take care of that.cnn cut back to the studio shortly after that , while graham was still questioning rosenstein .