paris ( reuters ) - in the modernist but faded headquarters of unesco , the u.n. s cultural agency on paris s elegant left bank , more than a few diplomats wandered the corridors on friday wondering if the organization has a future .
the agency , founded in the ashes of world war two to protect the common cultural inheritance of humanity , was due to elect a new head later in the day .
but a sudden announcement that the united states was quitting over anti-israel bias meant that whoever wins the top job would inherit a body in turmoil , with huge questions over its future funding and mission .
i think it s a catastrophic decision , said daniel rondeau , a former french envoy to the body .
it s a fracture that seriously jeopardizes the very nature of unesco - its universal dimension - and the very concept of multilateralism .
officially known as the united nations educational , scientific and cultural organization , unesco is best known for designating and protecting archaeological and heritage sites , from the galapagos islands to the tombs of timbuktu .
most of its activities are uncontroversial , but when it comes to , say , resolutions about how religious sites should be run in jerusalem , every word is studied for accusations of bias .
for some of its diplomats , washington s decision to quit represented a corner being turned , and puts even more pressure on whoever is elected to lead it .
this is the most critical election .
there can t be four more years like this , said a western diplomat , bemoaning the leadership of outgoing director irina bokova of bulgaria , whose critics say she failed to persuade member states to pay their dues and stop politicizing unesco s work .
at the heart of its recent problems is a financing crisis since 2011 , when unesco voted to admit palestine as a full member state and washington responded by halting payment of its annual $ 80 million in dues .
the united states and israel were among just 14 of 194 members to vote against palestine s membership .
washington says it favors an independent palestinian state some day , but it must arise from negotiations , and admitting the palestinians to international bodies beforehand hurts the peace process .
since then , israel has regularly complained over resolutions about cultural sites in the west bank and jerusalem , arguing that they are worded to delegitimize the jewish state .
israel s foes say it uses u.s. support to deflect bona fide criticism .
without u.s. money , unesco , which employs around 2,000 people worldwide , has been forced to cut programs , freeze hiring and fill gaps with voluntary contributions .
its 2017 budget was about $ 326 million , almost half its 2012 budget .
we need to do less with less .
we ve spent too long trying to do too much without the means , said a unesco official , who declined to be identified .
we need to sell ourselves better , but without funding it s difficult to change our image .
including the united states , which has some $ 542 million in arrears , the organization is owed almost $ 650 million , according to figures on its website .
at this stage , unesco officials still don t know if the united states will make up its arrears before it officially exits on dec. 31 , 2018 .
other major contributors such as japan , britain , and brazil have also yet to pay their dues for 2017 , sometimes citing objections to the body s policies .
the fact is that unesco was all about solidarity and creating a climate for peace between countries , but nations now use their dues to influence programs , said a unesco-based diplomat .
that needs to change .
japan , for example , has threatened to withhold dues over the inclusion of the 1937 nanjing massacre in the body s memory of the world program .
russia and ukraine have been at odds over crimea , with kiev accusing moscow of trying to legitimize its annexation of the territory through unesco .
whoever takes over at the helm has to tackle this head on .
they need to find ways of getting nations to talk these issues through , but if they can t , then the director-general needs to be able to say no and kill these texts , said a second unesco-based diplomat .
unlike at the u.n. security council , where five powers wield a veto , unesco takes decisions based on majority votes , either of its general secretariat that includes all 195 nations , or of the 58-member executive board .
israel says this creates a built-in majority for states that are hostile to it .
big countries like the united states that provide most of the funding say their single votes give them little input into how their money is spent .
prior to thursday s u.s. decision to withdraw , unesco s board had tried to evade confrontation by voting to postpone divisive israeli-palestinian texts until april , diplomats said .
all the candidates running to head unesco have vowed grassroots reforms and efforts to de-politicize the institution .
the final candidates are two former culture ministers from france and qatar .
but even the vote on a new boss is tinged with politics , since egypt , which has also vied for the top post , and qatar are on opposite sides in a diplomatic dispute in the arab world .