new york ( reuters ) - a majority of americans , including a growing number of republicans , want to see an “ independent investigation ” sort out any connections between russia and president donald trump during the 2016 election campaign , according to a reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on monday .
the may 10-14 poll , which was conducted after trump fired fbi director james comey , suggests the public is increasingly uneasy with allegations of meddling by the russians in the u.s. election .
trump ’ s dismissal of comey , who was leading the federal bureau of investigation ’ s probe into ties between the white house and russia , intensified calls by democrats for an independent probe .
according to the poll , 59 percent of adults , including 41 percent of republicans and 79 percent of democrats , agreed that “ congress should launch an independent investigation into communications between the russian government and the trump campaign during the 2016 election. ” that compares with 54 percent of all adults , including 30 percent of republicans and 81 percent of democrats , who felt that way when the poll last asked the question in february .
“ i really don ’ t know what to believe anymore , ” said john kremer , 74 , a trump supporter from birmingham , alabama , who wants an independent investigation .
kremer does not think trump had any illegal contact with the russians , but he does not like the way the president is handling he issue .
“ if comey hadn ’ t been fired , i would have been comfortable with the results of their investigation , ” kremer said .
“ my concern now is whether he ( trump ) is trying to minimize the investigation. ” the reuters/ipsos poll also found that public confidence in the executive branch and in congress has eroded since the nov. 8 election .
thirty-six percent of americans said they had “ hardly any confidence at all ” in the executive branch and 43 percent said they felt that way about congress .
that is up from 30 percent and 37 percent , respectively , who answered that way in a november poll .
when asked who should replace comey , 48 percent wanted an fbi outsider with “ credible ” experience in law or law enforcement .
thirty-seven percent said they wanted “ someone from within the fbi ” while 5 percent wanted an fbi outsider who is “ close to the trump administration. ” the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english in all 50 states and washington , d.c .
it included responses from 1,541 adults , including 515 republicans and 686 democrats .
the poll has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points for the entire group , 5 percentage points for republicans and 4 percentage points for democrats .
click here for the complete poll with a description of the methodology : tmsnrt.rs/2qkmisd