washington ( reuters ) - when implementation of the iran nuclear pact was looming and a secret prisoner swap deal in the works , obama administration officials called the chairman of the senate foreign relations committee in early january to ask him to put a hold on calls for sanctions over tehran ’ s missile test , the senator told reuters .
senator bob corker is the first u.s. senator to confirm reports by reuters that there was a link between the obama administration ’ s delaying sanctions over iran ’ s ballistic missile program and efforts to free americans held prisoner there .
he had hoped that the ballistic sanctions would be imposed before the nuclear sanctions were lifted .
“ i just thought that that was a better place for us to be , that we were going to be firm in implementing the deal , ” he told reuters at the u.s. senate late on tuesday .
however , he added , “ once i knew that the hostages were wrapped in all of that , i realized it may be difficult for that to occur. ” sources described to reuters before the prisoner deal was announced how secretary of state john kerry and other officials scrambled to ensure that the possibility of new sanctions over iran ’ s ballistic missile program did not derail the effort .
corker had been pushing hard for the administration to impose new sanctions since tehran ’ s ballistic missile tests last year .
after the sanctions were almost announced and then delayed on dec. 30 , he issued a strong statement on jan. 1 calling for action .
corker was then contacted by president barack obama ’ s administration about the link to american prisoners and decided to hold off on more calls for sanctions , for a time .
“ i didn ’ t know who we were swapping for , but i knew that the ballistic missile sanctions were being held until such a time that we could work something out on the hostages , ” corker said .
“ once you know that we ’ ve got an opportunity to get four americans out , obviously we turn the volume off , ” he added , a swiss plane left iran on sunday with jason rezaian , the washington post ’ s tehran bureau chief ; saeed abedini , a pastor from idaho ; and amir hekmati , a former u.s. marine from michigan , as well as some family members .
another released iranian-american , nosratollah khosravi-roodsari , stayed behind .
a fifth prisoner , american student matthew trevithick , was released separately on saturday .
the u.s. treasury department said on sunday after the release that it had imposed the sanctions on 11 companies and individuals for supplying iran ’ s ballistic missile program .