nyc s only chick-fil-a restaurant got shut down on dec 30th after appalling sanitary and food safety violations were discovered in not one but two back-to-back health inspections .
rather than thanking god for sending an inspector , preventing them from contracting various fun diseases , conservatives are flipping out over not getting enough fly waste and food=borne illness in their daily diet.below are some images provided by one twitter user regarding the closure .
the list in red is the specific violations and total violation points.no line outside chick-fil-a in nyc .
sign says closed for maintenance .
some violations online , no reason for closure pic.twitter.com/1lnuoonvxg candice choi ( @ candicechoi ) january 3 , 2016there were literally flies in and around the food to a point where a health inspector said the place had to stop serving food immediately .
gross , right ? the flies must be a false flag for the liberal war on christian anti-gay chicken sandwiches .
rather than adopting the personal responsibility attitude that conservatives love , and blaming the restaurant for not being more vigilant in the cleanliness of their facility , they started firing off accusations of it being a liberal plot and anti-religion operation .
@ twitchyteam war on religion dave rowan ( @ daverowan07 ) january 3 , 2016 @ crispayumo @ twitchyteam @ chickfila bullshit i was just there 2 days ago the mayor hates the place very clean appearanc corporate show place chuck w self ( @ mustachechuck ) january 3 , 2016 @ twitchyteam sounds like the liberals will go to any length to close down a christian co. john funk ( @ bigbassetthound ) january 3 , 2016 @ twitchyteam why does this feel political by the progressive liberal left ?
snikl ( @ morrisminor56 ) january 3 , 2016they are even blaming the muslims for this one too : @ twitchyteam prob no prayer room .
cair .
s .
( @ wrknpoor01 ) january 3 , 2016more quality commentary was found on the twitchy website : here is a really important thing to know .
a previous inspection earlier in december returned 39 violation points , indicating things got worse not better between the two inspections .
if things were not brought to a halt , they would have been wheeling people out on stretchers .
i guess at least they would still have religious freedom while they were getting their stomachs pumped at the hospital.featured image via wikicommons