gaza/jerusalem ( reuters ) - seven palestinian militants were killed on monday when israel blew up what it said was a tunnel being dug underneath the gaza strip border .
hamas said israel had made a futile attempt to sabotage efforts to repair palestinian unity , a reference to the reconciliation agreement it reached with mahmoud abbas , the president of the palestinian authority , earlier this month .
however , neither israel nor hamas seemed eager to seek escalation .
israel was at pains to point out that its action against the tunnel was carried out on its own side of the border .
the idf ( israel defence forces ) does not intend to escalate the situation but stands prepared for a variety of scenarios , said lieutenant-colonel jonathan conricus , an israeli military spokesman .
the working assumption is that this is not the only tunnel that palestinian terrorist organizations are trying to dig .
the tunnel was being dug from the gaza town of khan younis across the border , where it was blown up , conricus said .
a source for the islamic jihad militant group said the head of the faction s armed wing in central gaza was killed along with a senior associate and other gunmen .
it vowed revenge saying all options are open for response .
hamas s armed wing said two of its gunmen were killed while trying to rescue the islamic jihad men working in the tunnel .
gaza health officials said nine people were wounded .
it said it would avenge the blood of the martyrs .
israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu , in remarks to legislators of his right-wing likud party , said groundbreaking technology aided the tunnel s discovery , but gave no details .
israel has been constructing a sensor-equipped underground wall along the 60-km ( 36-mile ) gaza border , aiming to complete the $ 1.1 billion project by mid-2019 .
during the last gaza war , in 2014 , hamas fighters used dozens of tunnels to blindside israel s superior forces and threaten civilian communities near the frontier , a counterpoint to the iron dome anti-missile system that largely protected the country s heartland from militant rocket barrages .
israel and the united states have called for hamas to be disarmed as part of the pact between hamas and the palestinian authority , so israeli peace efforts with abbas , which collapsed in 2014 , could proceed .
hamas has rejected the demand .
on saturday , unrwa , the main u.n. welfare agency for palestinians , said it had discovered what appeared to be a tunnel underneath one of its schools in gaza on oct. 15 and had sealed the cavity .
u.s. middle east envoy jason greenblatt tweeted on monday : hamas uses the world s generosity to shield terror .
palestinians in gaza deserve so much better .