no one listened we had many chances to expose this freak show when it started , but americans allowed the left to bully us into submission for fear of being labeled a racist it s important to understand this movement comprised of domestic terrorists and their motives .
please read this story to the end.here is andrew breitbart s warning to americans just before he died : why is breitbart news so on top of the black lives matter movement ? easy .
we saw it coming.not everyone liked what we saw either .
in august 2012 , the magazine american conservative did an article on the film occupy unmasked .
that film was directed by breitbart news executive chairman stephen k. bannon and featured people like andrew breitbart , brandon darby , and myself exposing the occupy wall street movement for what it was a socialist , obama-inspired activist movement .
we pointed out that occupy was the latest incarnation of the far-left , anti-american protest movements that dates back to the 1960s students for a democratic society and black panthers .
we also said that the next step in the evolution of occupy wall street would be race-based.breitbart news has given # blacklivesmatter more detailed , deep , and honest coverage than any other media outlet on the planet in 2015 , and for good reason .
from covering every major protest they did to exposing the cop killer that the group worships to revealing the secret funder behind the movement to milo yiannopoulos s complete shredding of activist shaun king , breitbart news has been the go-to source for original reporting on black lives matter.american conservative took the film to task for using the term race war to describe what we saw as the next phase of the occupy movement .
remember , occupy unmasked came out about a year before three self-described queer black women started black lives matter in july 2013 .
in 2012 , anita moncrief was mocked by american conservative when she defended her use of the term race war in occupy unmasked by saying : but seriously , that s why you have barack obama out there saying if he had a son , he would look like trayvon martin .
they want black people running around in hoodies protesting in the streets .
that s what he s looking for .
he wants us divided , and he wants us to fight in the streets , so they can basically keep us down.moncrief said this two years before the hoodie-wearing thugs burned down ferguson , before they looted and set fire to baltimore , before they shut down sen. bernie sanders ( i-vt ) 16 % at netroots nation , and before they shut down chicago s magnificent mile on the busiest shopping day of the year.anita moncrief is an amazing patriot who doesn t get enough credit for exposing the truth about the left .
watch her shocking testimony of how she became a conservative warrior here : the assertion that occupy wall street would morph into black lives matter wasn t a lucky guess .
moncrief , darby , and i are all former leftists with professional organizational experience .
anita was a whistleblower who worked for acorn , darby was a cofounder of common ground in new orleans , and i did work for moveon.org and brave new films .
because we understand the tactics and the players , it was clear to us that the occupy movement and its focus on class had failed to resonate with a large enough segment of the american people .
we knew that the logical next step was to head back to the 1960s playbook of trying to tear down america by creating as deep a racial rift as possible.with barack obama in the white house and eric holder running the department of justice , the stage was set for the next iteration of the occupy wall street movement .
black lives matter was the new occupy.we also saw that community organizers were working on developing a new movement based on young black people in the wake of george zimmerman s not guilty verdict in the trayvon martin shooting case .
as i wrote at breitbart news in july 2013 , the takeover of the florida statehouse by the group dream defenders was a magnet for young people .
the long-term goal is straightforward and explicit : the 2014 vote .
once in the capitol , the dream defenders are giving the enthusiastic participants organizer training , right in the governor s office .
with two generations of educators , media , and legal experts all schooled in new left political correctness by america s leading universities , the black lives matter movement has been essentially immune to criticism .
the result has left universities , businesses , and police departments defenseless intellectually and physically against black lives matter.there s been a practical cost as well .
we ve seen businesses burned to the ground in ferguson and baltimore .
we ve seen other businesses shut down at the mall of america and on chicago s magnificent mile .
we ve seen the murder rate spike in cities across the country as a result of the ferguson effect that has caused police officers to pull back from enforcing the law in the face of unrelenting hostility and scrutiny.we ve seen universities from coast-to-coast bullied into staff firings and policy changes that were meant to only aid black students .
these college uprisings have been accompanied by a fierce hatred of free speech ; and when combined with the bold aggressiveness of multicultural and feminist social justice warriors , they ve created an educational environment that is openly hostile to white students and faculty.with the next presidential election only 11 months away , conservatives and republicans would be making a huge mistake to ignore the black lives matter movement.at the close of 2015 , the pot is getting ready to boil over .
the decision not to prosecute cleveland police officers in the shooting death of 12-year-old tamir rice , the ongoing anger in minneapolis over the death of jamar clark , and two recent chicago police shootings all create an atmosphere where even angier protests are in the works.already , chicago mayor rahm emanuel and his democrat machine regard black lives matter activists as an existential threat.the engine that drives the anger is the mainstream media , which has done nothing to seriously vet the black lives matter movement .
much of the anger is caused by the inaccurate reporting that consistently vilifies the police and leaves out key details about the shooting victims .
this has led to fables such as hands up , don t shoot , which have continued to be amplified and repeated by black lives matter protesters long after they have been debunked.in fact , one of the key characteristics of the black lives matter movement and the mainstream media s reporting on it is a naked antipathy for facts .
both in real life and on social media like twitter , leading black lives matter activists are known for shutting down the speech of dissenting opinions and literally blocking anyone who disagrees with them.the result has been a hermetically sealed activist movement that is angry and ignorant , with a hairtrigger temper and a long list of grievances that have no factual basis .
worse , their set of crazed demands have been granted time and again by officials who are too scared to speak out for fear of being branded racists.like spoiled children , none of this appeasement has done anything to quell the protesters fury .
every time that politicians or university administrators have given into the outrageous , entitled black lives matter mob , they ve learned that feeding that monster has only given it more power to make more demands.in the face of all this feckless kowtowing , no wonder the blunt and in-your-face style of billionaire donald trump has hit home for so many americans .
trump like ronald reagan in the 1960s seems to be one of the few people in public life willing to tell black lives matter protesters to sit down , shut up , and stop taking the loser road of self-victimization.this is one of the reasons that donald trump , more than any other political candidate on the scene right now , has incurred so much of the wrath and anger of black lives matter .
they are keenly aware that he simply will not play their game .
the other current frontrunner for the republican nomination is texas sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) 97 % , who has already demonstrated that he is no cupcake either .
should either cruz or trump be the nominee , expect black lives matter s army to take to the streets and try to shut them down at every opportunity.for that reason , the current political season is set to be even more divisive than either of the last two election cycles , which had already set a very high bar for vitriol.as the newest incarnation of the activist left , black lives matter will not back down or rest until it is either stopped by somone gutsy enough to call them out or until it gets what it wants : a bloody revolution leading to a socialist/anarchist america.the one thing the left has not counted on , however , is a dogged , active conservative media culture that can bring real information straight to the american people without being filtered by black lives matter s journalism school comrades .
we re not about to let black lives matter or any leftist revolutionary movement destroy america without making sure they re fully revealed for what they are .
via : breitbart news