tirana ( reuters ) - albania will upgrade its road network with one billion euros from private capital over the next four years , and it plans to open an energy exchange in early 2019 , an official said .
economic projections show businesses can build the roads first and be repaid over 12 years , damian gjiknuri , the infrastructure and energy minister , told reuters on tuesday .
one of europe s poorest countries , albania has built highways to its major towns and ports , but clogged two-lane roads make up the rest of its system .
gjiknuri said the country wants to build high-speed roads of european standards linking areas with tourism or industrial potential , bringing closer its towns and its balkan neighbors .
the financing will come from the budget revenue under a normal scenario of economic growth .
we do not see big risks affecting the normal growth of albania , gjiknuri said .
these investment will be spread over time , up to 12 years for the payments to be made , but the infrastructure will be ready in three years , four at the most , he added .
albania s gross domestic product is forecast to grow around four percent in 2017 .
its 2018 budget projects four percent growth in 2018 and a decline in public debt by 2.5 percentage points to 68.6 percent of gdp .
similar or higher growth rates are expected in the medium term .
the international monetary fund has cautioned the government over the way it will account for the debt , spreading it over years rather than treating it as a lump sum at the time a contract is issued .
the other alternative would be to wait until we have all the money , but that means stagnation , gjiknuri said .
under the plan , businesses would build roads - those with a feasibility study would get a bonus - and pay the cost .
the state would repay them in 10 to 12 years .
sitting between montenegro and greece , albania hopes to build a blue highway , linking it to croatia via montenegro .
a european union grant is being used for a feasibility study .
a net importer of energy , albania has written a draft law to create an energy market .
parliament is expected to approve the bill this year or early in 2018 .
gjiknuri said nord pool consulting is now advising albania establishing the market .
neighboring kosovo and possibly a foreign company may join it .
our goal is to create a liquid private market in order to stimulate not just the trading but also the production of electrical power , gjiknuri said .
to be an optimist , i think it will start working early in 2019 .
that is our strategic objective , gjiknuri said .