lusaka ( reuters ) - zambia fears a looming humanitarian crisis after more than 6,000 refugees fleeing turmoil in neighboring democratic republic of congo ( drc ) entered its territory in one month , the presidency said on friday .
thousands of people have been killed and more than one million forced to flee their homes in the drc s eastern kasai region since the start of an insurrection nearly a year ago by the kamuina nsapu militia , which is demanding the withdrawal of military forces from the area .
zambia currently hosts some 59,195 refugees and other aslylum seekers , mostly from angola , the drc , rwanda , burundi , somalia and uganda , the united nations refugee agency says .
zambian president edgar lungu raised the matter with south african president jacob zumba and will also discuss it with angola s new president , lungu s spokesman amos chanda told reuters .
zambia is concerned that the refugee situation could escalate and lead to a serious humanitarian crisis , chanda said .
in the last week 500 people have been entering every day , mainly in luapula province .
we have had in excess of 6,000 in just one month , he added , referring to the refugees .
they have been fleeing into northern zambia to escape clashes between congolese and different militias around the towns of pweto and moba , the un refugee agency said .
the government and the un refugee agency have managed so far to provide basic essentials and to settle the refugees in protected areas , chanda said .
the insurgency poses the most serious threat yet to the rule of congo s president joseph kabila , whose refusal to step down at the end of his constitutional mandate last december was followed by a wave of killings and lawlessness across the vast central african nation .
zuma , lungu and outgoing angolan president jose eduardo dos santos are worried about the deteriorating political situation in the drc , chanda said .
( the three leaders ) desire to ensure that a retired african president be appointed to lead a process that must lead to a free and all-inclusive election in the drc to help heal the tensions that are heightening conflicts leading to the refugee crisis , he said .