kiev ( reuters ) - ukraine plans a 12 percent increase in health spending next year to exploit reforms passed last week to raise standards and crack down on corruption in hospitals and surgeries , government ministers told reuters .
ukrainians die earlier than most europeans and patients often bribe doctors for treatment or medicine .
kiev s western backers see healthcare reforms as a test for ukraine s push for closer ties to the european union , away from russia .
new legislation will create a national insurance system that pays doctors by the number of patients they have .
hospitals will be paid for services through the new system , rather than receiving lump sums from regional administrations as is now .
it also allows patients to choose their doctor for the first time , rather than being tied to the doctor where their residence is registered , a move the government says will encourage medics to improve and gives them less scope to demand backhanders .
health minister ulana suprun said that patients mindsets will also need to change .
people in ukraine think that paying the doctor cash , under the table , is somehow a thank you for the services that are supposed to be provided to them at no cost , she said in an interview .
there needs to be a big cultural change as well , so that we teach people that they re not supposed to do that .
she cited a survey by the national anti-corruption bureau which found 65 percent of ukrainians had come across corruption in the past year , of which 68 percent was in healthcare .
and finance minister oleksandr danylyuk told reuters in an email ukraine will hike health spending by 12 percent to 114 billion hryvnia ( $ 4.28 billion ) in 2018 , and is ready for a further increase later because the reform is a government priority .
ukraine has emerged from a steep recession caused by the annexation of crimea and the outbreak of a russian-backed separatist insurgency in 2014 .
but the economy is still propped up by a $ 17.5 billion aid program from the international monetary fund that is conditional on reforms and progress in tackling corruption .
with no end in sight to the conflict in the donbass , defense spending accounts for at least 5 percent of gdp .
the ministry of finance is one of our biggest supporters , suprun said of the planned rise in spending .
they re big supporters of what we re doing because they re finally going to be able to follow the money all the way down to a patient .
whereas now we hand money out to hospitals and we don t really know what is done with it at that point .
a u.s.-born doctor , suprun moved to ukraine in the early days of the maidan demonstrations in november 2013 , and wound up treating the gunshot wounds of protesters in the final days of pro-kremlin leader viktor yanukovich s rule .
the reforms went through 893 amendments while suprun says she was targeted by a smear campaign , including by some who questioned whether she had faked her diploma .
the new legislation is just the first step , she says , because reform never is easy .
people don t want to change .
they re used to the system that there is , and there s a lot of people making a lot of money off of this .
healthcare professionals told reuters they welcomed the reforms .
oleksandr ivanko , chief doctor at the kiev municipal clinical hospital , hoped doctors salaries would improve because you can not motivate them and demand anything while paying a minimum or even humiliating salary .