these creeps will be out of jail and occupying another taxpaying american citizens home faster than you can say amnesty !
five illegal immigrants have been arrested for squatting in a deployed soldier s home leaving it covered in feces and urine.the men have occupied the three-story home in englewood , new jersey , for at least a few weeks as its owner , a female soldier , is stationed out of the city.according to police , the conditions in the home were deplorable throughout , with evidence of partying and squalor.they discovered the disgusting scene after one of the men , 18-year-old carlos rosales-campos , was arrested on sunday following a theft at a nearby restaurant.police determined he was squatting at the property on lafayette avenue , and when they went to inspect they found four more men living there.rosales-campos is in the country illegally from el salvador , according to police.one of the men , 47-year-old oswaldo meneses-arango , is a legal resident from colombia.however , the other three rosalio valencia-hernandez , 49 ; rene contreras-ixtla , 39 ; and evaristo chavez , 34 are illegal immigrants from mexico.police have charged five men for squatting in a soldier s new jersey home .
they found them on sunday after arresting carlos rosales-campos , 18 , ( pictured ) over a burglary .
he is here illegally from el salvadorbreak-inspolice said rosales-campos began his string of burglaries on aug. 27 , when he approached a manager of the jackson hole diner and put a gun to his head and demanded the night s receipts .
no shots were fired and the manager was not hurt , but rosales-campos got away with more than $ 1,000 in cash , police said.other incidents include : on sept. 28 , police said , rosales-campos stole the cash register and less than $ 500 from colpan bakery on james street .
he is accused of stealing the cash register and less than $ 100 from community cleaners on grand avenue on oct. 2 .
on oct. 6 , tobacco products and a cash register were taken from crown fish & chicken on west englewood avenue , police said .
the register had less than $ 500 in it .
on oct. 15 , the jackson hole diner was burglarized , and rosales-campos was accused of taking a $ 500 laptop and tampering with the cash register .
on oct. 21 , he allegedly tried to break into the knt luncheonette on west hudson avenue but nothing was taken .
on oct. 29 , he allegedly stole about $ 500 worth of clothing and a cash register with $ 100 from englewood athletics on west palisade avenue .
a significant amount of the stolen merchandise was recovered and returned to the businesses , torell said.aside from chavez , all of the men are homeless , police said.evaristo chavez , 34 and rene contreras-ixtla , 39 , are in the country illegally from mexicooswaldo meneses-arango , 47 , is the only legal resident of the five .
he hails from colombia .
however , he was also charged with trespass alongside illegal mexican immigrant , rosalio valencia-hernandez , 49 ( below ) northjersey.com reported that empty beer bottles , clothing and plastic gloves could be seen in the yard of the single-family home .
at the back , someone had knocked out a glass pane of the rear door.rosales-campos was charged with armed robbery , second-degree possession of a weapon with intent to use against a person , second-degree illegal handgun possession , six counts of third-degree burglary , third-degree attempted burglary , several counts of theft , fourth-degree possession of a fraudulent government i.d .
and one count fourth-degree criminal trespass.via : uk daily mail