washington ( reuters ) - u.s. presidential candidate donald trump on wednesday escalated a fight with fox news , using the word “ bimbo ” in a derogatory tweet about anchorwoman megyn kelly after pulling out of a debate only days before the first nominating contest of the 2016 campaign .
trump on tuesday withdrew from the televised encounter , scheduled for thursday night in des moines , iowa , in irritation at host fox news ( foxa.o ) for allowing kelly to moderate after her questioning angered him in a debate last year .
the real estate magnate , who is the republican front-runner to win the nomination for the nov. 8 presidential election , followed up with another round of insults on wednesday .
“ i refuse to call megyn kelly a bimbo , because that would not be politically correct , ” he wrote on twitter .
“ instead i will only call her a lightweight reporter ! ” in a later interview on fox news ’ s “ the o ’ reilly factor , ” he told host bill o ’ reilly that she was “ highly overrated. ” “ i have zero respect for megyn kelly .
i don ’ t think she ’ s very good at what she does , ” trump said .
trump ’ s republican presidential rivals were quick to criticize the former reality tv star , with u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas blistering him in a series of tweets and accusing him of “ trembling at being questioned by kelly. ” at an event in west des moines , iowa , cruz openly mocked trump , calling him a “ fragile soul ” and “ gentle , ” and renewed his offer to debate trump one-on-one saturday evening .
“ it ’ s not that he ’ s afraid of me , ” cruz said to the crowd .
“ he ’ s afraid of you .
he doesn ’ t want to answer questions from the men and women of iowa about how his record doesn ’ t match what he ’ s selling. ” another republican hopeful , u.s .
senator rand paul of kentucky , told fox news that he welcomed trump ’ s absence from the debate stage because it means “ we don ’ t have to put up with a lot of empty blather and boastfulness and calling people names. ” trump ’ s decision means the last televised debate before monday ’ s iowa caucuses - which kick off the state-by-state nominating race to choose candidates for the presidential election - will not feature the man who has dominated the republican race for months and leads many opinion polls .
it was seen as a bold gamble .
trump has said that in lieu of his debate participation he will hold a fundraiser for veterans .
it will be held at drake university in des moines and begin at the same time thursday as the fox debate , according to an invitation his campaign circulated wednesday evening .
“ it ’ s a risky move ; it ’ s very high profile , ” said craig robinson , a former iowa state party official .
“ but i ’ m not sure it will really change anyone ’ s mind about trump. ” trump has been feuding with fox news since the network hosted the first republican debate in august , in which kelly asked trump about his treatment of women , prompting a stream of insults from the candidate and complaints he was not being treated fairly .
he did not renew his attacks on kelly during an evening rally in gilbert , south carolina , but told supporters to watch a rerun of the fox interview , which he called a “ tough interview , ” when they got home .
cruz , trump ’ s main rival in iowa , used the hashtag # duckingdonald to make fun of trump for ducking out of the debate and tweeted a mocked-up picture of trump ’ s head on scrooge mcduck ’ s body sitting on a pile of money .
cruz , a conservative and a debating champion in college , tweeted a link to “ duckingdonald.com , ” which asked visitors to sign a petition in favor of cruz and trump having a side debate .
new jersey governor chris christie , another republican presidential contender , described trump ’ s decision at such a crucial time as “ a big mistake ” that calls into question his ability to be president .
“ anytime you get a podium and a microphone and 15-20 million people watching in an election campaign , you should take it , ” christie told boston herald radio .
another republican candidate , u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida , said he wanted to focus on keeping the party united in order to beat hillary clinton , the former secretary of state , if she becomes the democratic nominee .
“ these kinds of theatrics by ted cruz and donald trump are an entertaining sideshow , but they have nothing to do with defeating hillary clinton , ” rubio said .
not every candidate was convinced trump would follow through on his pledge to stay away .
“ he apparently is not going to come to the debate , although i ’ ve got a $ 20 bet he ’ ll show up , ” former florida governor jeb bush said at a town hall meeting in response to a question .
“ poor little donald , being treated unfairly , ” he said .
trump ’ s campaign manager , corey lewandowski , said trump was not afraid to debate his rivals or take reporters ’ questions .
he added that trump would be happy to debate cruz if the contest , in which 12 republicans are vying for their party ’ s nomination , narrows .
“ if it comes down to a two-person race , donald trump would be happy to debate him , ” lewandowski told abc ’ s “ good morning america ” program .
fox news , in a statement on tuesday , said it would not “ give in to terrorizations toward any of our employees , ” but left the door open to trump attending the debate .
the event will be co-hosted by alphabet inc ’ s ( googl.o ) google .
“ at the end of the day , mr. trump is going to have the last laugh , ” lewandowski told msnbc .
( this version of the story corrects 17th paragraph to say scrooge mcduck , not donald duck )