rome ( reuters ) - the italian government called on tuesday for confidence votes in the lower house of parliament to try to force through an electoral law that is likely to penalize the anti-establishment 5-star movement .
the new voting law , which would be used in a national election due by next may , is backed by the ruling democratic party ( pd ) , former prime minister silvio berlusconi s forza italia ( go italy ! )
and the anti-migrant northern league .
unlike the current rules , the new system , known as the rosatellum , would allow the formation of broad coalitions before the ballot , a factor likely to hurt the maverick 5-star , which refuses to join alliances .
the party , which tops many opinion polls , says the rosatellum could cost it up to 50 seats in parliament .
it has called for protests on wednesday , when the lower house is due to hold two confidence motions .
a third vote is set for thursday .
this is a mortal blow to democracy , a violation of democratic laws , said luigi di maio , the 5-star s candidate for prime minister .
the aim is to destroy us .
italy s political landscape is highly fragmented and successive governments have failed to reduce the nation s huge debt mountain and struggled to revive the economy .
investors fear political instability here could undermine the euro .
president sergio mattarella , the only figure with the power to dissolve parliament , has demanded new voting rules be drawn up because at present there is too much divergence between the systems for electing members of the two houses of parliament .
previous efforts at reform have all ended in failure thanks to a matrix of conflicting interests .
the latest version offers a mix of first-past-the-post and proportional representation , and gives party leaders a huge say over nominating candidates .
although the rosatellum will likely hurt 5-star , analysts say it looks unlikely to throw up a clear parliamentary majority , with opinion polls showing the center-left , center-right and 5-star splitting the vote three ways .
a government is obliged to resign if it loses a confidence vote so only deploys the motion if it thinks key legislation might get held up or radically altered without its intervention .
in this case , the government motions will sweep away dozens of secret votes on various aspects of the law , which would have allowed disaffected parliamentarians from the traditional parties to sink the bill , as happened in june during a prior attempt to introduce new electoral rules .
the ruling pd dismissed accusations that it was subverting democracy , saying there would still be one final secret vote on the whole package .
in this secret vote we will see if the law is good or bad , said ettore rosato , the parliamentary party leader of the pd who has put his name to the reform .
this is the last chance we have to put in place an electoral law and we want to avoid , just weeks ahead of the ballot , any traps , he told reporters .
prime minister paolo gentiloni hopes to get the bill through the lower house of parliament by the end of the week , after which it will go to the upper house senate , where the government has no clearly defined majority .