bamako ( reuters ) - four united nations peacekeepers and a malian soldier were killed and 21 people were wounded in two separate attacks by unknown assailants in mali on friday , the u.n. mission there said .
regional armies , u.n. forces and french and u.s. soldiers are struggling to halt the growing influence of islamist militants , some with links to al qaeda and islamic state , in west africa s sahel region .
mali s u.n. mission , minusma , has suffered the highest number of fatalities among current u.n. peacekeeping operations .
i condemn in the strongest terms this attack that has once again befallen the minusma force as well as the ( malian army ) , u.n. mission head mahamat saleh annadif said in a statement .
in the first incident on friday , three peacekeepers and a malian soldier were killed when they came under attack during a joint operation in the menaka region near the border with niger , an area that has seen a spike in violence over the last year .
sixteen other peacekeepers and one civilian were also wounded .
later in the day at around noon ( 1200 gmt ) , a minusma convoy in the central mopti region was the target of what the mission described as a complex attack by militants using explosive devices and rocket launchers .
one u.n. soldier was killed and three others were seriously wounded , minusma said in a statement .
the mission did not specify the nationalities of the soldiers killed or wounded in either of the attacks .
a 2013 french-led military intervention drove back militants who had seized control of mali s desert north a year earlier , but they have regrouped and launch regular attacks against malian soldiers , u.n. peacekeepers and civilians .
islamist groups are now increasingly exploiting the porous borders between mali and neighboring niger and burkina faso to expand their range of operations , alarming western powers .
france and the united states both have troops deployed in the west africa .
a new regional force composed of soldiers from mali , mauritania , niger , burkina faso and chad - the so-called g5 sahel nations - launched its first operations late last month .