tucker takes on the co-director of popular resistance , and asks him whether he advocates violence , whether he would like political foes to show up at is house and threaten him ?
political resistance advocates violence as a tactic to get their way much like a toddler has a temper tantrum .
tucker carlson debates the leader of a group that thinks it s ok to go to the fcc chairman s house to protest .
does this cross the line ?
we believe it does ! the chairman of the fcc is a republican and is such a great choice !
no matter who he is , we still believe it s wrong on a moral level to do what these people are doing .
shame on them ! current fcc chairman ajit pai stood up to the other commissioners when they were told not to release information on fraud in the lifeline program : tyranny : obamaphone fraud kept under wraps until vote to expand programfederal regulators were instructed to keep a massive fraud investigation under wraps until a day after a controversial vote to expand a program that was allegedly used to bilk taxpayers of tens of millions of dollars , one those regulators claims.the federal communications commission on friday announced that it would seek $ 51 million in damages from a cell phone company that allegedly defrauded the federal lifeline program of nearly $ 10 million.the commission s five members unanimously backed the notice of apparent liability ( nal ) , but republican commissioner ajit pai parted from his colleagues in a partial dissent .
according to pai , he and other commissioners were told not to reveal the details of its investigation until april 1 , a day after the fcc voted to expand the lifeline program .
commissioners were told that the notice of apparent liability could not be released or publicly discussed until april 1 , 2016 , conveniently one day after the commission was scheduled to expand the lifeline program to broadband , pai wrote .
that s not right .
pai did not say who issued that directive .
however , it had the effect of preventing public knowledge of widespread fraud in the lifeline program ahead of a contentious vote on expanding it despite persisting concerns about a lack of internal safeguards.fcc spokesman will wiquist insisted that the timing was completely coincidental .
the timing of the enforcement action was in no way related to the timing of the vote on the program modernization , he said in an email.if you believe wiquist , we have swampland in florida to sell you !