johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa s ruling african national congress ( anc ) needs to put an end to scandals that are tarnishing its image , an anc official said , after a court ruling that paved the way for president jacob zuma to face nearly 800 counts of corruption .
zweli mkhize , one of the anc s top six leaders , also called for an end to factionalism within the party at a public lecture late on friday , saying it was playing into the hands of the opposition .
mkhize is in the running to replace zuma as anc leader at the party s elective conference in december , and his campaign has been gathering momentum in recent weeks .
the battle between the two frontrunners for anc leader - deputy president cyril ramaphosa and nkosazana dlamini zuma , an ex-wife of zuma and former chairwoman of the african union - has bitterly divided the party that has governed south africa since the end of white minority rule in 1994 .
affable and a long-serving cadre , mkhize is touted as a compromise candidate who could soothe tensions between the party s primary factions .
he is also well-liked by investors unnerved by the party s swing toward populist policies .
we see fractions and divisions in the regions , at the national level .
and you ve got court cases all over , mkhize told anc supporters packed into a hall in the kagiso township to the west of johannesburg .
we need to say to each other enough is enough .
...
the image of the african national congress rests on the behaviour of its own leaders , mkhize said .
earlier on friday , south africa s supreme court of appeal upheld a high court ruling reinstating 783 corruption charges against zuma from before he became president .
zuma , who has denied numerous other corruption allegations since taking office , has asked prosecutors to consider representations before deciding whether to proceed against him .
mkhize avoided mentioning zuma by name in his speech in kagiso .
he hails from zuma s home province of kwa-zulu natal and was formerly a staunch zuma supporter .
asked whether zuma should step down as president after a new anc leader is elected in december , mkhize said that would be up to the party to decide .
zuma s term as president ends in 2019 , when south africa next holds a general election , but his predecessor thabo mbeki was ousted before the end of his term in 2008 after losing out in a power struggle with zuma .
we believe the anc is strong enough to survive all of this , and we want to be able to show that the anc is serious about acting on corruption , mkhize said .