washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. federal emergency management agency will run out of disaster assistance funding on friday unless congress approves more money , two florida senators warned on thursday .
as hurricane irma barrels through the caribbean on its way to an expected landfall on florida on sunday , the senate approved a measure 80 votes to 17 to more than double funding to $ 15.25 billion to fema and local block grants to handle natural disasters .
the house is expected to approve the measure later this week .
it already approved $ 7.85 billion on wednesday .
fema is stretched , and , of all things , fema runs out of money unless we act by tomorrow , democrat senator bill nelson said in a speech on thursday , following a letter he wrote with republican senator marco rubio to congressional leaders warning that more funds were needed .
the bill also extends the national flood insurance program through dec. 8 that was set to expire on sept. 30 .
the government-subsidized insurance program helps homeowners in flood-prone areas receive coverage .
it is nearly $ 25 billion in debt and members of both parties want to reform it .
fema declined on thursday to say how much remained in its disaster relief fund , which had just over $ 1 billion on hand as of tuesday , less than half the $ 2.1 billion it had last week .
the agency has received a record number of disaster assistance requests from victims of hurricane harvey .
we re not going to let money get in the way of saving lives , fema director brock long told broadcaster cbs on wednesday .
congress knows what they need to do .
david lapan , a spokesman for the department of homeland security , which oversees fema , also declined to say on thursday when the fund would be depleted , but said it would not be long without congressional action .
on thursday , u.s. president donald trump approved a major disaster declaration for the u.s. virgin islands , which makes residents eligible for fema and other government grants for temporary housing and home repairs , low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses , and other programs .
in response to irma , fema said staff had been deployed to the u.s. virgin islands and puerto rico and more than 1,000 personnel were ready to respond in florida , south carolina , north carolina and georgia .
provisions include millions of liters of water , meals , medical equipment and generators .