washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump had personal liabilities of at least $ 315.6 million to german , u.s. and other lenders as of mid-2017 , according to a federal financial disclosure form released late on friday by the u.s. office of government ethics .
he had roughly $ 20 million in income from his new marquee washington hotel , which opened just down the street from the white house last september .
revenues also increased at mar-a-lago , the florida resort known as the “ winter white house. ” trump reported income of at least $ 594 million for 2016 and early 2017 and assets worth at least $ 1.4 billion .
( bit.ly/2sah0zm ) the 98-page disclosure document posted on the ethics office ’ s website showed liabilities for trump of at least $ 130 million to deutsche bank trust company americas [ dbkgk.ul ] , a unit of german-based deutsche bank ag .
for example , trump disclosed a liability to deutsche exceeding $ 50 million for the old post office , a historic washington property where he has opened a hotel .
trump reported liabilities of at least $ 110 million to ladder capital corp , a commercial real estate lender with offices in new york , los angeles and boca raton , florida .
the largest component of trump ’ s income was $ 115.9 million listed as golf-resort related revenues from trump national doral in miami , down from $ 132 million he reported a year ago .
income from many of his other hotels and resorts largely held steady .
revenue from trump corporation , his real-estate management company , nearly tripled , to $ 18 million , and revenue from mar-a-lago grew by 25 percent , to $ 37.25 million .
the private club doubled its initiation fee to $ 200,000 after trump ’ s election .
he earned $ 11 million from the miss universe pageant , after selling the beauty contest back in 2015 .
revenue from television shows like “ the apprentice ” fell to $ 1.1 million , down from $ 6 million a year earlier .
his assets probably exceeded $ 1.4 billion because the disclosure form provided ranges of values .
the document showed trump held officer positions in 565 corporations or other entities before becoming u.s. president .
his tenure in most of those posts ended on jan. 19 , the day before his inauguration , and in others in 2015 and 2016 .
most of the entities involved were based in the united states , with a handful in scotland , ireland , canada , brazil , bermuda and elsewhere .
trump has refused to release his tax returns , which would give a much clearer indication of his wealth and business interests .
but he has submitted federal forms disclosing his and his family ’ s income , assets and liabilities .
“ president trump welcomed the opportunity to voluntarily file his personal financial disclosure form , ” the white house said in a statement , adding that the form was “ certified by the office of government ethics pursuant to its normal procedures. ” an office of government ethics spokesman declined to comment on the contents of the report , other than to say that it was certified by the office , which is an ethics watchdog for federal government employees .
trump released a disclosure form in may 2016 that his campaign at the time said showed his net worth was $ 10 billion .
some critics disputed that figure as overblown .
before taking office in january , trump was a new york real estate developer and television celebrity .