( reuters ) - near the end of his eight years as louisiana governor , bobby jindal , a tax-slashing conservative and presidential hopeful , acknowledged that the state ’ s business tax breaks had gone too far .
“ the truth is , we have a system of corporate welfare , ” jindal said during an april speech to legislators .
the comment resonates now as the state faces its worst budget crisis in three decades - largely because of the soaring cost of subsidies , as well as personal income tax cuts , championed by jindal .
business tax subsidies peaked in 2012 , when the state exempted 88 percent of corporate income taxes , or about $ 1.8 billion .
it has exceeded 80 percent since then , according to the louisiana department of revenue .
for a graphic showing how corporate tax exemptions soared as state revenue fell , see tmsnrt.rs/1t7qbm9 plummeting oil prices dealt the latest blow to state revenues .
deficits are projected at $ 940 million for the fiscal year ending june 30 and about $ 2 billion for next year .
“ it ’ s gotten pretty bad , pretty rapidly , ” said the state legislature ’ s chief economist , greg albrecht , who believes louisiana is heading into a recession .
jindal has kept a low profile since leaving office in january and could not be reached for comment .
in a january speech , he highlighted efforts to cut government and stimulate the economy without raising taxes .
“ you look at the projects — the employers coming in and those who are expanding — we ’ ve seen tremendous progress , ” he said .
in 2008 , when jindal became governor at 36 , he was a rising gop star , often mentioned as a potential presidential candidate .
he cultivated that image , staking his political fortunes on a platform of slashing taxes , dismantling big government and attracting business .
the next year , jindal helped push through legislation to cut personal income taxes and worked to enhance louisiana ’ s already robust corporate tax breaks .
in july of 2009 , he signed bills that created or expanded nine tax credits to sectors including film , port cargo and infrastructure .
the credits are typically worth 20 to 40 percent of a company ’ s in-state spending , or in some cases spending on payroll or research .
in all , annual corporate tax exemptions rose during jindal ’ s term by about $ 1 billion , to $ 1.96 billion in 2014 , according to state data .
his tax-cutting hit a wall in 2013 when he failed to convince a republican-controlled legislature to abolish personal and business income taxes .
“ he really wanted to go to a national stage , run for president , and say he repealed the personal income tax , ” said robert travis scott , president of the public affairs research council , a nonpartisan organization .
many of jindal ’ s political successes had consequences for louisiana ’ s budget .
a state-commissioned study found that film tax credits , for example , cost the state an estimated $ 171 million in 2014 .
“ the state ends up with the short end of the stick , ” said loren scott , author of the study , which also found some economic benefits .
among the biggest beneficiaries of louisiana subsidies is the petrochemical industry .
one massive project under construction in southwestern louisiana - sempra energy ’ s $ 6 billion liquefied natural gas processing complex and export terminal - will receive a $ 2.2 billion property tax break over a decade , records show .
the plant will create 130 permanent jobs with average salaries of $ 80,000 , records show .
the california-based company also got rebates on some payroll costs and a capital investment tax credit .
louisiana ’ s subsidies are getting more scrutiny in the budget crisis .
democratic governor john bel edwards , who took office in january , has proposed cutting incentives but faces resistance from republican legislators and business groups .
“ the previous administration , ” edwards said , “ blew a hole in our state budget by writing checks for tax credits , rebates , or refunds to corporations with no consideration of whether louisiana receives a good return on our investment. ” jindal advisor curt anderson said the subsidies resulted in new jobs and higher wages .
“ his decision to shrink the government and grow the private sector economy was purposeful. ” business groups continue to support the incentives , saying they are invaluable to the state economy .
“ in terms of economic development , jindal was an outstanding governor , ” said michael hecht , president of greater new orleans inc. “ corporations are being scapegoated. ” falling oil prices and personal income tax cuts also played major roles in the crisis , according to state data .
oil-related revenues are projected to drop by nearly $ 400 million this fiscal year , the data shows .
personal income tax breaks pushed by jindal and predecessor , democrat kathleen blanco , reduced revenues by about $ 800 million annually , said albrecht , the state economist .
most louisiana business subsidy programs preceded the jindal administration , but their use and cost shot up during his tenure , said jan moller , director of the nonpartisan louisiana budget project .
the governor , he said , directed state economic development officials to “ aggressively pursue companies and give them as many incentives as possible. ” as louisiana faced mounting shortfalls , jindal sought solutions that didn ’ t involve raising taxes .
“ despite the fact that the state was hemorrhaging money , he just wanted to keep his tax virginity ” for his presidential campaign , said edward chervenak , a political science professor at the university of new orleans , echoing a theme common among democrats and republicans alike in the state .
having signed a pledge not to raise taxes , jindal turned to one-time fixes , such as offering tax amnesty to delinquent taxpayers and raiding state trust funds .
that included drawing down $ 520 million from the medicaid trust fund for the elderly and $ 540 million from a reserve fund for state employee healthcare , according to republican state treasurer john kennedy .
jindal failed last year to sell the state ’ s tobacco settlement , worth $ 1.2 billion over time , for an upfront lump sum of $ 750 million - a move kennedy compared to “ a junkie selling his tv or smartphone to buy another fix. ” lawmakers now face tough choices .
healthcare and education budgets - particularly colleges - already have been slashed and could see more cuts .
and legislators are considering raising sales taxes by up to 2 cents .
state representative julie stokes , a republican from the new orleans suburb of kenner , said her gop colleagues have been reluctant to raise taxes , and she understands .
“ look , i don ’ t want to talk about it - i ’ m a conservative republican from a conservative republican district , ” she said .
“ but i just feel like we ’ ve got to lose the talking points and have an honest dialogue . ”