moscow ( reuters ) - russian president vladimir putin suggested on thursday that allegations of a state-sponsored doping program in russia were an attempt to sow discontent ahead of the country s presidential elections .
reports commissioned by the world anti-doping agency ( wada ) have raised allegations of the existence of a state-run program that included tampering with russian athletes positive tests by laboratory and security officials at the 2014 sochi games .
the international olympic committee ( ioc ) is now investigating the allegations and has banned six cross-country skiers for life from the olympics over doping violations at sochi .
this is what is bothering me : the ( pyeongchang winter ) olympics start in february , and when are our presidential elections ?
in march , ria novosti state news agency quoted putin as saying .
there are big suspicions that all this is being done to create for someone the necessary conditions for discontent among sport lovers , athletes .
putin , widely expected to stand in and win the elections , also suggested the united states influence in international sports organizations could be having a deleterious effect on russia .
putin said the united states was home to the main companies that order and pay for television rights , the main sponsors and advertisers of major sporting events .
in retaliation for our alleged meddling in their election , they ( the united states ) want to create problems in the election of the president of russia , putin said .
last month , putin said the ioc was being pressured by the united states to prevent russia taking part in the 2018 pyeongchang winter olympics .
russia escaped a blanket ban at the 2016 olympics in rio de janeiro although it was , and remains , barred from competing in international athletics events .
the country s paralympic committee and anti-doping agency rusada are also still suspended over the doping scandals .
despite repeated calls for cooperation with international bodies to help rid russia of doping , the authorities have always denied the state s role in the scandal .
the ioc has said it will decide during its executive board meeting being held on dec. 5-7 on the participation of russian competitors at the 2018 winter games .