( reuters ) - republican presidential front-runner donald trump said on friday that if elected he would “ open up ” libel laws to make suing the media easier .
speaking at a rally in fort worth , texas , trump said the change was necessary to combat what he described as the “ dishonesty ” of major american newspapers .
trump routinely criticizes the press during campaign appearances , complaining about coverage he says is unfair and at times singling out people or news outlets for special insults .
he often invites audiences at his rallies to boo the journalists gathered in a special fenced-off part of the room .
at a dec. 23 appearance in grand rapids , michigan , he joked about killing journalists as the crowd thundered applause .
“ one of the things i ’ m going to do if i win , ” he said on friday , “ i ’ m going to open up our libel law so when they write purposely negative and horrible and false articles , we can sue them and win lots of money. ” trump mentioned the new york times and the washington post specifically and added : “ with me they ’ re not protected .
we ’ re going to have people sue like you ’ ve never been sued before. ” the new york businessman is leading in national polls and in most statewide polls of likely republican voters ahead of a dozen primary contests taking place on tuesday , a day dubbed “ super tuesday ” for its importance to the u.s. presidential primary process .
trump has sued journalists in the past and his representatives have not infrequently threatened to sue reporters seeking comment .
in january , the post published a story about trump ’ s management of the trump taj mahal , a casino in atlantic city , new jersey , that went bankrupt .
in an interview published in the story on jan. 18 , trump told the post reporter : “ if you write this one , i ’ m suing you. ” ( reporting by emily stephenson and susan heavey , writing by emily flitter ; editing by richard chang and steve orlofsky ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .