bangkok ( reuters ) - in his dark suit , thai junta leader prayuth chan-ocha cut an incongruous figure guiding a rice tractor across a muddy paddy field in front of cameras and watching villagers .
the prime minister s latest photo opportunity won applause from farmers watching in straw hats and his visit to suphan buri on monday brought a call from a local political bigwig for him to stay in power for another decade .
political activities in thailand have been suspended since prayuth s 2014 coup , but thai politicians are asking whether what looks like campaigning is exactly what it seems .
the trips to the countryside , a new facebook account and a chorus of political groups offering support are raising suspicions of a plan to keep prayuth in power even if long-promised elections happen next year .
it s not beyond expectations that he is out campaigning in the provinces to prepare to become prime minister again , said chaturon chaisang , a leader of the pheu thai party , which under various names has won every election for a generation .
since august , prayuth has visited six provinces , including places traditionally considered important battlegrounds for elections .
such trips with his cabinet will now be monthly .
in the previous three years , he had only taken two such trips outside bangkok .
i am not here to make people love me , but i want everyone to love the country , prayuth , 63 , told farmers in suphan buri , 100 km ( 60 miles ) north of bangkok .
said 60-year-old farmer samruay tongpratet : if the prime minister can truly help the poor then he can stay as long as he wants .
prayuth s office declined to comment on any plan to keep him in power .
politics will not resume until well after the cremation next month of the revered king bhumibol adulyadej , who died last october , and the subsequent coronation of his son , king maha vajiralongkorn .
in the meantime , prayuth has the field to himself .
that s why he needed to hold these mobile cabinet meetings in the provinces , act more like a politician , hold rallies , and meet the people , said thitinan pongsudhirak , director of the institute of security and international studies at chulalongkorn university , noting the signs that prayuth wants to stay longer .
last month , prayuth set up a facebook page with pictures of him walking with his arm around a farmer s shoulder and giving alms to monks .
it now has nearly 11,000 likes .
a poll in june showed that 53 percent of thais would like prayuth to serve another term .
although thailand s economic growth lags other countries in southeast asia and dissent is strongly repressed , surveys show that prayuth s backers welcome the stability since the coup .
whether that calm survives electioneering is another question after over a decade of turmoil between colour-coded factions that prayuth said he sought to end with his coup .
on one side is the yellow democrat party , which is popular with middle-class voters and has strong support in bangkok and parts of the south .
on the other side is the red movement of ousted prime minister thaksin shinawatra , whose parties appeal to poorer voters , particularly in the populous northeast .
thaksin s sister , yingluck shinawatra , was overthrown by prayuth in the 2014 coup and last month fled thailand ahead of a verdict in a corruption trial - eliminating a charismatic party figurehead who might also have rallied opposition to prayuth .
although he can not technically stand for election because he would have needed to resign by july , a new constitution drawn up at the junta s behest does offer him a route .
he could be chosen as an outside prime minister - foreseen under the constitution if the winning party fails to get enough votes for its candidate in the 500-member lower house of parliament .
in such a case , the upper house would also have a say - its 250 members will be picked by the military .
prayuth would still need support from at least half the lower house , however .
although neither of thailand s two main political parties has said it would endorse him , smaller players are mobilizing .
paiboon nititawan , a former member of a now-defunct reform council , has set up an office for a new people s reform party to back prayuth .
suchart chantharachotikul , a classmate of prayuth from military school , told reuters he is coordinating smaller parties to form a grouping to back the junta leader .
prayuth s military government isn t perfect , but they took care of problems like unrest .
it wouldn t be so strange if he stays on for another four years , suchart said .
a composer of sentimental ballads , prayuth has dropped hints in his music of a longer term political future .
his latest song , bridge , repeats a message that he will stay as long as it takes to steer thailand through troubled waters .
my two hands won t let you go , says one refrain .