uk mailonline was given exclusive access into the lives of the vigilante group , soldiers of odin .
the publication however seems hell-bent on tying this group of men , patrolling the streets to protect finnish women and children , to their founder who was admittedly a neo-nazi .
the one point they seem to be missing in their attempt to cast a negative shadow on this group , is that they are keeping the muslim migrant rapists in line .
there has not been one reported incident of violence by this vigilante group to date , and we have to believe the women and children in the neighborhoods they re patrolling must be grateful for their presence .
i think it s going to be a war between local people and immigrants .
soldiers of odin member foreigners can t go out alone after dark anymore .
it used to be safe to go out in finland at night , even by yourself , but now we just don t have the courage to do it .
migranta gang of vigilantes led by a violent neo-nazi go on night time migrant patrols on the streets of finland , with some talking of ethnic cleansing in the wake of the country s mounting immigration crisis.the self-styled soldiers of odin march in a mob , wearing bomber jackets with their logo on the back .
they have vowed to take direct action to protect their wives , girlfriends and children after a migrant influx to the liberal scandinavian country.the gang which claims to have cells across europe says it mobilised after a rise in migrant-related crime over the past 12 months because the finnish government has screwed everything up .we went on patrol with the soldiers of odin , described by some as far-right fascists , as they pounded the streets of kemi , western finland , clad in black and led by a snarling mastiff dog towards the city s refugee centre .
the government screwed things up so bad , and we are the consequence , says masked jani , 27 , one of the group s leaders , who works in a paper factory by day.intimidation : a member of the soldiers of odin in kemi takes his large snarling spanish mastiff dog on patrol around a local migrant shelter politicians are allowing migrants to rape our women , and they are doing nothing about it .
there will be a war on the streets , and we are ready to fight .
founded in september by ex-convict mika ranta , a self-confessed , violent neo-nazi , soldiers of odin is one of an increasing number of anti-migrant groups springing up across the continent.the group insists it has no connection to the swedish football firms who went on the rampage in stockholm last week , and says it has not been involved in violence .
but according to police , it is just a matter of time.the vast majority of the soldiers of odin are working-class .
mailonline met a dustman , several steel workers , a mechanic , a truck driver and a factory worker , all of whom patrol regularly with the group .
many more are unemployed , casualties of finland s three-year economic downturn.almost all of them have criminal records , with several having served lengthy prison sentences.the criminal record belonging to juha-matti kinnunen , 27 , one of the joensuu leaders , is typical .
with 30 offences to his name , including fraud , robbery and violence , kinnunen was also convicted of desertion from the military.the group s number of facebook likes , currently at almost 25,000 , is growing daily .
it claims to have 600 members in more than 25 cells across finland , sweden , norway , denmark , poland , germany , estonia , hungary and even in britain and the united states.many local people find the group intimidating .
in joensuu an eastern town with a history of skinhead violence , where odins are banned from most bars a female student stops her bicycle to tell mailonline that she is suspicious of the vigilantes as the patrol trudges past in the snow .
they are criminals and they say they are doing the job of the police , she says .
most people think they are neo-nazis .
with snow continuing to fall , jani pulls out his phone and shows mailonline a picture of a dark-skinned man kissing a young girl .
she is 12 years old , he says , sucking on a cigarette .
a local person passed us the picture and we tracked the girl down .
we told her parents and they called the police .
that is what we do and why we are needed .
the police are doing nothing .
that s why we re here .
the patrol arrives at the migrant shelter in takajarvi , kemi .
it is dark and quiet at first .
then faces of migrants appear at the windows , peering warily at the men and their mastiff straining on its leash.one african man starts typing on his phone .
in a few minutes , his friends will come down with iron sticks , jani says .
it happens a lot .
but with one call on a walkie-talkie , i can get 30 guys here and they will back off .
the odins loiter for a while , but no such gang appears .
so they move on to the youth club where the alleged migrant harassment took place.when questioned by mailonline , neither the teenagers nor the youth leader know anything about it .
but they are tolerant of the odins , even as they gather outside the building in a pack .
we are quite safe , so it s a bit silly .
they look off-putting , but they don t bother anyone , marko ketusman , the youth leader , tells mailonline .
some of them are radicals , but a lot of them are husbands and fathers trying to process their worries about migrants .
they are not a bad group .
for entire story : uk daily mail