wikileaks just dropped documents exposing the cia spying and hacking : the cia hacks iphones , android phones and tvs via wikileaks : today , tuesday 7 march 2017 , wikileaks begins its new series of leaks on the u.s. central intelligence agency .
code-named vault 7 by wikileaks , it is the largest ever publication of confidential documents on the agency.the first full part of the series , year zero , comprises 8,761 documents and files from an isolated , high-security network situated inside the cia s center for cyber intelligence in langley , virgina .
it follows an introductory disclosure last month of cia targeting french political parties and candidates in the lead up to the 2012 presidential election.recently , the cia lost control of the majority of its hacking arsenal including malware , viruses , trojans , weaponized zero day exploits , malware remote control systems and associated documentation .
this extraordinary collection , which amounts to more than several hundred million lines of code , gives its possessor the entire hacking capacity of the cia .
the archive appears to have been circulated among former u.s. government hackers and contractors in an unauthorized manner , one of whom has provided wikileaks with portions of the archive .
year zero introduces the scope and direction of the cia s global covert hacking program , its malware arsenal and dozens of zero day weaponized exploits against a wide range of u.s. and european company products , include apple s iphone , google s android and microsoft s windows and even samsung tvs , which are turned into covert microphones.since 2001 the cia has gained political and budgetary preeminence over the u.s. national security agency ( nsa ) .
the cia found itself building not just its now infamous drone fleet , but a very different type of covert , globe-spanning force its own substantial fleet of hackers .
the agency s hacking division freed it from having to disclose its often controversial operations to the nsa ( its primary bureaucratic rival ) in order to draw on the nsa s hacking capacities.by the end of 2016 , the cia s hacking division , which formally falls under the agency s center for cyber intelligence ( cci ) , had over 5000 registered users and had produced more than a thousand hacking systems , trojans , viruses , and other weaponized malware .
such is the scale of the cia s undertaking that by 2016 , its hackers had utilized more code than that used to run facebook .
the cia had created , in effect , its own nsa with even less accountability and without publicly answering the question as to whether such a massive budgetary spend on duplicating the capacities of a rival agency could be justified.in a statement to wikileaks the source details policy questions that they say urgently need to be debated in public , including whether the cia s hacking capabilities exceed its mandated powers and the problem of public oversight of the agency .
the source wishes to initiate a public debate about the security , creation , use , proliferation and democratic control of cyberweapons.china is also getting in on the act :