demilitarized zone , south korea ( reuters ) - as u.s. defense secretary jim mattis peered into north korea from a lookout post on friday , he was given a blunt reminder by his south korean counterpart of the vast amount of north korean artillery within range of seoul .
above the faint sound of north korean propaganda music being blasted from across the border , south korean defense minister song young-moo suggested that u.s. and south korean missile defenses simply could not stop all of them .
defending against this many lras ( long-range artillery ) is infeasible in my opinion , song told mattis , citing a need for strategies to offensively neutralize the artillery in the event of a conflict .
mattis replied : understood .
the brief exchange at the inter-korean demilitarized zone ( dmz ) - where u.s .president donald trump may visit in coming days - spoke volumes about the risks of any miscalculation as tension soars over pyongyang s rapidly advancing nuclear weapon and missile programs .
last week , cia chief mike pompeo said north korea could be only months away from developing the ability to hit the united states with nuclear weapons , a scenario trump has vowed to prevent .
u.s. intelligence experts say pyongyang believes it needs the weapons to ensure its survival and have been skeptical about diplomatic efforts , focusing on sanctions , to get pyongyang to willingly denuclearise .
but , as the dmz trip highlighted , north korea s conventional weaponry poses such a risk to south korea that any attempt to denuclearize the north by force could easily escalate into a devastating conflict .
mattis was keen to emphasize efforts to peacefully resolve the crisis , including at the dmz , as he addressed reporters with his back to the dividing line between north and south .
our goal is not war , but rather the complete , verifiable , and irreversible denuclearization of the korean peninsula , mattis said , as north korean soldiers kept watch .
mattis said he and song also made clear their mutual commitment to a diplomatic solution to address north korea s reckless , outlaw behavior , when they met this week at a gathering of asian defense chiefs in the philippines .
he carried that same message after his helicopter flight back to seoul , where he addressed a small group of u.s. and south korean soldiers .
`` it comes down to you to make it work , my fine young troops ... and we 'll buy time for our diplomats to solve this problem , '' he said .
the emphasis on diplomacy came before trump departs next week on a trip to asia .
he has declined to say whether he will visit the dmz when he stops in south korea , telling reporters on wednesday : you ll be surprised .
trump , in a speech last month at the united nations , threatened to destroy north korea if necessary to defend the united states and its allies .
kim has blasted trump as mentally deranged .
the bellicose verbal exchanges have stoked fears of a military confrontation , but white house officials say trump is looking for a peaceful resolution .
at the same time , the u.s. and south korean militaries are looking for ways to deter pyongyang , and bolster its defenses .
as mattis at one point met some of the roughly 28,000 american forces stationed in south korea , he said the role of u.s. and south korean troops was essential .
we re doing everything we can to solve this diplomatically , everything we can .
but ultimately our diplomats have to be backed up by strong soldiers , sailors , airmen and marines , so they speak from a position of strength , he said .
so thanks for standing watch , for holding the line .