kabul ( reuters ) - a senior u.s. commander in afghanistan apologized on wednesday for a highly offensive leaflet which contained a passage from the koran used in the taliban militants banner superimposed on to the image of a dog .
the taliban said the leaflet showed american hatred of islam , adding that it had launched a suicide attack near the entrance to the u.s. bagram air field , north of kabul , in revenge .
the image , distributed by u.s. forces in parwan province , north of kabul , on tuesday , showed a section of the taliban s banner superimposed onto the side of a dog - an animal considered unclean by muslims .
the banner contains a passage from the koran in arabic .
the design of the leaflets mistakenly contained an image highly offensive to both muslims and the religion of islam , major general james linder said in a statement .
i sincerely apologize .
we have the deepest respect for islam and our muslim partners worldwide , he said , adding that an investigation would be held to determine the cause of this incident and to hold the responsible party accountable .
parwan governor mohammad hasem condemned the leaflet as unforgivable .
those who have committed this unforgivable mistake in the publicity , propaganda or media section of the coalition forces will be tried and punished , he said .
the incident highlights one of the challenges facing international forces in afghanistan , most of which are from non-muslim cultures , despite the efforts western forces have generally taken to avoid stoking anti-foreigner sentiment .
the risk of a backlash against international forces has grown more pronounced with a rise in civilian casualties caused by increased u.s. and afghan government air strikes since the beginning of the year .
the taliban , fighting to restore strict islamic rule to afghanistan and drive out foreign forces , issued a statement saying the leaflet made clear that this war is a war between islam and unbelief .
the insurgent movement claimed responsibility for a suicide attack on the u.s. base at bagram air field north of kabul that local officials said wounded four afghan civilians , although the taliban itself said 20 americans were killed .
in 2012 , u.s. commanders were forced to apologize after copies of the koran and other religious texts were mistakenly burned at bagram air base near kabul .
the incident triggered large demonstrations in kabul and other provinces in which several people were killed .
on another occasion , a film of u.s. marines urinating on the bodies of dead taliban fighters caused widespread offense , prompting an investigation and criminal charges .
so-called information operations conducted by government and coalition forces have long been used to try to persuade local people to turn against the taliban and other insurgent groups .
above the picture of a lion and the dog , the leaflet urged people to report insurgents to the authorities .
take back your freedom from the terrorist dogs and cooperate with coalition forces so they can target your enemy and eliminate them , it said .