( reuters ) - florida governor rick scott has warned that hurricane irma , which was barreling toward florida on friday , could be more damaging than 1992 s hurricane andrew which caused more than $ 26 billion in devastation in the state .
following are some facts about hurricanes irma and andrew : - in 1992 , hurricane andrew blasted the southern part of florida as it moved from east to west , spending about four hours over the state .
by comparison , scott warned this week that irma was wider than all of florida and could swamp it from coast to coast , during a northward push through the state .
remember , hurricane andrew is one of the worst storms in the history of florida , scott said at a news conference .
this is much worse and more devastating on its current path .
- hurricane irma could hit the florida keys as a category 5 , which is the highest ranking for a storm s severity , with sustained winds of 160 miles per hour ( 258 km per hour ) .
andrew made landfall as a category 5 with maximum sustained winds of 145 miles per hour ( 233 km/h ) , according to the national weather service .
- hurricane andrew directly caused 15 deaths in florida and another 29 indirect deaths , from causes such as fires , electrocutions and cleanup accidents , according to the national weather service .
it directly killed eight people in louisiana , and indirectly killed nine more in the southern state .
- andrew damaged or destroyed 126,000 single-family houses and ripped apart 9,000 mobile homes , according to the national weather service .
it also caused property damage in louisiana after sweeping through the gulf of mexico .
irma is larger than andrew and it could leave 100,000 people without shelter , federal emergency management agency administrator brock long warned at a news conference .
- in homestead , hurricane andrew destroyed 1,167 mobile homes , which amounted to 99 percent of all the mobile homes in that south florida town , according to the national weather service .
after andrew , the federal government imposed more stringent regulations for those types of homes .