colombo ( reuters ) - sri lankan police arrested 19 people after a clash between extremists from the majority buddhist and minority muslim communities in which four people were injured , a spokesman said on saturday .
tension has been growing between the two communities this year , with some hardline buddhist groups accusing muslims of forcing people to convert to islam and vandalizing buddhist archaeological sites .
some buddhists nationalists have also protested against the presence in sri lanka of asylum seekers from mostly buddhist myanmar s persecuted rohingya muslim minority .
police said the late friday violence in the southern coastal town of ginthota was triggered by rumors and fake messages on social media .
this was a clash between a small fraction of extremists in the both ethnic groups , police spokesman ruwan gunasekera told reuters .
one of those arrested was a woman who falsely spread news that muslims were about to attack a buddhist temple , he said .
we ve decided to arrest those who have been spreading false messages and rumors on social media .
later police said all 19 suspects have been remanded until nov. 30 and a local curfew had been imposed in the clash area for 12 hours to 0600 hours ( 0300 gmt ) on sunday .
law and order minister sagala ratnayaka said some political groups are now on a desperate mission to turn this minor brawl into a sinhala-muslim clash .
i urge the public not to be misled by their false propaganda , he said .
additional police battalions , elite police forces , the anti-riot squad and the military were called late on friday to bring the situation under control .
buddhists make up about 70 percent of sri lanka s population of 21 million , compared with about 9 percent for muslims .
president maithripala sirisena s government , after coming under fire from rights groups and diplomats for not doing enough to crack down on hardline buddhist groups , acted against anti-muslim attackers in june this year .
that response came after more than 20 attacks on muslims , including arson at muslim-owned businesses and petrol-bomb attacks on mosques , were recorded in two months .
in 2014 , three muslims were killed in riots stirred up by hardline buddhist groups .