21st century wire says regardless of what one thinks of donald trump , it must be tempting for most people to admit that it is refreshing to see a us president admit that the us isn t as innocent as some pundits and consumers of mainstream news might think.in an interview aired before the super bowl , fox news host bill o reilly challenged president trump s comments about working with russia in the fight against isis .
in doing so o reilly called putin a killer .
trump shrugged off the comment by saying , there are a lot of killers .
we ve got a lot of killers .
what , do you think our country is so innocent ?
rt reports further on the interview below rtseemingly surprised , o reilly goes on to ask him why .
he is the leader of his country .
i say it s better to get along with russia than not , and if russia helps us in the fight against isis which is a major fight and the islamic terrorism all over the world , that s a good thing , trump answered .
will i get along with him ?
i have no idea .
o reilly then challenged trump , calling the russian president a killer .
trump shrugged the comment off , saying : there are a lot of killers .
we ve got a lot of killers .
what , do you think our country is so innocent ?
it is not the first time that trump has made such comments when journalists question his stance regarding the russian leader.at the end of 2015 , the host of msnbc s morning joe told trump that putin kills journalists , to which the unfazed then-presidential candidate replied , i think that our country does plenty of killing , too , joe .
i ve always felt fine about putin .
he s a strong leader .
he s a powerful leader , trump added.at the end of january , putin and trump held their first official phone call , which , according to the kremlin , was good and constructive .
over the past years , the lack of mutual respect became the main reason for the deterioration of relations , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov added.another important thing is that washington is prepared for dialogue , the spokesman concluded .
this is what president putin called for rather consistently but where unfortunately he did not see reciprocity over the past years , peskov said.earlier in january , however , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov emphasized that the first meeting between putin and trump may happen in months to come , not in a matter of weeks .
peskov also said , it is maybe the biggest mistake on the part of western analysts to think that trump is our man .
he is an american man .
former deputy speaker of the belgian parliament lode vanoost told rt that it is way too early to be overly optimistic about trump .
to me , he remains as unpredictable and unreliable as he was before .
we didn t see the full interview yet , and the follow-up questions that came after this very astonishing remark .
basically , what trump is doing is he is applying the same moral principles to the us as he applies to other countries .
that is indeed without precedent in us political culture .
also , he expressed concern over forces that could interfere with trump s mending ties with russia continue this report at rtread more trump news at : 21st century wire trump filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv