the president who has thumbed his nose at our us constitution , and clearly has no respect for our rule of law , has the ability to appoint a supreme court justice before he vacates the white house , but will he ?
in those few moments the senate will go into what s known as an intersession recess , creating one golden moment when the president could test his recess-appointment powers by sending judge garland to the high court.a smattering of activists has asked him to give it a try , but mr. obama has given no indication that he s thinking about it .
the white house didn t respond to a request for comment for this story.the move would be a legal gamble under the high court s last ruling in 2014 on recess appointments .
that 9-0 decision overturned a handful of mr. obama s early 2012 picks , saying the senate was actually in session when the president acted , so he couldn t use his powers.that ruling also said , however , that there s a difference between appointments made during the annual yearlong session of congress , dubbed intrasession , which mr. obama used in 2012 , and picks made at the end of the year , after congress adjourns , which are known as intersession .
william g. ross , a law professor at samford university in birmingham , alabama , said mr. obama would have the power to elevate judge garland .
but he said it would be politically unwise and damaging to the prestige of the court .
the consensus , though , is that mr. obama would be making a mistake to test it that theory .
i think it s fair to use the word stretch .
i don t know why he would try this .
it would backfire , said louis fisher , a scholar in residence at the constitution project who served for decades as congress top expert on separation-of-powers issues.he said mr. obama s 9-0 loss in the 2014 case should still be stinging someone who earned his law degree from harvard university and taught constitutional law at the university of chicago .
does he want to go down that road again ?
mr. fisher said .
perhaps most problematic for mr. obama is that recess appointments have a shelf life .
even if he succeeds in putting judge garland on the bench , the appointment would expire at the close of 2017 and could end even earlier if the senate confirms a full-fledged replacement named by mr. trump.worse yet for mr. obama , judge garland would lose his seat on the u.s. court of appeals for the d.c .
circuit oftentimes dubbed the second-most powerful court in the country .
that means the president would be trading a lifetime of judge garland for less than a year of justice garland .
since garland could serve only a year , he presumably would accomplish little and his service would be clouded by the strange and controversial circumstances of his appointment , said mr. ross , the law professor.for entire story washington times