among the findings : a complex fiscal picture welfare use .
our findings show that many of the preconceived notions about the fiscal impact of illegal households turn out to be inaccurate .
in terms of welfare use , receipt of cash assistance programs tends to be very low , while medicaid use , though significant , is still less than for other households .
only use of food assistance programs is significantly higher than that of the rest of the population .
also , contrary to the perceptions that illegal aliens don t pay payroll taxes , we estimate that more than half of illegals work on the books .
on average , illegal households pay more than $ 4,200 a year in all forms of federal taxes .
unfortunately , they impose costs of $ 6,950 per household.the impact of amnesty .
finally , our estimates show that amnesty would significantly increase tax revenue .
because both their income and tax compliance would rise , we estimate that under the most likely scenario the average illegal alien household would pay 77 percent ( $ 3,200 ) more a year in federal taxes once legalized .
while not enough to offset the 118 percent ( $ 8,200 ) per household increase in costs that would come with legalization , amnesty would significantly increase both the average income and tax payments of illegal aliens.what s different about today s immigration .
many native-born americans observe that their ancestors came to america and did not place great demands on government services .
perhaps this is true , but the size and scope of government were dramatically smaller during the last great wave of immigration .
not just means-tested programs , but expenditures on everything from public schools to roads were only a fraction of what they are today .
thus , the arrival of unskilled immigrants in the past did not have the negative fiscal implications that it does today .
moreover , the american economy has changed profoundly since the last great wave of immigration , with education now the key determinant of economic success .
the costs that unskilled immigrants impose simply reflect the nature of the modern american economy and welfare state .
it is doubtful that the fiscal costs can be avoided if our immigration policies remain unchanged .
center for immigration study