manchester , n.h. ( reuters ) - donald trump served notice on tuesday to those who have refused to take his 2016 white house campaign seriously : the celebrity real-estate developer and former reality show host is no joke .
while trump had been expected to win new hampshire ’ s nominating contest , he swamped the republican field by almost 20 points , demonstrating that his passionate , anti-establishment supporters could be relied on to show up and vote when it counts .
“ it ’ s a monumental win for donald trump , ” said michael dennehy , a republican strategist in concord , new hampshire , who is unaffiliated with any campaign .
“ the message is being sent loud and clear that republicans want to throw washington on its head. ” trump still has a long road ahead .
he suffers from high unfavorability ratings and is often an undisciplined candidate who invites controversy with his policies and insults , going so far this week as to repeat an audience member ’ s assertion that u.s .
senator ted cruz was a “ pussy. ” yet after finishing second in the iowa caucuses last week and now first in new hampshire , trump can take solace in the fact that rarely is the ultimate nominee from either party not one of the top two finishers in iowa or new hampshire .
since iowa began holding the first-in-the-nation caucus in 1976 , no republican has finished second there and first in new hampshire and failed to win the nomination .
the two states are the first of the state-by-state nominating contests for the nov. 8 election to succeed democratic president barack obama .
in new hampshire , trump , at least for the moment , put to rest questions over whether his strong showing in polls was illusory , after he underperformed them last week in iowa .
his immediate prospects were further helped by the failure of any of the establishment candidates to emerge as a clear challenger .
taken together , the mainstream candidates pulled in enough votes to overcome trump .
but no single one came close to him and there are few signs of a major consolidation anytime soon .
“ the victory by trump here has the makings of a major disaster for the establishment , ” said ford o ’ connell , a republican strategist .
the candidate who had been widely viewed as trump ’ s biggest threat , u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida , suffered deep wounds in new hampshire after a strong showing in iowa that some pundits believed would propel him to the top ranks of the establishment republicans .
after stumbling badly in a debate on saturday , the man who had been considered by many in the party as its best hope to retake the white house finished deep in the middle of the pack .
“ rubio ’ s disastrous showing shifted the landscape of the entire campaign , ” dennehy said .
he added he had conversations with many undecided voters in recent days who liked rubio but changed their support to other candidates after the debate .
the republican nomination race now bends southward , with a primary in south carolina on feb. 20 the next test .
trump has held a double-digit lead there for months .
after south carolina comes nevada , and then a spate of southern states on march 1 .
all provide trump with the chance to consolidate his support before any other candidate amasses enough delegates to pose a real threat .
his toughest opponent in those states will likely be cruz , the texas lawmaker who won in iowa and whose insurgent candidacy is equally worrisome to the republican establishment .
but trump appeared in new hampshire to learn from some of the mistakes his campaign made in iowa .
in recent days , he combined the large-scale rallies for which he has become known with more intimate affairs , an apparent effort to address criticism he was not devoting enough focus to retail campaigning .
trump also returned to the populist themes that have characterized his campaign and made him an atypical front-runner for the republican nomination .
he ripped u.s. corporations for sending jobs overseas and repeatedly slammed the pharmaceutical industry for charging high prices on prescription drugs and the health insurance industry for consistently hiking rates .
his campaign showed more of an ability to reach voters who may not have otherwise engaged in the political process .
typical were marjorie callicutt , 64 , and her husband , fred , 74 , who attended a trump event in tiny plymouth , new hampshire , on sunday .
the couple said they would not have been there if the trump campaign had not called them the day before to tell them about the rally .
both said they had been persuaded to vote for him .
“ he woke up the country , ” fred callicutt said .
“ he says things that nobody wants to talk about. ” ( reporting by james oliphant ; additional reporting by ginger gibson in washington ; editing by peter cooney ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .