united nations ( reuters ) - top united nations officials warned the security council on monday that its sanctions on north korea over the country s nuclear and missile programs may be harming the delivery of humanitarian aid to the impoverished , isolated asian state .
the 15-member security council held its fourth annual meeting on human rights abuses in north korea , despite objections by china , who said it was not the right forum and warned the move could further escalate tensions in the region .
u.n. human rights chief zeid ra ad al-hussein said u.n. agencies and aid groups were literally a life-line for some 13 million vulnerable north koreans , but sanctions may be adversely affecting this essential help .
zeid and deputy u.n. political affairs chief miroslav jenca said aid groups were facing difficulties accessing international banking channels , transporting goods into the north korea , and rising fuel prices hindering delivery of aid .
in an oct. 27 letter to the council sanctions committee on north korea , seen by reuters , the top u.n. official in pyongyang , tapan mishra , also said there were customs problems .
crucial relief items , including medical equipment and drugs , have been held up for months despite being equipped with the required paperwork affirming that they are not on the list of sanctioned items , mishra wrote .
zeid asked the security council on monday to assess the impact of the sanctions on human rights and take action to minimize their adverse humanitarian consequences .
in a statement on friday , the council sanctions committee reiterated that the nine sanctions resolutions adopted since 2006 are not intended to have adverse humanitarian consequences for the civilian population of north korea .
north korea has repeatedly rejected accusations of rights abuses and blames sanctions for the humanitarian situation .
the north korean u.n. mission condemned monday s meeting as a desperate act of the hostile forces which lose the political and military confrontation with the dprk ( north korea ) that has openly risen to the position of nuclear weapon state .
japan s u.n .
ambassador koro bessho told reporters on monday : the humanitarian situation and human rights situation in north korea is very dire and that s because of the authorities .
for the fourth time , china unsuccessfully tried to stop the public meeting by calling a procedural vote .
a minimum of nine votes are needed to win such a vote and china , russia , the united states , britain and france can not wield their vetoes .
ten members voted in favor of the meeting , china , russia and bolivia voted against , and egypt and ethiopia abstained .
council members and relevant parties should engage themselves with finding ways to ease tensions on the peninsula .
they should avoid mutual provocation and words or actions that might further escalate the situation , china s deputy u.n .
ambassador wu haitao told the council .
he said the discussion of human rights in north korea was counterproductive .
the systematic human rights violations and abuses of the north korean government are more than the cause of its people s suffering .
they are a means to a single end : keeping the kim jong un regime in power , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley told the council .
the security council is due to hold a ministerial meeting on north korea s nuclear and missiles programs on friday .