addis ababa ( reuters ) - the red cross has halted operations across a third of south sudan after gunmen shot dead a staff member , in what the u.n. said on wednesday was the biggest such suspension during the country s four-year civil war .
kennedy laki emmanuel , a driver for the red cross , died on sept. 8 when gunmen fired on a 10-vehicle convoy delivering aid in south sudan s restive western equatoria state .
in response , the international committee of the red cross shut down activities across equatoria , a region roughly the size of britain that borders congo and uganda and has seen some of the heaviest fighting over the last year .
the suspension affected more than 22,000 people about to get aid deliveries from the red cross .
that included more than 5,000 farmers due to receive seeds in an area teetering on the edge of famine .
the icrc will not resume anything until we have a clear picture of exactly what happened and until we receive the necessary security guarantees , spokeswoman mari mortvedt told reuters .
the security of the icrc staff is top priority .
the u.n. s office for coordination of humanitarian affairs told reuters that no aid group had shut down its operations over such a large area since south sudan s civil war began in 2013 .
the conflict began after president salva kiir , an ethnic dinka , fired his deputy riek machar , an ethnic nuer .
the u.n. says ethnic cleansing has taken place and warned of genocide , amid reports of murder , rape , and torture of civilians .
more than two million south sudanese have now fled the country , creating africa s biggest refugee crisis since the 1994 rwandan genocide , and more than half of those remaining need food aid .
the country s original population was 12 million .
at least 85 aid workers have been killed , according to the u.n. , including 18 this year , making it the deadliest country for aid workers in the world .
that number did not include a staff member for aid group world vision , killed in the western equatoria town of yambio on september 3 .
it was not clear whether that death was related to his work as an aid worker , so it was not included in the total , the group said .
( this story corrects to make clear world vision aid worker not included in total of 85 )