new york ( reuters ) - if mitt romney wanted to ignite a debate about donald trump ’ s suitability for the white house , he succeeded , at least on social media .
romney , the 2012 republican presidential nominee , lambasted trump in a speech on thursday in salt lake city , utah , calling him “ a phony , a fraud ” and saying it is his “ very brand of anger that has led other nations into the abyss. ” the speech was the latest illustration of how badly many mainstream republican leaders want to stop trump , the clear front-runner , from becoming his party ’ s nominee in november ’ s election to succeed president barack obama .
twitter users posted about romney roughly 38 times per second following the speech , according to zoomph , the social media analytics firm .
romney ’ s sentiment score , a measure of how positively users discuss a topic , was slightly higher than trump ’ s following the speech , according to the firm .
“ mitt romney ” quickly became one of the top-trending topics on twitter in the united states .
in a period of about four hours after the former massachusetts governor ’ s speech , there were roughly 529,000 tweets about romney on twitter , according to the social media site ’ s own metrics .
trump ’ s response , a barrage of put-downs , also generated social media attention .
during a campaign rally in maine , trump said romney had begged him for an endorsement when he was running for the white house in 2012 .
trump ’ s comments included what many on social media perceived to be a crude sexual joke .
“ i could have said ‘ mitt , drop to your knees , ’ he would have dropped to his knees , ” trump said .
“ is this a new @ realdonaldtrump campaign slogan ?
‘ drop to your knees , america ... and they did , ’ ” tweeted carl spry ( @ carlspry ) .
“ his secret to getting so many endorsements ? ” .
romney said later he would not have accepted trump ’ s endorsement four years ago if trump had spoken as he does now .
“ if trump had said 4 years ago the things he says today about the kkk , muslims , mexicans , disabled , i would not have accepted his endorsement , ” romney tweeted ( @ mittromney ) , referring to the white supremacist group the ku klux klan .
in his speech slamming both trump ’ s policy proposals and his style , romney did not endorse any of the candidates remaining in the republican race .
but one of them , ohio governor john kasich ( @ johnkasich ) , tweeted his support , saying “ well said , @ mittromney. ” a photo of the presidential oval office accompanied the tweet , with the caption “ the one who works here should make us proud. ” other presidential candidates remained quiet on twitter , but republican south carolina governor nikki haley offered her support for romney .
“ a brilliant speech by @ mittromney .
no one can ever question his love for our party and our country .
# trueleadership # mittromney , ” she ( @ nikkihaley ) tweeted .
haley has endorsed marco rubio , a u.s. senator from florida , for the republican nomination .
( additional reporting by gina cherelus and melissa fares in new york ; editing by jeffrey benkoe and frances kerry ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .