bucharest ( reuters ) - romania s lower house of parliament approved on wednesday legislation to overhaul its justice system , legislation that the european commission , the u.s. state department and the country s president have criticized as threatening judicial independence .
two bills , and a third which was approved on monday , are part of a wider overhaul that has triggered street protests across the country in recent weeks and which thousands of magistrates oppose the european union state , ranked as one of the bloc s most corrupt , joins its eastern european peers hungary and poland , where populist leaders are also trying to control the judiciary , defying eu concerns over the rule of law .
romania s ruling social democrats , which command an overwhelming majority in parliament together with their junior coalition partner , alde , have so far ignored the protesters .
changes approved on wednesday include setting up a special unit to investigate criminal offences committed by judges and prosecutors .
this makes magistrates the only professional category with a system dedicated to investigating them .
the bills also enforce more restrictive criteria for prosecutors seeking to join anti-corruption and anti-organized- crime prosecuting units .
on monday , lawmakers approved a bill that changes the way magistrates are supervised and amends the definition of prosecutor activity to exclude the word independent .
the three bills must now be approved by the senate , with a vote expected next week .
opposition parties and president klaus iohannis could also challenge the bills at the constitutional court , but the outcome of that was unclear .
the ruling social democrats also plan changes to the country s criminal code .
in november , the european commission said justice reform has stagnated this year and challenges to judicial independence remain a persistent source of concern .
at the start of this year , attempts by the social democrats to decriminalize several corruption offences triggered the country s largest street protests in decades .
romanian prosecutors have investigated thousands of public officials in an unprecedented crackdown on top-level graft .
the lower house and senate speakers are both currently on trial in separate cases .