james o keefe s project veritas reporters went undercover at cnn to investigate the # veryfakenews network to determine the motivation behind cnn s trump-russia collusion obsession .
since the inauguration , cnn has mentioned russian story nearly 16,000 times.project veritas reporters can be seen in the video below having a conversation with cnn s supervising producer john bonifield .
the reporter talked to bonifield first about the constant barrage of trump-russia stories on cnn .
bonifield admitted that although cnn has no evidence or proof of trump involvement with russia , they continue to make it their top story on cnn simply for ratings and to make money .
bonifield has worked as a journalist and as a producer for nearly 15 years at cnn , making him a pretty reliable source when it comes to how things work at cnn.bonifield actually confessed to the undercover project veritas journalist that president trump is correct when he says the media is on a witch hunt to take him down .
bonifield told the reporter : i think the president is right to say , like , look you are witch hunting me you have no real smoking gun , you have no proof .
bonifield told the undercover reporter for project veritas that cnn is biased and is playing to their audience by attacking president trump , and actually admitted that trump is good for business right now .
the project veritas reporter asked bonifield , but honestly , you think the whole russia shit is bullshit ?
to which bonifield replied : could be bullshit .
i mean , it s mostly bullshit right now .
like , we don t have any big , giant proof .
the way these leaks happen , they d leak it .
it d leak .
if it was something really good , it would leak .
watch the unbelievable video here : did the three resignations that took place at cnn today have anything to do with the impending release of o keefe s explosive video proving that cnn manufactures trump-russia collusion stories for ratings , or for money ? the story about the three cnn employees resigning for publishing fake news broke yesterday .
is ti a coincidence that today , o keefe released this explosive bombshell video ? here s the story that broke yesterday : cnn employees have resigned for their role in pushing fake news about the trump-russia story that claimed a member of the trump transition team was under investigation.reporter thomas frank , editor eric lichtblau and executive editor lex haris all resigned from their positions following a company-wide investigation into the single-sourced story that was quickly debunked , the washington post first reported .
cnn quickly followed up with a story of their own on the resignations .
lichtblau reportedly oversaw the false story , while haris headed up cnn s investigative unit .
in the aftermath of the retraction of a story published on cnn.com , cnn has accepted the resignations of the employees involved in the story s publication , cnn s coverage quotes a company spokesman as saying.philly.com on thursday evening , cnn investigative reporter thomas frank published a potentially explosive report involving an investigation of a russian investment fund with potential ties to several associates of president donald trump.but by friday night , the story was removed from cnn s website and all links were scrubbed from the network s social media accounts .
that story did not meet cnn s editorial standards and has been retracted , cnn said in an editors note posted in place of the story .
links to the story have been disabled .