washington ( reuters ) - donald trump ’ s chances of clinching the u.s. republican presidential nomination shot to a record high on global betting websites on wednesday and the billionaire businessman , long viewed as a political outsider , won his first endorsement from a member of congress .
trump easily won the nevada caucuses on tuesday , giving him his third win in four early nominating contests and pressuring republican rivals to come up with a way to stop a candidate who only last year was not seen as a serious contender for the nov. 8 presidential election .
the real estate magnate swept nevada by a margin of 22 percentage points , winning 45.9 percent of the vote .
it was the high point so far of an unorthodox campaign during which trump has fought with pope francis , called for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states and promised to build a wall on the u.s.-mexican border to prevent illegal immigration .
trump ’ s nevada win is likely to further frustrate republican establishment figures who , less than a month ago , were hoping his campaign as a political outsider was stalled after he lost the opening nominating contest in iowa to ted cruz , a u.s. senator from texas .
in his victory speech in nevada , the former reality tv show host courted his base of blue-collar workers .
“ i love the poorly educated , ” he said , mentioning several demographic groups among whom he said he was winning .
by wednesday , that phrase was being widely discussed online , with some finding it funny and others arguing it was a welcome , nonjudgmental embrace of a constituency that other politicians might speak of only as a problem to be fixed .
trump ’ s nearest rivals , cruz and marco rubio , a u.s. senator from florida , have frequently attacked each other , clearing a path for trump to the republican nomination that includes primary elections in a slew of southern states on march 1 , known as super tuesday .
“ these guys have to figure out how to turn their fire on trump , ” said ford o ’ connell , a republican strategist in washington .
absent that , he said : “ which one is going to get out of this field ? ” rubio said trump was only backed by a minority of republicans .
“ the vast and overwhelming majority of republicans do not want trump to be the nominee , ” he told nbc , citing the network ’ s recent opinion poll putting him 15 points ahead of trump in a one-on-one match-up .
“ as long as there are four people running dividing up the non-trump vote sooner , you ’ re going to get results like what you saw last night. ” rubio and cruz have struggled to match the popularity of trump , who is more ready than the two senators to deviate from the tenets of the republican party ’ s brand of conservatism , including free trade and supply-side economics .
betting venues in britain , ireland and new zealand show the online wagering community coalescing around trump , once considered an interloper , attracting long-shot odds of 200/1 .
odds for trump becoming the republican candidate for november have tightened all the way to 1/2 in some cases .
“ mr trump has triumphed yet again , despite political analysts almost unanimously writing him off as a serious presidential contender , ” said graham sharpe from william hill ( wmh.l ) , adding one customer stood to collect at least $ 100,000 if trump was elected to the white house .
on wednesday , chris collins , a republican congressman from trump ’ s home state of new york , became the first national lawmaker to endorse trump , saying in a statement “ it ’ s time to say no to professional politicians and yes to someone who has created jobs and grown a business. ” while more than 1,200 delegates are needed to secure the republican presidential nomination , trump has built a formidable head start over rubio , who came in second in nevada with 23.9 percent , and cruz with 21.4 percent .
opinion polls show trump ahead in most super tuesday states .
the primary election next tuesday in cruz ’ s home state of texas is looming as a make-or-break moment for him after trump ’ s growing success among the senator ’ s core base of evangelicals and other conservative supporters .
“ texans have a good ability to see through baloney , to see through a smokescreen , to see through rhetoric and to look to substance , ” cruz said at an event in houston , the state ’ s largest city .
“ i believe that is exactly what texans are going to do next tuesday. ” ( additional reporting by alana wise and eric walsh ; written by james oliphant and jonathan allen ; editing by alistair bell ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .