beijing ( reuters ) - a senior chinese space official and military officer has been promoted to run the people s liberation army s key equipment development department , the military said on monday , part of a reshuffle ahead of next month s communist party congress .
china s armed forces , the world s largest , are ramping up their capabilities with new equipment like aircraft carriers and stealth fighters as the country pursues a more assertive stance in the disputed east and south china seas and seeks to project power far from home shores .
in a brief story on its website about a military technology exhibition in beijing , the defence ministry named li shangfu as the new head of the military s equipment development department .
it gave no other details of his appointment .
according to his official resume , li was previously director of one of china s main satellite launch sites in xichang in the southwestern province of sichuan and has been involved in missions to explore the moon .
the u.s. defense department has highlighted china s increasing space capabilities , saying it was pursuing activities aimed at preventing other nations from using space-based assets in a crisis .
china insists it has only peaceful ambitions in space , but has tested anti-satellite missiles .
li , 59 , takes over from zhang youxia , who has likely reached retirement age .
li could be promoted to zhang s position on the central military commission , which is in overall charge of the people s liberation army , when the party holds its once-in-five-years congress in beijing next month .
however , sources familiar with the matter have told reuters that the commission may be cut down to xi and four vice-chairmen , doing away with committee members and streamlining reporting lines .
president xi jinping , who is commander-in-chief of china s armed forces , currently chairs the commission , which also comprises two vice-chairmen and eight committee members .
china s military is preparing a sweeping leadership reshuffle , dropping top generals , including two that sources say are under investigation for corruption .
china earlier this month also appointed new commanders for its army and air force .