brasilia ( reuters ) - the united nations has asked brazil to send troops to join its peace mission in the central african republic , said jean-pierre lacroix , the u.n. s head of peacekeeping operations , in an interview on monday .
the u.n. security council approved this month the deployment of an additional 900 peacekeepers to protect civilians in the impoverished landlocked nation , where violence broke out between muslims and christians in 2013 .
lacroix said violence had increased in the east , largely due to a security vacuum left by the departure of ugandan troops , who had been part of a separate u.s.-supported african union task force tracking lord s resistance army rebels .
the request for troops from brazil , which has just ended a 13-year mission in haiti , must be agreed to by president michel temer and approved by the brazilian congress .
brazil has a huge degree of know-how and professionalism and we definitely need those kinds of troops in our peacekeeping operations , lacroix told reuters in brazil s capital , ahead of a meeting with the top brass of the country s armed forces .
the troops did a fantastic , really exceptional job in haiti , where they improved the security situation by establishing a relationship of trust with the haitian population and exhibited good conduct and discipline , he said .
brazil is emerging from its worst recession on record and a huge government budget deficit could weigh on a decision to send more troops abroad , though its contribution to peacekeeping has enhanced the south american nation s international influence .
u.n. peacekeeping forces are facing the pinch of the united states pushing to reduce costs .
washington pays more than 28 percent of the $ 7.3 billion annual u.n. peacekeeping budget .
in june , the u.n. agreed to $ 600 million in cuts to more than a dozen missions for the year ending june 30 , 2018 .
lacroix said the peacekeeping mission in ivory coast had been closed , troop deployment in sudan s darfur was being reduced , and next year the peacekeeping operation in liberia would be closed down .
there is an expectation that we be prudent and use our resources in the most cost-effective way we can , said lacroix , a french diplomat who has been in the role since april .
the political objectives and efficiency of almost all of the u.n s 15 peacekeeping operations worldwide were under review , lacroix said .