harrisburg , pa. ( reuters ) - the former controller of allentown , pennsylvania , was indicted on wednesday on charges of conspiracy to commit fraud , joining a growing number of officials caught up in an alleged scheme to obtain campaign donations in exchange for city contracts .
mary ellen koval , 64 , a democrat who was elected controller in 2011 and served until her resignation on jan. 5 , is expected to enter a plea on thursday in u.s. district court in allentown , according to local news reports that quoted her lawyer .
she could receive up to 20 years in prison if convicted on the charge of conspiracy to commit “ honest services ” fraud .
“ she is a very strong , very old-school , classy lady who is , despite what has happened , doing the right thing by the city and the people in the city , ” her lawyer , eric dowdle , told the morning call newspaper .
koval has an unlisted number and could not be reached for comment .
gary strathearn , a former city finance director , pleaded guilty on monday to a charge of conspiracy to commit mail and wire fraud as part of the same suspected scheme .
dale wiles , a former assistant city solicitor , pleaded guilty in december to withholding documents from the fbi .
koval , who was also chairman of the allentown parking authority , is accused of conspiring with a leading city official identified in the charging documents as “ public official # 3 ” to obtain campaign funds for that unnamed official in exchange for city contracts .
“ public official # 3 ... made clear to certain vendors ... that providing campaign contributions ... was a necessary condition for receiving certain favorable treatment from the city of allentown , ” according to the charging documents .
the unidentified official “ agreed to take official action which would be favorable to three donors who had contributed campaign funds to public official # 3 , ” the documents said .
allentown mayor ed pawlowski has not been named in any of the indictments .
the democrat announced plans in 2015 to challenge republican u.s .
senator pat toomey but ended his campaign after the announcement of the fbi investigation .