washington ( reuters ) - democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton defended her paid speeches to wall street , saying in an interview that aired on friday that they would not soften her campaign pledges for tougher regulation .
the former u.s .
senator from new york and secretary of state is under pressure from rival candidate bernie sanders , who has made her wall street ties a top campaign issue and called for her to release transcripts of her remarks .
clinton was reportedly paid millions in appearance fees after leaving the state department .
asked whether she could assure u.s. voters that the speeches would not undermine her calls to rein in the financial industry , clinton told msnbc : “ absolutely. ” “ i ’ m on the public record .
i told them what i ’ m going to do .
i said i ’ m going to go after big banks that pose a systemic risk .
i want you to hold me accountable for that because i will do that exactly , ” she told the network ’ s “ morning joe ” program .
the new york times , in an editorial late on thursday , urged clinton to release the transcripts , saying “ voters have every right to know what mrs. clinton told these groups. ” according to the paper , clinton earned $ 11 million in 2014 and the first quarter of 2015 from 51 speeches to banks and other groups and industries .
clinton has said she will release copies of her remarks when other presidential candidates do the same .
on friday , she said president barack obama ’ s fundraising from wall street had not prevented him from enacting dodd-frank financial services reforms after the 2007-2009 financial crisis .
clinton reiterated her position that regulations must go farther , saying , “ dodd-frank is great .
it gives us a foundation .
it doesn ’ t go far enough .
we need to look at these other entities that pose systemic risks , as well. ” as far as so-called unwinding of banks that pose a risk , she added : “ we ’ re going to do in an orderly way so there will not be any surprises. ” sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont , is vying with clinton for the democratic nomination in the november presidential election .
“ i do not receive many millions of dollars from wall street or the pharmaceutical industry or other powerful , wealthy interests in this country , and have not given speeches for hundreds of thousands of dollars to wall street , ” sanders told a chicago rally on thursday , the washington post reported .
the next democratic nominating contest is on saturday in south carolina .
( reporting by susan heavey ; editing by frances kerry ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .