tokyo ( reuters ) - a new political party led by tokyo governor yuriko koike is floating populist slogans such as ending nuclear power and freezing a sales tax hike ahead of a general election next month , but voters may find few other big policy gaps with the ruling liberal democratic party ( ldp ) .
koike s party of hope , formally launched on wednesday with a slick promotion video and news conference , could attract voters who feel prime minister shinzo abe has become complacent , even arrogant , after nearly five years in office .
the new party adds more uncertainty to the election .
abe s ldp-led coalition is unlikely to lose its grip on power , but a weak showing would erode abe s clout , make policy initiatives harder and jeopardize his hopes of becoming japan s longest-serving premier .
there s not much daylight between koike s party and the ldp , said gerry curtis , professor emeritus at columbia university in new york .
it s a question of who can impress the voters as more competent .
it s competence and it s character .
the party of hope shares policy space with both the conservative , business-friendly ldp and the right wing of the main opposition democratic party , an often fractious mix of conservatives and liberals .
the democrats are struggling with defections to the new party and single-digit ratings .
asked about media reports that she discussed a merger or tie-up with the democrats leader , koike told public broadcaster nhk she was not interested .
rather than party to party , i welcome participation by individuals who share our policies , she said , adding her party had been approached by many would-be candidates .
some political analysts suggest koike might opt to ally with the ldp after the election , given their policy similarities .
abe , promising strong leadership to cope with japan s fast-ageing population and a rising threat from north korea , is betting the ldp and its junior coalition partner can keep their majority in parliament s lower house , where they hold a two-thirds super majority .
he will dissolve the lower house on thursday for a vote expected on oct. 22 .
the 63-year-old premier returned to power in december 2012 for a rare second term , promising to bolster japan s defense and reboot its deflation-plagued economy with hyper-easy monetary policy , spending and reforms .
he has made revising the post-war , pacifist constitution a key plank in his long-term agenda .
koike , 65 , served as defense minister in abe s first 2006-07 cabinet , but she defied the ldp to run successfully for tokyo governor last year and , in july , her novice local party handed the ldp an historic defeat in a tokyo assembly poll .
the media-savvy former tv announcer - often floated as a candidate to become japan s first female premier - is looking to repeat that success nationally .
she said on wednesday , though , that she wouldn t run for parliament this time .
a vague party of hope platform unveiled on wednesday pledged to be a tolerant , conservative reform party , break free of vested interests , protect the public , spend tax money wisely and respect diversity .
koike has , however , distanced herself from the ldp on two issues that could resonate with voters .
she has suggested freezing a rise in the sales tax to 10 percent from 8 percent , from 2019 , and called for an end to nuclear power - without saying how or by when .
the latter issue has sparked speculation koike could win the backing from once popular former prime minister junichiro koizumi , who advocates an immediate end to atomic energy .
abe , in contrast , says he ll go ahead with the tax hike but divert some revenue to childcare and education instead of paying back public debt .
his government plans to keep atomic power as a basic energy source despite public concerns after the 2011 fukushima nuclear crisis .
koike has criticized the prime minister s abenomics growth policy for not making people feel good , but she has not outlined what she d do instead , except speed up reform .
both abe and koike are hawkish on security policy , although she has said little lately except to pledge practical diplomacy and security policy based on pacifism .
she has said debate was inevitable on revising the post-war constitution , but should not be limited to the divisive issue of amending pacifist article 9 , which abe wants to change to clarify the military s status .
promises to reform vested interest politics and end governance through back-room deals often resonate with japanese voters , who periodically long for change from the ldp , which has ruled japan for most of the past six decades .