berlin ( reuters ) - foreign minister sigmar gabriel on monday equated the alternative for germany ( afd ) party with the nazis who ruled the country from 1933 to 1945 , an insult rarely heard in national politics .
in an interview with internet provider t-online.de , gabriel said many german voters were considering voting for the afd in the sept. 24 parliamentary election because they felt their concerns about migration , security and jobs were not being addressed .
founded in 2013 as an anti-european union party , the afd shifted its focus from the euro zone debt crisis to immigration after chancellor angela merkel in 2015 opened the doors to over a million migrants , many fleeing war in the middle east .
if we re unlucky , then these people will send a signal of dissatisfaction that will have terrible consequences .
then we will have real nazis in the german reichstag for the first time since the end of world war two , said gabriel , a member of the social democrats , junior partners in the ruling coalition .
the afd declined to comment on gabriel s remarks , which came after the welt am sonntag newspaper cited what it called a racist email reportedly written by alice weidel , a top afd candidate , to a frankfurt business associate in 2013 .
the german government was destroying society by allowing it to be overrun by culturally foreign people such as arabs , sinti and roma , the newspaper quoted the email as saying .
weidel s spokesman christian lueth , writing on twitter , dismissed the report as fake news aimed at keeping his party out of parliament .
he told the tagesspiegel newspaper that weidel had assured him the email was not from her .
lueth declined to comment further when contacted by reuters .
other parties also lined up to criticize the afd , which polls show is on course to enter the national parliament for the first time after the election .
the party has seats in 13 of 16 state legislatures .
bavarian state premier horst seehofer , head of the csu sister party of merkel s conservatives , dismissed the leaked email as a publicity-seeking provocation by the afd that was best ignored .
justice minister heiko maas , a member of gabriel s spd , said in an essay published in the frankfurter rundschau newspaper that parts of the afd s program , including on religion , family and europe , were unconstitutional .
german prosecutors separately launched an investigation into remarks by another afd official , alexander gauland , who said germany s integration minister should be dumped back to turkey , her parents country of origin .
[ nl2n1ls093 ] christian lindner , who heads the pro-business free democratic party that is also poised to win seats in parliament , described the afd as an anti-liberal and authoritarian party that was completely at odds with his own .
gabriel urged steps to reverse the afd s gains in neglected communities and villages of the former communist east germany .
we must change course and not only reimburse the cost of taking in migrants , but also give local communities the same amount on top so they can do more for their citizens , he said .
merkel , whose cdu/csu conservatives are leading the spd by double digits in opinion polls , looks poised to win a fourth term .
both her camp and the social democrats have ruled out governing in coalition with the afd .