beirut/riyadh ( reuters ) - the first hint that something was amiss came in a letter .
on saturday nov. 4 , guests at riyadh s ritz carlton were notified by the opulent hotel that : due to unforeseen booking by local authorities which requires an elevated level of security , we are unable to accommodate guests ... until normal operations are restored .
the purge was already under way .
within hours security forces had rounded up dozens of members of saudi arabia s political and business elite , mostly in the capital and the coastal city of jeddah .
among them were 11 princes as well as ministers and wealthy tycoons .
some were invited to meetings where they were detained .
others were arrested at their homes and flown to riyadh or driven to the ritz carlton , which has been turned into a temporary prison .
the detainees were allowed a single , brief phone call home , a person familiar with the arrests told reuters .
they don t receive calls and are kept under tight security .
no one can go in or out , the insider said .
it is obvious that there was a lot of preparation for it .
the purge was ordered by 32-year-old crown prince mohammed bin salman .
officially next in line to the throne to his father , king salman , he is now in effect running the country which he has said he will transform into a modern state .
to do that - and in an attempt to shore up his own power - he has decided to go after the saudi elite , including some members of the royal family , on accusations such as taking bribes and inflating the cost of business projects .
those arrested could not be reached for comment .
at stake is political stability in the world s largest oil producer .
the crown prince s ability to rule unchallenged depends on whether the purge is successful .
the crown prince believes that unless the country changes , the economy will sink into a crisis that could fan unrest .
that could threaten the royal family and weaken the country in its regional rivalry with iran .
( see this graphic on the saudi family and the royal arrests : tmsnrt.rs/2ajcniq ) prince mohammed decided to move on his family , the person familiar with events said , when he realized more relatives opposed him becoming king than he had thought .
the signal was that anyone wavering in their support should watch out , said the person familiar with the events .
the whole idea of the anti-corruption campaign was targeted towards the family .
the rest is window dressing .
king salman said the purge was in response to exploitation by some of the weak souls who have put their own interests above the public interest , in order to , illicitly , accrue money .
insiders said the accusations were based on evidence gathered by the intelligence service .
government backers have rejected suggestions that the campaign is really about eliminating political enemies .
there was no immediate comment from the royal court on this story .
among those now holed up at the ritz carlton hotel is prince miteb bin abdullah , who is head of the powerful national guard and prince mohammed s cousin .
miteb was in his farm house in riyadh when he was called to a meeting with the crown prince .
such an invitation , even at night , would not be unusual for a senior official and would not have aroused suspicion .
he went to the meeting and never came back , said a second insider who has connections to some of those who were detained .
others held include prince alwaleed bin talal , who is chairman of international investment firm kingdom holding and a cousin of prince mohammed , and prince turki bin abdullah , former governor of riyadh province and a son of the late king abdullah .
some royal watchers said tensions were laid bare during family meetings over the summer .
one insider said it was widely known to prince mohammed that some of the powerful royals , including miteb , were resentful about his elevation .
prince mohammed , who is widely known in saudi arabia by his initials mbs , had said openly in interviews that he would investigate the kingdom s endemic corruption and would not hesitate to go after top officials .
the vehicle was an anti-corruption committee created by king salman , and announced on nov. 4 .
the king put the crown prince in charge , adding another power to the many he has been given in the past three years .
saudi authorities have questioned 208 people in the anti-corruption investigation and estimate at least $ 100 billion has been stolen through graft , the attorney-general said on thursday .
the head of the committee said investigators had been collecting evidence for three years .
by launching a war on corruption , the prince has combined a popular cause with the elimination of an obstacle to acceding to the throne .
mbs used the corruption stick which can reach any one of them , said jamal khashoggi , a former adviser to prince turki al-faisal , intelligence chief from 1979 to 2001 .
for the first time we saudis see princes being tried for their corruption .
but khashoggi , who lives in the united states , said prince mohammed was being selective in his purge .
i believe mbs is a nationalist who loves his country and wants it to be the strongest but his problem is that he wants to rule alone , he said .
( see this graphic on saudi prince alwaleed s investments : tmsnrt.rs/2j5fe04 ) prince mohammed was appointed defense minister in 2015 when king salman became monarch .
in june , the king named him heir to the throne , pushing aside his older cousin mohammed bin nayef , a veteran head of the security apparatus .
the royal family acquiesced and by september the crown prince had rounded up and jailed religious and intellectual opponents .
the latest detentions are intended to help him push through reforms that promise the greatest change since the reign of king abdulaziz , founder of the current saudi state in the 1930s .
that state has rested on an enduring accommodation between the royal family and the wahhabist clerics who control the hardline version of islam that originated in saudi arabia .
the ruling family promised to give saudis comfortable lives and a share of the country s oil wealth .
in return , their subjects have offered political submission and promised to follow the country s strict religious and social codes .
king abdulaziz , who was also known as ibn saud , died in 1953 .
since then , saudi arabia has been run by the king and below him there has been a group of princes , none of them strong enough to impose his will against the wishes of the others .
decisions have mostly come through consensus .
that arrangement has meant social and political change has been glacial although it has also kept the kingdom stable .
but in moves that position prince mohammed as the new ibn saud , the crown prince is tearing down pillars of rule that had been eroding under the weight of population growth and low oil prices .
consensus has been replaced by what critics say is one-man rule , opposed by some princes although they would not risk saying so in public .
in the past few decades , every saudi king had one or two of his brothers , sons or nephews by his side advising and sharing in governance .
but prince mohammed has not appointed any of his brothers or other close family to top positions , instead relying on a team of advisers mainly saudis though some are u.s.- or british-trained .
king salman , 82 , still has the last word on everything .
but he has delegated the running of the kingdom s military , security , economic , foreign and social affairs to prince mohammed .
there has been speculation for months , denied by court officials , that the king will soon abdicate the throne to mbs .
even the crown prince s age is remarkable .
the last three kings have reached the throne aged 61 , 80 and 79 .
prince mohammed is effectively in charge at 32 .
prince mohammed says he offers a new social contract : a state that functions better than the rigid bureaucracy of the past , opportunities to have fun and an economy that will create jobs that can last , whatever happens in oil markets .
in september he announced that saudi women will be given the right to drive .
just three weeks ago , during a conference for investors at the same ritz carlton that now houses the targets of his purge , he unveiled a plan for a $ 500-billion futuristic city where sexes could mingle and robots outnumber humans .
the prince has also drawn up a blueprint to wean saudi arabia off its dependence on oil and its subjects off state subsidies and government jobs .
the public listing of national oil company saudi aramco , planned next year , is its centerpiece .
there are no guarantees the prince s ambitions will succeed .
even some admirers ask whether his reach exceeds his grasp .
his top-down approach , brooking no opposition , could scare off investors wanting assurances about rule of law and security .
without huge investor support , he will struggle to meet the aspirations of saudi youth .
war in yemen , a dispute with the gulf emirate of qatar and growing tension with iran is a concern to investors too .
it should help that prince mohammed , following the example of ibn saud , sees the importance of forging a special bond with the united states .
during a visit to saudi arabia in may , u.s. president donald trump urged riyadh to lead an alliance against iran and its attempt to cut a shi ite axis through iraq , syria and lebanon .
soon afterwards , saudi arabia and the united arab emirates blockaded qatar , accusing its ruling al thani dynasty of supporting iran and islamist terrorism .
trump gave his backing .
after the arrests of the past week , trump tweeted support , saying those arrested had been milking their country for years .
one insider close to the royal family said the national guard was unlikely to react strongly to miteb s removal .
he said there had been no resistance to the ousting of mohammed bin nayef at the interior ministry and the national guard would be no different .