marawi city , philippines ( reuters ) - when he saw his commander holding the severed head of one of his neighbors , teenage islamist fighter jalil knew it was time to escape from marawi city .
churches and homes had been ransacked , people had been shot or taken hostage , and now philippines government troops , planes and helicopters were pounding the islamic state loyalists who had taken over large parts of the town on may 23 .
six days into the occupation , 17-year-old jalil said he came across a crowd of fellow fighters led by rebel chief abdullah maute , including a boy who looked about 10 .
they were cheering the beheading of a christian from jalil s neighborhood who was accused of being a spy .
abdullah maute was holding a man s head , he was shouting allahu akbar ( god is greatest ) , said jalil , who spoke on condition his identity was not revealed to protect him from reprisals .
they chanted with him .
at that point , i realized i had to get away .
i wanted no part in this .
jalil s story could not be independently verified .
authorities have placed him in protective custody and say he has helped identify militants fighting in marawi .
jalil is one of hundreds of muslim youths lured by islamic state followers in mindanao , a poverty-plagued southern island of the philippines that governments in southeast asia fear could become a regional stronghold for the ultra-radical group as it loses territory in syria and iraq .
rommel banlaoi , executive director of the philippine institute for peace , violence and terrorism research ( pipvtr ) , says foreign recruiters have been active in mindanao for years but islamic state s powerful propaganda and the rise of the local maute clan of militants have brought a surge in followers .
the recruitment is now happening very , very rapidly , said banlaoi , who monitors mobilization in mindanao via informants and police interrogation reports of militants .
they re very sophisticated .
they are serious community organizers and serious recruiters .
schools , madrassas ( islamic schools ) and even day-care centers with extremist leanings have been identified as recruiting grounds .
authorities are working with religious teachers to keep radical ideas out of mosques and off curriculums , according to army spokesman colonel romeo brawner .
but provincial leaders and some military officers say the efforts are weak , partly because militants have plenty of money to reel youths into their ranks .
( for graphic on pro islamic state groups in the philippine south , click tmsnrt.rs/2qvpzh5 ) ( for graphic on the battle for marawi , click tmsnrt.rs/2rhrpea ) ( for graphic on how main islamic militant groups in mindanao evolved , click tmsnrt.rs/2rusofc ) jalil said his involvement began when he was 11 at a mosque in piagapo , a rustic municipality 20 km ( 12 miles ) from marawi , where an imam convinced him to join 40 youngsters at a training camp in return for meals and 15,000 pesos ( $ 294 ) per month .
he underwent daily weapons and combat training , and teachings from the koran .
he was expelled from the program after only three months , he said , when he revealed details about his network during a mock interrogation .
jalil heard nothing from his recruiters for six years , but the day before the marawi siege began , there was a knock at his door .
outside was a teenager , and behind him a pickup truck with 10 other youngsters on board .
i knew them , they were my classmates in training , he said .
they told me you re now back in service .
the ubiquitous villages with tattered mosques , wooden homes and dirt-track roads carved into the jungles and mountains of mindanao are fertile ground for recruiting unschooled youngsters and turning them into militants in camps far off the radar .
the army discovered one such training ground in piagapo , after a three-day battle that killed 36 maute fighters , among them foreigners and an imam .
that was one month before the marawi siege .
[ nl3n1hw00e ] reuters spoke to two teenagers from that camp , who said they were lured by promises of money , marriage and paradise after death .
they spoke on condition their full identities be withheld because authorities were not aware of their involvement , which they said ceased when the imam was killed .
their accounts could not be independently verified .
we were trained how to evade checkpoints .
we were trained how to ambush , to move silently , said 18-year-old abdul , who described how he and others learned to dismantle rifles , make bombs and engage in hand-to-hand combat .
faisal , 19 , said the imam held koran classes in small jungle huts , while foreigners , whose nationalities he did not know , trained them to fight non-believers .
the imam told us we would be rewarded with marriage to any beautiful girl we want , he said .
the government says poor and uneducated males like abdul and faisal are easy prey in the autonomous region of muslim mindanao ( armm ) , which comprises five of mindanao s 27 provinces .
in 2015-2016 , the armm had the lowest secondary-school enrolment and the highest dropout rate , according to the education ministry , with just 32.4 percent of armm youth in school compared to the national average of 68 percent .
nearly half of armm families live in poverty , under the government s monthly income threshold of 9,064 pesos ( $ 177 ) , according to official data , compared to the national average of 16.5 percent .
in lanao del sur , where marawi is located , 66.3 percent of families live in poverty .
but not all targets are poor , rural and uneducated .
urban youth and students are also on the radar of recruiters who have infiltrated schools and universities and mastered social media , both to spread propaganda and to spot candidates for radicalization among mindanao muslims , known as moros .
prime targets , said banlaoi , are those posting on social media about economic and social exclusion , or historical injustice .
a hot topic is the separatist moro islamic liberation front s ( milf ) peace deal with the government , which promised to make armm a self-governing region called bangsamoro ( nation of moros ) but has been dogged by delays , breakdowns and mistrust .
mohagher iqbal , the milf s top negotiator , said extremists exploit disillusionment with the bangsamoro plan and promote violence by teaching only selected verses of the koran .
we monitor them , but because the recruitment is so secretive , we can not manage to do everything , he told reuters .
banlaoi said extremists had access to technology used in the middle east by islamic state to track chatter on platforms like facebook and telegram , find suitable candidates and probe their friend networks .
these recruiters included indonesians and malaysian militants who were very persistent .
the government s fight is as much about winning hearts and minds among the bangsamoro people as it is the battle for marawi that has now ground on for nearly four months .
militants try to sway public opinion with slick videos celebrating their triumph over crusaders they say are destroying muslim homes and businesses in marawi with artillery and air strikes .
the military says its focus groups have shown some displaced marawi children idolise the militants .
it has sent female soldiers to counsel children in evacuation camps and identify those already radicalized .
jalil , the teen fighter said he was at first inspired by the rousing speeches of abdullah maute and his brother , omarkhayam .
but he was appalled by the bloodletting that ensued .
i can t forget what i saw .
every street corner there were dead bodies , christians and muslims , he said .
on the night of the execution he witnesses , jalil abandoned his post guarding a bridge and rode a motorcycle for 50 km ( 31 miles ) to evade army checkpoints .
he turned himself in to police two weeks later .
a former military intelligence officer who has tracked the maute clan said the military under-estimated them as a ragtag group .
but the mautes have demonstrated a capacity to regroup and , thanks to deep pockets and the respect they command among local youth , would probably strengthen after marawi is retaken by filling vacancies left by hundreds of dead fighters .
the worst-case scenario , the officer said , was if the maute brothers survive .
recruitment will be massive , he said .
there are lots of students idolizing them .