beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon s army chief told his soldiers on tuesday to be extra vigilant to prevent unrest during political turmoil after the prime minister quit , and accused israel of aggressive intentions at the southern frontier .
troops should be ready to thwart any attempt to exploit the current circumstances for stirring strife , the army s twitter account quoted general joseph aoun as saying ahead of independence day celebrations on wednesday .
the exceptional political situation that lebanon is going through requires you to exercise the highest levels of awareness .
aoun called on troops to assume full readiness at the southern border to face the threats of the israeli enemy , its violations , and the aggressive intentions it is indicating towards lebanon .
a senior israeli official dismissed the warnings of border aggression as nonsense .
lebanon was thrust back onto the forefront of regional rivalry between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran , after its prime minister quit this month in a broadcast from riyadh .
in his shock resignation , saad al-hariri railed against the iran-backed shi ite military and political movement hezbollah , which both saudi arabia and israel consider an enemy .
the lebanese president has refused to accept hariri s resignation until he returns to lebanon .
the saudis have demanded that hezbollah stop meddling in regional conflicts and say it must disarm .
hezbollah has long said it must keep its arsenal to protect lebanon from israel , and its leader sayyed hassan nasrallah accused the saudis this month of inciting israel to attack lebanon .
he said he could not rule out a new clash with israel , although he described it as unlikely .
in a televised speech on monday , nasrallah suggested the saudis and israelis were working together .
tensions grew earlier this year between israel and hezbollah , which fought a month-long war in 2006 that killed around 1,200 people in lebanon , mostly civilians , and 160 israelis , most of them troops .
israeli energy minister yuval steinmetz said this week that israel has had covert contacts with riyadh amid common concerns over iran , a rare disclosure by a senior official from either country of long-rumored secret dealings .
but israel dismissed claims that it is planning military action against hezbollah at the behest of saudi arabia .
we are not interested in an escalation with lebanon , israeli education minister naftali bennett , a member of the security cabinet , told reuters about the accusation of israeli-saudi collusion .
however , bennett added : if rockets are fired from lebanon at israeli cities , then we will see that as a declaration of war by the state of lebanon and will act with all our might .
in israel , where the 2006 war was widely seen as inconclusive , there is little in the public mood or political discourse to suggest fighting with hezbollah is imminent .
but israeli officials have voiced deep concern about iran and hezbollah s expanding influence in the region .
the saudis and israel definitely have common interests today , including the threat from iran , israeli justice minister ayelet shaked said in a radio interview last week .
the countries coming together could serve both of them .
but , shaked said , we don t work for anyone .
we first and foremost look out for our interests .