mildenhall , england ( reuters ) - u.s. military personnel fired shots on monday as they stopped a man who tried to force his way into a british military base used by the u.s. air force , in an incident that police said was not being treated as terrorism .
the mildenhall royal air force base said security staff locked down the base , used by the united states military to refuel u.s. and nato aircraft in europe , at about 1300 gmt following reports of a disturbance .
shots were fired by american service personnel and a man has been detained with cuts and bruises and taken into custody , suffolk police said .
no other people have been injured as a result of the incident .
police said they were not looking for anyone else on the site after the man , a 44 year-old briton , was arrested on suspicion of criminal trespass .
a western security source , who spoke on condition of anonymity , told reuters that suffolk police were taking the lead on the incident and that specialist anti-terrorism officers were not immediately involved .
suffolk police confirmed in a statement they were not treating the incident as terrorism and were receiving support from other law enforcement agencies while their investigation continued .
the u.s. air force said the incident at the base , which is about 77 miles ( 125 km ) northeast of london , had been contained and the suspect had been apprehended .
police said they remained on the base but there was no threat to the base or local community .
mildenhall houses the 100th air refueling wing and some special operations squadrons .
the 1,162-acre base , which is home to about 3,100 u.s. military and an additional 3,000 family members , is earmarked for closure after the united states said it was going to move its operations from the base to germany .
the base said in a statement staff had been released from the lockdown about an hour-and-a-half after the incident .
individuals in the area surrounding the installation are asked to avoid the base at this time , it said .
in 2016 , a delivery driver was convicted of plotting to kill u.s. troops based in england by staging road accidents with soldiers cars and then attacking them with knives and possibly a home-made bomb .
prosecutors said junead khan had used his job to scout raf mildenhall and two other u.s. bases while on carrying out deliveries .