geneva ( reuters ) - deadly ethnic fighting in central african republic could descend into a much larger-scale conflict if nothing is done to disarm combatants and defuse tensions , a u.n. report said on friday .
with a fifth of the population displaced since the mainly muslim seleka rebels ousted the president in 2013 , provoking a backlash from christian anti-balaka militias , u.n. peacekeepers are struggling to contain simmering violence .
the u.n. human rights working group on mercenaries and foreign fighters said it strongly senses that the possibility of another armed conflict is likely , if foreign armed actors , along with local armed groups , are not effectively dismantled and suppressed .
national security forces are too weak to tackle armed groups and counter the spillover from conflicts in neighboring countries , and u.n. military personnel , who number just over 10,000 , have failed to convince locals that they can protect them , the report said .
ugandan and u.s. forces pulled out earlier this year , declaring success against the lord s resistance army , a regional militia notorious for two decades of abducting children to use as fighters and sex slaves .
on thursday , amnesty international issued its own report detailing what it said was the systematic rape and murder of civilians in ethnic fighting .
if the u.n. s mandate in the central african republic is to mean anything , civilians must be better protected , the rights group s joanne mariner said .
u.n. peacekeeping chief jean-pierre lacroix said the u.n. mission in central african republic ( minusca ) had to make changes and was slightly short of the necessary personnel .
we have currently a troop ceiling which we think is slightly under what we would need , he said on friday .
minusca s mandate authorizes it to have 10,750 military personnel , a recent u.n. report said there were 10,098 on the ground .
we are seeing a surge in ... very negative and antagonistic messages to the effect that foreigners should be eliminated , putting one ethnic or religious component of this country against the other , lacroix told reporters in geneva .
the working group report said the word foreigners was constantly used to label muslims .