ankara ( reuters ) - the united states is still seeking an explanation from ankara for the detention of staff at u.s. missions in turkey which led washington to stop issuing visas and triggered a diplomatic crisis , the u.s. ambassador said on wednesday .
ambassador john bass said the decision to suspend granting visas was not taken lightly , but the detentions indicated a breakdown in communication between the two nato allies , whose relations have come under increasing strain .
unfortunately ... the u.s. government still has not received any official communications from the turkish government about the reasons why our local employees have been detained or arrested , he told reporters at the u.s. embassy in ankara .
washington says two locally employed staff were arrested in turkey this year .
in may , a translator at the consulate in the southern province of adana was arrested and last week a drug enforcement administration worker was detained in istanbul .
president tayyip erdogan s spokesman said last week the istanbul employee , metin topuz , had been in contact with a leading suspect in last year s failed military coup .
turkish media reported similar accusations against the translator .
the notion that people in our employment are facing or are under suspicion of terrorism charges here , that is a very serious allegation , bass said .
it is one we want to take seriously and we want to better understand the ostensible evidence that supports these allegations .
since the failed military coup in july last year , in which at least 240 people were killed , more than 50,000 people have been detained and 150,000 , including teachers , academics , soldiers and journalists , have been suspended from work .
some western allies fear the crackdown shows the country is slipping ever deeper into authoritarian rule under erdogan .
ankara says its critics fail to understand the scale of the security challenges in turkey , which has also faced conflict on its southern borders with iraq and syria , and an insurgency in its mainly kurdish southeast .
erdogan has blamed bass for the latest dispute , suggesting he acted unilaterally in suspending visa services and declaring that his government no longer considered bass to be washington s envoy and would not hold meetings with him .
the u.s. state department denied bass acted alone , saying his actions were coordinated with officials in washington .
in a sign that ankara was stepping back from the pledge to exclude bass , turkish television channels reported that he met a foreign ministry official later on wednesday .
the ambassador is due to leave turkey within days to take up a post in afghanistan .
u.s.-turkish tensions have risen in recent months over u.s. military support for kurdish ypg fighters in syria , considered by ankara to be an extension of the banned pkk which has waged an insurgency for three decades in southeast turkey .
turkey has also pressed , so far in vain , for the united states to extradite muslim cleric fethullah gulen , a former ally of erdogan who is viewed in ankara as the mastermind behind the failed coup .
another source of friction was the u.s. indictment of turkey s former economy minister zafer caglayan for conspiring to violate u.s. sanctions on iran .
a u.s. court also indicted 15 of erdogan s guards after they clashed with protesters during his visit to washington in may .
in addition to the two detained consulate workers , turkey is holding a u.s. pastor on charges which turkish media say include membership of gulen s network .
bass called for the release of the christian missionary , andrew brunson , saying he had seen nothing of merit in the charges against him .
he denied reports that turkish police were trying to speak to another consulate employee .
to the best of our knowledge there are not any outstanding requests from turkish law enforcement officials for any of our local staff to come in and talk to them , he said .