lou dobbs rips on speaker paul ryan because he s a do-nothing leader !
as dobbs says , there s no mystery why paul ryan has a history of poor leadership remember this ? funding for sanctuary cities , benefits for illegal aliens , fully funded refugee programs , quadruples number of work visas for foreigners , release of criminal aliens , tax credits for illegal aliens , locking in huge spending increases , making america less safe and more rep. paul ryan s first major legislative achievement is a total and complete sell-out of the american people masquerading as an appropriations bill.too harsh , you say ?
let the programs , the spending , and the implications speak for themselves .
( 1 ) ryan s omnibus fully funds dacathough much of the public attention has surrounded the president s 2014 executive amnesty , the president s 2012 amnesty quietly continues to churn out work permits and federal benefits for hundreds of thousands of illegal aliens .
paul ryan s bill funds entirely this 2012 executive amnesty for dreamers or illegal immigrants who came to the country as minors.specifically , division f of ryan s omnibus bill contains no language that would prohibit the use of funds to continue the president s unconstitutional program .
obama s executive action , known as deferred action for childhood arrivals ( daca ) , has granted around 700,000 illegal aliens with work permits , as well as the ability to receive tax credits and federal entitlement programs .
a recent gao report documented how this illegal amnesty program for alien youth is , in large part , responsible for the illegal alien minor surge on our southern border.in 2013 , paul ryan said that it is his job as a u.s. lawmaker to put himself in the shoes of the dreamer who is waiting and work to find legislative solutions to his or her problems .
( 2 ) ryan s omnibus funds sanctuary citiesfive months ago , 32-year-old kate steinle was bleeding to death in her father s arms .
she was gunned down in broad daylight by a five-time deported criminal alien whose presence in the country was the direct result of san francisco s refusal to comply with u.s. immigration law yet paul ryan s omnibus rewards these lawless sanctuary cities with federal grants .
division b title ii of ryan s omnibus funds various grant programs for the department of justice ( pages 167 , 168 , and 169 ) and contains no language that would restrict the provision of such grants to sanctuary jurisdictions.in a congressional hearing , steinle s father demanded congressional action and recalled his daughter s dying words : help me , dad .
( 3 ) ryan s omnibus funds all refugee programsdespite broad support amongst republican lawmakers for a proposal introduced by rep. brian babin ( r-tx ) to halt all refugee resettlement , ryan s appropriations bill will fund president obama s refugee resettlement operation and will allow for the admission of tens of thousands of refugees with access to federal benefits .
division h title ii of ryan s bill contains appropriations of the department of health and human services ( hhs ) and contains no language that would restrict the program .
nor are there any restrictions for the program in division k of ryan s bill , which provides funding for the department of state , which oversees refugee admissions.ryan is not one of the 84 cosponsors of babin s bill to halt the refugee operation , and he recently told sean hannity that he does not support halting resettlement because , we re a compassionate country .
the refugees laws are important laws .
similarly , this outcome represents a legislative win for sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) , who told sean hannity he d hate to use congress s power of the purse to deny funding for obama s resettlement operation .
( 4 ) ryan s omnibus funds all of the mideast immigration programs that have been exploited by terrorists in recent yearsalthough multiple immigrant and visa programs in recent years have been exploited by terrorists ( such as the f-1 student visa , the k-1 fianc e visa , and our green card and refugee programs ) , ryan s proposal does nothing to limit admissions from jihadist-prone regions .
as senators shelby and sessions of alabama noted in a joint statement : the omnibus would put the u.s. on a path to approve admission for hundreds of thousands of migrants from a broad range of countries with jihadists movements over the next 12 months , on top of all the other autopilot annual immigration .
( 5 ) ryan s omnibus funds illegal alien resettlementon page 917 of ryan s omnibus a section titled refugee and entrant assistance funds the president s resettlement of illegal immigrant border crossers .
( 6 ) ryan s omnibus funds the release of criminal alienssenior legislative aides tell breitbart news that ryan s bill does not do anything to change the enforcement priorities that jeh johnson established a little over a year ago that would shield entire categories of criminal aliens from immigration law , nor does it include language recommended by sessions and shelby to deny the expenditure of funds to issue visas to countries that refuse to repatriate criminal aliens .
( 7 ) ryan s omnibus quadruples h-2b foreign worker visasdespite ryan s pledge not to move an immigration compromise with president obama , tucked 700 pages into ryan s spending bill is language that would resuscitate and expand a controversial provision of the schumer-rubio gang of eight plan to increase the h-2b visa program.the provision would quadruple the number of h-2b visas for unskilled guest workers , for a total of more than 250,000 , writes immigration attorney ian smith .
the americans who fill these jobs are typically society s most vulnerable including single women , the disabled , the elderly , minorities , teenagers , students , and first-generation immigrants , smith explains.a recent buzzfeed expos revealed how this program allows businesses to discriminate against american workers and deliberately den [ y ] jobs to american workers so they can hire foreign workers on h-2 visas instead .
as one gop aide told breitbart news , this provision is a knife in the heart of the working class , and african americans .
( 8 ) ryan s omnibus funds tax credits for illegal aliensryan s bill preserves the expansion of the president s expiring child tax credits without any accompanying language to prevent illegal aliens from receiving those tax credits .
while sen .
sessions attempted to include language in the bill that would prevent illegal immigrants from receiving tax credits , his recommendation was rejected .
( 9 ) ryan s omnibus locks-in huge spending increasesthe bill funds the obama-boehner budget deal , which eliminated spending caps , and will increase both defense and non-defense spending next year by $ 25 billion more each .
( 10 ) ryan s omnibus fails to allocate funds to complete the 700-mile double-layer border fence that congress promised the american peoplenearly a decade ago with the passage of the 2006 secure fence act , the american people were promised a 700-mile double-layer border fence .
however , funding for the fence was later gutted and , as a result , its construction was never completed .
despite heightened media focus over the past six months about americans desire for this barrier to illegal entry , ryan s bill does not require that funds be allocated to finish the construction of the 700-mile double-layer fence.a vote could occur as early as thursday after midnight , giving lawmakers and the public only one full business day to review the 2,242 page package .
the ryan-pelosi package represents nothing short of a complete and total betrayal of the american people.yet ryan s omnibus serves a second and equally chilling purpose .
by locking in the president s refugee , immigration , and spending priorities , ryan s bill is designed to keep these fights out of congress by getting them off the table for good .
delivering obama these wins and pushing these issues beyond the purview of congress will suppress public attention to the issues and , in so doing , will boost the candidacy of the republican establishment s preferred presidential contenders , who favor president obama s immigration agenda.what may prove most discouraging of all to americans is that recent reports reveal that conservatives in the so-called house freedom caucus are praising ryan even as he permanently locks in these irreversible and anti-american immigration policies .
according to politico , the house freedom caucus will give ryan a pass even as he funds disastrous policies that prioritize the interests of foreign nationals and global corporatists above the needs of the american people whom lawmakers are supposed to represent .
via : breitbart news