despite claiming to look forward to the second day of g-20 meetings , donald trump decided to let his daughter take his place instead.that s right .
trump literally let ivanka take his place at the g-20 summit on friday even though she is not in any position to represent america on the world stage.she is not an elected official , nor is she the secretary of state .
she doesn t even have diplomatic status .
yet ivanka took her daddy s place at the round table meeting , sitting beside british prime minister theresa may and chinese president xi jinping.here s a photo via twitter.ivanka trump , unelected , unqualified , daughter-in-chief , is representing the us at the g20 summit next to may , xi , merkel .
photo @ lanalukash pic.twitter.com/fvs0emy8z7 brian klaas ( @ brianklaas ) july 8 , 2017here s the video via youtube : the decision to let ivanka do his job caused national outrage as americans demanded to know why a failed shoe designer who has zero political and diplomatic experience was tapped to take on such an important role at a major international meeting.how the hell is this acceptable ?
tanya ( @ dutchdelights13 ) july 8 , 2017ivanka trump sitting in at g20 instead of her father is breathtakingly insane .
she designs shoes # g20 dom joly ( @ domjoly ) july 8 , 2017how is she allowed at the g20 ?
she s not even allowed at nordstroms .
george reinblatt ( @ georgereinblatt ) july 8 , 2017the rest of the world leaders must be wondering what the f * * k has happened to the # usa irish elt ( @ irishelt ) july 8 , 2017the embarrassment didn t end there .
a photo of trump clearly being ignored as other leaders talk to each other while he sits by himself at the table has been widely circulated.agreed pic.twitter.com/bzfbhw7y7s phil jones ( @ meercat42 ) july 8 , 2017it s pretty damn clear that the other world leaders want nothing to do with trump or ivanka.trump later praised ivanka and claimed that she s only getting criticized because she s his daughter .
if she weren t my daughter it would be so much easier for her , trump said .
it might be the only bad thing she has going if you want to know the truth .
trump s remarks received a mere golf clap from a few people in the room.just imagine the reaction from republicans if president obama had let his daughter malia take his place at the g-20 summit .
they would have been uncontrollably enraged .
they would have called obama irresponsible .
they would have accused him of nepotism .
they would have called him a dictator .
but trump lets his daughter take his place and republicans don t say a word because they are hypocrites.america deserves to be represented by the president at the g-20 .
at the very least , a state department official should have replaced trump .
ivanka is only trump s adviser because he ignored government ethics rules .
she has no experience as a public official .
she certainly has no experience in diplomacy.this only serves as yet another embarrassing trump moment abroad that makes our country look like even more of a joke on the world stage.featured image : twitter