istanbul ( reuters ) - president tayyip erdogan announced on monday plans to demolish a culture center in istanbul named after the founder of modern secular turkey , in a move critics see as another attempt by the islamist-rooted ruling party to roll back secularism .
it marks erdogan s second attempt to tear down the ataturk culture centre ( akm ) , named after mustafa kemal ataturk , after a previous plan to develop the site near taksim square in 2013 erupted into mass protests against turkey s ruling ak party .
the project envisages building an opera house , theater hall , a conference center and cinema on the site , near gezi park , the epicenter of the 2013 protests .
four years ago erdogan had wanted to build a replica ottoman baracks at the site .
today turkey is starting something it should have done 10 years ago , erdogan said at a ceremony where he announced the project .
he said the new building would be a new and bigger opera house , referring to it as the new akm project .
erdogan , who served as mayor of istanbul in the 1990s , has long argued for the need to replace the akm , saying the building is not resistant to earthquakes .
the akm has been closed to the public for the past 10 years over disagreements regarding its renovation and infrastructure .
opponents , however , see the planned demolition as further proof that erdogan , a pious muslim , and his ak party want to reverse the secular order established by ataturk in the 1920s and to reduce the use of the state founder s name and image in public life .
turkey s chamber of architects said in a statement on friday that demolishing the akm was a crime and a violation of the constitution .
the countless warnings and criminal complaints we have filed to public offices over the years have not been processed and the law has been disregarded , the akm has been intentionally abandoned to demolition , the chamber said .
we are warning once again : for years , there have been willing crimes committed against history , culture , arts , society and the people in front of the eyes of the world , it said , without elaborating .
the new project , whose cost has not been disclosed , will increase the capacity of the building from 1,300 people to 2,500 people , the presidency said in a statement .
separately , erdogan said the project would also pave the way to pedestrianising taksim square , one of the busiest hubs in istanbul .