vatican city ( reuters ) - it is perhaps only a matter of time before rome is hit by a barcelona-style attack but security forces are ready in case the vatican is targeted , the head the swiss guard has said .
security has been stepped up at religious sites throughout italy , including at the vatican , since last year , when a truck driven by a suspected islamist militant killed 86 people in the french city of nice .
barriers and police and army vehicles have been placed around st. peter s basilica to make it harder for a vehicle to gather speed in an attack such as the one last week in barcelona , which killed 13 people .
despite threats from islamic state , rome and other italian cities have so far been spared the kind of vehicle attacks that have also hit nice , london , and berlin .
it could perhaps be just a matter of time before there is such an attack in rome , but we are prepared , christoph graf , the commandant of the swiss guard , was quoted as telling the swiss catholic website cath.ch .
graf , referring to the attack in barcelona , spoke on the sidelines of a religious ceremony in the swiss city of solothurn earlier this week .
websites linked to islamic state militants have made threats against catholic targets in rome in recent years .
in 2015 in a video showing the beheading of 21 egyptian coptic christians in libya , one of the killers said : safety for you crusaders is something you can only wish for ... we will conquer rome , by the will of allah .
at about the same time a website used by militants ran a photo montage showing the movement s black flag flying from the obelisk at the center of st peter s square .
the swiss guard has its origins as a papal protection force in the 16th century and numbers about 110 men , all of swiss nationality .
it shares responsibility for the protection of the pope and the vatican with a police force of about the same size .
italian police are responsible for patrolling the vatican s external perimeter in rome .
both vatican security forces are trained in anti-terrorism tactics and in the use of modern weapons .