islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistani private schools , charitable institutions , and religious seminaries are stepping in to supplement government-run schools to help deal with the education needs of a fast-growing nation with an estimated 50 million school-age children .
despite 220,000 schools nationwide , pakistan has over 20 million out-of-school children , according to a 2016 government report .
the government has pumped money into schooling , with the education budget swelling by 15 percent every year since 2010 , according to education consultancy alif ailaan .
the united nations puts the current budget at 2.65 percent of gdp , roughly $ 8 billion , or around $ 150 per student .
but experts say the government can t meet all the education needs and part of the problem lies in quality of teaching rather than just dearth of money .
it s not the number of schools , it s the quality , the attitude , said zeba hussain , founder of the mashal schools which educate children displaced by war in the country s north .
situated on the outskirts of pakistan s capital islamabad , the charitable schools began when hussain met a group of refugee children while visiting the hills encircling the city .
many private institutions criticize what they describe as a deeply flawed government education system .
students are labeled smart or stupid right from the start , said shaista kazmi from vision 21 , a privately-funded ngo that runs speed literacy programs for out-of-school children that compress five years of reading proficiency into one .
federal education director tariq masood strongly disagreed with critiques of teachers , adding that population growth and funding were the biggest challenges faced by government schools .
no one who is underqualified can enter the government system , there are fewer checks in the private system , masood said .
masood said government schools adhered to a nationwide curriculum that was being constantly reworked and innovated .
the country s poorest often send their children to one of the thousands of religious madrassas ( the arabic word for school ) where students are boarded , fed , and given an islamic education .
most operate without government oversight .
pakistan s madrassas have become synonmous with creating militant fighters through hardline teachings of islam and many have been linked to organizations such as the taliban and al qaeda .
but many provide shelter , three full meals , and a good education to young people whose families are unable to make ends meet .
in certain cases people send their kids because they can t even afford to feed them , said irfan sher from the al-nadwa madrassa , where all subjects are prioritized and students are capable of analyzing what they are taught .
sher insists that the country s future hinges on what its youth are taught .
the overall policy should be changed ... they should understand that if they want to change the country the only way is to spread quality education , he said .