geneva ( reuters ) - china signaled on wednesday it was willing to back an international inquiry into atrocities in yemen , as demanded by the u.n. high commissioner for human rights , but saudi arabia and the united states said they did not support the idea .
for three years running u.n. human rights chief zeid ra ad al-hussein has asked the 47 countries in the u.n. human rights council to set up an independent investigation into yemen s war , which has killed at least 10,000 , destroyed the economy , led to a cholera epidemic and pushed millions to the brink of famine .
despite his pleas , they have twice supported a saudi plan to let yemen investigate by itself .
on wednesday , the netherlands and canada unveiled a draft resolution to establish an international commission of inquiry ( coi ) to ensure that perpetrators of violations and abuses , including those that may constitute war crimes and crimes against humanity , are held accountable .
the three-page text was supported by many countries when diplomats met to discuss amendments .
we agree with the actions , including the coi , to promote the political solving of the yemen crisis , a chinese delegate told the meeting , which was boycotted by the arab group of countries supporting a rival saudi-led resolution .
britain and the united states said they wanted to see consensus around a single resolution .
we do have concerns that a full international independent commission of inquiry is not likely to get us there , u.s. diplomat michele roulbet told the meeting .
saudi arabia , which leads an international coalition battling the iran-aligned houthi movement in yemen , said the time was not right for an international inquiry .
although zeid has said yemen is not up to the job of investigating its own war , saudi ambassador abdulaziz alwasil said yemen s national commission was in a better position to investigate for the time being .
we have no objection to the inquiry itself , we just have a discussion about the timing , whether this is the right time to establish an international commission , with the difficulties on the ground , alwasil told reporters .
georgette gagnon , head of field operations at the u.n. human rights office , said yemen s own human rights commission was established by , is funded by and reports to a party to the conflict and said it was way past time for an effective probe .
not having an international inquiry would be a green light to the parties to the conflict , said radhya al-mutwakel , co-director of yemen s mwatana organization for human rights .
zeid said on monday there had been only minimal efforts at holding people to account in what the united nations has branded the world s worst humanitarian crisis .
the saudi envoy said the international community should focus its efforts on gaining access for humanitarian personnel .
the saudi-led coalition has also has set up a team to investigate civilian casualties .
on tuesday it said it had found a series of deadly air strikes had been largely justified .