beijing ( reuters ) - the southwestern chinese megalopolis of chongqing will purge the vile influence of its former top official sun zhengcai after he was expelled from the communist party for corruption , the city government said , praising the move as brilliant .
sun , a senior official once considered a contender for top leadership , had been party chief of the city until an abrupt announcement in july that he had been replaced by a rising political star close to president xi jinping , chen miner .
he was put under investigation later in july and on friday the party announced he would be prosecuted for corruption , accusing him of leaking secrets , bribery and abusing his power .
in a front page story on saturday , the official chongqing daily said a city party meeting overseen by new party boss chen offered strong support for the sun decision , which comes just weeks before the party opens a key twice-a-decade congress .
everyone said they resolutely uphold the party s decision , resolutely practice the party s spirit and will resolutely purge sun zhengcai s vile influence , the paper said .
the party s decision to investigate and handle sun zhengcai s serious breach of discipline is completely correct , absolutely brilliant , came just at the right time and has completely won the hearts of the party , the military and the people .
it has not been possible to reach sun directly for comment and unclear if he has been allowed to retain a lawyer .
he is certain to be found guilty when his case comes before a court as the party controls the legal system , which won t challenge its accusations .
these include trading power for sex and sloth .
chongqing , one of china s most important cities , is perhaps best known outside china for its association with its disgraced former party boss , bo xilai , who was once himself a contender for top leadership before being jailed for life in 2013 in his own dramatic corruption scandal .
the government has yet to give exact details of what sun is suspected of .
the official newspaper of the northeastern province of jilin , where sun was party chief from 2009 until late 2012 , implied on saturday at least some of his crimes took place there too .
while in jilin he neglected jilin s development , put his undivided attention on promotion , and seriously damaged jilin s political ecology , the paper said , summarizing a provincial party meeting to condemn him .
sun had been seen as a potential candidate for elevation at next month s party congress and as a possible future premier .
but sources with ties to the leadership and foreign diplomats say sun had been out of favor after the party s corruption watchdog in february criticized chongqing authorities for not doing enough to root out bo s influence .
sun is the latest senior official to be investigated under xi s sweeping crackdown on corruption .
the party s official people s daily said on saturday the move against sun augured further struggles ahead , saying major victories did not mean the anti-corruption fight was over .