while on the campaign trail , candidate donald trump , a former reality show star , repeatedly mocked sen. marco rubio for that time he drank water on the stage .
trump mocked rubio at rallies about that and on twitter , too .
as they say , with this guy , there really is a tweet for everything .
trump did this after he kicked off his day blasting that loser network cnn , the failing new york times and demanded a thank you from the ucla basketball players who arrived in the states after being released from china .
then he summarized his trip to asia , declaring it to be the longest visit to the region by an american president in more than a quarter of a century .
he added that america is back and the future has never looked better .
then he seemed to have difficulty breathing and paused for water.here is trump doing that think he disparaged rubio for doing : more proof that we 're living in a simulation pic.twitter.com/7fgmxvrkuj kevin driscoll ( @ kevndriscoll ) november 15 , 2017trump grabbed a bottle of fiji to quench his thirst , the exact brand that rubio drank during the campaign .
the florida republican responded on twitter , saying , similar , but needs work on his form .
has to be done in one single motion & eyes should never leave the camera .
but not bad for his 1st time .
similar , but needs work on his form.has to be done in one single motion & eyes should never leave the camera .
but not bad for his 1st time https : //t.co/s49jtyro3s marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) november 15 , 2017trump has blasted rubio multiple times for drinking water , perhaps because the former reality show star thinks he can walk on water .
next time marco rubio should drink his water from a glass as opposed to a bottle would have much less negative impact , he tweeted.next time marco rubio should drink his water from a glass as opposed to a bottle would have much less negative impact .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 13 , 2013in another tweet , he wrote , marco rubio is being crucified by the media for drinking water during speech !
marco rubio is being crucified by the media for drinking water during speech !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 13 , 2013and here is trump at a rally mocking rubio for drinking water.more than a tweet , there 's also a video of trump mocking rubio 's sotu water moment .
pic.twitter.com/dkkyroiugo kyle griffin ( @ kylegriffin1 ) november 15 , 2017the internet never forgets these things.2 hands donny no dribbles good boy el diablo ?
( @ joe23gavbrown ) november 15 , 2017omg , there really is a tweet for every single thing !
jennifer sage ? ?
( @ vivavelo ) november 15 , 2017hey lil-fingers : take your own advice ?
russell drapkin ( @ russelldrapkin ) november 15 , 2017great work , donald .
pic.twitter.com/ag5vtxafgt craig harrington ( @ craigipedia ) november 15 , 2017trump pulls a marco rubio & slurps down water during his speech .
but it s worse than rubio .
trump holds the bottle with two hands like it s a baby bottle .
fitting. # impeachtrump # amjoy pic.twitter.com/5cpkzssckq scott dworkin ( @ funder ) november 15 , 2017everything trump accuses someone else of doing , he is guilty of that same thing , even something as simple as needing to quench his thirst.image via screen capture .