cairo ( reuters ) - armed militants killed at least 30 policemen in a shootout during a raid on a suspected militant hideout in egypt s western desert , security sources said on friday .
a number of suspected militants were also killed and security forces are combing the area , a statement by the interior ministry said .
egypt is facing an islamist insurgency concentrated in the sinai peninsula from two main groups , including an islamic state affiliate , that has killed hundreds of security forces since 2013 .
islamist militants have launched several major attacks , most recently targeting churches in cairo and other cities with the loss of dozens of lives .
the security sources said authorities were following a lead to a hideout deep in the desert thought to house eight suspected members of hasm , a group which has claimed several attacks around the capital targeting judges and police since last year .
a convoy of four suvs and one interior ministry vehicle was ambushed from higher ground by militants firing rocket-propelled grenades and detonating explosive devices , a senior source in the giza security office said .
the number of dead was expected to rise , two security sources said .
two security sources said eight security personnel were injured in the clashes , while another source said that four of the injured were police and four others suspected militants .
egypt accuses hasm of being the militant wing of the muslim brotherhood , an islamist group it outlawed in 2013 .
the muslim brotherhood denies this .
the islamist insurgency in the sinai peninsula has grown since the military overthrew president mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood in mid-2013 following mass protests against his rule .
the militant group staging the insurgency pledged allegiance to islamic state in 2014 .
it is blamed for the killing of hundreds of soldiers and policemen and has started to target other areas , including egypt s christian copts .
( this version of the story was refiled to say policemen in first paragraph from police officers as the rank of the dead was not immediately known )