berlin ( reuters ) - barring an upset , the main uncertainty surrounding europe s most important election this year is not whether angela merkel will continue to lead germany after next week s vote , but who with and how long they will take to get going .
although a surprise can not be ruled out in the wake of any russian interference , pollsters say they are confident about their surveys , which show merkel s conservatives winning the most seats in the bundestag lower house .
the far-right , anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) is set to enter parliament for the first time , and some experts have said it may gain more support than the roughly 10 percent polls suggest , an alarming prospect for many at home and abroad .
but all the other parties have ruled out joining it in a coalition - an inherent part of germany s electoral system - and the most likely scenario is probably a repeat of merkel s grand coalition with the social democrats ( spd ) .
she will start sounding out partners right after the sept. 24 vote , but coalition building is a protracted process , which could paralyze policy for months at a time when brexit has shaken europe s foundations .
the process is especially complex this time as the number of parliamentary groups could rise to six from four .
informal soundings and then exploratory talks precede formal coalition negotiations and party leaders may also seek approval from their members before signing off on any deal .
depending on the shape of the coalition , the main issues at stake are the integration of the more than 1 million migrants who have arrived in germany in the last two years , and investment in europe 's biggest economy as well as merkel 's leading role in talks on reform of the european union and relations with russia and turkey .
here are the main scenarios : conservatives , social democrats ( grand coalition ) the most likely option , according to opinion polls .
merkel s parliamentary party , made up of her christian democrats ( cdu ) and the bavarian christian social union ( csu ) has governed with the spd for eight of the 12 years that merkel has been chancellor , including the last four .
what makes it possible : merkel , who has steered the conservatives toward the political center ground , looks comfortable ruling with the spd .
such a coalition would likely have a large majority , provide continuity and broadly agree on europe , turkey , foreign policy , migration and security issues .
hurdles : it is a last resort for both sides , especially the spd , which fears it will lose out as junior partner .
it wants more emphasis on investment , education , tackling inequality and fair pensions while conservatives are more focused on tax cuts .
the spd is also reluctant to back planned defense spending hikes .
conservatives , free democrats ( black-yellow ) the conservative block and pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) are traditional partners , especially on financial and economic policy , having ruled together for almost half of post-war germany s seven decades .
if they win sufficient votes , this is the most likely scenario .
what makes it possible : the pro-business fdp has rebounded this year , winning enough votes in a vote in germany s most populous state , north rhine-westphalia , in may to share power with the cdu there .
a repeat at federal level would herald tax cuts and deregulation and possibly tighter laws on immigration , asylum seeking and security .
hurdles : the fdp was wiped out of parliament in 2013 after four chaotic years ruling with merkel .
it has more radical tax reduction and privatization plans , opposes deeper eu integration and wants eu countries to be able to quit the euro zone .
party leader christian lindner has also suggested germany accept russia s 2014 annexation of crimea from ukraine , something merkel has ruled out .
conservatives , fdp , greens ( jamaica - reference to parties colours : black , yellow , green ) as yet untested at a federal level , this combination rules in the northern state of schleswig-holstein .
what makes it possible - if merkel s bloc can t form an alliance with the fdp or the greens alone , it may try a three-way deal .
both smaller parties have played down this option but may be lured by the prospect of power .
hurdles - the greens and fdp are at opposite ends of the political spectrum .
policy clashes would be likely on tax , energy , the eu and migrants .
conservatives , greens ( black-green ) untested at a federal level , this has been mooted as an option under merkel , who has pushed renewable energy .
the cdu and greens have worked together at regional level , including in a greens-led coalition in the rich southern state of baden-wuerttemberg .
what makes it possible : the greens leaders are pragmatic , worlds away from the eco-warriors who founded the party .
the prospect of power may persuade them to compromise .
such a coalition would promote a strong europe and focus on fighting climate change .
the greens would push for a phaseout of coal-fired power stations .
hurdles : doubtful they would win a majority .
conservatives want lower taxes while greens want to tax the super rich .
greens have a more liberal migrant policy which could pit them against the csu , and they oppose plans to increase defense spending .
clashes are also likely on some aspects of energy policy and auto emissions regulation following the diesel scandal .
a minority government would be a first and stability-craving germans would not like it but may prefer it to new elections .
what makes it possible : if merkel fails to find a partner , she may feel she has a mandate to rule given her personal popularity .
she would probably get support for individual policies from the fdp , spd and greens .
hurdles : merkel s natural caution coupled with germans fear of instability , a legacy of the fragmentation in the years that preceded the rise of hitler s nazi party .
spd , left , greens ( red-red-green or r2g ) highly unlikely .
never tested at a federal level , a tie up between the spd and greens , preferred partners , and the radical left party , could be the only way for the spd to take the chancellery .
it is being tested in the state of berlin under spd leadership and , with a left premier , in the state of thuringia .
what makes it possible : for the first time , the spd has not excluded the possibility of joining the left .
such a coalition would probably focus on boosting investment and tackling inequality and adopt a more russia-friendly stance .
hurdles : the left s links with communists in former east germany and painful spd memories of an exodus to the left over deep labor market reforms more than a decade ago .
while the spd and greens could rule together relatively easily , the left wants a top tax rate of 75 percent , a 30-hour week and to replace nato with an alliance including russia .