sebastian gorka does a mic drop on cnn anchor alison camerota when he tells her more people watch nick at nite and cartoons than they watch cnn : watch and laugh : sebastian gorka tells cnn that more people watch nick-at-nite and cartoons then them .
# trump # cnnblackmail pic.twitter.com/uwekmocqrr tim young ( @ timrunshismouth ) july 12 , 2017sebastian gorka , president trump s deputy assistant , mocked cnn s ratings on its morning program new day on tuesday , stating in a contentious interview with co-anchor alisyn camerota that more people watch nick at nite cartoons than cnn today .
this interview between gorka and camerota went from cordial to personal really quickly !
alison camerota asked about iraqi forces defeating isis to win back the city of mosul .
but camerota couldn t help herself so she pivoted to the trump-russia fake news topic : camerota goes partisan : is it possible that your team is obsessed with the clintons ?
gorka starts to get into with camerota : no .
we d like you to actually do your job .
you aren t in the news business anymore .
you used to be .
you are in the attacking president trump business .
and it s sad .
it s really sad .
camerota : it s interesting .
look , i know you have to go , and i didn t even want to go down this rabbit hole with you .
when you take shots at us and at journalism , at cnn , gorka interrupted with this zinger : not journalism .
cnn .
camerota said gorka was the one who asked to appear on the network.camerota responded : ok .
when you take shots at cnn , i do feel that i must respond and just point out that you called us yesterday to come on here .
gorka shot back : that s what we do .
the amount of time you spend in desperation on a topic that has plummeted you to 13th place in viewership ranking across america , more people watch nick at nite cartoons than cnn today .
camerota shot back : our ratings are doing just fine .
if you want to go there , our ratings are doing just fine .
gorka s mic drop moment came here : nick at nite is in 11th place .
more people are interested in cartoons !