harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s new president emmerson mnangagwa swore in his cabinet on monday , with allies defending him against criticism for giving top posts to the generals who helped his rise to power .
sworn in as president on nov. 24 after 93-year-old robert mugabe quit following a de facto military coup , mnangagwa has also come under fire for bringing back several faces from the mugabe era , including patrick chinamasa as finance minister .
air marshall perrance shiri , who was handed the sensitive land portfolio , defended his appointment in remarks to reporters after a simple ceremony to take oaths of office .
who says military people should never be politicians ?
i m a zimbabwean so i have every right to participate in government , he said .
shiri is feared and loathed by many zimbabweans as the former commander of the north korean-trained 5 brigade that played a central role in ethnic massacres in matabeleland in 1983 in which an estimated 20,000 people were killed .
land is a central political issue in the southern african country , where reforms in the early 2000s led to the violent seizure of thousands of white-owned farms and hastened an economic collapse .
another military figure is foreign minister sibusiso moyo , whom most zimbabweans remember as the khaki-clad general who went on state television in the early hours of nov. 15 to announce the military takeover .
he declined to discuss the cabinet with reuters , saying he had yet to get into his new office .
assembling a cabinet has not been without mishaps .
mnangawa dropped his initial pick as education minister on saturday , 24 hours after appointing him , after a public outcry and reshuffled two others to meet a constitutional requirement that all but five ministers be members of parliament .
this has left the information portfolio vacant after he named chris mutsvangwa , the influential leader of the war veterans association , as special advisor to the president .
mutsvangwa has defended the cabinet , which at 22 is smaller than mugabe s 33-strong team , saying the two military appointments were not unique to zimbabwe .
he also said mnangagwa had engaged the opposition mdc party about taking part in an inclusive government , but its leader morgan tsvangirai had blocked it a claim disputed by the mdc .
as far as we are concerned there was no contact whatsoever between president mnangagwa , zanu-pf and our party regarding the possibility of inclusion or involvement of our members in the government , mdc vice president nelson chamisa told reuters .