berlin ( reuters ) - critics of a new hate speech law in germany are upbeat that it can be revised after its social democratic sponsors vowed to drop out of the ruling coalition following last month s national election and go into opposition .
the german parliament in june approved legislation that will allow authorities to fine social media networks up to 50 million euros if they fail to remove hateful postings promptly , despite warnings that the law could limit free expression .
chancellor angela merkel s conservatives will start talks in coming weeks on forming a new coalition with the environmental greens , who abstained from voting for the law , and the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) , who opposed it outright .
germany has some of the world s toughest laws covering defamation , public incitement to commit crimes and threats of violence , with prison sentences for holocaust denial or inciting hatred against minorities .
but few online cases are prosecuted .
the new law , which came into effect on oct. 1 , gives social media networks 24 hours to delete or block obviously criminal content and seven days to deal with less clear-cut cases , with an obligation to report back to the person who filed the complaint about how they handled the case .
failure to comply could see a company fined up to 50 million euros , and the company s chief representative in germany fined up to 5 million euros .
opponents argue the law could damage free speech because the threat of fines will prompt social media companies to censor more content than really necessary .
facebook and twitter and other social media platforms are scrambling to adapt to its requirements and avoid hefty fines that the law forsees in the event of violation .
the departure from government of justice minister heiko maas , an spd member and main driver behind the new hate speech law , offers critics a new chance to get the law overturned or at least revised , according to politicians and industry groups .
nicola beer , secretary general of the fdp , vowed in a tweet to make the law the shortest-ever in force .
konstantin von notz , digital spokesman for the greens , told reuters his party would press for a new start in many policy areas , including the hate speech law and cyber security .
bernhard rohleder , head of the it industry association , told the handelsblatt newspaper on monday that if it succeeded in forming a government , the new coalition should correct the mistake and eliminate the law without replacement .
marie-teresa weber , who heads the group s consumer law and media policy department , said the legal experts considered the law unconstitutional .
the new coalition should rescind it before the courts do so , she said .
parliamentary experts said it might be tough to overturn the law completely , but it would likely to be tweaked in coming years once authorities begin to implement it .
affected individuals or companies could also challenge it as unconstitutional , they said .