( corrects sept. 21 story to remove reference to constitutional crisis if poll not held within 60 days , paragraph 15 ) by george obulutsa and john ndiso nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s president uhuru kenyatta said on thursday the country s supreme court staged a coup against the will of the people when it annulled his win in last month s presidential election , his toughest rhetoric yet in the wake of the aug. 8 vote .
his remarks came on the same day that the election board announced the repeat election had been delayed until oct. 26 .
the president s criticism comes as kenya s political temperature is heating up , reviving fears of political violence .
clashes killed around 1,200 people following a disputed 2007 presidential vote .
a coup in kenya has just been done by the four people in the supreme court , kenyatta said in a televised meeting with supporters , delivered mostly in kiswahili .
( the court is saying ) numbers don t matter , it is processes that matter .
immediately following the court s surprise sept. 1 ruling to annul the vote , kenyatta had called for calm and respect for the ruling .
but he later started to criticize the court .
the decision to nullify the race on procedural grounds was the first time a judicial body canceled the election of an incumbent african president .
kenya , a western ally , has east africa s richest economy and is a hub for diplomacy , security and trade in a region often battered by conflict .
any sign of political instability sends ripples through the region .
the election board had said last month that kenyatta won the aug. 8 vote by 1.4 million more votes than his chief rival , veteran opposition leader raila odinga , who contested the result in court .
four judges and two dissenting judges gave a detailed case for voiding the election or upholding it in a marathon 12-hour court session on wednesday .
kenyatta said in a televised news conference that the court had failed to adequately examine evidence that would have buttressed his win .
the supreme court owes kenyans an explanation how such a monstrous injustice took place , he said .
it ( the ruling ) also now has the potential to throw our country into judicial chaos .
he said lower courts could follow the precedent and overturn the will of voters in other electoral contests , like local or legislative seats , adding he had asked parliament to address the issues raised by the judgment .
on thursday , the cabinet approved 10 billion shillings ( $ 97 million ) to fund the repeat election .
odinga has said he will not take part in the repeat vote unless a list of demands , including firing of some senior staff at the election board , are met .
the court said it had found no evidence of individual culpability by the staff of the board .
the court ruled that the country must hold the election by the end of october .
the court s detailed judgment given on wednesday hinged on the failure of the election board to check electronic tallies , which are vulnerable to typos , against paper forms intended as a fail-safe backup before announcing results .
judges did not say they found evidence of rigging .
kenyatta said he would respect the court s decision but said it subverted the will of the people .
we have reversed everything in this country by the decision of a few people .
i don t know how history will judge these gentlemen , he said .
the citizen has been told he does not have a voice ...
if that is not dictatorship , then i don t know what to say .