brussels ( reuters ) - questions around nationhood , tax autonomy , international representation and policy powers are at the heart of sunday s violence-marred independence referendum in catalonia , spain s wealthiest region .
below please find brief description of how catalonia compares with other regions with separatist leanings .
a historic principality that became part of a united spanish kingdom in the 15th century , it is one of 17 autonomous regions under spain s devolved political system created after the death of dictator francisco franco in 1975 .
it has its own government , presidency , and parliament .
the statute of autonomy defining catalonia s powers refers to catalonia as a nationality .
catalan and spanish share status as official languages in catalonia .
catalonia has its own flag and anthem .
half of the income tax and value-added tax ( vat ) levied in catalonia is returned to the region of 7.5 million people , with the central government in madrid deciding how the rest is spent .
company taxes also go to madrid .
catalonia receives 58 percent of the proceeds of a number of other taxes , including on alcohol and fuel , raised there .
its tax-collecting agency also gathers some taxes on wealth , inheritance , gambling and transport and keeps all the proceeds .
catalonia , with about 16 percent of spain s population of 47 million , complains about the redistribution of tax revenues .
each year , it pays about 10 billion euros ( $ 12 billion ) more in taxes to madrid than it gets back , or around 5 percent of regional economic output , according to spanish treasury data .
the catalan government has a number of delegations abroad , including in brussels , london and washington .
the catalan government has broad powers in areas such as education , health , security , culture , urban development and the environment .
it has its own police force , the mossos d esquadra .
the central government has powers over foreign , defense , immigration and broad economic policy .
a kingdom occupying the northern half of the island of great britain from the 9th century , scotland s monarch took the crown of england through dynastic succession in 1603 and in 1707 the two countries formed the state of great britain .
it is now part of the united kingdom , with england , wales and northern ireland .
after rejecting independence in a 2014 referendum , scotland was allowed to raise a portion of its own taxes with the option to set what is currently half the level of income tax .
from this year , it has had the power to set rates and bands of income tax , and half of vat receipts from scotland are now assigned to the scottish government to spend .
the rest of scotland s financing comes from the uk budget via a formula which takes into account population changes .
in general , scotland , with about 8 percent of the uk s 66 million population , is a net beneficiary from the central budget .
scotland has its own international soccer team and the scottish government has offices in brussels , washington , toronto and beijing to promote its regional interests .
scottish development international also has some 40 offices in about 20 countries aimed at promoting trade and investment .
decisions taken in scotland s parliament at holyrood in edinburgh , which was created in 1999 , encompass agriculture , health , education , transport , local government , law , social work , housing , tourism and economic development , sport and arts .
all other powers such as immigration , defense and foreign policy - are reserved to the uk parliament at westminster .
after gaining independence from the netherlands in 1830 , belgium later faced demands for equality from dutch-speakers in a state dominated by the then-richer french-speaking south .
since world war two , demands for independence for the now more numerous and richer flemings were met with six rounds of constitutional change that left dutch-speaking flanders and french-speaking wallonia highly autonomous within a complex federal structure .
most tax rates are set at federal level , though the regions have some powers , such as over car and property taxes .
in general , flanders with about 6 million of belgium s 11 million people , is a net contributor to the federal budget .
regional governments are in charge of foreign trade and conduct separate trade missions in addition to those of the federal government .
wallonia nearly derailed an eu-canada trade deal last year .
flanders has permanent representatives in several locations europe , as well as new york and pretoria .
flanders , like wallonia , is in charge of several policy areas , notably education , healthcare and agriculture .
mainly french-speaking since the days of british and french colonial rivalry in north america , quebec , with a population of 8.2 million , is now one of 10 provinces of the federal state of canada , whose population is 36 million .
independence referendums in 1980 and 1995 delivered majority votes in favor of remaining part of canada .
the canadian parliament voted in 2006 to recognize quebec as a nation .
all canadian provinces have the power to levy provincial taxes and receive transfer payments from the federal government .
quebec , has its own delegations in the unites states , latin america , asia , europe and africa .
quebec is also a member of its own right in some international organizations , including unesco , the u.n. education , science and culture arm .
the province can make laws concerning provincial matters and is still bound by federal regulations .