norwalk , iowa ( reuters ) - when it comes to influencing the 2016 u.s. presidential race , sarah palin ’ s star power is turning out to be dimmer than expected .
there was no ecstasy in the crowd when the former alaska governor and vice presidential nominee endorsed republican front-runner donald trump at a rally in ames , iowa , on tuesday night .
and at trump ’ s next appearance on wednesday in norwalk , people who came to see him - both hard-core trump supporters and undecided voters - said palin was not swaying them .
“ they ’ re going to have to do an image remake of her , ” said joani estes , 56 , of indianola , iowa .
estes said her pentecostal christian faith made her feel aligned with palin , but it did not make her feel any more strongly about trump .
she liked him , she said , and was likely going to caucus for him during the state ’ s nominating contest on feb. 1 - but she was also keeping the door open for his closest rival , u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas .
her friend jenny terrell , 55 , said palin ’ s endorsement made her less certain about her support for trump .
a longtime democrat , terrell said she had been inspired by trump but was put off by palin ’ s extreme opposition to abortion rights .
“ i was a little disappointed , ” she said , adding that even though she knew trump had declared himself to be against abortion , she did not see him as being as fervently anti-abortion as palin .
as a strategic move in trump ’ s competition against cruz in iowa , getting an endorsement from palin made sense , political experts said .
she is popular among tea party republicans who rail against the political establishment , as well as blue-collar evangelical christians , two groups from which cruz draws strong support .
it is not yet clear whether evangelical leaders in the state will follow palin ’ s lead and choose trump over cruz .
but trump had already managed to draw some of those voters with his brash , sweeping talk of keeping refugees out of the united states , building a wall along the mexican border to stop illegal immigration , and putting education policy back in the hands of local communities .
“ i could care less ” about palin ’ s support for trump , said scott heckart , 49 , who said he had made up his mind to caucus for the billionaire businessman and former reality tv star .
even andrew haup , 26 - who said he decided to support u.s .
senator john mccain of arizona , the republican presidential nominee in 2008 , only after mccain made palin his running mate - said her endorsement mattered little to him since he had already made up his mind to support trump .
near the back of the room where trump spoke on wednesday morning , matt burns , 47 , a cruz supporter , stood alone .
he said he had only come to see trump because his teenage daughter had asked him to take her .
he said he liked palin and was not angry at her for choosing trump over cruz , but said her choice was not going to sway him .
“ for me it doesn ’ t really do a whole lot , ” he said .
“ i think most people know who they ’ re going to caucus for. ” ( reporting by emily flitter ; editing by jonathan oatis ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .