obama hosted a fundraiser for a bunch of wealthy donors on martha s vineyard this week while riots and flooding devastate two cities .
no mention of either situation in obama s speech but obama had time to take a swipe at hillary clinton s opponent in the presidential race .
obama said he s sick of talking about trump and went on to praise clinton great job as secretary of state .
what a joke !
the funniest line of the night from obama had to be this : obama said clinton is not always the flashiest but she is the person who s going to do the work .
headlining a democratic fundraiser while vacationing on martha s vineyard , president obama said he is weary of mentioning republican presidential nominee donald trump and urged donors to continue backing hillary clinton .
frankly i m tired of talking about her opponent , obama told 60 donors who had paid $ 10,000 to attend the fundraiser .
i don t have to make the case against her opponent because every time he talks , he makes the case against his own candidacy , he said , according to a pool press report on his remarks provided by the wall street journal .
obama also expressed a warning about the unpredictability of this election cycle .
if we are not running scared until the day after the election , we are going to be making a grave mistake , he said.as expected , obama also had praise for clinton , who served as his secretary of state after losing to him in the 2008 democratic primary , saying he s seen her in really tough pressure situations .
i m a democrat , so it s fair to say that whoever the democratic nominee was , i would want to get behind them , obama said , according to the pool report .
but i don t display the kinds of enthusiasm and energy and commitment to hillary candidacy just because of the fact we belong to the same political party .
he continued : until you sit at that desk and you re making life and death decisions , and you re deploying young men and women to war , or you re having to avert a crisis that could affect millions or in some cases billions of lives , you don t know how you re going to respond .
obama said clinton is not always the flashiest but she is the person who s going to do the work .
read more : mass live