the eye of hurricane irma ( reuters ) - the sky darkened , lightning flashed and a jolt of turbulence shook the cabin of the hulking air force turbo-prop aircraft as it plied its way toward the eye of hurricane irma , one of the strongest atlantic storms ever recorded .
piloting the four-engine , wc-130j aircraft was air force reserve lieutenant colonel jim hitterman , who over the past 22 years has flown into 40 to 50 hurricanes .
every storm is different but he likens the experience to driving through a car wash - with one big difference .
as you re driving through that car wash , a bunch of gorillas start jumping on top of your car , hitterman said , adding that sometimes shaking gets so bad , he can not see his instruments .
on friday and saturday , reuters accompanied the air force reserves hurricane hunters , whose hard-won data taken directly from the center of storms like hurricane irma are critical to u.s. forecasts that save lives .
experts say u.s. satellite data simply can not do the job .
we can estimate by satellite what the strength and size of a hurricane is .
but only if you go into the hurricane can you really get an accurate measure of its exact center location , the structure , the maximum winds , said rick knabb , a hurricane expert at the weather channel and a former director the national hurricane center .
the 53rd weather reconnaissance squadron s hurricane hunters are based at keesler air force base in biloxi , mississippi .
its members trace the origin of hurricane hunting to a 1943 barroom dare by two then-army air corps pilots to fly through a hurricane off texas .
today , the missions are carried out largely by air force reservists who , after a few days or weeks of chasing storms , return to their jobs in the civilian world .
hitterman , 49 , flies for delta airlines most of the time and , as a hobby , races motorcycles .
the flight meteorologist , major nicole mitchell , is an experienced television news meteorologist and mother of an eight-month-old baby boy .
she normally lives in minnesota .
the way mitchell sees it , the more accurate her data is , the more accurate the forecasts can be that tell u.s. citizens whether to evacuate their homes as irma or other storms advance .
it s a fact that we make a difference , she said .
mitchell s plane would make four passes in total through irma s eye during that mission , some entries and exits more turbulent than others .
its final pass came on saturday , as hurricane irma walloped cuba s northern coast .
irma s interaction with cuba s terrain weakened the storm from a category 5 to a category 4 hurricane but u.s. national hurricane center warned the storm was anticipated to strengthen again .
irma was expected to hit florida on sunday morning , bringing massive damage from wind and flooding to america s fourth-largest state by population .
millions of florida residents have been ordered to evacuate .
despite the severity of storms like irma and the undeniable danger on the ground , these u.s. flights into hurricanes have an incredible safety record - not one aircraft has been lost in more than four decades .
the last time was in 1974 .
but they are not without risk .
some six hurricane or typhoon hunting aircraft have been lost in total , costing 53 lives , according to the weather underground website .
jeff masters , director of meteorology of the weather underground , recalled an extremely close call during a flight into hurricane hugo in 1989 organized by the national oceanic and atmospheric administration ( noaa ) , which also fields its own turbo-prop aircraft .
the pilot lost control of the aircraft , one of the engines caught on fire , and the aircraft descended rapidly , all because satellite data had given his crew the sense they were flying into a category 3 storm .
it turned out to be a category 5 .
they were flying much too low for a storm that potent .
we went in at 1,500 feet , which is a no-no in a category 5 and we got clobbered , recounted masters .
the pilot was able to recover control after entering hugo s eye .
on the mission into irma , jolts of turbulence also shook the equipment in the cabin as it neared the eye of the hurricane .
emergency parachutes swayed .
but then , suddenly , everything in the plane settled down .
it was safe enough to take off seat belts .
the flying was smooth .
inside the eye , the sky opened up .
the dark eyewall - the surrounding ring of clouds - could be seen outside the cockpit window .
masters says someday drones might be able to do the risky job now done by experienced air crews .
but , from the cockpit of this hurricane hunter flight , that possibility still seems distant .
this aircraft , like all of the 53rd s 10 wc-130j planes , are specially equipped to gather meteorological data and send it to the u.s. national hurricane center .
some of that equipment is operated manually .
that includes releasing sensors through the belly of the aircraft that , as they fall , transmit storm data including irma s pressure , wind speed and direction .
as the mission got underway , the sensors - known as dropsondes - appeared to be malfunctioning .
technical sergeant karen moore , the loadmaster who releases the dropsondes from the aircraft , among many other duties , said she could not get its gps signal as it fell into irma s winds .
so , moore took out a screwdriver and literally started fixing them on the fly , one by one .
that is something a drone would not be able to do .
hitterman said he also could see a future where pilotless planes fly into hurricanes to get the data americans need .
but i think it s a ways off , he said .