democrats brought illegal after illegal alien on stage today during their communist convention .
( we re still wondering how ice allowed so many illegal aliens to appear on a national stage , embarrassing their entire organization ) .
the democrats spent no time using these lawbreaker to mock republicans and the rule of law .
they use every opportunity they can to mock donald j. trump and the sane americans who believe it is vital to our national security to build a wall on our southern border.meanwhile , the dnc has built a massive 4 mile wall around their convention .
there have been no known threats of violence from tea party members or republican operatives , so who are they trying to keep out ?
well it appears they re trying to keep out the bernie sanders supporters from these telling photos.the party of inclusion seems to have lost its way hmmm maybe they re not quite as inclusive as they d like us to believe police briefly detained more than 50 people after they tried to storm the barricades outside the democratic national convention on monday in a show of anger over bernie sanders treatment by party leaders , even as he urged his supporters to fall in line behind hillary clinton.several hundred sanders supporters and other demonstrators converged in the sweltering heat on broad street and made their way 4 miles to the convention site as the gathering was being gaveled to order , chanting nominate sanders or lose in november !
and hey , hey , ho , ho , the dnc has got to go !
they carried signs reading , never hillary , just go to jail hillary and you lost me at hillary .
undocumented delegates # berned # dncphl # dncconvention # neverhillary pic.twitter.com/m82yx35ebw lori hendry ( @ lrihendry ) july 25 , 2016as tensions mounted outside the wells fargo center , police moved metal fences into place and closed the nearest subway station to arriving trains .
fifty-five people were issued citations for disorderly conduct when protesters tried to climb over police barricades at the edge of the security zone surrounding the convention , police said .
-newscenter1