arkansas senator tom cotton came out in agreement with donald trump last week on our role in nato .
they disagree on a solution but it s a great idea and about time they bring this to the forefront .
senator tom cotton on america s role in nato : arkansas sen. tom cotton on friday discussed his participation in a meeting with donald trump earlier this week , remarking that he and the republican presidential frontrunner have similar concerns when it comes to the united states role in the north atlantic treaty organization .
you know , he had spoken earlier that day to the washington post editorial board and raised some serious questions about nato .
i share some of those questions , cotton said in an interview with msnbc s morning joe .
we used to split our costs 50/50 between the u.s. and europe .
today , it s 70-30 between the u.s. and europe .
read more : politicoin an interview with the washington post editorial board , donald trump made an accurate statement about the u.s. subsidization of fellow nato members : trump : look , i see nato as a good thing to have i look at the ukraine situation and i say , so ukraine is a country that affects us far less than it affects other countries in nato , and yet we are doing all of the lifting , they re not doing anything .
and i say , why is it that germany is not dealing with nato on ukraine ?
why is it that other countries that are in the vicinity of the ukraine not dealing with why are we always the one that s leading , potentially the third world war , okay , with russia ?
why are we always the ones that are doing it ?
and i think the concept of nato is good , but i do think the united states has to have some help .
we are not helped .
i ll give you a better example than that .
i mean , we pay billions hundreds of billions of dollars to supporting other countries that are in theory wealthier than we are.diehl : hundreds of billions ? trump : billions.trump s gop opponents jumped on his comments and accused him of suggesting that the u.s. should leave nato , or at least cut back its support of the alliance.in fact , trump was correct that the u.s. is paying hundreds of billions of dollars to supporting other countries via nato each year , never mind additional military subsidies to non-nato allies.in 2014 , the collective gdp of all nato members was us $ 37.5 trillion .
during the same year , the alliance spent a total of us $ 924 billion on military expenditures , of which the u.s. spent the majority ( $ 610 billion ) , according to the sipri military expenditure database.consequently , the alliance collectively spent 2.47 % of gdp on defense .
the u.s. was the only member above this value , coming in at 3.5 % of gdp .
in other words , the u.s. subsidizes each and every other member of nato.this leads us to the following chart , showing the individual defense spending deficits toward the common defense in 2014 for each nato member note that the u.s. has a surplus of us $ 180 billion that equals the sum of all other member deficits.unsurprisingly , germany ( us $ 47 billion per year ) and canada ( us $ 26 billion per year ) are the biggest nato laggards , followed closely by spain and italy at $ us21 billion per year each .
these four countries constitute almost two thirds of the total nato deficit that has to be covered by the united states.trump had good instincts on this.read more : american thinker