madrid ( reuters ) - exiled catalan separatist leader carles puigdemont looks set to regain power after regional elections on thursday , but what comes next is unlikely to be an easy ride .
- can he go back to catalonia ?
puigdemont is targeted by an arrest warrant for his role in organizing an illegal independence referendum on oct. 1 and leading the secession bid .
he is now in brussels but he faces arrest the minute he steps foot in spain .
seven of the 70 separatists elected on sunday are either in jail or in exile on allegations of sedition and rebellion .
unless they are released or they return home , they can not vote in parliament to form a workable majority .
they could hope to be freed or have arrest warrants dropped if they swore no to pursue independence unilaterally .
but that in turn could jeopardize support for a puigdemont government from catalonia s most vehement pro-independence party , the cup .
another option would be for these leaders to forfeit their seats and hand them to the next candidates on the list .
puigdemont can not take absolutely for granted that he will be catalonia s next president because the other two separatist parties , the cup and erc , have shown some reluctance to put him back at the helm .
his party got more votes than the other two .
- what s on the agenda ?
negotiations to form a government are likely to start following a holiday break , after jan. 6 .
around the same date , conservative spanish prime minister mariano rajoy will say when regional parliament will begin preliminary proceedings ahead of its first sitting .
that process must start no later than jan. 23 .
parliament must then vote by feb. 8 on putting a new government into place .
by then , puigdemont should also clarify whether he will put himself forward as catalonia president .
if no leader can command an absolute majority of the 135-seat regional assembly , a second vote will be held where a leader only needs a majority of votes cast in the chamber .
if that does not work , talks can go on for another two months .
if they fail , parliament is dissolved and new elections are held .