prague ( reuters ) - andrej babis say he wants to run the czech republic like a business , which may mean upheaval is ahead for the country s biggest state-controlled business , the utility cez .
the billionaire babis has a history of confrontation with cez management , and with his ano party leading in polls ahead of parliamentary elections on friday and saturday , he may soon have the power to take on the management he feels has steered the company adrift .
the fact that cez is out of his control and he doesn t have a decision in it has bothered him quite a bit , jiri pehe , a long-time political analyst and director of new york university in prague .
as one of the top businessmen in the country , he simply wants to have cez under his control .
cez is 70 percent state-owned , and with market capitalization of $ 11.3 billion , is the czech republic s largest listed company .
as such , it has long played a central role in czech politics .
it is the government s cash cow , paying the largest dividends among state-controlled companies to the state coffers .
its investment projects provide big-ticket orders for numerous czech suppliers .
its chief executive , daniel benes , has led the company since 2011 , after joining the board six years earlier .
his contract has another four years to run .
he has enjoyed the backing of previous prime ministers , including the outgoing social democrat bohuslav sobotka .
that will probably end if babis takes power following saturday s elections .
a billionaire whose own businesses include food , chemical and media holdings , babis has long maintained that cez has too much influence on political parties , a charge he repeated most recently in an interview published this week .
in my view , one state firm can not run all political parties and can not be a piggy bank for politicians , babis told the magazine tyden .
a cez spokesman declined to comment on his remarks .
as finance minister from january 2014 to may of this year , babis clashed with cez management but did not have enough power to make big changes .
as prime minister , he would have more of a say , and he could reshape the supervisory board that appoints management .
over the past year , babis has criticized a dividend cut , a potential sale of a coal plant and a proposal now under consideration to spin off regulated distribution and renewables assets .
the proposed spin-off would separate and potentially sell cez s distribution and renewables businesses while the government would take full control of its nuclear and coal plants .
that in turn would allow the government to take over the construction of new nuclear plants .
instead , babis says cez should finance the construction of nuclear plants itself .
cez management has refused to do so without explicit state guarantees to help fund the project .
the proposed spin-off is the first thing the government will have to solve , said miroslav frayer , who covers the utility for komercni banka .
michal snobr , a long-time cez investor who represents a group that holds close to 1 percent in the company , said he expects things to change after the election .
given how babis is presenting it , there are likely to be changes in the cez leadership , snobr said .
this management has made so many mistakes that in a normal business environment , changes would have happened long ago , he said .
he cited long outages at cez s nuclear plant dukovany , lack of company strategy and current initiatives , such as buying high-priced german wind plants .
snobr said a spin-off of cez , along the lines of the split of innogy from rwe in germany , should go ahead given the high valuations of regulated businesses .
babis may change his view after the election , he added .
and cez could not finance new nuclear plants without state backing , snobr said , because such a costly project would not be commercially justifiable and would spark lawsuits from other shareholders .