abidjan ( reuters ) - european leaders under pressure from a far-right revival at home hope to avoid a difficult debate about immigration when they meet their african counterparts in ivory coast from wednesday .
reports this month of abuses against african migrants in libya have sparked anger across the continent however , threatening to drive migration to the top of the summit agenda and shine a spotlight on an issue fraught with political risk .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president emmanuel macron , who head the franco-german axis at the heart of the european union , will have its next major political test in mind when they sit down with african union heads of state .
italy , on the frontline of the campaign to slow illegal migration to europe , holds elections early next year and the populist 5-star movement is leading opinion polls .
the anti-immigrant , eurosceptic northern league is also gaining support .
we all have our own interests in not turning this into a migration conference , one eu official said ahead of the meeting to be held in ivory coast s commercial capital abidjan .
the summit is meant to focus on development , long the cornerstone of eu policy in africa and tangentially related to migration .
the theme of investing in youth , though , is a nod to the rampant unemployment and poverty that drives many young africans to leave home in search of a better life .
but it now looks increasingly unlikely the eu leaders can avoid hard questions from their african counterparts .
soon after cnn aired grainy images from libya this month appearing to show migrants being sold as slaves , african governments began recalling diplomats from tripoli .
protests erupted in france , senegal and benin .
ivory coast president alassane ouattara called for libyan slave traders to be prosecuted by the international criminal court .
libyan authorities have promised to investigate the slavery allegations .
but the european union too has been the target of anger and frustration .
they re the ones who blocked the way and left us in the hands of these libyans , said cherifou sahindou , sitting at a make-shift tea stand by a muddy , rubbish-strewn track near a mosque in abidjan s yopougon neighborhood .
sahindou and some of the other men around the tea stand said they made it to libya , but no further .
all had heard about the slave markets and all knew someone who had stayed in the water - the local euphemism for death on the migrant trail .
like many african leaders , ouattara has called for europe to broaden the legal avenues for migration from the continent using mechanisms such as student and temporary work visas .
europe and europeans ... should not be afraid , because africa and the african youth can bring a lot to europe , he said in an interview with the france 24 news channel this week .
but in the current political climate any proposal for more africans to enter europe is a non-starter for many eu leaders .
merkel herself is the most high-profile victim of an anti-immigration backlash .
at the peak of the migrant influx into europe in 2015 she declared an open door policy for refugees and asylum seekers , allowing in more than a million migrants .
the anti-immigrant far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party campaigned hard against the policy and won some 13 percent of the vote in a september election - complicating merkel s efforts to form a coalition government and weakening her position as the leading eu advocate within europe .
in an indication of how heated things have become , the mayor of a small town in germany , who won an award from merkel for his liberal migrant policies , was stabbed in the neck on monday in an attack believed to be politically motivated .
other european leaders firmly behind the 28-member bloc are also wary of falling foul to such an explosive issue .
if you say , i ve got a right to total access without conditions ...
i can t explain that to my middle class , who ve worked , who pay their taxes , macron said during a rowdy exchange with students in burkina faso on tuesday .
what do i tell them ?
it is those kinds of political calculations that are hindering much-needed policy solutions , said william swing , head of the international organization for migration .
the heart of the problem is the very toxic atmosphere that s been fairly widespread for some years now ... that s not just in europe , he told reuters .
the drivers ( of migration ) are there and they re not going away .
so clearly our policies need to change .
european delegates at the summit , however , are expected to pledge aid , repeating often voiced calls for a marshall plan for africa that would create jobs and lift incomes to give would-be migrants a reason to stay at home .
the african security sectors charged with clamping down on migrant flows will also get their share of european money .
eu support for the libyan authorities , including italian assistance for its coastguard , has helped halve the number of migrants arriving in europe via the mediterranean this year .
though lauded in italy , the program , which has led to massive detention centers being created in libya to hold intercepted migrants , was denounced by the united nation s human rights chief zeid ra ad al hussein .
abdoulaye dosso , another man at the tea stand in yopougon , said he crossed the sahara desert , played dead to survive as rebels shot other migrants , and then spent weeks in one such camp awaiting repatriation to ivory coast .
there have been too many deaths , he said .
there must be a change .
( this story has been refiled to fix typo in french president s name in paragraph 3 )