massachusetts is now a sanctuary state !
the massachusetts supreme court just ruled that illegals are to be released and not held under federal law .
this puts all americans at risk !
tucker carlson previously interviewed a state rep. who supports subverting federal law .
please listen to the skewed reasoning for not following federal law : in a ruling hailed by civil liberties advocates that ends a longstanding immigration enforcement practice , the massachusetts supreme judicial court declared monday that current state law provides no authority for massachusetts court officers to arrest and hold an individual solely on the basis of a federal civil immigration detainer , beyond the time that the individual would otherwise be entitled to be released from state custody .
state representative james lyons , an andover republican , said he is working with republican representatives marc lombardo of billerica , and shaunna o connell of taunton to gather co-sponsors on a bill he plans to file tuesday or wednesday .
lyons said the bill would be straightforward , giving massachusetts police and court officers the power to arrest someone on a civil immigration warrant .
people are concerned about the rule of law , lyons told the news service .
asked about how he thought the bill would fare in the democrat-controlled legislature , lyons said , beacon hill , i can t predict what s going on up there .
while the high court ruling focused on court officers , advocates said the opinion prohibits any state official from keeping someone jailed solely at the request of immigration and customs enforcement ( ice ) .
going forward , nobody in massachusetts should be held on an immigration detainer unless the legislature were to attempt to change that , said emma winger , immigration impact unit staff attorney for the committee on public counsel services , who argued the case before the supreme judicial court in april .
it applies to anybody with arrest authority , said laura rotolo , staff attorney at the american civil liberties union of massachusetts .
rotolo said that while many jurisdictions have limited their cooperation with ice , the sjc is the first state high court to rule against ice detainers.bristol county sheriff thomas hodgson said the decision will make people more vulnerable to crime in massachusetts .
i wouldn t say it makes massachusetts a sanctuary state .
i think it makes massachusetts more vulnerable the people who live here and people who visit here more vulnerable to become victims of crime , and also a further message to people throughout the country who are here illegally that we re the place you want to come , hodgson said.read more : new boston post