sydney ( reuters ) - papua new guinea s supreme court rejected an application on tuesday to restore water , electricity and food supplies to an australian-run detention center for asylum seekers where nearly 600 men have been barricaded for a week .
the men in the remote manus island facility have defied attempts by australia and papua new guinea to close the camp , refusing to move to three transit centers despite having little food or drinking water .
dozens of them also need medical help , three asylum seekers said , in a stand-off that the united nations has described as a looming humanitarian crisis .
the men have repeatedly said they would not move to the transit camps because they feared png residents on the island may attack , or that the will be resettled elsewhere in png or another developing nation .
the court rejected the challenge on behalf of one of the detainees because it said power , water and food were available at the three transit centers , ben lomai , a lawyer for the detainee who lodged the application , told reuters .
kate schuetze , pacific researcher for rights group amnesty international , warned conditions could deteriorate catastrophically .
the lives of these men , who are only asking for their rights to dignity and safety , are at serious risk , schuetze said in a statement .
the men , who include asylum seekers from afghanistan , iran , myanmar , pakistan , sri lanka and syria , were last given food on oct. 29 and have been relying on sporadic aid from manus island locals and rainwater .
several of the detainees told reuters papua new guinea s navy had blocked access for islanders trying to deliver supplies in the past few days .
representatives for papua new guinea immigration minister petrus thomas did not respond immediately to a request for comment about the claim .
behrouz boochani , a kurdish journalist from iran who has been detained on manus island for more than four years , said 90 of the men were sick and required urgent medical treatment .
they have infection , stomach ache and diarrhea because of dirty water , boochani told reuters .
despite the conditions , several of the men said they would continue to defy efforts to get them to leave , frustrating australia s attempts to close one of two controversial detention centers it uses to detain asylum seekers who arrive by boat .
the manus island camp , and another on the tiny pacific island nation of nauru , have been the cornerstones of australia s controversial immigration policies , which has been strongly criticized by the united nations and rights groups .
australian prime minister malcolm turnbull said before the court ruling on tuesday the men were only refusing to move to the new transit centers on the encouragement of advocates .
there are alternative facilities available of a very high quality with food and all of the facilities , turnbull told australian broadcasting corporation radio .
the relocation of the men is designed to give the united states time to complete vetting of candidates as part of a refugee swap deal that australia hopes will see it no longer responsible for the detention of nearly 1,400 asylum seekers who have been classified as refugees .
turnbull negotiated the deal with former u.s. president barack obama last year .
under the deal , australia will accept refugees from central america .