harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe vice president emmerson mnangagwa said late on thursday he had been hospitalized in august because he had been poisoned , raising the political temperature in the fight to succeed 93-year-old president robert mugabe .
mnangagwa , a former intelligence chief nicknamed the crocodile , is the leading candidate to succeed mugabe , the only leader zimbabwe has known since independence in 1980 .
he did not say who he believed was responsible for trying to kill him , and his main rival for the top job , first lady grace mugabe , swiftly denied having anything to do with it .
hours earlier , she told a public gathering at a nearby hotel on thursday night that mnangagwa and his allies were plotting a power grab that was tantamount to a coup , according to an audio recording of her speech .
mnangagwa was airlifted to johannesburg after falling ill in august .
at a news conference late on thursday open only to state media , he said doctors had concluded that poisoning was to blame for his illness , and not inadvertent food poisoning .
the medical doctors who attended to me ruled out food poisoning but confirmed that indeed poisoning had occurred and investigations were in progress , mnangagwa said , reading from a statement .
he provided no further details or proof .
mnangagwa , 75 , became vice-president in 2014 , putting him at the front of the pack to succeed mugabe .
however over the last 18 months he has met fierce opposition from grace and a faction of the ruling party backing her .
the first lady denied having anything to do with his illness and accused him of lying about it to get public sympathy .
why should i kill mnangagwa ?
who is mnangagwa on this earth ?
grace mugabe said in footage aired on friday on state television .
killing someone who was given a job by my husband ?
that is nonsensical .
veterans of zimbabwe s 1970s independence war have publicly backed mnangagwa to step into mugabe s shoes and last year described the nonagenarian ruler as a dictator , a jolting rebuke that laid bare the fissures within the ruling zanu-pf party .
in her hotel address on thursday evening , grace said mnangagwa was plotting to force zanu-pf to support him as mugabe s successor - a scheme she said must be resisted .
we are being threatened day and night that if this one does not become president , we will kill you , she said without stating the origin of the threats .
no , we will not bow down to that pressure , never .
you will have to arrest all of us and throw us in prison before you can rule .
according to a trove of hundreds of documents from inside zimbabwe s central intelligence organization ( cio ) reviewed by reuters in september , mnangagwa and other political players have been positioning themselves for the day mugabe either steps down or dies , with the tacit backing of some of zimbabwe s military and former colonial power britain .
the ruling party s next leadership congress is due in 2019 and mugabe , who plans to context next year s elections , has said he is staying put for now .