washington ( reuters ) - u.s. republican white house front-runner donald trump said on sunday he would be open to harsh measures to deal with the threat from islamic state , including going beyond the controversial interrogation tactic known as waterboarding .
in an interview on abc ’ s “ this week ” program , trump discussed reviving the tactic and implementing other interrogation techniques , pointing to the recent beheadings of christians in the middle east as evidence of the need for stronger interrogation methods for suspected operatives of extremist groups .
“ we ’ re like living in medieval times , ” he said .
“ if i have to do it and if it ’ s up to me , i would absolutely bring back waterboardng .
and if it ’ s going to be tougher than waterboarding , i would bring that back , too. ” when pressed by interviewer george stephanopoulos if that meant the united states employing similar methods of beheading captors , trump responded : “ we ’ re going to do things beyond waterboarding , ” adding , “ perhaps , if that happens to come. ” the issue of waterboarding and other methods of interrogation was raised during saturday night ’ s new hampshire republican debate aired on abc , with the billionaire businessman saying he would not only revive the controversial method ’ s use , but bring back “ a hell of a lot worse ” if elected .
waterboarding is the practice of pouring water over someone ’ s face to mimic drowning as an interrogation tactic .
critics say it is torture , and democratic president barack obama banned use of the method days after taking office in 2009 .
trump ’ s rival and a fellow leader in opinion polls , senator ted cruz of texas , said during the debate that he would only allow limited use of the practice but said it did not constitute torture .
waterboarding was used by the cia under the bush administration during the early days of the wars in iraq and afghanistan in the aftermath of the sept. 11 , 2001 attacks .
its defenders say it helped to keep america safe by garnering more information from captives , but critics argued the method never actually yielded actionable intelligence .
republicans have been critical of obama ’ s decision to eliminate the practice , saying it telegraphs a position of weakness to the nation ’ s enemies and concedes that the united states erred in using waterboarding .
on sunday , trump argued that the “ evil ” nature of modern times required more robust interrogation techniques , saying that u.s. enemies are thriving in the absence of them .
“ they laugh at us .
our enemies laugh at us , george .
they say waterboarding , they don ’ t even think it ’ s a form - you know , they don ’ t even view that as real torture , ” he said .
new hampshire , where trump maintains a lead over republican rivals in the u.s. nominating contest for the nov. 8 election , casts its primary ballots on tuesday , the week after iowa kicked off the process .
( editing by caren bohan , mary milliken and jonathan oatis ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .