washington ( reuters ) - with no palatable military options , u.s. president donald trump may ultimately have no choice but to give diplomacy a chance to end the crisis over north korea s nuclear and missile programs .
for now , though , he is pursuing tougher economic sanctions , including an oil embargo , and opposed to making any concessions that might look like appeasement , insisting that more pressure on the regime of north korean leader kim jong un is needed before it is time to talk .
north korea seems even more opposed to negotiations until it has achieved the ability to attack the continental united states with nuclear weapons .
north korea is not interested in dialogue .
... kim jong un has sent a message with this last test that he doesn t listen to anybody , said a senior official who helps coordinate the european union s north korea policy .
so for now , despite calls from russia , china , and others , there is no push from the united states or north korea for direct talks , despite an escalating crisis that threatens millions of lives after north korea conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test last weekend .
the trump administration says the united nations needs to tighten economic sanctions to pressure north korea to change its behavior and start talking .
a draft sanctions resolution was circulated to the united nations security council on wednesday .
trump s tactics , one senior administration official said on the condition of anonymity , mirror those in many of his business deals : simultaneously playing good cop and bad cop , not appearing too interested in making a deal but keeping lines of communication open .
trump said on wednesday after a call with chinese leader xi jinping that military action against north korea was not a first choice , but we will see what happens .
nikki haley , the u.s. ambassador to the united nations , said on sunday that kim was begging for war , but added : the time has come for us to exhaust all of our diplomatic means before it s too late .
the united states wants the security council to impose an oil embargo on north korea , ban its exports of textiles and the hiring of north korean laborers abroad and subject leader kim jong un to an asset freeze and travel ban , according to a draft resolution seen by reuters on wednesday .
it was not immediately clear if the draft had the support of north korean ally china , which along with russia , while denouncing the latest test , has said that resolving the nuclear crisis is impossible with sanctions and pressure alone .
[ l4n1ln25f ] a decade of sanctions has not slowed north korea s nuclear weapons program , and now that it is closer to its goal , diplomats and analysts say it is unlikely to back down .
the u.s. policy of strategic patience on north korea has assumed that time is on their side - that economic sanctions will eventually lead to the collapse of kim jong un s regime and its economy , and it will come to the negotiating table , no longer able to withstand the economic pain , said moon chung-in , a special adviser to south korea s president on foreign affairs and national security .
however , such an assumption has now proven wrong .
north korea s economy has not only adapted quickly to tightening sanctions , but the country has also succeeded in advancing its nuclear weapons programs despite more than a decade of economic hardship .
zhao tong , a beijing-based north korea expert at the carnegie-tsinghua center , said pyongyang may hope washington ultimately will recognize it has developed a credible nuclear capability , abandon its long-standing precondition for talks - that north korea accept that they be aimed at its nuclear disarmament - and instead seek the freezing its nuclear program .
from the north korean perspective , their strategy is working , he said .
most experts say it no longer is realistic to think north korea will trade away its nuclear arsenal in exchange for sanctions relief , economic support , or a peace treaty with the united states ending the formal state of war that has existed since the 1950-53 korean war .
robert einhorn , a former senior u.s. non-proliferation specialist now at the brookings institution think tank in washington , said north korea has learned from the u.s. invasion of iraq and the late libyan leader muammar gaddafi s decision to stop developing weapons of mass destruction that you can t give up critical assets that you need for your own survival .
china has put forth a freeze-for-freeze proposal that would suspend large-scale u.s. military exercises with south korea in return for a suspension of north korean nuclear and missile tests .
washington continues to reject that idea .
but the longer diplomacy is delayed , the greater the chances that north korea can master the ability to hit the u.s. mainland with nuclear-tipped missiles , and then enter talks from a position of strength .
south korea is keeping open the option of dialogue with north korea , and hopes washington and seoul can develop a diplomatic roadmap , cho hyun , south korea s second vice foreign minister , said at a seminar in washington on tuesday .
it may sound unrealistic today , but we can not abandon it .