bucharest ( reuters ) - thousands of romanians lined the streets of bucharest on saturday for the funeral of the country s former king michael , one of the last surviving world war two european heads of state .
born in 1921 , michael ruled romania twice , switched its alliance away from nazi germany to the allied side during the war and was subsequently forced into exile by a communist takeover in 1947 .
he died in switzerland on dec. 5 at the age of 96 , having retired from public life due to severe illness in 2016 .
on saturday , bucharest churches rang their bells and mourners , many in tears , threw white flowers at the funeral procession , chanting king michael and down with communism .
european royalty attended , including spain s former king , juan carlos , britain s prince charles , king carl gustaf of sweden and his wife queen silvia .
even though the restoration of the monarchy is not an issue in the european union state , michael commanded great respect from romanians who saw him in sharp opposition to a political class which they link with poverty and corruption .
his death comes at a time of deep divisions in romanian society .
massive street protests against attempts by the ruling social democrats to weaken the fight against corruption and the rule of law have taken place on and off throughout 2017 .
earlier this month , the social democrats used their solid majority to approve a judicial overhaul in the lower house that threatens to put the justice system under political control .
on monday , lawmakers begin debating changes to the criminal code that critics say will derail law and order .
a descendant of the german hohenzollern dynasty and a cousin of britain s queen elizabeth , michael was in his early twenties when he participated in a 1944 coup that overthrew fascist leader marshal ion antonescu .
romania then broke with nazi germany and switched to the allied side .
historians have said his actions might have shortened the war and saved thousands of lives .
after communism collapsed , politicians fearing michael s influence blocked his first few attempted visits after decades of exile in switzerland , britain and the united states .
he finally returned to romania in 1992 and regained citizenship in 1997 .
with his passing , the romanian royal family s relevance will likely fade , since his children have little public standing .
princess margareta , his eldest daughter , remains custodian of the crown .