sydney ( reuters ) - the 40,000-year-old remains of an aboriginal man that prompted a drastic rewrite of australian history were returned to his ancestral homeland on friday after four decades of examination in the country s capital .
the discovery of mungo man in 1974 , named after the dry outback lakebed where the fully intact skeleton was found , doubled the known length of humans presence on the continent from 20,000 to 40,000 years .
but the bones removal to canberra for study , roughly 600 km ( 370 miles ) east of lake mungo , had angered the indigenous community there .
we ve been waiting all those years to get him back and i m so glad he is back , to put him in his resting place , said joan slade , an elder of the aboriginal ngiyampaa people at a ceremony welcoming the remains back to her ancestral country .
the skeleton , along with 104 other remains , arrived in a black hearse with the black , yellow and red aboriginal flag painted on its side .
a traditional smoking ceremony , with green gum-leaves burned over a small fire , welcomed the remains back to the red soil and saltbush scrub of lake mungo .
this , today , is one of those catalytic moments ... it makes us , the traditional owners , custodians of our culture , said elder michael young .
they will be kept in a secret , safe place so that we can pass on to the next generations the legacy that these people have given us .
though subsequent discoveries have pushed back even further the date of humans first arrival in australia , the finding of mungo man was at the time a huge advance for understanding human history .
his burial , with limbs stretched out , hands crossed across his groin and covered in an ochre drawn from some 200 km away , helped prove the ancient age of aboriginal civilization - the world s oldest continuing culture - dating back around the time neanderthals occupied europe .
the australian national university , whose researchers removed the remains , issued a formal apology when it turned the remains over to the region s aboriginal custodians in 2015 .
we recognise that the removal of these ancestral remains caused ongoing grief to your communities and we apologise unreservedly , it said .
while the research undertaken ... contributed significantly to the understanding of the history of indigenous australians , our research in the past has not always been undertaken with your full knowledge and support .