charleston , s.c./washington ( reuters ) - republican candidate jeb bush was endorsed by former rival senator lindsey graham of south carolina on friday , winning an important ally in a state where a feb. 20 vote could prove critical in the 2016 race for a presidential nominee .
the move by the hawkish graham , who ended his own presidential campaign on dec. 21 , reflected his view that bush offered the best plan to defeat islamic state militants and to do so by forming alliances with muslim nations in the region .
graham ’ s decision could be significant in swaying not only south carolina republican voters but also his good friend senator john mccain , the 2008 republican presidential nominee who remains an influential figure in the party and who has spoken warmly about bush in recent months .
graham said the vote in south carolina , which will follow iowa ’ s caucuses on feb. 1 and new hampshire ’ s primary on feb. 9 , will reset the race .
“ jeb bush is going to be a nominee that can win an election that as a party we can ’ t afford to lose .
he will be the president that can reset the world , bring us together and solve hard problems , ” graham said .
in making his announcement , graham also said that a bush rival , florida senator marco rubio , was , at 44 , too young to be president .
rubio delivered a strong performance thursday night at a debate of the top seven republican candidates , an event that front-runner donald trump was seen as winning .
graham , 60 , said he believed rubio would be president some day , but not following the nov. 8 election .
pointing to his own experience , he said at age 44 : “ i was not ready to be president. ” stung by a series of ads against him from the bush campaign and the superpac that supports bush , rubio released a tv ad on friday , calling bush desperate .
bush waved off the attacks , suggesting rubio has been too sensitive in the hypercompetitive political world .
“ if you ’ re a candidate , you can ’ t play the role of victim , and he shouldn ’ t either , ” bush said .
graham said trump ’ s proposed ban on muslims entering the united states would complicate efforts to gain support from governments in the middle east .
at the debate , bush had said trump ’ s idea was flawed and that a muslim alliance was vital .
graham , who has been a sharp trump critic , said bush ’ s bid to woo latino voters was also critical in widening the reach of the republican party , which has not won the presidency since bush ’ s brother , george w. bush , was reelected in 2004 .
bush , said graham , “ wants to expand a party that desperately needs to grow. ” trump dismissed graham ’ s move on twitter .
“ sen .
lindsey graham embarrassed himself with his failed run for president and now further embarrasses himself with endorsement of bush , ” he tweeted .
( editing by bernadette baum ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .