( reuters ) - the department of labor on wednesday released a long-awaited rule requiring companies to disclose when they seek advice about countering union campaigns , which several business groups vowed to challenge in court .
the so-called persuader rule , first proposed in 2011 , amends the federal labor management reporting and disclosure act to require detailed reports from employers and their advisers , including the types of consulting or legal services rendered and any fees paid .
for more than 50 years , the reporting law required such disclosure from employers only when their lawyers or consultants interacted directly with workers .
the department of labor said in a memo accompanying the rule that workers would be better prepared to make decisions about unionizing if they knew who was behind their employers ’ arguments .
the rule is backed by major unions , including the service employees international union and the afl-cio .
activities covered by the rule include hiring consultants or lawyers to create materials and policies for organizing anti-union campaigns or script managers ’ communications with employees .
the proposal has come under attack from groups including the u.s. chamber of commerce and the national association of manufacturers , which say it would stifle employers ’ free speech rights to counter union organizing , and the american bar association , which says it could interfere with attorney-client privilege .
the rule is the latest salvo in the business community ’ s battle with the obama administration over labor policy .
business groups compared the proposal with rules adopted last year by the national labor relations board to speed up the union election process , saying both provide little benefit to workers while burdening employers .
several business groups on wednesday said they would probably sue over the persuader rule .
they said it could discourage some companies from consulting lawyers at all , potentially leading them to commit inadvertent labor violations during union campaigns .
“ the dol must have created this rule with the real intent of assisting organized labor because they are the only ones who stand to gain anything from this , ” said robert cresanti , president and chief executive officer of the international franchise association , one of the groups that says it is considering a court challenge .
pushback was also expected from republicans in congress .
representative john kline of minnesota , who chairs the house education and the workforce committee , said in a statement on wednesday that the rule was unfair because it did not impose the same disclosure requirements on unions .