new york ( reuters ) - republicans mostly blame the u.s. congress , and not president donald trump or party leaders , for failing to pass their party ’ s healthcare overhaul , according to a reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on wednesday .
the march 25-28 poll asked who should take responsibility for the failure of the american health care act ( ahca ) , which republican leaders pulled from consideration last week without a vote .
besides trump , who backed the bill , and house of representatives speaker paul ryan , who was expected to shepherd it through congress , the poll asked if people blamed house republicans , house democrats or the media .
republicans were most likely to blame congress .
some 26 percent said house democrats were most responsible and 23 percent blamed house republicans .
another 13 percent blamed trump and 10 percent blamed ryan .
only 8 percent blamed the media .
their assessment appeared to align with trump ’ s criticism of democratic leaders and the conservative freedom caucus , whom he blamed for the bill ’ s failure .
overall , nearly one in four americans , including democrats and independents , blamed trump .
ryan , congress and the media received less criticism .
the republican reform was widely criticized after estimates by the non-partisan congressional budget office showed 24 million people could lose their health insurance over the next 10 years .
trump said on tuesday he still thinks healthcare reform can happen “ very quickly ” in washington , but he did not offer any specifics on how it could get done , or what would be changed from the previous bill .
nearly half of all americans said they would like to see that happen , though the response was split along party lines .
some 80 percent of republicans said they would like to see their party take another swing at a bill , compared with only 25 percent of democrats .
in a separate poll conducted between jan.7-23 , 46 percent of americans wanted to keep obamacare , the popular name for president barack obama ’ s healthcare reform , while fixing “ problem areas , ” and another 8 percent wanted to keep it exactly as it is .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english in all 50 states .
the march 25-28 poll included 1,332 people , including 456 republicans and 558 democrats .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points for the entire group and 5 percentage points for democrats and republicans .
( reporting by chris kahn , editing by ross colvin )