two patriots walk : the officials , ernie lunardelli , 54 , and his son , anthony lunardelli , 27 , stood for the anthem and then abruptly left the field after seeing the players kneeling .
their spots on the five-person crew were filled by junior cadet officials at the game , ernie lunardelli said .
disrespecting our country i m not in favor of anyone disrespecting our country , our flag , the armed forces , ernie lunardelli told nj advance media saturday afternoon .
what they re protesting has nothing to do with the national anthem and i m against it , so i decided to protest for them kneeling and that s what i did .
ernie lunardelli said weeks ago he informed the officials assigner for the greater middlesex conference , thomas paulikas , that he would walk off the field if any players knelt for the anthem before his games.best comment of the week : whoever is disrespecting that flag and the national anthem , that s who i have a problem with , lunardelli said .
that s my protest .
i don t care if it s a baby , if it s an 80-year-old man , anybody .
i don t care .
any race , color , i don t care who it is .
it s not the way i was brought up and it pisses me off that people are doing that .
punished for respecting our country : lunardelli , meanwhile , said he and his son were unassigned from working saturday s game between spotswood and raritan.after lunardelli and his son left , they were replaced by two cadets who were already assigned to work on the chain crew for the game .
lunardelli alleged saturday the game is not official because the cadets did not have proper certification or training .
that game should not count now because they did not have the right personnel on the field , lunardelli said .
these kids weren t officially carded and trained , so they re putting the kids in jeopardy , i m not .
monroe athletic director greg beyer declined comment when reached by phone saturday .
state officials assigner carmine picardo also declined to discuss the situation , saying he did not know what could happen based on the protest by the lunardellis.colts neck went on to defeat monroe , 18-13.read more : nj.comall is not lost : this new jersey high school has the right idea : while some players choose to disrespect our national anthem , several new jersey high school football programs are honoring those who protect and serve.st .
joseph high school held its second annual military , police and fireman appreciation day in september : the event , which former st. joseph head coach casey ransone initiated with tremendous success last season , includes a pregame ceremony and complementary tailgate for the honorees.what a great idea ! read more : mycentralnj.com