hong kong ( reuters ) - as hong kong seeks more land to help ease a worsening housing crisis , some lawmakers and activists are urging officials to take a fresh look at little-used swathes of more than $ 100 billion worth of real estate controlled by the chinese military .
the hong kong garrison of the people s liberation army ( pla ) still occupies some 19 sites across the global financial hub it inherited from the british military when the former colony was handed back to china in 1997 .
while several sites , such as the high-rise barracks near the central financial district , are neon-lit and busy , others appear overgrown , rundown and little used , according to reuters investigations , activists and diplomats monitoring military activity .
the parcels range from mansions in the exclusive peak district and once-luxurious officers apartments in hong kong and kowloon , to firing ranges and decades-old nissen huts across the semi-rural new territories , near the border with mainland china .
with hong kong property prices at record highs , denis ma , head of research at property consultancy jll , said a mid-range estimate of the total land value could reach hk $ 1.06 trillion ( $ 135 billion ) .
based on the recent sale of a nearby plot , the central site alone could be worth $ 29 billion and deliver 4.5 million square feet of floor space if developed into a commercial site .
suitable residential land among the 19 sites could yield 65,000 family-sized apartments , ma added .
across hong kong , the pla occupies some 2,700 hectares ( 6,670 acres ) , according to local government records , nearly half the size of manhattan .
a lack of housing is a source of rising social and political tension in hong kong , one of the world s most expensive property markets where owning even a 600-square foot flat is beyond the reach of many families .
a recently formed government task force on land supply acknowledged public calls for some military land to be returned for housing , but its chairman has said their development potential may not be large .
the task force s initial meetings have instead advocated developing 1,400 hectares of new land through reclamation .
the preference for costly reclamation over re-purposing pla land has led some to believe the hong kong government does not want to confront the beijing leadership over a potentially sensitive issue of national security .
under the laws that enshrine hong kong s freedoms and autonomy , beijing is given direct control of defense and foreign affairs .
reuters sent questions to hong kong leader carrie lam , the government s development bureau and the task force .
in reply , a spokesman told reuters the task force would consider ideas from the community , their facts as well as their pros and cons .
it would finalize its recommendations by the end of 2018 .
as far as we understand , all existing military sites in hong kong are currently used for defense purposes and none is left idle , the spokesman said , quoting hong kong s security bureau .
lawmaker eddie chu , part of hong kong s democratic opposition , said even though it was common sense to open up some military sites for housing , the local government would likely avoid asking tough questions of beijing .
the hong kong government must know this is a solution , but i expect them to pay lip service to it , he said .
the pla garrison and china s defence ministry did not respond to faxed questions from reuters .
security experts say while some pla presence is a fact of life , the city s defense needs are easily met by beijing s rapidly modernizing forces - a vastly different situation to that faced by the british in defending their outpost during the cold war .
hong kong has never been so well defended ... it is a tiny segment of the mainland and is surrounded by the now significant forces of the southern theatre command of the pla , said trevor hollingsbee , a former hong kong security official and naval intelligence analyst with britain s defence ministry .
rather than serve a vital strategic interest , the pla presence in hong kong is essentially to show the public who is boss .
after inspecting the garrison as part of 20th handover anniversary celebrations in june , chinese president xi jinping told the troops they were an important embodiment to national sovereignty , according to state media .
as well as its central barracks , security experts and diplomats believe a naval base and small airfield are considered key local sites to the pla , along with a kowloon barracks that houses light tanks and anti-riot units .
another 10-hectare kowloon site and residential blocks near shek kong appear barely used , according to activists and reuters own checks .
soldiers armed with rifles and bayonets guard the entrance to the kowloon site , but some buildings appear dilapidated , others rundown and many are unoccupied .
at shek kong , the residential blocks appear little used , day or night , and security is lax .
in camps closer to the border , small deployments of troops drill at dawn outside aging british-era huts and weed-choked fences .
the 122 hectares of the stanley fort on hong kong s prime southern coast is also underutilized , according to diplomats .
about half of the 8,000-10,000 soldiers of the hong kong garrison are based in the city at any time , security experts and diplomats believe .
key units are kept in southern china , along with its most advanced weaponry , including jet fighters and air defense weapons .
chinese laws covering the garrison state that any unused land , after central government approval , should be handed back without compensation to the local authorities , so any deal would likely have no benefits for the pla s coffers .
community organizer sze lai-shan , who assists some of the city s 200,000 people living in wire cages and partitioned homes , said all options for the land should be on the table .
i think using some for temporary housing shouldn t be a big issue , sze said .
we could perhaps use some existing buildings for temporary housing , or even build temporary housing on some sites .