madrid ( reuters ) - the catalan parliament s speaker and five lawmakers will appear before spain s supreme court in madrid on thursday to answer charges of rebellion and sedition for their roles in staging a banned referendum on catalonia s independence last month .
the court will decide whether to remand the speaker , carme forcadell , and the lawmakers while the investigation continues or release them under certain conditions .
eight former members of the catalan government and the leaders of the two main pro-independence grassroots groups are already in custody , awaiting trial on sedition charges for their parts in the oct. 1 vote , ruled illegal by spanish courts .
the deposed catalan president , carles puigdemont , went into self-imposed exile in belgium last week after spain s central government responded to an independence declaration by firing his administration , dissolving the catalan parliament and calling regional elections for december .
spain s high court issued an arrest warrant last week on sedition and rebellion charges for puigdemont and four former members of his cabinet who are also in brussels .
forcadell and the lawmakers were summoned last week to the supreme court , which handles the cases of people who enjoy parliamentary immunity , but it gave them another week to prepare their defenses .
the catalan independence push has deeply divided spain , dragging it into its worst political crisis since the return of democracy four decades ago and fuelling anti-spanish sentiment in catalonia and nationalist tendencies elsewhere .
cracks , however , have appeared within the pro-independence coalition and within puigdemont s own pdecat party ( democratic catalan party ) .
catalan secessionist parties on tuesday failed to agree on a united ticket to contest the december election , making it more difficult to rule the region after the vote and press ahead with their collective bid to split from spain .
the struggle has also divided catalonia itself and caused deep resentment across the rest of spain , although separatist sentiment persists in the basque country and some other areas .
puigdemont and his former vice president , oriol junqueras , are the two main leaders behind the secession bid , which last month led to a unilateral declaration of independence that spain thwarted when it imposed direct rule .