enough is enough .
americans need to start making business owners and their employees pay up for discriminating against them simply because they dare to show their support for our president .
good for this trump supporter for fighting back against the intolerant left .
a lot of americans would be happy to contribute to his legal defense bartenders at a west village hot spot served up discrimination with a liberal twist refusing to serve a customer because he was wearing a make america great again hat , according to a lawsuit.greg piatek , 30 , an accountant from philadelphia , claims he was snubbed and eventually 86 d by workers at the happiest hour on west 10th street over his conservative fashion statement , popularized by donald trump on the campaign trail , he told the post .
anyone who supports trump or believes what you believe is not welcome here !
and you need to leave right now because we won t serve you !
piatek claims he was told as he was shown the door by a manager.the shake-up started when piatek and two pals , after a visit to the 9/11 memorial , ordered drinks at the posh tavern around 6:30 p.m. on jan. 28.a female bartender served piatek a $ 15 jalape o margarita and his pals beers .
but when he tried to order a second round , a male bartender noticed his hat and skipped them , he said.one of piatek s pals pointed out it was their turn to be served , but the bartender scoffed .
is that hat a joke ?
the manhattan supreme court suit claims .
ignoring me because i m wearing the hat is ridiculous , piatek said .
it s really sad .
the flustered bartender got them a second round but allegedly slammed the drinks down .
a third bartender also asked piatek if his lid was a joke and shouted , i can t believe you would support someone so terrible and you must be as terrible a person !
piatek claimed .
i wasn t even trying to order a drink and she said , don t even try to order from me .
i won t get you a drink , piatek alleged.a manager said he spoke to the bar owner , and was told , anyone who supports trump or believes what you believe is not welcome here .
and you need to leave right now because we won t serve you !
according to the suit .
for entire story : new york post new york post reporter dean balsamini had a similar experience when he wore a trump hat around nyc .
he recounts his day of scorn and discrimination after donning a make america great again hat as he visited a few hot spots in the city : i may as well have been wearing a red sox hat at yankee stadium.the mere sight of my cap nearly caused a riot at the historic stonewall inn on christopher street site of the 1969 riots that launched the gay rights movement .
you come into a gay bar this gay bar with that hat !
one woman lectured as a large crowd gathered.at soho s sceney la esquina , where celebs like julia roberts nosh on $ 26 enchiladas , servers nearly lost their lunch when i showed up .
oh my god , do you see that ?
is he serious ?
is he kidding me ?
one waiter gasped.my companion and i were quickly shunted to an out of sight table near a back wall .
don t talk to him !
a man instructed a street vendor as i browsed along 125th street near the apollo theater.hipsters and trustafarians along bedford avenue in williamsburg either did a double take , shot me a death stare or a snarky remark .
take off that stupid f ing hat !
one skinny-jeans-wearer sneered.at high-end chapeau peddler goorin bros. , i overheard a salesman tell his colleague , i m losing my sh !
as i walked in .
when i asked him to hold my hat while i admired a fedora , he grimaced .
i m surprised nobody s knocked that hat off your head !
a mother of two scolded me as we crossed paths along central park west and 63rd street .
make america great again right !