brussels ( reuters ) - european union leaders agreed on thursday to provide stronger support to italy for its work in libya and replenish their africa fund to further curb immigration to europe .
we have a real chance of closing the central mediterranean route , chairman donald tusk said after 28 eu leaders meeting in brussels discussed migration , stressing the need to lower the number of arrivals from africa going through the mediterranean to italy .
eu executive european commission told the group they needed to immediately chip in an extra 225 million euros for migration-related projects in africa due to run this year and early next .
if we do want to be as present as possible in africa - mainly in the northern part of africa - we have to increase financial means , commission head jean-claude juncker said .
brussels has so far committed 2.9 billion euros to the so-called africa trust fund , with another 234 million euros from eu states , according to the commission .
brussels said 1.6 billion euros would be spent by the end of 2017 on turkey .
in 2016 the bloc promised 3 billion euros for syrian refugees in exchange for ankara shutting down the route traffickers and smugglers were using to get people to greece .
despite sour eu-turkey relations on several issues , german chancellor angela merkel praised ankara for hosting refugees from syria and said the bloc should pull together another 3 billion euros to that end .
we have promised 3 billion euros for the coming years in addition to the 3 billion that we have already committed .
we need to deliver on this promise , merkel told reporters on arriving for the two-day eu leaders summit in brussels .
this money helps the refugees who are living under very difficult conditions .
once again , turkey is doing a great job here , she said .
since 2015 , the bloc has helped greece , italy and bulgaria with nearly 2 billion euros to manage immigration flows .
it spent another 100 million euros on controlling migratory routes in the western balkans , according to figures provided by the bloc .
it has been spending on more deportations and financing united nations projects for refugees and migrants in africa , and mulling a center in libya to assess asylum requests there .
despite criticism from rights groups that the eu is violating international humanitarian law by striving to curb immigration , the bloc has applauded itself for reducing arrivals by more than 70 percent in 2016 from the peak in 2015 when more than a million people entered in an uncontrolled flow .
the influx of immigrants in 2015 caught the bloc by surprise , alarmed the eu s 500 million people and fueled support for anti-immigration , populist and nationalist groups .
the bloc s asylum system broke down under the sheer numbers and the cherished schengen zone of control-free travel was strained as member states introduced emergency border checks .
eu states have since sought to agree on how to change their asylum laws , with bitter disputes deepening east-west divides .
tusk said on thursday the 28 eu leaders would discuss the issue again in december and were aiming for an agreement by mid-2018 .
earlier this week , the european parliament agreed its own stance on asylum reform , including an option to cut eu funds to states that refuse to host asylum-seekers reaching the bloc .
it proposed moving away from the current rule mandating that the first country through which a person enters the eu must handle his or her asylum request , saying it puts too much burden on frontline states like italy , greece , malta or spain .
southern frontline states want a scheme that would automatically lift people off their soil during periods of exceptionally high immigration and take them elsewhere in the eu .
westerners like germany and sweden , which eventually receive most of the refugees , have said more of the burden must be shared and that solidarity was needed .
eastern eu countries like poland and hungary have refused to admit anyone , saying doing so could compromise national security and affect the traditional composition of their populations .