battambang , cambodia ( reuters ) - sin rozeth s attempts to show the benefits of grassroots democracy to some of the poorest people in the cambodian city of battambang are in peril .
the 30-year-old daughter of a vegetable seller became the head of ochar commune , the equivalent of local council leader , in elections in june .
her victory was part of an all politics is local strategy that helped the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) win 40 percent of the 1,646 local seats at stake .
previously it had just 2 percent .
but the authoritarian government of former khmer rouge commander hun sen is now cracking down at every level on a party that had shown it might beat him at elections due next july .
the longest-serving prime minister in the world accuses the cnrp of doing the bidding of the united states .
hun sen s government has arrested cnrp leader kem sokha on treason charges and taken steps to have the party dissolved altogether .
once vocal rights groups have also been silenced and media critical of the ruling party have been repressed .
for sin rozeth , it has meant warning letters from city and provincial authorities threatening to remove her .
now voters are showing signs of discouragement in ochar , a community of 18,000 where battambang spills into rice fields and dwellings patched from metal sheet and wood sit alongside low-rise cinderblock homes .
few new voters in the commune have registered ahead of next year s national elections , she said .
it is the same picture across cambodia .
the electoral commission estimated 1.6 million people needed to register - either because they had come of age or had been missed before and barely a quarter have done so ahead of a nov. 9 deadline .
at stake is the shaky democracy that western donors spent billions of dollars trying to build after the genocide of the khmer rouge killed an estimated 1.7 million people - around a quarter of the population - between 1975 and 1979 .
hun sen s dominance dates from 1985 , when he became prime minister under the patronage of occupying vietnamese forces he had helped to drive out his former khmer rouge comrades .
a 1991 peace deal ended civil war and u.n.-supervised elections were held in 1993 .
hun sen lost , but maneuvered to keep power and has used force and the courts to undermine opponents ever since .
sin rozeth , who took up politics after dropping out of university for lack of money , said she made some money through helping others with real estate deals in battambang province to support herself and her single mother , who raised her .
her commune s official budget had been frozen and she had to pay the office s electricity bill from her own pocket , she said .
donors in cambodia and abroad also helped .
they bought a computer and plastic chairs for the office .
it is very hard to work , sin rozeth said .
city and provincial authorities have sent three warning letters .
among the accusations : offering services free of charge , discriminating against ruling party officials , usurping the role of the commune clerk and holding meetings on saturdays .
the cnrp s commune chiefs elsewhere complain , too .
va sam , of kok khleang commune in phnom penh , said the interior ministry had taken over issuing documents such as land titles and birth certificates , previously a big source of funds for the commune .
discrimination against cnrp commune chiefs was widespread , said mu sochua , a deputy of kem sokha who fled into exile fearing arrest .
other communes face the same targeting if we shine and show too much competence , she told reuters .
battambang s provincial governor , nguon ratanak , from the government of the ruling cambodia people s party ( cpp ) , told reuters local leaders had to obey the law and denied stopping anyone from developing their communes .
they still want to apply the political policies used during the campaign , he said .
commune chiefs must work under the guidelines of the interior ministry , not their political party .
if the cnrp is banned , with a court decision due on nov. 16 , the ruling party would take control of all the communes the cnrp currently leads , based on a change to the election law approved by cambodia s cpp-dominated parliament last month .
the government dismisses criticism that the crackdown ahead of next july s election is turning cambodia into a one-party state .
it says it is only acting against those who have broken cambodia s laws .
arrested in a midnight raid on sept. 3 , cnrp leader kem sokha was accused of plotting with americans to organize a color revolution like those that toppled eastern european strongmen .
we can t let this dangerous revolution happen in cambodia , said senior interior ministry official huy vannak .
you try to put an american jacket onto a cambodian and it doesn t fit .
among those forced out even before kem sokha s arrest was the u.s. state department funded national democratic institute ( ndi ) , which spent 25 years on a democracy-building mission that cost an average $ 2 million a year for the past five years .
sin rozeth , who was born two years after hun sen came to power in 1985 , has benefited from its training , as did many members of the ruling party .
it included lessons in campaigning - trainers taught her not to attack other parties , she said - and how to present her own policies .
ndi said that since the recent elections , 138 ruling party members had participated in ndi activities along with 153 members of the opposition .
if this was an effort to try to collude with the opposition then we re guilty of colluding with the ruling party as well , ndi president kenneth wollack told reuters .
within days of kem sokha s arrest , a top chinese official flew to phnom penh with words of support .
china has replaced the united states as cambodia s biggest single donor by far .
in the u.s. congress , senators john mccain and dick durbin have introduced a resolution that could lead to travel restrictions on cambodian leaders .
cambodian officials say they don t fear any penalties .
the americans can t even control north korea , government spokesman phay siphan told reuters .
sin rozeth believes the strategy of promising change locally as well as nationally helped explain her party s success .
facebook live videos show the diminutive and energetic figure getting drains built through muddy streets of battambang , famed for cambodia s finest jasmine rice and its french colonial architecture , winning her followers far beyond the city .
i went out to meet people and get to know their problems .
i went to funerals to pay condolences even if i didn t know the people , said sin rozeth .
we just have to show what we can deliver day by day , she said .
we re a new generation and we want to show that administration can be effective and clean and free of charge .
a 2013 video about that strategy was used as evidence against kem sokha .
in it , he says he has the backing of unnamed americans for a plan to win power requiring that before changing the top level , we need to uproot the lower one .
for kem sokha , it was a legitimate political strategy in a democracy .
the government called it treason .