paris ( reuters ) - french cement group lafarge paid close to 13 million euros ( $ 15.2 million ) to armed groups including islamic state militants to keep operating in syria from 2011-2015 , human rights lawyers said on tuesday .
they were speaking at a news conference on the course of french prosecutors preliminary inquiry into lafarge s operations launched in june on suspicion of financing of a terrorist enterprise .
the lawyers for rights group sherpa said a large part of the money went directly or indirectly into the pockets of islamic state and that payments lasted until well after the closure of lafarge s jalabiya plant in september 2014 .
they were citing a figure pinpointed by prosecutors examining lafarge s activities in syria , in the throes of civil war since 2011 , and drawn from an internal report by u.s. law firm baker and mckenzie for lafarge .
as part of the inquiry , the precise figure retained is 12,946,000 euros paid by lafarge between 2011 and 2015 to terrorist organizations , including the islamic state , sherpa lawyer marie dose said .
lafarge became lafargeholcim , the world s largest cement maker , in 2015 after a takeover by swiss holcim .
former lafargeholcim ceo eric olsen resigned in april after the company admitted it had paid armed groups to keep a factory operating in syria .
his lawyer has said olsen will appeal against being put under investigation .
sherpa and other human rights groups in france as well as the french finance ministry have filed suit against lafarge .
sherpa wants the company to be placed under formal criminal investigation , like olsen , and also accuses lafarge of not cooperating with authorities and trying to hide important elements from the investigation .
a lafargeholcim spokeswoman on tuesday rejected these accusations but would not comment on the 13-million-euro figure .
lafargeholcim fully cooperates with the justice ( authorities ) .
thousands of documents have been given by the group to magistrates or seized during a search , she said .
we strongly contest that the company is trying in any way to limit the right of its employees or former employees to defend themselves ... or ( limit ) their capacity to cooperate in a judicial inquiry , she added .
being placed under formal investigation in france means that prosecutors believe they have serious or consistent evidence that could result in prosecution .
it is a step toward a possible trial , though the investigation can still be dropped .
last friday the paris prosecutor also placed olsen s predecessor as ceo , bruno lafont , and his ex-deputy for operations under formal investigation as part of the inquiry into lafarge activities in syria , the two men s lawyers said .