wellington ( reuters ) - a new zealand navy vessel will ferry diesel fuel around the country as the government rushes to alleviate a days-long fuel shortage that has cast air travel into disarray in the run-up to saturday s national election .
the ship would transport up to 4.8 million liters of diesel - equivalent to 150 tankers - to enable industry to focus on providing jet fuel to crisis-hit auckland airport , energy and resources minister judith collins said on thursday .
more than 120 flights have been canceled in new zealand s largest city this week , disrupting thousands of travelers each day after damage to the single privately owned pipeline that carries jet fuel from a refinery to the city s airport .
the government will continue to do everything it can to support industry efforts to address the disruption , collins said in statement .
new zealand s government and industry have taken a series of measures to try to contain the crisis , from fuel rationing to calling on the military to help truck in supplies of fuel , and have set up an industry government group to handle the fallout .
another 14 flights were canceled on thursday , according to auckland airport , but that was less than half the number of flights canceled on wednesday .
generally what we are seeing is the cancellations across the industry have stabilized , said justin tighe-umbers , executive director of the board of airline representatives new zealand .
the ordeal has become a headache for the ruling national party which is battling it out with the newly invigorated labour party to form the next government .
the latest poll showed national with a near 10 point lead over labour , but polls have been volatile and at times have shown labour with a comfortable winning margin .
jacinda ardern , which has almost single-handedly boosted labour s chances since taking over the leadership in august , has criticized the government for not having taken measures to avoid the kind of infrastructure failure that led to the disruptive fuel shortage .
overnight , australia s qantas airways operated two flights from australia , nicknamed fuel mules , carrying fuel to top up jetstar and qantas aircraft in auckland , the airline said .
one was a scheduled a330 passenger service that carried an extra 10,000 kilograms of fuel , while the other was a special 747 flight with 65,000 kilograms of fuel aboard , it said .