milan ( reuters ) - the outcome of local elections in sicily has further weakened the ruling party of former prime minister matteo renzi and strengthened the populist 5-star movement s lead , a poll conducted after the regional vote showed .
based on the ipsos poll published in saturday s corriere della sera , a center-right coalition would win next year s general election with 253 seats while the 5-star would have 173 and renzi s democratic party 164 together with a smaller ally , leading to a hung parliament .
as italy nears a national vote it must hold by may 2018 , concerns are mounting it may leave the country ungovernable .
the poll conducted on nov. 8-9 , showed the 5-star movement now leads with 29.3 percent of preferences while the democratic party stands at 24.3 percent , having lost six percentage points in six months .
italy has just introduced a new electoral system that is expected to handicap the anti-establishment 5-star favoring instead mainstream political blocs .
the voting system - a mix of proportional representation and first-past-the-post - will benefit parties that form pre-election coalitions , something the 5-star has always ruled out .
seen as a dry run for next year s nationwide election , the sicilian ballot held on nov. 5 marked a strong political comeback for silvio berlusconi , handing government of the island to a center-right bloc backed by the four-times prime minister .
berlusconi s forza italia party had 16.1 percent of preferences according to the poll .
the anti-immigrant northern league another 15.3 percent and smaller center-right party fratelli d italia 5.1 percent .
half of the respondents in the poll said renzi had been weakened by the sicilian vote and should not run for premier again , while 32 percent thought he had remained the best option for the democratic party .
renzi stepped down as prime minister after voters rejected his landmark constitutional reform in december last year .
half of the people polled said they thought the center-right would not be able to stay united once in power .