santo domingo/caracas ( reuters ) - members of venezuela s leftist government and opposition coalition began a new round of talks in the dominican republic on friday aimed at resolving the opec nation s long-running and often bloody political standoff .
various mediation efforts have failed in recent years : foes accuse president nicolas maduro of exploiting dialogue to buy time , while he says the opposition prefers violence .
few venezuelans expect a breakthrough this time , with opponents demoralized at seeing maduro consolidate power and position himself for possible re-election in 2018 .
the democratic unity coalition - which failed to dislodge maduro in months of street protests this year that led to about 125 deaths - is pressing primarily for a guarantee of free and fair voting next year .
it also wants a foreign humanitarian aid corridor to alleviate one of the worst economic crises in modern history , as well as freedom for several hundred jailed activists , and respect for the opposition-led congress .
we ve come to seek solutions to venezuela s problems : food , medicines , free elections , and the need to restore democracy , lead opposition negotiator julio borges said .
it s a difficult path .
the opposition s bargaining power has been weakened by a surprising defeat in october gubernatorial elections .
furthermore , the multi-party group is divided , with more militant sectors opposing the talks .
the dialogue they are planning to start is a parody ... an instrument for the regime to gain time and keep itself in power , said antonio ledezma , an opposition leader who escaped house arrest this month to seek asylum abroad .
maduro has instructed negotiators to focus on opposition to u.s. sanctions against his government .
he was strengthened by the october vote and anticipates another win in mayoral elections set for december , which the opposition is mainly boycotting .
president donald trump has slapped individual sanctions on a raft of officials for alleged rights abuses , corruption and drugs crimes , as well as economic measures intended to stop the venezuelan government issuing new debt .
maduro wants any potential deal with the opposition to include joint pressure on washington to back off .
he has blamed the u.s. measures for venezuela s economic problems , which in fact began several years ago amid failed statist policies and a plunge in global oil prices .
we came to demand the immediate end of the economic aggressions against venezuela , said chief government negotiator and information minister jorge rodriguez .
there is no indication , however , that trump would be prepared to ease pressure on maduro , whom he has called a bad leader who dreams of becoming a dictator .
on the contrary , u.s. officials say washington could strengthen sanctions unless maduro enacts democratic changes .
the government also wants recognition for venezuela s constituent assembly , an entirely pro-maduro superbody elected in july despite an opposition boycott and widespread international condemnation .
with an eye to its push to refinance more than $ 120 billion in foreign debt , maduro would like the opposition-led congress to agree to approve any negotiations with bondholders , a potential loophole to get round the u.s. sanctions .
foreign ministers from chile , mexico , bolivia , nicaragua and host dominican republic were acting as guarantors at the talks over two days at the foreign ministry building in santo domingo .
major near-term breakthroughs remain unlikely given the complexity of issues on the table and the distance between each side s preferences , said eurasia group consultancy .