shawn helton 21st century wireanother shocking active-shooter incident rocks america .
this time , according to florida s broward county sheriff s department , thirteen people were shot , including five dead , after an apparent shooting rampage took place at fort lauderdale s hollywood international airport yesterday.at the moment , there is still no clear motive for the shooting attack and no evidence linking the suspect to terror .
however , officials have yet to rule out the possibility of terrorism.the timing of this shooting attack can not be overstated , as there was a major us intelligence review over an alleged russian hack influence on america s 2016 election that was scheduled on the very same day known wolf ?
what really happened at the fort lauderdale airport ?
( photo illustration 21wire s shawn helton ) note : it only took a matter of hours for the fort lauderdale shooter s back story to emerge.according to authorities , the suspected airport shooter , 26-year-old esteban santiago-ruiz , checked a declared handgun inside his luggage , later retrieving it at fort lauderdale airport s terminal 2 baggage claim .
santiago then reportedly loaded the gun in a bathroom came out in the terminal opening fire on fellow travelers including a series of head shots.after the shooting spree , the suspect was reported to have calmly turned himself into the police. # florida # breakingnews # fllshooting fort lauderdale-hollywood international airport # shooting # warleak pic.twitter.com/xku79mtx1j warleak ( @ warleak ) january 6 , 2017according to broward county sheriff scott israel , the shooter is in custody and unharmed , said .
no law enforcement officers fired any shots .
first picture of the shooter released by eye witness via twistity !
@ cnn @ foxnews # fortlauderdale # termianl2 # shooting # estebansantiago pic.twitter.com/np3cuknr41 twistity ( @ twistitynews ) january 6 , 2017we 're told this is the gun used by the shooter at ft lauderdale airport ( photo courtesy : mark lea ) pic.twitter.com/oensb9mp5j wsvn 7 news ( @ wsvn ) january 6 , 2017 @ politicsghost smiling swat ?
no record he flew air canada ?
only 2 cops escort away ?
friday aftrn standard dem fake news time pic.twitter.com/8qpi4tngwl neurotrade ( @ neurotrade ) january 6 , 2017the whole series of events is strange to say the least , but the oddities didn t stop there .
santiago-ruiz s us military background includes service in the puerto rico army national guard in 2007 , according to the department of defense .
santiago-ruiz was listed as a combat engineer who had been deployed to iraq in april 2010 , returning to us soil in 2011 .
later in november of 2014 , following a move to alaska , he became a member of the alaska national guard .
in august of 2016 , santiago-ruiz was transferred to inactive ready reserve.additionally , santiago-ruiz was stated to be employed by an as of yet unnamed anchorage security company while living in alaska.according to the associated press and miami s local cbs news affiliate , the pentagon said he [ santiago-ruiz ] went awol several times as a specialist during a stint with the alaska national guard and was demoted to private first class , the associated press reported .
he was given a general discharge , which is lower than an honorable discharge .
earlier reports stated that santiago-ruiz flew on a flight from canada .
air canada promptly denied that the suspected airport shooter was on any of their flights .
other us mainstream outlets later stated that he arrived on an in-bound delta airlines flight instead .
airport shooting esteban santiago is in custody following a shooting at a fort lauderdale airport .
authorities gathered travelers on the tarmac after the incident .
( image source : chicago tribune ) interestingly , former white house press secretary ari fleischer was on the scene of the shooting , and was live-tweeting : i 'm at the ft. lauderdale airport .
shots have been fired .
everyone is running .
ari fleischer ( @ arifleischer ) january 6 , 2017another known wolf ? as 21 wire has documented over the years , many so-called shooting/terror/attacks involve individuals being monitored by security services prior to an alleged act taking place .
a place where a lone wolf graduates into the ranks of a known wolf .
in fact , very often those being watched by authorities exhibit all the tell-tale signs of a patsy or an informant , working either for a law enforcement or intelligence agency .
historically , government operators have often made use of low-life criminals , and mentally disturbed individuals to fulfill various role in entrapment stings or sometimes as bonafide actors in an actual attacks .
in any case , alleged attackers and security agencies have a dicey relationship , making any link between them highly suspect in nature.in january of 2015 , a strategic security service think-tank known as the soufan group , reported that a larger national security threat resides with radicals who ve had a lengthy criminal background with known ties to security agencies : the soufan group , a new york think tank , said a better term for lone wolves would be known wolves , given how many are already known to western intelligence agencies before they strike .
these individuals , acting alone or in small groups have been on the radar of various agencies and organisations , highlighting the difficulty of effectively monitoring and managing people at the nexus of criminality and terrorism , it said in a report this week the fort lauderdale shooting story rapidly emerged out of corporate media halls looking to sell the public on the latest tragic shooting in america .
the hollywood international airport shooting has elements of other high-profile shooting events in recent history , such as the tsa/lax shooting , the the tucson shooting , orlando pulse nightclub shooting , the san bernardino shooting attack , the chattanooga military base shooting siege , as well as the aspects of the aurora theater shooting and the grand theater shooting in lafayette and many others.is the fort lauderdale airport shooter another case of a known wolf triggered into action ? the apparent fort lauderdale airport shooter , santiago-ruiz , who is said to be puerto rican was born in new jersey ( living in alaska ) , and was well-known to authorities , having recently undergone a mental health evaluation after allegedly visiting an fbi office in alaska where he claimed he was under cia mind control , with voices in his head telling him to join isis : they say last november , he walked into the fbi s office in anchorage , alaska , claiming that his mind was being controlled by the cia and that it was forcing him to join isis .
he appeared agitated and incoherent , and made disjointed statements and although he said he didn t wish to hurt anyone , agents were concerned by his erratic behavior and decided to call local authorities , a senior federal law enforcement official said.local police took him to a local medical facility for evaluation , and the fbi closed its assessment of santiago after conducting database reviews , interagency checks and interviews with family members , the official said .
new : in nov. 2016 , fll suspect walked into fbi office in anchorage , claiming he was being forced to fight for isis , sources tell cbs news .
cbs news ( @ cbsnews ) january 6 , 2017shades of the manchurian candidate ? we re also told that the suspect s aunt had flagged his mentally unstable condition previously .
according to usa today : yet the troubling episode is now part of an emerging profile of a deeply disturbed man described by his aunt friday as someone who had lost his mind .
maria luisa ruiz of union city , n.j. , said her nephew , who had moved to alaska for work as a security guard , only recently began to show signs of instability .
like a month ago , it was like he lost his mind , she said he said he saw things .
the inclusion of santiago-ruiz s alleged voices in his head , supposedly triggered by the cia , immediately recalls another bizarre case that was also difficult to comprehend the navy yard shooter from 2013.here s a passage from a 21wire report discussing the apparent navy yard shooter , aaron alexis : rather than get caught up in the fear campaigns sold to us by our favorite news anchor-zombies , its important to consider another aspect of these mass shootings by making a tally of the trigger points that media uses to manipulate public perception , as they carefully propagandize certain elements within a crisis making sure to illicit the right reaction from every major demographic .
is this what we are seeing in the aftermath of the fort lauderdale shooting ? heavy.com added the following details about the supposedly troubled santiago-ruiz : the shooter whose troubled behavior had already drawn the attention of the fbi , army , and anchorage police arrived friday afternoon at the busy airport on a flight from alaska , with the gun used in the shooting properly stored in his checked baggage , nbc news reports.one report said the shooter , who lived in alaska , had no other luggage but the gun , which federal rules allow a person to declare at a ticket counter and check under the plane but not carry on .
in addition to santiago-ruiz s lengthy time with the us military and the national guard , in recent years , the suspected shooter was involved in various crimes .
here s a passage from the daily beast describing some of santiago s background : according to charging documents provided by the anchorage prosecutor s office to the daily beast , on january 10 , 2016 , santiago verbally assaulted his then girlfriend , a 40-year old mother of one child from a previous marriage whom the daily beast is not naming , through a locked bathroom door , telling her to get the fuck out , bitch .
after he forced his way in by breaking down the door , he smacked her in the head and strangled her .
by the time police arrived , santiago had fled the scene.santiago was arrested days later and released on the condition that he have no contact with the victim , but in february , anchorage police found him at his girlfriend s residence and he was charged for violating the conditions of his release .
that case is still pending.alaska court records show a criminal record under santiago s name for minor traffic infractions including operating a vehicle without insurance and a broken taillight .
records also show his landlord evicted him for non-payment of rent in february 2015.the assault case was resolved in march when santiago entered into a deferred prosecution agreement , an alternative to adjudication where prosecutors agreed to dismiss the charges in exchange for esteban s completion of requirements , the details of which are unknown .
while anchorage municipal prosecutor seneca theno told the daily beast that previous charges against santiago-ruiz are unlikely to be dropped following the airport shooting you still have to wonder what requirements were asked of santiago-ruiz to get the alleged assault charges dropped from his record in the first place , given the brutal nature of them.fox news echoes a sun sentinel report , why the gunman may have chosen south florida was unclear .
he had no clear connection to the state aside from relatives in the naples area , a two-hour drive away , the sun sentinel reported.the same fox report adds the following about santiago-ruiz s alleged lengthy mental health battle : bryan santiago said his brother never spoke to him directly about his medical issues .
we have not talked for the past three weeks , bryan santiago said .
that s a bit unusual i m in shock .
he was a serious person he was a normal person .
mass shooting distraction ? another aspect to these highly emotive and polarizing known wolf shooting events , is that usually they dominate us media coverage for several days .
as other charged elements of an alleged shooter/attacker are propagandized , such as santiago-ruiz s palestinian scarf image ( seen on the left ) seized upon by fox news anchors who fused santiago-ruiz s allegedly isis-like hand gesture with the gaza-israeli conflict.the shocking scene at fort lauderdale s hollywood international airport occurred the same exact day us intelligence leaders briefed president-elect donald trump on so-called russian hack allegations in the lead up to the 2016 election.back in september of 2016 , while examining the aftermath of the new york and new jersey bomb plot/attack , we analyzed whether a deeper social engineering agenda might have been at play as part of a larger geopolitical drama unfolded in syria appeared to be masked by media.when looking deeper , we discovered other overlapping stories that coincided alongside the known wolf nyc bomber .
here s a passage that discussed the nyc attack that seemed to bury western coverage regarding a vicious airstrike campaign that killed dozens of members of syria s army : you have to wonder , were the events in new york and new jersey also a weapon of mass distraction , following a major international embarrassment for the united states both at home and abroad the brutal airstrike campaign in syria that killed over 70 syrian troops ?
this unlikely bombing incident just happened to also coincide with the un general assembly in nyc , where president obama was delivering among other speeches , his war on terror addresses to the international community .
no surprise then , with the city suddenly on high terror alert that obama quickly , confidently and comfortably used his center stage spotlight at the un , shifting into national security mode boasting how quickly his police forces solved the case .
it was almost if he was ready for events that weekend .
similarly , you have to consider if this new high-profile shooting event at fort lauderdale s hollywood international airport will dominate the news cycle , as the us intelligence community scrambles to prove russian hack allegations over the next week.on january 4th abc news reported the following : the classified report requested by president barack obama detailing russia s alleged role in cyberattacks during u.s. presidential elections dating back to 2008 is now complete , and he is expected to receive the first briefing on its findings on thursday afternoon , u.s. officials tell abc news.president-elect donald trump , who said last week he would receive his briefing on the matter on tuesday or wednesday of this week , is scheduled to receive his briefing on friday .
both briefings will be conducted by the heads of relevant agencies , including the office of the director of national intelligence , the national security agency , the fbi and the cia.u.s .
officials denied claims from trump that his special briefing was delayed so the u.s. intelligence community could strengthen its case against russia .
officials instead said there may have been a scheduling disconnect or some confusion on the part of the trump transition team .
interestingly , other explosive high-profile stories went to the back burner , such as the chicago kidnapping and teen torture story and the fallout from cnn s don lemon following his egregious comments after the tragic racially motivated attack.media memory : reports of a second shooter at terminal 1during the later hours of the us mainstream media coverage , networks like cnn were still floating the possibility of a second shooter , as reports emerged of shots fired in the adjacent terminal housing united airlines , terminal 1.interestingly , local reports also reported eye-witness accounts of a second gunman involved in the fort lauderdale shooting .
here s a passage from an abc news affiliate discussing the reports of a second gunman at the fort lauderdale shooting : all day i ve heard people talking about second incidences , catie rutledge wrote on instagram .
after waiting on the tarmac for hours and hunting someone down to get our bags , we are now waiting for a bus , so that we can leave the airport .
there was panic when authorities feared there was a second gunman .
law enforcement asked travelers to seek shelter .
fear prompted many to say their final good byes to loved ones .
some frightened parents were in tears as they tried to protect their children .
this aspect of the case seemingly disappeared from media outlets following santiago-ruiz s arrest.the phenomena of multiple shooters being immediately reported after an apparent mass shooting event was also echoed during both the orlando nightclub shooting and the san bernardino attack in 2015.later in the evening , broward county sheriff scott israel confirmed that there was no second shooter despite previous reports .
the suspect was being interrogated by the fbi .
this statement was in stark contrast to multiple witness statements made on national tv , placing the series of shots , or perhaps an additional series of shots and subsequent crowds fleeing in panic at terminal 1 that would either be instead of terminal 2 , or in addition to it .
this wasn t just an anomaly this was backed up by at least 2 different witnesses on cnn , perhaps more in other reports which 21wire has yet to collate here.was this a case of something that happened in terminal 1 either part of a drill , or another gunman which was memory-holed by the media and dhs , or could this be we are looking at planted witnesses who got their lines wrong ?
this is a fair question to ask , considering we are talking about multiple witnesses stating the shots and crowds panicking in terminals other than the official story in terminal 2.here are four alternative witnesses : witness 1 : cnn s coverage of the active shooter festival at fort lauderdale airport reveals yet another anomaly in their story .
cnn reported the alleged shooter , esteban santiago , shot 5 people dead in the delta terminal 2 , and yet , all the witnesses reported 4 shots fired in the united terminal 1 .
when this witness , a father who flew in from chicago , tells of the united t1 shots fired , cnn s reporter boris sanchez appears to panic , possibly then receiving a feed in his ear and then essentially tells the witness you are wrong , there were no shots fired in united terminal 1 .
was this bad reporting , or bad stage management by cnn ?
watch : witness 2 : immediately after cnn s boris sanchez mix-up with man flying in from chicago at united terminal 1 , another cnn witness was suddenly produced , going by the name of ryan ward , interviewed by jim sciutto , then comes on , using very scripted language apparently in an attempt to clean-up the inconsistent statements of the last witness .
ryan ward describes the mayhem , people running , luggage flying and people screaming , gunman coming even though he admits he was not in delta terminal 2 where police report the actual shooting took place .
ward claims he was in a wheel chair because of back surgery , but then claims he got up and ran over to save a little girl and i ran back over and pushed the mom into a corner and laid on top of her .
he then says that , it does sound like it was an unsubstantiated second threat , but people certainly weren t acting like it here he was mirroring the identical language used by the previous cnn reporters .
coincidence ?
even more oddly , ward claims he was flying jet blue , and that the , jet blue staff were really great only problem is that jet blue is in terminal 3 , and not in t1 or t2 .
watch : witness 3 : another witness , testifying multiple gunman on the scene , although the terminal location being referenced by this 3rd witness is somewhat unclear : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=tbhisblztjs .
also , there is an additional media report by intellihub of a pilot , in uniform and on-site , who also testifies about a loud commotion , with police in pursuit of a perpetrator seen in terminal 1 a stark contrast to the official story : the pilot believes that there was another shooting in terminal 1 that law enforcement and the f.b.i .
are likely covering up .
i could hear females screaming and people running away from terminal 1 .
the pilot said he feels that it was definitely some kind of combined effort to attack the airport.in addition to that , here is a fifth witness , seen in this unconfirmed cell phone video from a female passenger out on the airport tarmac apparently from terminal 1 , and referencing a second shooter event located after the tsa barrier which seems to be a different location to the baggage check area : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=taycw0ptbf8 .
editors note : if readers have any other witness reports of a second shooter or shots fired in terminal 2 , please leave them below in the comment section.here s an abc news feature with mark lea , an apparent eye-witness ( later photographed the crime scene ) who came face-to-face with santiago-ruiz who also rather incredibly , managed to not get shot during the encounter fort lauderdale s active shooter drillsvery often preceding an apparent shooting/attack there is the presence of mass casualty drills .
fort lauderdale was no exception.in 2015 , the sun sentinel reported the following : at a fort lauderdale cinema wednesday , two men in camouflage gear calmly walked down the aisle and fired rifles and handguns at moviegoers.twenty-seven volunteers were injured in three theaters during the drill.fort lauderdale police guarded and escorted paramedics wearing protective gear to tend to the wounded actors , even though the shooters weren t captured and blank gunfire echoed elsewhere in the riverwalk movie complex.the agencies goal is to speed up paramedics responses during mass killings , domestic calls and other violent incidents .
similarly , in june of 2016 , an inter-agency meeting described future protocols regarding mass drills : the meeting , held every quarter , is an opportunity for agencies to coordinate with one another and discuss the latest techniques in fighting domestic terror attacks.last month , agencies participated in an active-shooter exercise at the fort lauderdale postal facility.in february , the group participated in operation heat shield , consisting of weapons of mass destruction and an active shooting drill.sheriff scott israel of broward county sheriff s office and sheriff rick bradshaw of palm beach county sheriff s office said these training exercises are important .
with such a large law enforcement effort to tackle the active-shooter , you have to wonder why and how these events seem to coincide with major attacks on us soil.here s a youtube video from commentator peekay truth discussing aspects of this latest mass shooting tragedy in america https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=jyy0egdrygcdupes , informants and pawnsadditionally , as we ve mentioned before , during the aftermath of 2014 s canadian parliament shooting in ottawa , we outlined many of the primary markers used in certain terror related events globally and other mass casualty incidents often seen in america.the shocking event , like other bizarre attacks in recent years , have often distorted public opinion , pushing the populace towards new security measures in the wake of heavily coordinated and stylized crimes.the suspected parliament hill and national war memorial shooter michael zehaf-bibeau , ( left image : therightscoop ) had the perfect modus operandi and r sum to be an informant for either a law enforcement or intelligence agency.according to the globe and mail , zehaf-bibeau was already designated as a high risk traveller by the canadian government s security services who had also seized his passport .
was this the reason why the zehaf-bibeau snapped ?
was he being targeted or being pressured into becoming an informant ? other terror stooges and suspicious intelligence informant cases include the following : tamerlan tsarnaev ( see his story here ) buford rogers ( see his story here ) jerad miller ( see his story here ) naji mansour ( see his story here ) quazi mohammad nafis ( see his story here ) mohamed osman mohamud ( see his story here ) timothy mcveigh ( see his story here ) salim benghalem ( see his story here ) michael adebolajo ( see his story here ) daba deng ( see his story here ) elton simpson ( see his story here ) man haron monis ( see his story here ) abu hamza ( see his story here ) haroon rashid aswat ( see his story here ) glen rodgers ( see his story here ) omar mateen ( see his story here ) tashfeen malik ( see her story here ) djamel beghal ( see his story here ) anjem choudary ( see his story here ) cherif kouachi ( see his story here ) said kouachi ( see his story here ) amedy coulibaly ( see his story here ) hayat boumeddiene ( see her story here ) salah abdeslam ( see his story here ) michael zehaf-bibeau ( see his story here ) nidal malik hassan ( see his story here ) abdelhakim dekhar ( see his story here ) abdelhamid abaaoud ( see his story here ) samy amimour ( see his story here ) isma l omar mostefa ( see his story here ) mohamed lahouij bouhlel ( see his story here ) anis amri ( see his story here ) as we ve mentioned here at 21wire before , many political leaders and media operatives bang the drums of security over so-called terror sleeper cells hiding in a nation near you none of them acknowledge the historical fact that they themselves have also helped to harbor , grow , foment and radicalize individuals through counter-terrorism operations for decades.it is important to mention again , that the fbi created the counter-intelligence program ( cointelpro ) to influence and disrupt political factions from the inside out .
between 1956 and 1971 ( including the socialist workers party in 1973 ) , the fbi s controversial program infiltrated and radicalized hundreds of left-wing and right-wing groups to control and neutralize political dissidents across america.as we stated after the suspicious oregon campus shooting in 2015 , mass media has worked out their own formula for laying out a familiar series of polarizing political points in the aftermath of any tragic event , as they have with many others incidents .
the fort lauderdale shooting appears once again , to purposefully redirect the public to look at a ready-made laundry list of items ( in this case mental-health , supported by online rants on social media ) about the persona of a shooter as an ironclad motive for a crime .
the aftermath in the case of fort lauderdale is no different , as it rapidly descended into an overindulgent barrage of media speculation and theorizing.all too often we ve seen the stage persona of any alleged attacker or killer being touted as hard evidence , despite the fact that even strong circumstantial evidence of any apparent crime would likely result in many hours of analysis and debate , potentially without a definitive conclusion , even if the evidence reaches a court room.for the average person , it s hard to differentiate from a drill or a real event , causing one to scrutinize the legitimacy of such an operation.in recent years , the investigative tactics of various intelligence agencies have come into question , none perhaps more dubious than the newburgh fbi sting that involved entrapping four men to participate in a fabricated event created by the bureau .
here s a 2011 passage from the guardian describing how an fbi informant named shahed hussain coerced four others into a fake terror plot : the newburgh four now languish in jail .
hussain does not .
for hussain was a fake .
in fact , hussain worked for the fbi as an informant trawling mosques in hope of picking up radicals.yet far from being active militants , the four men he attracted were impoverished individuals struggling with newburgh s grim epidemic of crack , drug crime and poverty .
one had mental issues so severe his apartment contained bottles of his own urine .
he also believed florida was a foreign country.hussain offered the men huge financial inducements to carry out the plot including $ 250,000 to one man and free holidays and expensive cars.as defence lawyers poured through the evidence , the newburgh four came to represent the most extreme form of a controversial fbi policy to use invented terrorist plots to lure targets .
there has been no case as egregious as this .
it is unique in the incentive the government provided .
a quarter million dollars ?
said professor karen greenberg , a terrorism expert at fordham university .
the whole episode seemed akin to the wtc 1993 bombing case , which involved yet another informant working alongside officials.the gun control & security agendaas pointed out in 21wire during 2015 s oregon campus shooting , the primary focus for mass media concerning the fort lauderdale incident , will now be all of the hot button socio-political issues including gun control-reform and those concerned over mental illness background checks , along with those who constitutionally oppose such restrictive legislation.it should be obvious by now that events like fort lauderdale , along with other mass-shootings , have become a sharp catalyst to usher in calls for endless new mass shooting protocols , inter-agency fusion , first-responder emergency medical protocols , and also for injecting more and more military terminology into civilian life with the media playing a critical role in steering the public away from questioning any of the dubious elements surrounding any shooting event.in a sense , the media is helping to nudge these shooting events out of the forensic sphere and into the political arena as quickly as possible , effectively closing the feedback loop of concerned citizens and those who may have been affected by an event.the fort lauderdale shooting has prompted the mainstream media to feed into concerns over airport security , gun ownership and a persons mental health background .
all of media s fear-inducing drama regarding the fort lauderdale shooting boils down to a contentious battle over gun reform and mental health as the obama administration comes to a close .
no doubt this latest shooting will give cause to new security measures in airports across america.here s another look at outgoing president obama discussing his frustration on gun control in a legacy interview with the bbc from 2015 amazingly , only a few hours before a mass shooting in lafayette * update * broward sheriff scott israel stated that deputies arrived on the scene between 60 to 70 seconds after the fort lauderdale shooting took place quite an incredible response time by most law enforcement standards.tmz acquired footage of the fort lauderdale shooter in action the video appears to display elements of staging decide for yourself according to reports , airport officials , along with federal and local authorities , are investigating who had access to the footage and who allowed it to be taped without authorization , broward mayor barbara sharief told the sun sentinel .
* update * just one week prior to the fort lauderdale shooting , florida lawmakers began rallying support for sb 140 , a state bill that would repeal laws which , among other things , ban guns in airport terminals like the one where the shooting occurred .
stayed tuned as more details come out regarding the fort lauderdale shooting read more daily shooter news at : 21wire daily shooter filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv