the mayor of charlottesville , virginia confirmed that one person died after a trump supporting nazi used his car to deliberately plow into a group of peaceful anti-racist protesters on saturday .
i am heartbroken that a life has been lost here .
i urge all people of good will go home , mayor mike signer tweeted.i am heartbroken that a life has been lost here .
i urge all people of good will go home .
mike signer ( @ mikesigner ) august 12 , 2017 conservatives have advocated for running over protesters for quite a while now .
we ve all seen the memes circulating on social media.hard right has been openly fantasizing about running over protesters for some time now , and elected republicans have deliberately stoked it .
pic.twitter.com/bc1cjj5onu carl beijer ( @ carlbeijer ) august 12 , 2017spend any amount of time on right-wing sites and you 'll see these memes * everywhere * .
pic.twitter.com/kmae11suzd carl beijer ( @ carlbeijer ) august 12 , 2017mission accomplished because a life was taken today by a trump supporting fascist.video footage quickly circulated on the internet showing the car plowing through a group of protesters after police broke up clashes between white nationalist demonstrators and counter-protesters.watch : pic.twitter.com/dou9ikceoa protest spb ( @ protestspb ) august 12 , 2017in response , before the death was reported , donald trump offered a weak statement on twitter .
we all must be united & condemn all that hate stands for .
there is no place for this kind of violence in america .
lets come together as one !
trump tweeted about his own supporters violent protest.we all must be united & condemn all that hate stands for .
there is no place for this kind of violence in america .
lets come together as one !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 12 , 2017trump went on to write , charlottesville sad !
am in bedminster for meetings & press conference on v.a .
& all that we have done , and are doing , to make it better-but charlottesville sad !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 12 , 2017washington post reporter joe heim wrote before the death was announced , virginia state police spokesperson say injuries in crash range from life threatening to minor .
did not say how many injuries .
virginia state police spokesperson say injuries in crash range from life threatening to minor .
did not say how many injuries .
1/ joe heim ( @ joeheim ) august 12 , 20171 dead , 19 injured from the car collision .
https : //t.co/9zwe2x4500 joe heim ( @ joeheim ) august 12 , 2017virginia gov .
terry mcauliffe declared a state of emergency shortly after violence erupted in charlottesville with trump-loving nazis besieging the city while carrying torches .
the governor added , i am disgusted by the hatred , bigotry and violence these protesters have brought to our state over the past 24 hours .
the alt-right racists poured into the city to protest the removal of confederate robert e. lee s statue and in doing that , they left blood from innocent people in the streets .
this is straight up terrorism .
the whole world is watching as trump supporters violently besiege a college town.image via screen capture .