karachi , pakistan ( reuters ) - pakistan has rejected u.s. criticism of its efforts to fight terrorism , saying it should not be made a scapegoat for the failure of the u.s. military to win the war in afghanistan .
u.s. president donald trump unveiled his policy for afghanistan on monday , stepping up the military campaign against taliban insurgents and singling out pakistan for harboring them .
u.s. officials later warned that aid to pakistan might be cut and washington might downgrade nuclear-armed pakistan s status as a major non-nato ally , in order to pressure it to do more to help bring about an end to america s longest-running war .
pakistan s powerful military chief , general qamar javed bajwa , met u.s .
ambassador david hale on wednesday and told him pakistan was actively working for peace in afghanistan .
we have done a lot ... and shall keep on doing our best , not to appease anyone but in line with our national interest and national policy , bajwa was quoted in an army press statement as telling hale .
pakistani foreign minister khawaja asif added his voice to a chorus of indignation over the u.s. criticism , reiterating pakistan s denial that it harbors militants .
they should not make pakistan a scapegoat for their failures in afghanistan , asif said in an interview with geo tv late on tuesday .
a group of influential pakistani clerics including sami-ul haq , who runs a islamic seminary where many senior afghan taliban studied , angrily condemned the united states .
america is the enemy of the muslim ummah ( community ) , haq told a press briefing along with other clerics who preach a jihadist doctrine .
the government of pakistan should quit the alliance for war against so-called terrorism , haq added .
the heavens will not fall if america gets angry with us .
pakistan has for years been battling homegrown islamist militants who are seeking to overthrow the state with bomb attacks and assassinations .
but critics say the pakistani military nurtures other islamist factions , including the afghan taliban , which are seen as useful to pakistan s core confrontation with old rival india .
asif said pakistan had suffered great losses from islamist militancy - the government estimates there have been 70,000 casualties in militant attacks , including 17,000 pakistanis killed - since pakistan joined the u.s. war on terrorism after the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks on the united states .
the relationship between the two countries has endured periods of extreme strain during the past decade , especially after al qaeda leader osama bin laden was found and killed by u.s. special forces in pakistan in a 2011 raid .
last year , a u.s. drone strike killed then-afghan taliban leader mullah akhtar mansour in southwestern pakistan , an attack islamabad protested as a violation of its sovereignty .
pakistan has denied knowledge that either bin laden or mansour were in the country .