tunis ( reuters ) - british foreign secretary boris johnson met libyan commander khalifa haftar during a visit to benghazi on thursday and urged him to stick to a ceasefire announced in paris last month and to back u.n.-led efforts to end libya s conflict .
johnson s visit is the latest show of growing western recognition of haftar , who has long been supported by egypt and the united arab emirates for his anti-islamist stance .
haftar is the dominant figure in eastern libya and since early last year has spurned the u.n.-backed government of national accord ( gna ) in the capital , tripoli , while making military gains on the ground .
the gna , hampered by infighting and its failure to win endorsement from eastern-based factions , has largely failed to extend its authority or end the turmoil that developed after a nato-backed uprising toppled libyan leader muammar gaddafi in 2011 .
since 2014 libya has had rival governments in tripoli and the east .
it has become the main departure point for migrants catching boats to europe and it has seen islamic state establish and then lose a regional stronghold in the coastal city of sirte .
international efforts to broker a political deal have resulted in two meetings between haftar and gna prime minister fayez seraj , one in abu dhabi in may and the other in paris in july .
at the paris meeting the two men shook hands on a ceasefire and elections next year , though haftar quickly played down the commitments .
johnson met haftar during a visit to the eastern city of benghazi , where haftar declared victory in early july after a three-year military campaign against islamists and other rivals .
he said he had encouraged haftar to back new u.n. envoy ghassan salame s efforts to find a political settlement for libya by revising the 2015 deal that created gna .
field marshall haftar has a role to play in the political process , johnson said in a statement .
i urged him to adhere to the commitments he made during recent meetings in paris , to respect a ceasefire , and to work with mr. salame in order to amend the libyan political agreement .
haftar , who fell out with gaddafi in the 1980s and lived for two decades in the united states , remains a divisive figure in libya .
his forces have replaced civilian mayors in many eastern cities and talked of liberating tripoli .
critics have said they fear a return to military rule .
on wednesday , johnson made his second trip to tripoli to meet seraj .
he also traveled to misrata , a port city and major military power that has led opposition to haftar .
i have encouraged all sides to resolve their differences by dialogue , not conflict , and to respect international human rights law , johnson said .
since the meeting in paris , haftar s libyan national army has threatened to advance into the eastern city of derna , and tightened a blockade around the city .
the international criminal court has also issued an arrest warrant for a commander in an elite libyan national army unit accused of executing dozens of prisoners in the closing stages of the benghazi campaign .
the libyan national army has said it is investigating the case .