wellington ( reuters ) - support for new zealand s national party has surged , a poll published on tuesday suggests , indicating the ruling party will grab enough votes at looming national elections to govern .
the newshub-reid poll is the latest twist in the rollercoaster ride of new zealand s electoral campaign , coming just weeks after a separate poll showed support for the opposition labour party surging above the nationals .
that had given rise to speculation that labour would return to power as the lead of a coalition government after almost a decade in opposition .
the unusual volatility has been giving investors jitters ..
the new zealand dollar , the 11th most traded currency in the world in 2016 , jumped to $ 0.7265 after the poll was released from $ 0.7224 .
the newshub-reid poll showed backing for the national party up 4 points at 47.3 percent and , in a double whammy for labour , showed the opposition party s support down 1.6 points at 37.8 percent .
it s a huge setback for labour , said bryce edwards , wellington-based analyst at critical politics .
it really just shows how volatile this election campaign is .
the national party has vowed to support free trade as global protectionism rises , in particular , by championing the trans-pacific partnership pact , which labour has said it would renegotiate .
the surprisingly strong result for national suggested it might not need the nationalist new zealand first party , long considered the likely kingmaker , to form a government at the sept. 23 election .
labour changed its leader last month in a bid to jolt life into its struggling campaign , appointing 37-year-old jacinda ardern .
that last-minute gamble had appeared to be paying off with labour climbing dramatically in previous polls .
an average of previous polls , compiled by radio new zealand on friday , showed labour s support had surpassing national s. the latest newshub-reid poll suggested that the two minor parties traditionally needed to form a coalition government would not have a role to play this time around .
new zealand first , led by populist politician winston peters , slipped 0.6 points to 6 percent .
the green party , which is aligned with labour for a potential coalition , fell to 4.9 percent , below the 5 percent threshold needed to gain seats in parliament .