phnom penh ( reuters ) - elected officials of cambodia s banned opposition party have begun handing over their duties after a court ordered the party dissolved , the government said on monday .
the supreme court outlawed the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) last week at the request of authoritarian prime minister hun sen s government in a move that prompted the united states to cut election funding and threaten more punitive steps .
the party was banned after its leader , kem sokha , was arrested for alleged treason .
the government says he sought to take power with american help .
he rejects that allegation as politically motivated , to allow hun sen to extend his more than three decades in power in next year s general election .
among those told to give up their positions were councillors elected to communes in june , when the cnrp gained control of 40 percent of local councils , showing the electoral threat it posed to hun sen .
the implementation has been going smoothly , the interior ministry s spokesman , khieu sopheak , told reuters on monday , adding that he did not know how long handover completion would take .
the ruling cambodian people s party ( cpp ) will take over nearly all of the communes won by the opposition .
the cnrp s 55 seats in the 123-member parliament will be shared among six minor parties , the national election committee ( nec ) said .
it had been unable to contact one of the parties entitled to a seat because its headquarters was shut , it added .
three nec members submitted a letter of resignation from the electoral body in protest at their party s dissolution , saying the redistribution of seats to other parties was unconstitutional and against voters will .
the court has also banned 118 cnrp party members from politics for five years .
mu sochua , a senior cnrp member who moved abroad shortly before the ban , said party officials met over the weekend outside cambodia to put together an action plan for the immediate future .
we reject the decision of the court , she said , adding that kem sokha remained president and the party s former leader , sam rainsy , had rejoined it .
sam rainsy had resigned in february , saying he feared the party would be banned if he did not , because of defamation convictions that he calls politically motivated and which pushed him to flee cambodia in 2015 .
across cambodia , police took down cnrp signs outside party offices and on the streets .
the interior ministry spokesman said the cnrp had helped by taking down its phnom penh headquarters sign itself .
rejecting the criticism from the united states over the dissolution of the opposition party and a crackdown on local rights groups and independent media , hun sen said on sunday that washington should cut off all aid for cambodia .