vienna ( reuters ) - young conservative star sebastian kurz is on track to become austria s next leader , projections of sunday s parliamentary election result showed , but his party is well short of a majority and could seek an alliance with the far right .
kurz , who is just 31 , campaigned on an anti-immigration platform so strict that the far-right freedom party ( fpo ) accused him of plagiarism .
that appears to have succeeded in drawing some voters away from the fpo two years after austria was swept up in europe s migration crisis , which boosted the fpo in polls .
kurz s people s party ( ovp ) is in the lead on 30.5 percent , with its current coalition partner , the social democrats , on 26.2 percent , just behind the fpo on 26.8 percent , a projection by pollster sora said shortly after polls closed , based on an early count of 49 percent of non-postal ballots .
the projection had a margin of error of 2.2 percentage points .
it will be refreshed and become more precise as more ballots are counted throughout the evening .
another projection by pollster arge wahlen also showed the ovp in the lead .
kurz , named party leader only in may , has been careful to keep his coalition options open , but he called an end to the current alliance with the social democrats and pledged to shake up austrian politics , which for decades has been dominated by coalitions between those two parties .
while that would suggest he will turn to the anti-islam fpo , he has also said there could be leadership changes within the losing parties , a possible hint at being willing to work with the social democrats if chancellor christian kern were ousted as leader by defense minister hans peter doskozil .
the social democrats ( spo ) have also opened the door to forming coalitions with the fpo , meaning the far-right party is placed to be kingmaker and play the two parties off each other during coalition talks .
it is highly unlikely , however , that the social democrats would ally with the fpo if the spo came third .