barcelona ( reuters ) - catalonia s leader balked at making a formal declaration of independence from spain on tuesday , calling for talks with madrid over the region s future in a gesture that eased fears of immediate unrest in the heart of the euro zone .
in a much-anticipated speech to the catalan parliament , ringed by thousands of protesters and hundreds of armed police , carles puigdemont made only a symbolic declaration , claiming a mandate to launch secession but suspending any formal steps to that end .
his remarks disappointed many of his supporters who had gathered outside , waving catalan flags in the expectation that he would move a formal independence motion to the assembly .
but the speech pleased financial markets , boosting the euro on hopes that his gesture would mark a de-escalation of spain s worst political crisis since an attempted military coup in 1981 .
tensions have been climbing in catalonia since it went ahead on oct. 1 with an independence referendum that madrid had deemed unconstitutional .
despite a violent police crackdown , catalan officials say the result was an overwhelming yes vote .
but instead of moving a motion in regional parliament on tuesday , as spanish unionists had feared , puigdemont and other regional politicians signed a proclamation of full sovereignty for catalonia .
its legal value was unclear .
i am disappointed .
i hoped for a declaration of independence and it didn t happen , said 18-year-old student julia lluch , among a crowd of independence supporters who were rolling up their flags and drifting away from the assembly .
in brussels , though , there was a sense of relief that the euro zone s fourth-largest economy now had at least bought some time to deal with a crisis that was still far from over .
one eu official said puigdemont seems to have listened to advice not to do something irreversible .
however , the prospects for political talks still appeared remote on tuesday despite puigdemont s gesture , with madrid insisting on talks to be held within the law , a phrase that is widely interpreted as ruling out independence as an option .
deputy prime minister soraya saenz de santamaria also rejected the catalan leader s proposal for talks to be conducted by an international mediator .
neither mr. puigdemont nor anybody else can claim ... to impose mediation , she said .
the spanish government will meet on wednesday to decide on its response to puigdemont s declaration .
both spanish prime minister mariano rajoy s government and european council president donald tusk had urged puigdemont not to proclaim independence .
and french president emmanuel macron rejected puigdemont s call for european union mediation , saying he was confident madrid could handle the situation .
the catalan government said 90 percent of those who voted backed independence but turnout was only 43 percent as many opponents of independence stayed at home .
puigdemont told the barcelona regional parliament that the result provided a popular mandate for independence and he called for talks and reduced tensions .
we aren t criminals , nor crazy , nor coup plotters , nor abducted , he said .
we are normal people who ask to be allowed to vote and who have been ready for all the dialogue necessary to achieve it in an agreed way .
i assume ... the mandate that catalonia become an independent state in the form of a republic , he said to prolonged applause .
i propose suspending the effects of the declaration of independence to undertake talks in the coming weeks without which it is not possible to reach an agreed solution .
after puigdemont s speech , stocks around the world rose as wall street eked out record highs ahead of earnings season , while u.s. treasury prices pared gains .
some analysts , however , said puigdemont s stance would prolong the uncertainty and risk from the catalan impasse .
it could also rock his catalan government , with one far-left party inside his coalition , the pro-independence cup , saying he may have missed an historic opportunity and giving him one month to find a negotiated solution the cup doubts will ever come .
you say we are suspending the effects because we are going to negotiation and mediation .
negotiation and mediation with whom ?
with a spanish state that continues to harass and persecute us ?
cup leader anna gabriel said .
the catalan crisis has deeply divided the northeastern region as well as the spanish nation .
opinion polls conducted before the vote suggested a minority of around 40 percent of residents in catalonia backed independence .
the stakes are high - losing catalonia , which has its own language and culture , would deprive spain of a fifth of its economic output and more than a quarter of exports .
some of catalonia s largest companies have moved their head offices out of the region this week and others were set to follow if he had declared independence .
independence supporters watched puigdemont s speech on large screens outside the 18th-century parliament building .
initially , people chanted independence , cheered and kissed each other , but as it became clear there would be no formal declaration of independence , some people whistled and shook their heads .
pensioner marisol rioja , 65 , said : we would have liked more .
but he ( puigdemont ) couldn t do it .
eric martinez , a 27-year-old manager , also wept as he watched the speech with his girlfriend .
there is no solution through mediation with spain .
mediation with spain is useless , he said .