what does obama , the democrat party , the state-run media and faux conservatives in congress all have in common with hamas ?
they all want to take down trump tel aviv palestinian terrorist organizations did not take kindly to donald trump s call for a total and complete shutdown of muslims entering the united states until our country s representatives can figure out what is going on .
responding to trump s proposal , ismail radwan , a hamas leader and spokesman in gaza , told breitbart jerusalem : we do not estimate that the current u.s. administration , any administration , will implement these racist suggestions .
this is a pathetic attempt to attribute terror exclusively to muslims .
radwan , whose group s charter calls for the murder of jews and the destruction of israel , lectured trump : islam is a religion of peace , a religion which opposes bloodshed .
radwan glossed over hamas own long and sordid history of bloodshed in the name of islam , including thousands of terrorist attacks that have killed hundreds of israelis .
hamas has been responsible for suicide bombings , shootings , and rocket attacks targeting israeli neighborhoods.abu al-ayna al-ansari , a senior salafi jihadist in the gaza strip , also sounded off to breitbart jerusalem on trump s remarks.supporters might argue that trump s shutdown could stop future terrorist attacks .
ansari , however , claimed that , because of leaders like trump , the american people are risking more terrorist attacks from our brothers , fighters of the islamic state .
we muslims have grown used to these types of statements , which prove that the u.s. under any president will continue to be hostile towards muslims , added ansari.the jihadist went on to claim that trump s sentiments exposed the truth about american leaders .
they claim to stand for human rights , while in actuality they carry out the same policy as that of the infidel crusading west , which oppresses the muslims .
trump should know that a new generation of muslims has risen , a generation that is capable of handling people like him and countries like the u.s. , ansari added.speaking on abc s good morning america on tuesday , trump clarified that under his proposal american muslims can come and go as they please.trump expressed his hopes that a shutdown will go quickly , as soon as our leaders figure out what the hell is going on .
if a person is a muslim , goes overseas and comes back , they can come back .
they re a citizen .
that s different , trump explained .
but we have to figure things out .
speaking on cnn on tuesday , trump warned that the country risks more terrorist attacks if his plan for a temporary ban on muslim immigration is not implemented .
you re going to have many more world trade centers if you don t solve it many , many more and probably beyond the world trade center , trump told cnn s chris cuomo.trump speculated that there are already terrorists inside the country .
they want our buildings to come down ; they want our cities to be crushed .
they are living within our country .
and many of them want to come from outside our country .
in a statement released to reporters on monday , trump cited a poll from the center for security policy showing that segments of the muslim population hold anti-american views.according to pew research , among others , there is great hatred toward americans by large segments of the muslim population .
most recently , a poll from the center for security policy released data showing 25 % of those polled agreed that violence against americans here in the united states is justified as a part of the global jihad and 51 % of those polled agreed that muslims in america should have the choice of being governed according to shariah .
trump urged americans to better understand the ideology of radical islam before allowing muslims into the country .
without looking at the various polling data , it is obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension .
where this hatred comes from and why we will have to determine .
until we are able to determine and understand this problem and the dangerous threat it poses , our country can not be the victims of horrendous attacks by people that believe only in jihad , and have no sense of reason or respect for human life .
via : breitbart news