reineh , israel ( reuters ) - a week after dareen tatour posted a poem on facebook entitled resist , my people , resist , israeli police came to her home in the middle of the night and arrested her .
the arab-israeli poet will hear next monday whether she will be jailed on charges of incitement to violence and supporting a terrorist group .
the average sentence in similar cases is nine months , though the maximum term she could face is five years .
israeli prosecutors say tatour , 35 , issued a call to violence by reading her poem as a soundtrack to a video she posted on facebook and youtube , showing masked palestinian youths throwing stones and fire-bombs at israeli soldiers .
posted as a wave of palestinian street attacks began in the region , it reads : resist , my people , resist them /resist the settlers robbery/ and follow the caravan of martyrs .
they didn t understand my poem , tatour told reuters in an interview at her home in reineh in northern israel , where she is under house arrest .
there is no call for violence .
there is a struggle , they cast it as violent .
the point of the poem was to say enough .
a person feels for their people .
i am of the palestinian people .
i live this struggle and i spoke it through the poem , she said .
tatour s case has become a cause celebrate for freedom of speech advocates .
it has also drawn attention to advanced technology used by israeli security agencies to trawl through social media to identify and arrest users suspected of incitement to violence or planning attacks .
critics say the practise is flawed because people have been detained purely on the basis that they may commit a crime , without having done so .
israel rejects the criticism , saying security concerns are paramount .
some western intelligences agencies use similar predictive policing methods to identify individuals of interest but experts say israel seems unique in using them as a basis for detention .
since october 2015 , 51 israelis have been killed in palestinian stabbing , shootings and car-rammings .
palestinian leaders say the assailants are reacting to israel s occupation of territories palestinians want for a state .
some 270 palestinians have also been killed in the past two years .
israel says at least 180 of those were killed carrying out attacks , nearly all lone wolf assailants , while others were killed in clashes .
online incitement is the fuel igniting the terrorists in this wave of violence , justice minister ayelet shaked told a tel aviv university cyber conference in june .
israeli prosecutors say tatour is also implicated by other posts than the poem that appeared on oct. 3 , 2015 .
the attempt to present her as an artist , a poet , who merely wrote something innocent distorts the truth , a justice ministry official said .
an expert on arabic translation told her trial that martyr to an israeli means a terrorist .
to a palestinian it means victim any palestinian killed in the conflict with israel , as a bystander or assailant .
indictments for online incitement most of those charged are young palestinians have tripled in israel since 2014 , the justice ministry says .
in the occupied west bank , prosecutions by israel s military have also increased , according to a report by the military advocate general .
a report in israel s haaretz newspaper said there were 170 indictments in 2016 .
a senior officer in the israeli military said arrests for incitement require judicial approval , as they do inside israel .
many lone assailants post farewell messages before setting off .
to intercept them , and prevent attacks , israeli security forces comb through social networks using big data analytics sophisticated software that analyses vast volumes of data .
algorithms are used so that certain words , such as martyr , raise a red flag , as do names of anyone who has launched an attack , a security source said .
shin bet intelligence agency chief nadav argaman says 2,000 potential lone wolves have been stopped by using advanced technology since 2016 .
a shin bet source said some potential attackers were arrested and prosecuted , and others just warned .
some suspects , the source said , were placed in administrative detention , under which israel holds palestinians without trial .
israel says that is necessary to prevent violence in cases where there is insufficient evidence to prosecute .
asked about israel s policy , facebook said public posts can be read by anyone , including law enforcement and intelligence agency officers .
google , which owns youtube , declined comment .
others accused of online incitement include 16-year-old tamara abu-laban was detained in east jerusalem in july .
her father moammar said she had shared a video online showing an elderly man arguing with israeli security forces and , in a reference to the mosque that is islam s third holiest shrine , saying : kill me , i want to die for al-aqsa .
she has not been charged but was held for two days and barred from using facebook for 180 days .
her father said the shin bet called him in to say they were keeping an eye on her .
they are convinced she is going to do something .
they told me to be careful .
i tried to tell them it s just facebook - she s just looking for likes , he said .
police did not comment on her case because she is a minor .