felons get to vote all of a sudden in virginia because the governor is a buddy of the clinton s .dirty politics seems to follow the clintons .
there s a long history of corruption between mcauliffe and bill clinton .
once again , they re just helping each other out on friday gov .
terry mcauliffe ( d-va ) gave 200,000 felons the right to vote .
the list includes rapists and murderers .
but , it s ok .
it will help hillary clinton in the fall .
the washington post reported : gov .
terry mcauliffe ( d ) will make all ex-felons in virginia eligible to vote in the upcoming presidential election , part of a years-long effort to restore full voting rights to former convicts.mcauliffe s announcement in richmond on friday will allow an estimated 180,000 to 210,000 former felons who are not in prison or on probation or parole to register to vote this year in virginia , a battleground state , according to a coalition of civil rights groups that had pushed for the restoration of voting rights.advocates said mcauliffe s move was the biggest-ever single action taken to restore voting rights in this country .
it is a historic day for democracy in virginia and across our nation , said tram nguyen , co-executive director of the new virginia majority , a progressive activist group .
the disenfranchisement of people who have served their sentences was an outdated , discriminatory vestige of our nation s jim crow past .
many republicans viewed mcauliffe s action as a blatant favor to his longtime friend hillary clinton , for whom he and his wife recently raised $ 2 million at their mclean home .
it is hard to describe how transparent the governor s motives are , house speaker william j. howell ( r-stafford ) said in a statement .
the singular purpose of terry mcauliffe s governorship is to elect hillary clinton president of the united states .
this office has always been a stepping stone to a job in hillary clinton s cabinet.republicans were particularly outraged that the policy doesn t take into account the violence of the crime , whether the person committed serial crimes , whether they ve committed crimes since completing their sentence or whether they ve paid their victims back for medical bills.via : wapo