randy johnson 21st century wiredigital technology has increasingly and exponentially become a part of our lives .
virtual worlds and reality , as humanity has known it to be for millennia , appear to be on ever-converging paths .
will humanity and digital reality be on a path of integration or a collision course ? while the direct application of virtual reality was difficult to see in everyday life following the 1992 hollywood film lawnmower man , the reality of such technology is now coming into focus.augmented reality and virtual reality technology ( also interchangeably known as either ar/vr or vr/ar ) are ideas that have been hammered out in the digital sphere with regards to concepts and applications of use .
along with the steady advancement of digital computing power , an ar/vr future might better be portrayed in certain episodes of black mirror , such as fifteen million merits or playtest .
black mirror s , playtest : season 4 , episode 2 .
a stare-down between perception and reality ( image source : polygon ) the possibility and potential of the technology has made it a magnet for investment .
there are profits to be made in this growing realm , and the implications of what these emerging technologies could do for ( and to ) humanity is staggering.so before delving into some current developments in ar/vr technology , let s take a quick look at historically new technologies which are now a part of our real world , everyday , lives : the smartphone and the motor vehicle.the smartphone stratosphereon one hand , the smart phone is merely synthetic material with touch screens and circuitry .
now in less than two decades , there are those whose daily lives are hindered without one .
the attachment is almost as emotional as it is literal in some instances .
many need them to communicate , be entertained , figure out where they are , purchase products , or even socially interact with others or the avatars of others .
to many teenagers across the world and generation y millennials , the smartphone has always been there.it can be argued that society as a whole is becoming dependent and addicted to smartphones and other smart devices .
in fact , with over 2.5 billion smartphone subscriptions world wide in 2016 , corporations and marketers are counting on it.seeing a person interacting with any number of touch-screen devices does not garner much of a second look .
oftentimes , the person without the smart phone is the person who stands out in a crowd , as they are sometimes seen reading one of those archaic things we call a book .
it is now commonplace that people can interact with thousands of different applications on countless versions of technological devices.hooked : not only can we take the physical work out of travel on mass-transit , we can also be oblivious to the journey along the way , as well as the work involved to make it all happen .
( image source : ne-asia.com ) after a few generations , many technologies simply become integrated as it were .
they become a part of us and our day-to-day lives , and are a part of the real world.for comparative analysis , let s take a look at the evolution of another well-known technology , the motor vehicle from engines to electricin roughly 100 years , humanity has essentially integrated itself with motorized vehicle technology .
the motor vehicle and all the industries that come with it , has shaped the world as we know it.driving a vehicle , and everything that comes with it such as such as its design , manufacture , delivery , sale , gas and oil production , road ways , traffic laws , law enforcement , theft , accidents , smog , fighting over oil resources , etc. , has effected nearly everyone.the sales pitch and appeal of the motor vehicle have always gone together .
from its early days , to current-day advertisements , automobiles have been marketed with the promise of freedom on the open road .
in fact , the evolution of vehicular technology is a good indicator of how a specific type of technology can transform humanity in a very short amount of time .
technological bliss : a promise of open roads and freedom ( image source : nbc.com ) the promise of anything good always seems to have a catch .
ease of movement with the automobile is not without its environmental impact .
without the automobile in particular , we would not have terms such as gridlock , traffic jam , or road rage for instance.progress is not without its side effects .
( image source : kerma.wordpress.com ) the motor vehicle is a technology and a part of our world to such an extent that where we are dependent on it.the environmental and health concerns of gas and oil extraction and production , as well as geopolitical maneuvering and even warfare based on assumed resource scarcity , the deep infrastructure roots and dependence of commerce is in place .
to stop the flow of motor vehicles , would inhibit the freedom of people to travel , commute to work , and utterly stop industry and commerce in its place.electrically re-energizing the automobilethe current slow-but-eventual transition from gasoline engines to hybrid or fully electric ones is just an evolution of the technology .
while electric car technology is believed to have been discovered in the mid-1800 s , it has only recently made inroads to the industry on a potentially large scale with the roadster by tesla motors.the tesla model s , has a 2017 manufacturer s suggested retail price ( msrp ) of $ 69,200 dollars , while the most recent ( 2015 ) us real median family income was listed as $ 69,929.with the success of tesla , the amount of established gas and oil engine automakers is lining up to diversify their portfolio for their consumers , is who s who list of the auto-industry .
bmw , chrysler-fiat , daimler ( mercedes ) , ford , general motors , honda , kia , mitsubishi , nissan , volkswagen , and volvo , all have their own hybrid or electric car lines .
after decades of profit , these industry giants can t wait to show the consumer that they too are environmentally conscious .
likewise , the consumer appears ready to accept guilt free and environmentally responsible driving as the electric car continues to improve , lowers in price , and becomes more widely available.emerging patterns : ar/vr technologywith many integrated technologies in our lives such as smart devices or motor vehicles , if it feels like we ve seen this pattern before , it is because we have.first the technology is new .
next commercialism , industry , education systems , entertainment , pop culture , and the government , all conspire to get in on the action ; during this time , the race to integrate and capitalize on a technology in the name progress can induce a gold rush type of feeding frenzy .
then pre-established corporations are already pre-positioned , with the ready capital , assets , and resources to pounce on the next big thing .
and finally , over a generation or so of different improvements and variations , it is hard to remember a world without said technology for those who inherit a world with it .
whether real or imagined it becomes a necessity.the likely integration of virtual reality and augmented reality ( ar/vr ) into our daily lives will likely follow the same pattern as other technological advances .
similarly , with regards to forecasting its future integration in our lives , the saying follow the money applies.first though , what exactly is ar/vr as it is currently understood to be ? augmented reality ( ar ) uses the world around you , but a device introduces virtual items , characters , etc. , into the real world that a person interacts with .
this is popularly seen with the downloadable application for smart phones , with the game pok mon go.virtual reality ( vr ) is the glasses/headset set-up where you are visually , and often audibly , immersed .
put on the glasses/headset , or similar gear such as oculus rift , or vive and you are in a whole virtual world.both technologies are primed for upward momentum.although economic forecasting has not always been an exact science , the monetary forecast for ar/vr technology seems to point upward.business wire notes : worldwide revenues for the augmented reality and virtual reality ( ar/vr ) market to reach $ 13.9 billion in 2017 , an increase of 130.5 % over the $ 6.1 billion spent in 2016 .
ar/vr spending is expected to accelerate over the next several years , achieving a compound annual growth rate ( cagr ) of 198.0 % over the 2015-2020 forecast period and totaling $ 143.3 billion in 2020 .
it is important to note that the above figures are amounts projected to be spent by companies to further advance ar/vr technology .
so the expectation for profit is most likely in the trillions.does this sound far-fetched ?
for a real world success story with regards to these emerging technologies in terms of profit , then pok mon go has been there , done that , and cashed the checks.by some estimates , pok mon go has made niantic over 900 million dollars in 2016.using pok mon go as a barometer of future profits , the potential is huge .
especially when you consider that in the ever-changing gaming world , many already considered outdated , requiring updates , fixes , and new features by many of it s users .
if pok mon go calls it a career or not , the fortune has already been made.virtual scavenger hunts are fun ! that kind of money has already inspired a similar styled brand-supported game in its early stages , called snatch .
besides the puzzle and scavenger hunt aspects of snatch , players will be immersed into an augmented reality with a commercialized , brand name , token-based , application where you can snatch items from other players to win prizes.if you do not fully get it perhaps the below video can help explain what it s all about.you heard it hear first ; if it hasn t happened already , playing snatch is likely to start at least one physical , real world , fight over the potential of having a prize snatched by a player nearby.immersion , entertainment & investmentall of the ar/vr technology is still finding its sea-legs so to speak and is still in transition with more immersive worlds .
along the way , ar/vr has been undergoing a natural progression and fusion with the gaming world .
gaming , and entertainment , appears to be the seductive gateway application for ar/vr technology development and profit potential.as games and game consoles have become more immersive over the years , it appears that ar/vr is expected to advance with it.the addictive element to immersive games is often literal in some cases as seen in the webmd.com article video game addiction no fun : the lure of a fantasy world is especially pertinent to online role-playing games .
these are games in which a player assumes the role of a fictional character and interacts with other players in a virtual world [ according to kimberly young , psyd ] an intelligent child who is unpopular at school can become dominant in the game .
the virtual life becomes more appealing than real life .
also , let there be little doubt that any psychological aspect of marketing to churn out profit will be used , as the video-gaming world is a 100 billion dollar industry globally .
that s hardly child s play.the greater the entertainment immersion and the technological bliss , the bigger the hook to the consuming public will become .
so despite a slow-yet-increasing public acclimatization with regards to ar/vr , investments keep pouring in.according to digi-capital , the investments for ar/vr start-ups in 2016 came in at a cool $ 2.3 billion dollars.these numbers for start-ups are in addition to previous acquisitions such as facebooks mark zuckerberg s now famous $ 2 billion dollar purchase of oculus rift.investments also include such companies as nextvr that can deliver live events in a vr format .
the investors are a who s who of present day media empires in the united states.we see the following from nanalyze.com : laguna beach california startup nextvr has taken in $ 115 million in funding so far from investors that include time warner , comcast , and the madison square garden company .
in addition to these strategic investors , fox sports , live nation , nbc sports , hbo/golden boy , turner sports , and cnn have all partnered with nextvr .the object for up-and-running companies like next vr , or their investor live nation , is to bring entertainment events such as concerts or sporting events to the masses.in addition to the actual gate at a sporting event or concert of say , 50,000 people , you could also charge a virtual gate , if you will , for another million people who were never even there.another company starting to make some real world profits is utah s the void .
the company is in continually advancing their dream park in utah .
they have themed virtual reality ( or hyper reality as they refer to it ) type of experiences in new york and dubai.below is a trailer for their ghostbusters hyper-reality experience in new york city.that s right you too can don a nuclear power pack and save new york from the giant stay puft marshmallow man.to be fair , besides entertainment purposes , there will be benefits of ar/vr technology .
uses for design , training , and experimentation within a multitude of industries , science , and research and development , can all be enabled by vr .
medical students can practice on fake patients , soldiers can train in virtual combat with no casualties , researchers can get inside of a molecule , designers or architects can better visualize or display their concepts , and so on.for example , in april 2016 , the united kingdom s medical realities used its product the virtual surgeon , which is a learning program developed for head mounted displays such as the oculus rift and samsung gear vr .
the live-stream was a first of its kind showing a live surgery allowing for a 360 degree view , and was witnessed live in places as far as china and tunisia according to their site.virtual medicine ( image source : medical realities ) the other side of the ar/vr coinkeep in mind , however , that there this is likely a trade off for well-intentioned purposes realized by the implementation and advancement of ar/vr .
these same advancements in ar/vr will also almost undoubtedly have profit , control , surveillance , and culture-shaping , as drivers for its very implementation and integration to our lives.ar/vr , like art , books , pamphlets , magazines , newspapers , graffiti , radio , television , and the internet , is a medium which can be utilized .
with social norms , economies , and forms of government to influence the masses thrown into as variables , the acclimatization to ar/vr by society is likely to be many things to many people .
even today , we have news and fake news .
president ; not my president .
facts and alternate facts .
all of these types of psychological shaping of reality could be further jammed into virtual reality.even within education .
subjective topics , or viewpoints on historical events made to be realistic for experiential learning purposes could be abused .
no different then a book or website , a vr lesson will have an author , a bias , and will be an area rife with the potential for politicization or propaganda infusion.like motor vehicles or smart devices above , ar/vr also has society-changing potential .
the possibilities for mass-level use , consumption , and integration of virtual technology could very well change our reality ; literally and figuratively ; shared and personal .
the implications go beyond the industry and commercial implications of its use and delve into what makes us human and into what is real.we hear it all the time , but social engineering is what it sounds like .
the direct implication of the phrase is that aspects of society can be engineered and designed towards a desired effect or result.the outcome desired for those at the top of our current power structures and institutions might entail use of technology to socially engineer with a nefarious slant : to conform the masses , infuse propaganda , create thoughtless compliance , and degrade critical thinking in favor of living a blissful other life , elsewhere in another digital reality.as the great celluloid philosopher , morpheus , from the hollywood blockbuster the matrix , once pondered , what is real ?
how do you define real ?
if you re talking about what you can feel , what you can smell , what you can taste and see then real is simply electrical signals interpreted by your brain .
might the world literally become whatever anyone wants to make of it ? are we choosing for ourselves , or are we all merely like fish in the ocean being swept up unawares in a tide of social engineering ? a technologically controlled , artificial , designed , and immersive environment could possibly redefine reality , and what it means to be human along with it.read more about technology : 21st century wire technology files