washington ( reuters ) - republican senators on thursday raised the possibility they would confirm barack obama ’ s supreme court nominee merrick garland before the u.s. president leaves office in january if democrats retain the white house in the nov. 8 election .
garland began the customary meetings with senators that kick off the confirmation process .
he visited the offices of democrats harry reid and patrick leahy a day after obama nominated the appeals court judge and former prosecutor to replace conservative justice antonin scalia , who died on feb. 13 .
republicans are concerned that if hillary clinton , obama ’ s former secretary of state and the democratic front-runner , wins the presidential election , she could send the senate a far more liberal nominee after taking office .
garland , 63 , is widely viewed as a moderate acceptable to many republicans , who also worry they could lose control of the senate to the democrats in the november vote .
nominations to the lifetime supreme court post require senate confirmation .
republicans have said they want the next president to make the selection , hoping their party wins november ’ s election .
billionaire businessman donald trump is the front-runner for the republican presidential nomination .
utah ’ s orrin hatch and arizona ’ s jeff flake , republican members of the judiciary committee that would hold any confirmation hearings , said it was possible the senate could act on garland ’ s nomination in a “ lame-duck ” session after the election and before a new president and congress take office in january .
“ i would choose a less liberal nominee .
and this nominee is a less liberal nominee than we would get , i ’ m quite certain , with hillary clinton , ” flake told reporters .
senate republican leaders have vowed not to hold confirmation hearings or an up-or-down vote on any supreme court nominee put forward by obama .
majority leader mitch mcconnell of kentucky reiterated that stance on thursday .
denis mcdonough , obama ’ s chief of staff , said the white house will watch developments over the next several weeks and months but expected republicans eventually would hold a vote on garland ’ s nomination .
any democratic appointee to the high court , now with four liberals and four conservatives following scalia ’ s death , could tip it to the left for the first time in decades .
that could shape rulings on such issues as abortion , gun rights , religious rights , affirmative action , union powers and political spending .
flake said while republican leaders were “ fully justified ” in delaying action on confirmation , if the republicans lose the white house race the senate “ ought to look at this nomination in a lame-duck session in november. ” hatch in 1997 backed garland ’ s nomination to his current judgeship .
“ to this day , i think well of merrick garland , and i think he ’ s a fine person , ” hatch told national public radio .
“ i remain convinced that the best way for the senate to do its job is to conduct the confirmation process after this toxic presidential election season is over. ” while mcconnell is refusing even to meet with garland , republican judiciary committee chairman chuck grassley of iowa indicated he was willing .
“ if i can meet with a dictator in uganda , i can surely meet with a decent person in america , ” grassley said , according to cnn .
garland met with nevada ’ s reid , the senate democratic leader , and vermont ’ s leahy , top democrat on the judiciary committee .
garland did not address reporters , but leahy expressed hope that republican leaders would change course .
if they followed a normal routine , senators could hold confirmation hearings and a vote by the memorial day holiday in late may , leahy said .
reid pledged to keep up the pressure on republicans to confirm garland .
“ do it now .
why wait ? ” reid said when asked about a lame-duck confirmation scenario .
“ to hold up a nomination so that donald trump can give a nomination ?
that should scare everybody . ”