toronto ( reuters ) - asylum seekers who illegally crossed the u.s. border into canada this year are obtaining refugee status at higher rates , new data shows , as authorities accept claims from people who say they feared being deported by u.s. president donald trump s administration .
more than 15,000 people have crossed the u.s.-canadian border illegally to claim refugee status in canada this year .
many were in the united states legally and some interviewed by reuters said they might have stayed were it not for an immigration crackdown .
the influx , mainly at the quebec/new york border , prompted the military to set up a temporary tent encampment in quebec and sparked a backlash from anti-migrant groups .
lawyers who have handled dozens of cases said that members of refugee tribunals , who evaluate requests for asylum , have grown more sympathetic toward people who have spent time in the united states and who say they now fear immigration policies under trump .
trump took office in january with a goal of sharply cutting refugee admissions , in line with the hard-line immigration policies that were a focal point of the republican s 2016 election campaign .
of the 592 claims from border crossers finalized between march and september , 69 percent - or 408 in total - were accepted , according to immigration and refugee board figures .
an additional 92 appeals of rejected claims are pending .
that 69 percent acceptance rate is higher than the acceptance rate for all refugee claims from people who came to canada through any method last year .
in a january asylum hearing whose transcript was seen by reuters , a tribunal member told a syrian refugee claimant and her daughter who had crossed near lacolle , quebec , that their explanation for not staying in the united states was reasonable , citing the woman s worries about the new u.s. government .
certainly , that seems to be playing out as you have feared , and today on the news i know that president trump has suspended the syrian refugee program , the member is quoted as saying .
you have provided , in my view , a reasonable explanation of your failure to claim in the u.s. a second refugee decision reviewed by reuters , issued in may , cites an iraqi woman s detention in a u.s. airport and subsequent racist incidents she said she experienced at school as credible reasons for her leaving the united states .