warsaw ( reuters ) - poland s ruling party lawmakers gave preliminary approval on friday to two bills allowing parliament and the president to replace top judges , plans the opposition and the european commission denounced as a threat to the rule of law .
once finally approved and signed into law by the president , the bills would likely deepen the right-wing government s standoff with the eu , potentially reducing the flow of eu development funds to poland .
law and justice ( pis ) party deputies sent the bills authored by pis-ally president andrzej duda to parliamentary committees after duda vetoed in july pis-sponsored bills that would have given the justice minister large powers over judges .
duda cast his veto after prolonged mass protests across poland in july .
several thousand people in more than 100 cities protested the bills again on friday night , although the demonstrations fell short of the mass summer rallies .
i do not suppose that something will change in the way the authorities act , because these authorities are not listening to the people , said 29-year-old jakub , a company worker who did not want to give his last name .
but we are here to show that we will not agree to everything , we will not agree to laws , which lead to us leaving the european union .
in november , duda and pis reached an agreement on the shape of the judicial reform , according to which parliament will need a three-fifths majority to appoint new members of the national council of the judiciary ( krs ) , a key panel that appoints judges in poland .
details of the judicial reform bills are expected to be revealed on tuesday and pis has said all work on them could be finished in december .
the pis currently has an absolute parliamentary majority , but not a three-fifths one .
the euroskeptic pis says reform of the judicial system is needed because the courts are slow , inefficient and steeped in a communist-era mentality .
but critics of the government said the bills are part of a pis plan to increase its powers over the judiciary and reflect its drive towards authoritarianism , both charges pis denies .
will this demolition speed up court cases ?
no , lawmaker krzysztof paszyk of the opposition psl told parliament on friday , adding the bills would introduces pathology into the justice system .
the european commission s deputy head , frans timmermans , said earlier in november that duda s bills - which row back from direct government interference in the judiciary envisaged in the original pis bills - were still not acceptable .
the socially conservative pis , in power since late 2015 , is already at loggerheads with fellow members of the european union over migration policy , its push to bring state media under more direct government control , as well as over an earlier overhaul of the constitutional tribunal .
also on friday , pis deputies initially approved a bill amending the electoral system , which the opposition said would threaten the fairness of elections .