take a look at @ publictheaterny 's first shakespeare in the park production of 2017 , a trump-inspired julius caesar https : //t.co/itpijmssaq pic.twitter.com/t5vfdfzvre playbill ( @ playbill ) may 30 , 2017in an interview with mediaite , laura shaeffer who saw a recent performance of the play , which opened may 23 said that the character of julius caesar in the public theater adaptation wears a business suit and has his hair styled in a manner similar to trump s.sheaffer added that the character of calpurnia , caesar s wife , speaks with a slavic accent similar to that of first lady melania trump.as happens at the end of the original play , the ( trump-inspired ) caesar is brutally stabbed to death by his associates in the senate .
sheaffer said caesar s death scene was particularly graphic , with blood spewing everywhere , and an american flag hanging overhead .
to be honest i thought it was shocking and distasteful , shaeffer told mediaite .
if this had happened to any other president even as recently as barack obama or george w. bush it would not have flown .
people would have been horrified .
the trump connection in the oskar eustis-directed production was not intended to be subtle , though the president is reportedly never referred to by name during the show.the actor playing caesar , gregg henry ( who also happened to play a caricature of trump in shonda rhimes abc show scandal ) , told backstage in an interview last month that while the similarities between the roman general and the current president don t always align exactly , there was still much to be gleaned from trump s presidency and then injected into his portrayal of caesar .
the idea for me was to try and do some things that will represent and show you and i have great costumes and wigs that show you that this could be trump , henry told backstage .
but i m also trying to bring in the larger knowledge of tyrants .
it s sort of a tyrant s greatest hits in [ the way i play ] the speeches and in the nature of the ego and belief that one man is more important , is above the law , is the law .
those tyrannical beliefs in terms of how to deal with power .
for her part , shaeffer told mediaite that while she found the parallels between trump and caesar fascinating , the onstage murder of a character that so closely resembled trump was a step too far .
i don t love president trump , but he s the president .
you can t assassinate him on a stage , she told the outlet .
breitbartby now , everyone knows how comedian kathy griffin expressed her opposition to our president , when she held his bloodied and decapitated head while making what turned out to be a career-ending video .
so is this disgusting and violent behavior by the intolerant the left the new norm ?
are americans supposed to just accept this simply because the media refuses to report about it ?