washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump , who has vowed to stop u.s. manufacturing from disappearing overseas , will seek job-creation advice on thursday from at least five companies that are laying off thousands of workers as they shift production abroad .
caterpillar inc ( cat.n ) , united technologies corp ( utx.n ) , dana inc ( dan.n ) , 3m co ( mmm.n ) and general electric co ( ge.n ) , are offshoring work to mexico , china , india and other countries , according to a reuters review of u.s. labor department records .
executives from the five companies are among a group of business leaders due to meet with trump on thursday to discuss how to help the president deliver on his promise to increase factory employment , according to the white house .
about 2,300 u.s. workers at these five companies stand to lose their jobs within the next two years as a result of offshoring , according to the labor department ’ s trade adjustment assistance program , which provides retraining benefits to workers displaced by global trade .
reuters obtained the information through a freedom of information act request .
the companies confirmed the planned job cuts to reuters .
it is not clear whether the other 19 executives due to meet with trump on thursday are currently offshoring work , as the taa program does not cover all workers who lose their jobs due to global trade .
the lost jobs amount to a small fraction of the hundreds of thousands of u.s. workers employed by those involved in the meeting .
general electric , for example , employs 125,000 u.s. workers , financial filings show .
on the campaign trail and in the white house , trump has painted globalization as a zero-sum game that has enriched low-wage countries while leaving the united states littered with abandoned factories and underemployed workers , and he has threatened to tax companies that offshore u.s. jobs .
the experience of companies on trump ’ s task force , however , shows the reality is more complex in a world where they are serving customers across the globe .
several said they were creating many new u.s. factory jobs even as they move work to other countries .
it ’ s not clear whether trump will opt for the carrot or the stick .
trump plans to meet business leaders to hear their reasons for “ why they ’ re going offshore , ” said a white house aide who spoke on condition of anonymity .
blue-collar workers who share trump ’ s skepticism of global trade say they will be watching closely to see if he will try to save their jobs .
“ i don ’ t think he ’ s a typical politician , so there is hope alive for middle-class families that he will do something , ” said scott schmidt , one of 222 workers at a ge engine plant in waukesha , wisconsin who are due to lose their jobs later this year when the company shifts production to canada .
general electric ceo jeffrey immelt is among those due to meet with trump on thursday .
ge says it is closing its waukesha plant because congress has hobbled the u.s. export-import bank ’ s ability to finance large export orders while most other industrialized nations still offer such financial support .
the company says it laid off 225 workers last year at a houston factory for the same reason , shifting production to france , the united kingdom and hungary .
ge says it is also closing an ohio factory and laying off 180 workers because consumers are buying fewer of the florescent and incandescent light bulbs they make there .
what production remains will be handled by a factory in hungary .
the u.s. economy lost 6 million manufacturing jobs from 2000 to 2010 , roughly one-third of its total , in part due to offshoring , but the sector has added 900,000 jobs since then , according to the u.s. bureau of labor statistics .
multinational companies say labor costs now are only one factor they consider when deciding where to manufacture .
an auto maker , for example , may decide to build a particular model in the country where sales are strongest , prompting parts suppliers to set up there as well so they can turn around orders quickly .
the offshoring picture is also more complex than official statistics indicate as a shuttered factory in the united states does not always mean a new factory abroad .
when auto-parts maker dana corp closes a factory later this year in glasgow , kentucky that is operating at 20 percent of capacity , one of its plants in ohio will pick up the work , along with other factories in mexico , india and china .
dana ceo james kamsickas is among those scheduled to meet with trump on thursday .
the company plans to hire nearly 700 u.s. workers over the next three years as it expands factories in four u.s. states , spokesman jeff cole said .
that is little comfort to the 223 people in kentucky who will lose their jobs .
“ it seems like all these ceos and companies have turned their backs on the american worker , ” said dana employee tim wells , one of those who will be laid off .
the group also includes united technologies ceo gregory hayes , who took heat from trump last year for planning to move jobs from indianapolis to mexico .
the company struck a deal with the incoming president in november to preserve roughly 700 jobs in exchange for $ 7 million in tax breaks .
united technologies says it still plans to lay off 786 workers at a separate indiana plant and move production to mexico this year .
the company is also moving work from a facility in arden hills , minnesota , resulting in a loss of 72 jobs .
most of that work is staying in the united states but some is moving to poland , spokeswoman bethany sherman said , and some of the affected workers will be offered positions elsewhere .
the company is adding more than 1,000 new jobs in the united states , sherman said .
other participants include caterpillar chairman doug oberhelman , who oversees a company that is laying off 712 workers in the american south and midwest and moving the work to china , mexico , italy , france and germany as it weathers the largest sales slump in its history .
a caterpillar spokesman said it is simultaneously creating 1,300 new manufacturing jobs elsewhere in the united states .
also due to participate is inge thulin , ceo of 3m , which is eliminating 130 jobs in suburban cincinnati and moving production to mexico .
the company says it has added more than 2,000 u.s. manufacturing jobs over the last five years .