watch these two stunning interviews , where police officers almost admit to this liberal reporter that they ve been told to stand down : i tell a police officer i 've been seeing people get beat up all day and they have n't been around .
`` okay , and ? ''
he says .
pic.twitter.com/ougecvvb8r shane bauer ( @ shane_bauer ) april 15 , 2017this police officer is clearly agitated that he s being asked why he s ignoring the violence : i ask a cop why they 've been hanging back as a brawl is happening half a block away in berkeley .
`` i 'm not at liberty to discuss my tactics . ''
pic.twitter.com/tegeybv1ho shane bauer ( @ shane_bauer ) april 15 , 2017the last time violence erupted in berkeley when anti-trump terrorists attacked members of a pro-trump rally , americans were stunned to see police officers standing by and watching the violence unfold without making any attempt to stop it .
so it s no surprise that the berkeley farmers market made the decision to close down after 30 years for the day due to threats of violence at today s patriots day rally.martin bourque , director of the ecology center which runs the market , said the center decided to cancel the market because of the unpredictability of the planned patriots day rally , which is scheduled to start at the park at noon .
a counter-rally organized by people on the far left will begin at 10 a.m .
in early march , the last time the two sides met in the park , the protests turned bloody , police seized numerous bats and sticks , and ten people were arrested .
berkeley sidesome of the farmers chose to come anyhow , as seen in the background in the video below where conservative reporter lauren southern is covering the events while wearing a gas mask and helmet .
https : //t.co/xlf1zjxtji lauren southern ( @ lauren_southern ) april 15 , 2017it wasn t long though before all out violence and chaos broke out between the patriots attending a pro-trump rally and the terror group antifa , which is really just a collection of soros-paid thugs , anti-trump democrats and basement dwellers looking for something to do that makes them feel like they have a purpose in life .
watch how quickly things escalate in the video below .
note how the cowardly anti-trumpers drag one person into their crowd and then gang up on him to ensure maximum violence is used against them , while trump supporters appear to be trying to either stop the fights or fighting anti-trumpers in one-on-one battles : https : //twitter.com/ten_gop/status/853347335463743492antifa terror group throws projectiles , pepper bombs at pro-trump supporters then run away .
twitter user suggests they re running back to their parents basements lol ! # antifa throws bottles & pepper bombs at # trump supporters in berkeley then run away , presumably back to their mother 's basement. # taxmarch pic.twitter.com/mnpsm3mo7j deeconx ( @ deeconx ) april 15 , 2017last march the local news station confirmed that the police allowed violent democrats to attack peaceful trump supporters and confirmed that trump supporters who were part of a planned march 4 trump nationwide rally were seriously outnumbered :