cair continues to nudge , nudge , nudge the american people towards what they deem to be modern time .
they ve filed a lawsuit against advance america for making muslim women remove their hijab .
this is their security policy but cair makes outrageous and ironic claims about an american companies policy .
you ll love what the council of american islamic relations said about the security policy in place at advance america : this is really about ignorance it s really about fossilized policies and people being stubborn and not coming up to the modern time .
do you see the irony in the cair claim of not coming up to the modern times ?
pot calling the kettle black much ? take off your hijab or take a hike that s the message one local woman says she got from an advance america cash advance store.remove hats , sunglasses and though the sign doesn t say it , no hijabs are allowed there either .
the lady she told them just take it off a little bit and put it back , said fatah kamal , describing the exchange his wife nadia had with a clerk .
she said i can t , i m in a public place i can not do that . '
kamal said the incident happened on wayne road in westland wednesday.she was denied service because she refused to remove her hijab for both religious and cultural reasons .
they should show not their hair or like their beauty to someone beside their very close family , kamal said.fox 2 tried talking with the manager at the westland advance america location .
if you want .
any questions have to be directed to our public affairs department , he said.kamal says he spoke with an employee over the phone who said the hijabs raise safety concerns .
if it was about safety , a woman couldn t just walk into any old bank in these united states of america wearing a headscarf and get served , said dawud walid.walid , from the council of american islamic relations , says women can go to banks , get their driver s licenses , even their passports while wearing headscarves.cair is part of lawsuit against advance america for denying service to muslim arab-american women .
nadia is not the first .
this is really about ignorance it s really about fossilized policies and people being stubborn and not coming up to the modern time , walid said .
advance america respects all religious beliefs and serves all customers with dignity and respect .
for the safety of our customers and employees , we do have a security policy in place that requires anyone seeking entry in to our centers briefly remove any hoods , hats , sunglasses or other head coverings .
it is an important security measure designed to ensure that anyone entering our centers can be easily identified .
that policy was being enforced in this particular case .
the safety and security of our customers and employees are our primary responsibilities and we take them seriously .
as for fatah kamal and his wife nadia they say they won t go to advance america again.via : fox2detroit