trump just can t get anything off the ground for his failing presidency .
every time his approval numbers start to inch up , he does something else and the next poll shows his approval in the tank again .
and sometimes , like now , it slips below its previous crater.according to a quinnipiac poll conducted may 4-9 , only 36 percent of registered approve of the job trump is doing .
that s down from 40 percent in mid-april , and is a near-record low for his presidency .
on april 4 , his approval was 35 percent.this poll was conducted before trump fired james comey from his position as fbi director , so that controversy hasn t hit the polls yet .
this nosedive is in response to other things trump and the republicans have done over the last several weeks .
but even without that , 61 percent of voters think trump is a goddamn liar ( he is ) , and 66 percent believe he s not levelheaded ( he isn t ) .trump s biggest drop was among white voters without a college education .
these people are the same who voted for him because they bought his song and dance about being able to bring an unprecedented level of prosperity back to them .
just 47 percent approve of his job now , compared to 57 percent last month.10 percent is a huge drop for less than four weeks , particularly from trump s own base.another interesting aspect of this poll is that a majority of americans now want the democrats to take control of congress in 2018 that number stands at 54 percent , compared to just 38 percent that want republicans to retain control .
the biggest thing people seem to be unhappy with is the gop s very unpopular plan to repeal the affordable care act .
neither trump nor republicans seem to care that even their own constituents want them to fix the aca rather than repeal it.on april 19 , trump s approval rating among independents was 38 percent , and that has likewise plummeted .
it stands at just 29 percent now.remember , none of this includes the clusterfuck surrounding james comey s termination .
it ll be interesting to see what happens going forward that decision was extremely controversial , and congressional democrats , along with some republicans , are unhappy and suspicious now.featured image by molly riley-pool via getty images