erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - iraqi kurdish leader jalal talabani , who died on tuesday aged 83 , spent decades fighting for his people s independence but then became president of iraq after the overthrow of saddam hussein and struggled to unite the deeply fractured country .
his death , in germany , came barely a week after the kurds of northern iraq voted overwhelmingly for independence in a referendum condemned by baghdad and iraq s powerful neighbors turkey and iran who fear it will destabilize the wider region .
a veteran of the kurdish guerrilla movement , talabani survived wars , exile and political infighting among the kurds to become iraq s first non-arab president in 2005 , two years after the u.s. invasion that toppled saddam .
the iraqi presidency post-saddam is a largely ceremonial post , but talabani , forceful yet charming , proved a pivotal mediator among iraq s fractious shi ite , sunni and kurdish parties , and he stayed on as head of state until 2014 .
despite his calls for iraqi national unity , the man known affectionately among kurds as mam or uncle was always a fierce champion of the kurdish cause , fighting saddam for decades and pushing for federalism to benefit the semi-autonomous region in the north .
while sectarianism and attacks by al qaeda engulfed most of iraq after 2003 , triggering a civil war between shi ites and sunnis , the kurdish north remained relatively stable and safe .
iraq s kurds are now closer than ever to realizing their dream of independence after decades of oppression under saddam hussein , followed by years of tensions with the baghdad government over oil and other issues .
however , talabani s patriotic union of kurdistan ( puk ) - and his wife and companion in political struggle , hero - voiced only lukewarm support for the sept. 25 referendum .
talabani was too ill by then to comment publicly on the vote .
the referendum was organized by talabani s longtime rival massoud barzani , head of the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) .
the split between barzani s kurdish democratic party ( kdp ) and talabani s puk raises questions over the future of iraqi kurdish politics .
talabani s puk , unlike barzani , has traditionally good ties with tehran .
iranian-backed shi ite groups wield considerable power in iraq .
born in 1933 , talabani studied law at baghdad university , joined the kdp in 1946 and by his mid-twenties was a member of the inner circle , a top lieutenant to the independence movement s patriarch , mullah mustafa barzani .
he split from the party and formed the puk in 1974 .
a damaging rivalry developed with barzani and his son , massoud .
talabani regarded himself as a modern , socialist and urban alternative to the tribal authority wielded by the elder barzani and much of the puk s support comes from the urban elite .
talabani s harshest lesson came in 1988 when iraq gassed kurdish towns near the iranian border during an iranian-puk offensive in the waning days of the iran-iraq war .
in the brutal seven-month anfal campaigns , kurds accused iraqi forces of killing tens of thousands of men , women and children and relocating many more .
many remain missing , despite the discovery of mass graves , and no one knows for sure how many were anfalised as kurds call the killings and disappearances .
most independent estimates put the figure at about 100,000 .
many kurdish leaders put it at more than 180,000 .
following their uprising against baghdad after the 1991 gulf war , iraqi kurds saw their first shot at self-rule go up in smoke when talabani and barzani sparred over control of a provisional north iraq government elected in 1992 .
that bickering escalated into a civil war that saw the kdp enlist baghdad s help against the iranian-backed puk .
a u.s.-sponsored truce backed with the threat of a diplomatic embargo took hold in 1998 and the two factions developed parallel , cooperating administrations .
talabani s speeches often reminded kurds of their suffering at the hands of saddam hussein .
but he and other kurdish leaders faced unrest from kurds more concerned with poor services in their towns and villages than the painful past .
talabani suffered a stroke in 2012 while still serving as iraqi president and underwent lengthy medical treatment , mostly in germany .
one of his sons , qubad , is the current deputy prime minister of the krg in northern iraq .