monrovia ( reuters ) - former soccer star george weah maintained his lead over vice president joseph boakai as more provisional results from liberia s presidential election were announced on friday .
if current trends hold , they would contest a run-off next month to decide which of them will succeed nobel peace prize winner ellen johnson sirleaf in what would be liberia s first democratic transfer of power in decades .
based on returns from about a third of the country s more than 5,000 polling stations , weah has obtained 39.6 percent of votes cast , with boakai of the ruling unity party ( up ) at 31.1 percent , the elections commission said .
we are still confident that there are places that we believe are our strong support ... we are very optimistic that with reports coming in , up is going to take the lead , boakai told reuters after friday s results announcement .
charles brumskine , a lawyer , was running third with 9.3 percent .
the final certified results from tuesday s poll must be announced by oct. 25 , although the provisional first-round winner is expected to be known in the coming days .
weah , a striker for paris saint-germain and ac milan who won fifa s world player of the year in 1995 , came second to johnson sirleaf in a 2005 election that drew a line under years of civil war that killed hundreds of thousands of civilians .
he has served in the senate since 2014 for the opposition congress for democratic change .
boakai , the former head of liberia s petroleum refinery company and agriculture minister , has served as vice president since 2006 .
brumskine and the parties of two other candidates have said the vote was marred by fraud and vowed to contest the results .
but they have not provided evidence of cheating and international observers said they saw no major problems .
liberia , africa s oldest modern republic , was founded by freed u.s. slaves in 1847 but its last democratic power transfer occurred in 1944 .
johnson sirleaf s nearly 12 years in office have seen the country s post-war peace consolidated , although liberians complain about poor public services and widespread corruption .