watch this video compilation where trump makes his stance on man-made global climate change very clear : as president donald trump contemplates whether to make good on his campaign promise to yank the united states out of the paris climate accord , an unlikely lobbying force is hoping to talk him out of it : oil and coal producers.a pro-paris bloc within the administration has recruited energy companies to lend their support to the global pact to cut greenhouse gas emissions , according to two people familiar with the effort who asked not to be identified.cheniere energy inc. , which exports liquefied natural gas , became the latest company to weigh in for the pact to cut greenhouse gas emissions in a letter monday to white house energy adviser g. david banks .
domestic energy companies are better positioned to compete globally if the united states remains a party to the paris agreement , cheniere wrote .
the accord is a useful instrument for fostering demand for america s energy resources and supporting the continued growth of american industry .
exxon mobil corp. , previously led by secretary of state rex tillerson , royal dutch shell plc and bp plc also have endorsed the pact.the industry campaign to stick with the paris accord comes amid deep divisions in the trump administration over the carbon-cutting agreement .
both the president s daughter , ivanka trump , and her husband , jared kushner , a white house special adviser , have urged the president to stay in the deal , along with tillerson.climate scientists who are against the climate treaty have written an open letter to president trump : breitbart news reports that in an open letter to donald trump , climate expert dr. duane thresher has urged the president not to give in to his daughter ivanka s misguided views on global warming and her insistence that the u.s. remain in the paris climate agreement ratified by barack obama last august .
climate treaties like the paris agreement have little to do with climate , thresher notes in his letter , which he made available to breitbart news .
they are about economic competition .
as the greatest economy in the history of the world , other countries will do anything to cripple the united states .
countries like china will agree to anything in these treaties and simply ignore their obligations while demanding the united states fulfill theirs , thresher said , calling belief in global warming a popular delusion .
in his letter , dr. thresher also reminded president trump of his campaign promises that led many americans to vote for him .
we who voted for you consider stopping this climate change madness one of your key promises , thresher said .
if you renege on it you will lose me and many others as supporters .
after trump s election , in fact , a number of climate change skeptics were emboldened to take more public stands against the politically imposed scientific consensus of global warming , welcoming a new era of free debate about a hotly contested issue.scientists unconvinced by the party line on climate change applauded trump s appointment of oklahoma attorney general scott pruitt to head up the environmental protection agency as an important step away from climate alarmism.even if trump caves and stays in the paris climate agreement , thresher says , it won t win him any friends .
your opponents are not going to support you ; they ll just taunt you as being a flip-flopper , he said .