( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate john kasich drew scorn on monday after a video emerged in which he told a crowd that early in his career , he gleaned support from women who “ left their kitchens ” to campaign .
the comments were made in reference to his 1978 run for ohio ’ s state senate , according to a spokesman , and not his current presidential campaign , in which he is running fifth nationally for the republican nomination , reuters-ipsos polling shows .
“ we just got an army of people who , and many women , who left their kitchens to go out and go door-to-door and to put yard signs up , ” kasich says in footage of monday ’ s event in virginia .
kasich , 63 , added his first campaign took place in an era in which “ things were different. ” “ now you call homes and everybody ’ s out working , ” kasich said .
he apologized for the remark later on monday .
“ of course , i ’ m more than happy to say i ’ m sorry if i offended somebody out there but it wasn ’ t intended to be offensive and if you hear the whole thing , you ’ ll understand the context of it , ” kasich told cnn .
in the video , an unseen audience member seems to criticize the ohio governor for his comment .
“ i want to say , your comment earlier , about the women came out of the kitchen to support you : i ’ ll come to support you but i won ’ t be coming out of the kitchen. ” the response on social media was swift and negative , with many twitter ( twtr.n ) users decrying kasich ’ s anecdote as sexist .
“ it ’ s 2016 .
a woman ’ s place is ... wherever she wants it to be , ” wrote democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton ( @ hillaryclinton ) on monday , in a quotation retweet that refers to kasich ’ s comments about his first campaign .
kasich press secretary rob nichols told reuters the governor ’ s political campaigns “ have always been homegrown affairs. ” “ many of his early campaign teams were made up of stay-at-home moms who believed deeply in the changes he wanted to bring , ” nichols said .
“ he ’ s proud of that authentic support .
to try and twist his comments into anything else is just desperate politics. ” some social media users compared kasich ’ s comment to former republican candidate mitt romney ’ s “ binders full of women ” moment from the 2012 presidential campaign , when he described receiving many resumes from women .
the comment struck many at the time as tone deaf .
“ mitt had binders full of women , and kasich has kitchens full of women , ” tweeted chicago jesus ( @ patriot_musket ) .
( reporting by amy tennery in new york ; additional reporting by eric beech in washington ; editing by andrew hay and peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .