when president asterisk assured us he was assembling a crew of the best and brightest white people who didn t despise him and everything he stands for , he failed to mention that he would be recruiting only from a pool of people too stupid to operate a spoon without at least two adults supervising.on thursday , press secretary sean spicer went from alternative facts to alternative password fields when he accidentally tweeted and deleted what appears to be his password to something ( who knows what ? )
for the second time in two days. # flash trumps white house press secretary , sean spicer , tweets out password , not once , but twice in 2 days .
just amazing .
pic.twitter.com/dwzfkx4rqb j st r ctual ( @ th3j35t3r ) january 26 , 2017 and apparently a third : spicer has increased his password entropy but unfortunately is still tweeting it to 1.37 million people pic.twitter.com/wwjuxxl1lp seth kranzler ( @ polyrhythmic ) january 27 , 2017he , like trump , also apparently chooses to connect his twitter to a gmail account : @ th3j35t3r help yourself with guessing his incredibly difficult gmail he uses for twitter .
and last two digits of his phone number pic.twitter.com/yrdgzelved ale ( @ aliasvaughn ) january 26 , 2017naturally , the world mocked spicer for being stupid enough to tweet out his password not one but multiple times : ha ha sean spicer tweeted out his password .
what an idiotpattonlovescarbs99 patton oswalt ( @ pattonoswalt ) january 26 , 2017well , at least sean spicer was n't using ' [ email protected ] ' like john podesta : / anonymous ( @ youranonnews ) january 26 , 2017 @ notch @ th3j35t3r ca n't wait for the tweet that is `` siri text donald its ok to fire some nukes '' rukes ( @ rukes ) january 26 , 2017trump : hillary uses an unsecure email , lock her up.trump uses an unsecure gmail account.spicer posts password to twitter . ?
planty ( @ mrplanttoyou ) january 26 , 2017 @ th3j35t3r that 's no password it 's a bug in his ai construct .
spicer 2.0 should be a bit more stable saurav shrestha ( @ zaurav ) january 26 , 2017 @ th3j35t3r i knew they could n't keep the nuclear codes to themselves .
michael martinez ( @ michaelmartinez ) january 26 , 2017 @ th3j35t3r on the bright side it only took him a day to include numbers .
in no time flat he 'll be using special characters and 2fa .
dante ( @ dj_neurotrip ) january 26 , 2017 @ presssec hi sean !
your password is good but i recommend adding an uppercase letter .
@ erinscafe @ parkermolloy @ sarahkendzior @ bessbell pic.twitter.com/poxnfrs5jt uxr mike ( @ ryaninteractive ) january 26 , 2017bannon isn t the only member of the trump administration to get caught up in an internet-related oopsie-daisy recently .
the donald s entire senior staff was recently busted using private rnc email accounts also known as doing that thing for which they criticized hillary and a hacker revealed that trump s own twitter security is completely lackluster .
not only does he have the bare minimum in terms of security attached to his @ potus account , but he had originally registered it to a gmail account until news broke and the account went through a rather hilarious shuffling of registered email addresses.these are the people who are in charge of our country : a morons of people whose qualifications make them more suited for taste testing bleach than being in control of the most powerful nation in the world.it hasn t even been a week and the entire trump team has proved to be a monumental security risk , trump has stripped international healthcare organizations that so much as mention abortion of all federal funding , taken the first step to tearing down obamacare , diverted taxpayer funds to build his stupid wall , taken the first step toward a total muslim ban , authorized two environment-destroying pipelines , tweeted out a threat to invade chicago , and even authorized the construction of concentration camps to hold the millions and millions of undocumented immigrants he plans to waste billions deporting.this .
is .
not .
normal .
this is not ok.featured image via getty images ( drew angerer ) /screengrab