baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi forces launched an operation on thursday to clear the desert bordering syria of islamic state in a final push to rid iraq of the militant group , the military said .
troops from the iraqi army and mainly shi ite paramilitaries known as popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ) were taking part in the campaign against militants hiding in a large strip of border land , iraqi military officials said .
the objective behind the operation is to prevent remaining daesh groups from melting into the desert region and using it as a base for future attacks , said army colonel salah kareem , referring to islamic state by an arabic acronym .
islamic state fighters who ruled over millions of people in both iraq and syria since proclaiming their caliphate in 2014 , have been largely defeated in both countries this year , pushed out of all population centers to empty desert near the border .
iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi said on tuesday islamic state had been defeated from a military perspective , but he would declare final victory only after the militants were routed in the desert .
[ nl8n1nr57c ] in the latest operation , iraqi forces had purified 77 villages and exerted control over a bridge and an airport , operations commander lieutenant general abdul ameer rasheed yarallah said in a statement .
over 5,800 squared kilometers had been purified , he added .
on friday iraqi forces captured the border town of rawa , the last remaining town under islamic state control .
iraqi army commanders say the military campaign will continue until all the frontier with syria is secured to prevent islamic state from launching cross border attacks .
we will completely secure the desert from all terrorist groups of daesh and declare iraq clean of those germs , said army brigadier general shakir kadhim .
army officials said troops advancing through sprawling desert towards the syria border are facing landmines and roadside bombs placed by retreating militants .
we need to clean scattered villages from terrorists to make sure they no longer operate in the desert area with syria , said army lieutenant-colonel ahmed fairs .
iraqi military helicopters provided cover for the advancing troops and destroyed at least three vehicles used by militants as they were trying to flee a village in the western desert , said the army officer .
islamic state s self-declared caliphate has swiftly collapsed since july , when u.s.-backed iraqi forces captured mosul , the group s de facto capital in iraq , after a grueling battle that had lasted nine months .
driven also from its other main bastion in syria s raqqa , islamic state has since been gradually squeezed into an ever-shrinking pocket of desert straddling the syria-iraq frontier , pursued by a range of enemies that include most regional states and global powers .
the group s leader , abu bakr al-baghdadi , is believed to be hiding in the stretch of desert which runs along the border of both countries .