washington ( reuters ) - the united states has warned saudi arabia that concern in congress over the humanitarian situation in yemen could constrain u.s. assistance , as it pushed riyadh to allow greater access for humanitarian aid , a u.s. official said on friday .
the saudi-led military coalition fighting the iran-aligned armed houthi movement in yemen s civil war started a blockade of ports a month ago after saudi arabia intercepted a missile fired toward its capital riyadh from yemen .
although the blockade later eased , yemen s situation has remained dire .
about 8 million people are on the brink of famine with outbreaks of cholera and diphtheria .
that has led the white house to take the rare step of issuing two written statements in a week on yemen , including one on friday calling on the saudi-led coalition to help facilitate the free flow of humanitarian aid and critical goods , like fuel .
i think there has just been mounting concern over the continued humanitarian conditions in yemen , and while we have seen progress , we haven t seen enough , said a senior trump administration official , speaking on condition of anonymity .
we want to see more in the coming weeks .
the white house also called on the houthis to allow food , medicine and fuel to be distributed and accused them of political repression and brutality .
the yemen war s heavy toll on civilians has long been a sore point with members of congress , triggering threats to block u.s. assistance to the saudi-led coalition .
that includes u.s. refueling of coalition jets and the provision of limited u.s. intelligence support .
senator chris murphy , a democrat from connecticut and longtime critic of u.s. support for the yemen campaign , cheered trump s push for humanitarian aid this week .
but in the same breath , he warned about u.s. assistance to the saudis .
the trump administration must continue to make clear to saudi arabia that the u.s. will not support a campaign that intentionally starves civilians into submission , murphy said .
trump administration officials have underscored those concerns in congress to riyadh .
we wanted to be very clear with saudi officials that the political environment here could constrain us if steps aren t taken to ease humanitarian conditions in yemen , the official said .
publicly , trump , his top aides and senior saudi officials have hailed what they say is a major improvement in u.s.-saudi ties compared with relations under former president barack obama , who upset the saudis by sealing a nuclear deal with their arch-foe iran .
even as ties improve , however , u.s. diplomats and intelligence analysts privately have expressed anxiety over some of the more hawkish actions by saudi arabia s crown prince , especially toward yemen and lebanon , as saudi arabia seeks to contain iranian influence .
in turn , saudi arabia has been unusually public about its concerns over president donald trump s move to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel .
the trump administration shares saudi arabia s concerns over iran and emphasized that point on friday .
in its statement , the white house squarely blamed iran s islamic revolutionary guard corps and its partners for arming , advising , and enabling the houthis violent actions .
we condemn the houthis brutal repression of political opponents in sanaa , friday s statement by white house spokeswoman sarah sanders said .
that includes the houthis killing last weekend of ali abdullah saleh , yemen s former president , to punish him for switching sides in yemen s three-year civil war .
the killing was a setback for riyadh , which had hoped the backing of saleh and his loyalist army units in northern yemen - would help close a war that has killed 10,000 people and caused one of the world s most acute humanitarian crises .
the white house said political negotiations were necessary to end violence in the country , free of the malign influence of iranian-backed militias .
the iranian-backed houthi militias must allow food , medicine , and fuel to be distributed throughout the areas they control , rather than diverted to sustain their military campaign against the yemeni people , sanders added .