brussels ( reuters ) - belgium s prime minister , battling to contain domestic fallout from the arrival of fugitive catalan leaders , urged madrid on wednesday to talk to the separatists , but said he would not interfere in any extradition to spain .
deposed catalan leader carles puigdemont and four ex-ministers from his regional government arrived in belgium last week , saying they had fled arrest in order to campaign in brussels , capital of the european union , against spanish sanctions on them for running an independence referendum .
riven by its own regional division between dutch- and french-speakers , belgium has found itself a reluctant host to the catalans .
the most important message , which is my strong conviction , is dialogue , dialogue , political dialogue , prime minister charles michel told lawmakers who grilled him on his coalition s stance .
michel , a french-speaking liberal , has irritated madrid by being one of the few eu leaders to criticize police violence during last month s referendum .
but he has also sought to curb statements supporting the catalan case from flemish nationalist party n-va , a major partner in his own coalition .
there is a political crisis in spain , but not in belgium , insisted michel , as opposition lawmakers questioned him about divisions within the government on the catalan issue .
his migration minister , from the n-va , suggested before puigdemont fled barcelona that the catalan leader could be entitled to political asylum in belgium .
michel at the time called on the minister not to pour oil on the fire .
he then said puigdemont could stay in belgium for now just like any other european citizen , but stressed that he had not been invited by the belgian authorities .
on wednesday , echoing that cool tone , he said the belgian government would not interfere in the judicial process under which belgian judges must now rule on a request from spain to extradite the five politicians .
nor , michel said , would it play a role in any asylum claim .
puigdemont has raised objections to going back to spain - where he faces charges of rebellion that could carry a jail term of up to 30 years - but has not sought refugee status , something that belgian legal experts say he and the others would be unlikely to obtain .