the twitter war between donald trump and alec baldwin just escalated.as we all know , trump and his team have been unable to find a-list celebrities willing to perform at the inauguration on january 20th .
as a result , trump s team is desperate.trump even pretended that he doesn t really want a-list celebrities at his inauguration , claiming on twitter that they all want tickets but he only wants the people in attendance.the so-called a list celebrities are all wanting tixs to the inauguration , but look what they did for hillary , nothing .
i want the people !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) december 23 , 2016well , alec baldwin announced on twitter on friday that he wants to perform at trump s inauguration .
there s just one catch .
baldwin wants to sing a specific song that represents where america is going over the next four years.i wan na perform at trump s inauguration .
i wan na sing highway to hellhttps : //t.co/fctariajfb abfoundation ( @ abfalecbaldwin ) december 23 , 2016can you imagine if baldwin was actually able to make this happen ?
it would be hilarious.alas , trump is unlikely to let one of his enemies attend his precious inauguration .
after all , it s all about him and will likely be the largest display of petty narcissism in history.but baldwin assured his followers earlier that they can take comfort in the fact that inauguration day will also mark the countdown when trump has to move out of the white house four years from now so a democrat can clean up his mess.1-we are not far from the day when the most reviled candidate in our history will become president .
unwanted by a significant majority of abfoundation ( @ abfalecbaldwin ) december 23 , 20162- of voters .
a man who has projected little other than an empty braggadocio and synthetic rhetoric about both his qualifications and plans abfoundation ( @ abfalecbaldwin ) december 23 , 20163- but inauguration day means the beginning of the countdown to when he will be gone .
and he will be gone .
january 20 .
the countdown begins .
abfoundation ( @ abfalecbaldwin ) december 23 , 2016your move , donald.featured image via screenshot