hanoi ( reuters ) - vietnam ’ s prime minister has urged a greater u.s. role in preventing militarization and island-building in the south china sea , the government said on tuesday , in a rare call for washington ’ s support to curb beijing ’ s maritime expansionism .
during a summit of southeast asian countries in california on monday , premier nguyen tan dung suggested to u.s. president barack obama that washington uses a stronger voice and “ more practical and more efficient actions ” , in comments likely to rile china .
tension has spiked since beijing ’ s construction of seven islands in the spratly archipelago .
“ prime minister dung suggested the united states has a stronger voice and more practical and more efficient actions requesting termination of all activities changing the status quo , ” the government said on its news website .
the statement did not specifically name china , but it said dung was referring especially to “ large-scale construction of artificial islands ” and “ militarization ” .
with a large u-shaped line on its official maps , china claims most of the south china sea .
malaysia , the philippines , taiwan , brunei and vietnam have rival claims .
obama and allies from southeast asia will turn their attention to china on tuesday on the second day of a summit intended to improve trade and provide a united front on maritime disputes with beijing .
whereas china accuses the united states of seeking maritime hegemony in asia , washington says its interest in the south china sea is preserving freedom of navigation .
in recent months , the united states raised the stakes by sending guided-missile destroyers uss lassen and uss curtis wilbur close to disputed areas occupied by beijing .
though communist vietnam routinely opposes china ’ s activities in disputed waters , its leaders are usually wary of provoking a giant neighbor with which it shares over $ 60 billion of annual trade and maintains close ideological ties .
dung has earned popularity in vietnam for pursuing stronger u.s. trade and defense links and for taking a tougher line against china , compared to measured responses by other vietnamese leaders to beijing ’ s assertiveness .
dung was controversially overlooked by the politburo last month in its nomination for party chief , meaning the end of his political career when his term ends this year , posing a possible blow for washington .
dung also asked obama to fully lift a lethal arms embargo on vietnam , which would be an “ important way to strengthen political trust ” , the government website quoted him saying .
obama will visit vietnam in may , the white house said .