phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodia s government has raised the possibility that the main opposition party could be ruled out of elections if it does not replace its leader , kem sokha , who has been charged with treason .
the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) has said it will not replace its leader and the comments reinforced its fears that prime minister hun sen plans to cripple it before next year s elections .
the arrest of kem sokha on sunday drew western condemnation and marked an escalation in a crackdown on critics of hun sen , who has ruled for 30 years and could face possibly his toughest electoral challenge from the cnrp next year .
they have to appoint an acting president , government spokesman phay siphan told reuters on tuesday .
if they don t comply with the law , they will not exist and have no right to political activity ...
it s their choice , not my choice .
kem sokha s daughter , kem monovithya , who is also a party official , said the party would not appoint a new leader .
kem sokha was only named in february after his predecessor resigned in fear the party would be banned if he stayed on .
the ruling party can drop their divide-and-conquer plan now , she said .
opposition officials accuse hun sen of trying to weaken or destroy the party ahead of the election , after it did well in june local elections , in which it nonetheless came well behind hun sen s cambodia people s party .
hun sen , one of asia s longest serving rulers , said on wednesday there could be more arrests after the act of treason and it had reinforced the need for him to stay in office .
i ve decided to continue my work - not less than 10 years more , he told garment factory workers , jabbing his finger in the air for emphasis .
kem sokha became leader after opposition veteran sam rainsy resigned because of a new law that forbids any party having a leader who is found guilty of a crime .
sam rainsy fled into exile to avoid a defamation conviction he says was political .
cambodian law says a political party has 90 days to replace a president if he or she dies , resigns or is convicted of an offence .
western countries have condemned the arrest of kem sokha and a crackdown on critics of hun sen , including independent media .
we don t care about people outside , phay siphan said .
we care about our national security .
we don t belong to anyone .
china , hun sen s close ally , has voiced support for cambodia on steps to ensure its security .
kem sokha was formally charged with treason on tuesday .
his lawyers have dismissed the evidence presented against him so far - a video publicly available since 2013 - in which he tells supporters he is getting support and advice from americans for the campaign to win elections .
the government and the ruling cpp have manufactured these treason charges against kem sokha for political purposes , aiming to try and knock the political opposition out of the ring before the 2018 electoral contest even begins , said phil robertson , deputy asia director of new york-based human rights watch .