21st century wire says now we can see part of the obama administration s end game in cooking-up the russian election hack hoax .
after much hysteria , followed by hype over the director of national intelligence james clapper s report release this weekend claiming that russia and vladimir putin altered the results of the 2016 us elections in favor of winner donald trump , what we can see so far , the report contains no evidence at all .
the much anticipated report has a number of basic errors , wild assumptions and misinformation .
some critics have labeled clapper s report beyond a joke.back on sept 1 , 2016 , 21wire warned readers that obama appointee , jeh johnson ( image , left ) , head of the department of homeland security ( dhs ) , was attempting to wrestle control of us election systems away from the 50 states , who have been the guardians of these systems since the founding of the united states , placing the election system instead under the control the federal dhs .
on friday , he actually did it announcing the he believes this is the right thing to do and justifies this federal power-grab by carefully inferring that the 2016 elections were hacked in a cyber security breach.despite the fact nearly every state and local body opposed the federal move , the white house and its pretorian dhs tool quietly snuck it through anyway .
as johnson is a lawyer ( like most obama appointees ) he was very careful to mince his words , stating that , cyber attacks on this country are becoming more sophisticated , and bad cyber actors ranging from nation state .
lawyerspeak aside , jeh johnson is clearly referring to russia.this incredible decree was issued by dhs head conveniently under the cover of the dni s empty russian hack report , and also under the cover of the highly questionable active shooter drama at fort lauderdale airport on friday afternoon.for any intelligent person watching , it s hardly a coincidence that president obama issued such an incredible federal power-grab on a day such as this.here is friday s rather pompous statement from jeh johnson the us department of homeland security statement by secretary jeh johnson on the designation of election infrastructure as a critical infrastructure subsectorrelease date : january 6 , 2017 for immediate release office of the press secretary contact : 202-282-8010i have determined that election infrastructure in this country should be designated as a subsector of the existing government facilities critical infrastructure sector .
given the vital role elections play in this country , it is clear that certain systems and assets of election infrastructure meet the definition of critical infrastructure , in fact and in law.i have reached this determination so that election infrastructure will , on a more formal and enduring basis , be a priority for cybersecurity assistance and protections that the department of homeland security provides to a range of private and public sector entities .
by election infrastructure , we mean storage facilities , polling places , and centralized vote tabulations locations used to support the election process , and information and communications technology to include voter registration databases , voting machines , and other systems to manage the election process and report and display results on behalf of state and local governments.prior to reaching this determination , my staff and i consulted many state and local election officials ; i am aware that many of them are opposed to this designation .
it is important to stress what this designation does and does not mean .
this designation does not mean a federal takeover , regulation , oversight or intrusion concerning elections in this country .
this designation does nothing to change the role state and local governments have in administering and running elections.the designation of election infrastructure as critical infrastructure subsector does mean that election infrastructure becomes a priority within the national infrastructure protection plan .
it also enables this department to prioritize our cybersecurity assistance to state and local election officials , but only for those who request it .
further , the designation makes clear both domestically and internationally that election infrastructure enjoys all the benefits and protections of critical infrastructure that the u.s. government has to offer .
finally , a designation makes it easier for the federal government to have full and frank discussions with key stakeholders regarding sensitive vulnerability information.particularly in these times , this designation is simply the right and obvious thing to do.at present , there are sixteen critical infrastructure sectors , including twenty subsectors that are eligible to receive prioritized cybersecurity assistance from the department of homeland security .
the existing critical infrastructure sectors are : entities within these sectors all benefit from this designation and work with us closely on cybersecurity .
for example , we have developed joint cybersecurity exercises with numerous companies within the communications , information technology , financial services and energy sectors to improve our incident response capabilities .
we have also streamlined access to unclassified and classified information to critical infrastructure owners and operators in partnership with information sharing and analysis organizations .
moreover , many critical infrastructure sectors include assets and systems owned and operated by state and local governments , such as dams , healthcare and public health , and water and wastewater systems.now more than ever , it is important that we offer our assistance to state and local election officials in the cybersecurity of their systems .
election infrastructure is vital to our national interests , and cyber attacks on this country are becoming more sophisticated , and bad cyber actors ranging from nation states , cyber criminals and hacktivists are becoming more sophisticated and dangerous.further , our increasingly digital and connected world has reshaped our lives .
it has streamlined everyday tasks and changed the way we communicate .
but , just as the continually evolving digital age has improved our quality of life , it has also introduced an array of cyber threats and implications.cybersecurity continues to be a top priority for dhs , as it is for state and local election officials across the country .
this designation enables the states , should they request it , to leverage the full scope of cybersecurity services we can make available to them.21wire editors note : more context on this story below last-minute power grab : jeh johnson obama and biden celebrate another federal power-grab by the dhs .
shepard ambellas intellihubsecretary of homeland security jeh johnson designated the u.s. election infrastructure as a critical infrastructure subsector in what can only be considered a bold move friday.johnson s designation through the department of homeland security will include storage facilities , polling places , and centralized vote tabulations locations used to support the election process , and information and communications technology to include voter registration databases , voting machines , and other systems to manage the election process and report and display results on behalf of state and local governments , according to johnson s official statement.johnson wrote , [ ] election infrastructure in this country should be designated as a subsector of the existing government facilities critical infrastructure sector .
given the vital role elections play in this country .
although many state and local election officials have clearly been in opposition to such a designation , fearing a federal takeover , johnson decided to move forth anyway continue this story at intellihubread more dhs news at : 21wire dhs filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv