buenos aires ( reuters ) - a federal judge in argentina indicted former president cristina fernandez for treason and asked for her arrest for allegedly covering up iran s possible role in the 1994 bombing of a jewish community center that killed 85 people , a court ruling said .
as fernandez is a senator , congress would first have to vote to strip her of parliamentary immunity for an arrest to occur .
the judge , claudio bonadio , also indicted and ordered house arrest for fernandez s foreign minister hector timerman , the 491-page ruling said .
fernandez called a news conference in congress to deny wrongdoing and accuse bonadio and president mauricio macri of degrading the judiciary .
it is an invented case about facts that did not exist , she said , dressed in white .
timerman s lawyer could not immediately be reached for comment .
while removing immunity from lawmakers is rare in argentina , congress voted on oct. 25 to do so for fernandez s former planning minister julio de vido and he was arrested the same day .
de vido is accused of fraud and corruption , which he denies .
argentina s legislature has entered a period of judicial recess until march but can be convened for urgent matters .
fernandez and her allies have been the focus of several high profile cases with arrests and indictments since center-right mauricio macri defeated her chosen successor and was elected president in late 2015 .
fernandez left office just a few months before the congress in neighboring brazil impeached another leftist female leader , dilma rousseff for breaking budget laws .
the cover-up allegations against fernandez gained international attention in january 2015 , when the prosecutor who initially made them , alberto nisman , was found shot dead in the bathroom of his buenos aires apartment .
an argentine appeals court a year ago ordered the re-opening of the investigation .
nisman s death was classified as a suicide , though an official investigating the case has said the shooting appeared to be a homicide .
nisman s body was discovered hours before he was to brief congress on the bombing of the amia center .
grains-for-oil nisman said fernandez worked behind the scenes to clear iran and normalize relations to clinch a grains-for-oil deal with tehran that was signed in 2013 .
the agreement created a joint commission to investigate the amia bombing that critics said was really a means to absolve iran .
argentine , israeli and u.s. officials have long blamed the amia attack on hezbollah guerrillas backed by iran .
tehran has denied links to the attack .
earlier on thursday , two lower level allies of fernandez were arrested based on the same ruling from judge bonadio : carlos zannini , a legal adviser , and luis d elia , the leader of a group of protesters supporting her government .
zannini s lawyer , alejandro baldin , told local media the detention was arbitrary , illegal and ran over constitutional and individual rights , after leaving a police station in rio gallegos , where zannini was held .
d elia s lawyer , adrian albor , told radio del plata that bonadio had no respect for the law , rights , justice .
they are coming for everyone in the previous government .
bonadio wrote in his ruling that evidence showed iran , with the help of argentine citizens , had appeared to achieve its goal of avoiding being declared a terrorist state by argentina .
the crime of treason is punishable by 10 to 25 years in prison , argentina s maximum sentence .
the next step in the case would be an oral trial and sentences can be appealed on first instance , which could be a long process .
macri s leader in the senate , federico pinedo , said on twitter that congress would analyze the request to strip immunity with sincerity and responsibility .
macri s coalition performed better than expected in oct. 22 mid-term elections , gaining seats in congress , but it is not clear if lawmakers will vote to strip fernandez s immunity .
fernandez , who governed from 2007 to 2015 , finished second to a macri ally in the buenos aires province senate race but won a seat under argentina s list system .
she was sworn in last week .
she was also indicted in late 2016 on charges she ran a corruption scheme with her public works secretary .
fernandez has admitted there may have been corruption in her government but personally denies wrongdoing .