wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand s ruling national party reclaimed a slight lead in the latest average of polls , underscoring a tight race that has unsettled investors amid uncertainty over the make-up of the next government and its trade and immigration policies .
the poll of polls compiled by radio new zealand showed national s support at 41.3 percent , just ahead of labour on 40.5 percent , giving national 51 seats in parliament and labour 50 .
both parties would need to rely on the nationalist new zealand first party to form a coalition government under the country s proportional representation system as the winning party or parties need 61 of parliament s 120 seats to form government .
the poll average suggests the two main parties are still neck and neck , even as individual polls point to contrasting results , with some giving a lead to labour and others national .
the uncertain outcome has thrown doubts over future policies on major issues like trade and immigration , both key drivers of new zealand s relatively robust economic growth in recent years .
prime minister bill english s national party has vowed to support free trade as global protectionism rises , in particular , by championing the trans-pacific partnership pact , which labour has said it would renegotiate .
the new zealand dollar , the 11th most traded currency in the world , slipped to $ 0.7295 on wednesday after climbing to $ 0.7320 overnight following a separate single poll released on tuesday that put national well ahead of labour .
there was a bit of a reality check this morning that this is just one poll and polls are not reliable , said rodrigo catril , forex strategist at national australia bank .
the base case is still that whoever wins they will have to form a coalition .
the radio new zealand figures showed support for new zealand first averaging 7.5 percent , while the green party was at 5.5 percent , giving them 9 and 7 seats respectively .
new zealand first s economic policies tend to have more in common with those of labour , but it has formed coalitions with both major parties in the past .
polls in recent weeks have suggested widely varying outcomes from the vote .
a poll on tuesday gave the national party a near 10-point lead over labour , suggesting they wouldn t need nz first to form government .
earlier polls had given labour a sizeable lead after it gambled on a late change of leadership , installing 37-year-old jacinda ardern , to revive its flagging popularity .