seoul ( reuters ) - south korean president moon jae-in said on tuesday it would not be easy for reclusive north korea to destroy its nuclear arsenal quickly , even if wanted to , given its weapons programs were so developed .
north korea is under heavy international pressure to end its weapons programs , pursued in defiance of u.n. security council resolutions .
but it has vowed never to give up its nuclear arsenal .
speaking to reporters in the philippines , moon said that if north korea agreed to hold talks , negotiations could be held with all options open .
if talks begin to resolve the north korea nuclear issue , i feel it will be realistically difficult for north korea to completely destroy its nuclear capabilities when their nuclear and missile arsenal are at a developed stage , moon said in a briefing .
if so , north korea s nuclear program should be suspended , and negotiations could go on to pursue complete denuclearization .
moon s remarks were made available by the presidential blue house .
last week , the north said it did not oppose dialogue , but would never put the issue related to the supreme interests of the dprk and security of its people on the bargaining table .
we are not interested in such dialogue and negotiations in the least , the north s official news agency said , referring to the country by its official name , the democratic people s republic of korea .
the north defends the programs as a necessary defense against u.s. plans to invade .
the united states , which has 28,500 troops in south korea , a legacy of the 1950-53 korean war , denies any such intention .
u.s. president donald trump has traded insults and threats with north korean leader kim jong un as north korea races toward its goal of developing a nuclear-tipped missile capable of reaching the united states .
trump threatened in his maiden u.n. address to totally destroy north korea if the united states was threatened and has said the time for talking , the policy of previous u.s. administrations , is over .
moon reiterated his stance that now was the time to increase pressure on north korea so that it would come to talks .
he said differences in understanding between south korea and china , north korea s lone major ally , regarding the deployment of the u.s. terminal high altitude area defense ( thaad ) system on south koran soil had not been resolved .
china has not said it has changed its stance to agree to thaad and still says thaad infringes on its security .
we have , in turn , explained thaad is not aimed at china but only toward curbing north korea s nuclear and missile provocations , he said .
last month , south korea and china agreed to end a year-long standoff over thaad which had seen south korean companies doing business in china suffer from retaliation against the system s deployment .