dirty jobs host mike rowe went off on a guy who claimed rowe is a white nationalist .
the usual happy-go-lucky rowe was clearly ticked when he wrote back to chuck adkins.chuck adkins asked rowe : one of the tenants of white nationalism is that college educated people are academic elitists .
comment ?
no ?
i m not surprised .
you never take a political stand because you don t want to alienate anybody .
its bad for business .
i get it .
but there is a current of anti intellectualism in this country promoted by republicans .
those people love you , and they think your initiative is their initiative .
meanwhile , the rest of the world is kickin our ass academically .
rowe responded with a blistering rebuke of adkins and the liberal media : since we re being candid , allow me to say how much i dislike your post .
everything about it annoys me your smug and snarky tone , your appalling grammar , your complete lack of evidence to support your claims , and of course , the overarching logical fallacy that informs your entire position , rowe wrote .
what really bugs me though , is the fact that you re not entirely wrong .
it s true ; i haven t shared any political opinions this week , in part anyway , because doing so might very well be bad for business .
what can i say ?
i work for half-a-dozen different companies , none of whom pay me to share my political opinions .
i run a non-partisan foundation , i m about to launch a new show on facebook , and i m very aware that celebrities pay a price for opening their big fat gobs .
gilbert gottfried , kathy griffin , colin kaepernick , milo yiannopoulos even that guy from google who just got himself fired for mouthing off .
there s no getting around it the first amendment does not guarantee the freedom to speak without consequences .
and really , that s fine by me , he continued .
so no i m not going to share my personal feelings about charlottesville , president trump , or the current effort to remove thousands of statues of long dead soldiers from the public square .
not just because it s bad for business , but because it s annoying .
i can t think of a single celebrity whose political opinion i value , and i m not going to assume the country feels any differently about mine , rowe wrote .
so , rather than blow myself up , or chime in with all the obvious observations about the cowardly scum in the pointy hats , i m going to talk instead about my belief that comments like yours pose a far greater threat to the future of our country than the existence of a memorial to thomas jefferson , or a monument to george washington .
ready ?
then rowe started in on adkins insinuations .
you say that white nationalists believe that everyone who goes to college is an academic elite .
you then say that republicans promote anti-intellectualism .
you offer no proof to support either claim , but it really doesn t matter your statements successfully connect two radically different organizations by alleging a shared belief , rowe said .
thus , white nationalists and the republican party suddenly have something in common a contempt for higher education .
then , you make it personal .
you say that republicans love me because they believe that my initiative and their initiative are one and the same .
but of course , their initiative is now the same initiative as white nationalists .
he continued very clever .
without offering a shred of evidence , you ve implied that republicans who support mikeroweworks do so because they believe i share their disdain for all things intellectual .
and poof just like that , republicans , white nationalists , and mikeroweworks are suddenly conflated , and the next thing you know , i m off on a press tour to disavow rumors of my troubling association with the nazis !
far-fetched ?
far from it , rowe continued .
that s how logical fallacies work .
a flaw in reasoning or a mistaken belief undermines the logic of a conclusion , often leading to real-world consequences .
and right now , logical fallacies are not limited to the warped beliefs of morons with tiki torches , and other morons calling for more dead cops .
logical fallacies are everywhere .
not near done , rowe wrote , as i type this , a democrat on cnn is making an argument that says , because thomas jefferson owned slaves , those republicans now opposed to tearing down his memorial are pro-slavery , and therefore aligned with the modern day kkk .
that s a logical fallacy .
over on fox , a republican is arguing that any democrat who has not yet condemned the senator from missouri for publicly wishing that donald trump be assassinated , is guilty of wishing for the exact same thing .
that s a logical fallacy .
yesterday , on the science channel , neil degrasse tyson , a noted astronomer , tweeted that the ability of scientists to accurately predict the solar eclipse , was proof that predictions of global warming were also accurate .
that s a logical fallacy .
then rowe turned the tables on his accuser , continuing , want to hear another one ?
imagine something like this , unfolding over on msnbc .
good evening , america , our top story tonight chuck atkins is a racist !
why ?
because he can t spell .
just look at his grammar !
in a recent post on mike rowe s facebook page , mr. atkins , while bemoaning america s global academic standing , not only misspelled elitist , he used tenants when he meant tenets .
he neglected to use a hyphen in anti-intellectual , and he misplaced several commas and apostrophes !
but why is he a racist , you ask ?
simple .
because everyone knows racists are ignorant .
chuck atkins is clearly a poor speller .
poor spelling and grammar are signs of ignorance .
ergo chuck atkins is a racist !
boom !
the matter is settled !
there s not much we can do about the news , but here on facebook , i think we can do better .
this isn t twitter , rowe said .
we re not limited to a few inflammatory sentences and a flurry of emojis .
take a moment , chuck .
think .
make a rational argument .
otherwise , just link us to a cat video .
people love those , and they re almost never bad for business .
( unless of course , the cat gets hurt .
people hate that . )
just don t assume that people will care about your beliefs , if you re not willing to back them up with some relevant facts and a rational conclusion .
here , for instance , are a few facts that matter to me , with respect to my foundation and the recurring charge of fostering anti-intellectualism .
rowe then defended his charitable work , writing , mikeroweworks is a pr campaign for the skilled trades .
for the last nine years , we ve partnered with numerous trade schools , raised millions of dollars for work-ethic scholarships , and called attention to millions of jobs that don t require a four-year degree .
but that doesn t mean we re anti-intellectual .
we re not even anti-college .
we simply reject the popular notion that a four-year degree is the best path for the most people .
and we re hardly alone .
millions of reasonable people republicans and democrats alike are worried that our universities are doing a poor job of preparing students for the real world .
they re worried about activist professors , safe spaces , the rising cost of tuition , a growing contempt for history , and a simmering disregard of the first amendment .
these people are concerned that our universities once beacons of free speech now pander to a relatively small percentage of students who can t tolerate any political opinion that challenges their own .
and they re concerned deeply concerned that millions of good jobs are currently vacant that don t require a four-year degree , or any of the catastrophic debt that comes with it .
returning to the original attack , rowe concluded , again these are not the concerns of anti-intellectuals .
they are the concerns of people who care about the future of the country .
i don t know how many of these people are republicans , but i can assure you that no one who actually supports my initiative is remotely confused about my feelings on education , because i ve been crystal clear on that topic from the very beginning .
to quote thomas jefferson , ( while i still can , ) if a nation expects to be ignorant and free and live in a state of civilization , it expects what never was and never will be .
on this point , my foundation does not equivocate .
in other words , chuck , i have no idea what the white nationalists think about my efforts , or the republicans , the democrats , the elitists , the italians , the presbyterians , the unions , or the self-proclaimed anti-intellectuals .
and really , i couldn t care less .
my question is , why do you ?
mike ps .
ok , i ve just re-read this , ( in a desperate search for typos , ) and i want to apologize for pointing out that you re a lousy speller .
this is probably not the time to trot out the grammar nazi , but your tenor and tone pissed me off , and i responded in my own snarky way .
sorry , he wrote .
pps maybe this is how political correctness begins ?
maybe we start by correcting each other s grammar , and then move on to the business of correcting everything else ?
today a missing hyphen , tomorrow a missing monument .
or , maybe not , he concluded .