wikileaks founder julian assange has clearly stated his leaks did not come from russia .
watch : former uk ambassador to uzbekistan craig murray , who is a close associate of julian assange , said he has met the dnc leaker and he s not russian .
h/t gpi have watched incredulous as the cia s blatant lie has grown and grown as a media story blatant because the cia has made no attempt whatsoever to substantiate it .
there is no russian involvement in the leaks of emails showing clinton s corruption .
yes this rubbish has been the lead today in the washington post in the us and the guardian here , and was the lead item on the bbc main news .
i suspect it is leading the american broadcasts also.a little simple logic demolishes the cia s claims .
the cia claim they know the individuals involved .
yet under obama the usa has been absolutely ruthless in its persecution of whistleblowers , and its pursuit of foreign hackers through extradition .
we are supposed to believe that in the most vital instance imaginable , an attempt by a foreign power to destabilize a us election , even though the cia knows who the individuals are , nobody is going to be arrested or extradited , or ( if in russia ) made subject to yet more banking and other restrictions against russian individuals ?
plainly it stinks .
the anonymous source claims of we know who it was , it was the russians are beneath contempt.as julian assange has made crystal clear , the leaks did not come from the russians .
as i have explained countless times , they are not hacks , they are insider leaks there is a major difference between the two .
and it should be said again and again , that if hillary clinton had not connived with the dnc to fix the primary schedule to disadvantage bernie , if she had not received advance notice of live debate questions to use against bernie , if she had not accepted massive donations to the clinton foundation and family members in return for foreign policy influence , if she had not failed to distance herself from some very weird and troubling people , then none of this would have happened.it is terrible that the prime conduit for this paranoid nonsense is a once great newspaper , the washington post , which far from investigating executive power , now is a sounding board for totally evidence free anonymous source briefing of utter bullshit from the executive.in the uk , one single article sums up the total abnegation of all journalistic standards .
the truly execrable jonathan freedland of the guardian writes few credible sources doubt that russia was behind the hacking of internal democratic party emails , whose release by julian assange was timed to cause maximum pain to hillary clinton and pleasure for trump .
does he produce any evidence at all for this assertion ?
no , none whatsoever .
what does a journalist mean by a credible source ?
well , any journalist worth their salt in considering the credibility of a source will first consider access .
do they credibly have access to the information they claim to have ? now both julian assange and i have stated definitively the leak does not come from russia .
do we credibly have access ?
yes , very obviously .
very , very few people can be said to definitely have access to the source of the leak .
the people saying it is not russia are those who do have access .
after access , you consider truthfulness .
do julian assange and i have a reputation for truthfulness ?
well in 10 years not one of the tens of thousands of documents wikileaks has released has had its authenticity successfully challenged .
as for me , i have a reputation for inconvenient truth telling.contrast this to the credible sources freedland relies on .
what access do they have to the whistleblower ?
zero .
they have not the faintest idea who the whistleblower is .
otherwise they would have arrested them .
what reputation do they have for truthfulness ?
it s the clinton gang and the us government , for goodness sake.the worst thing about all this is that it is aimed at promoting further conflict with russia .
this puts everyone in danger for the sake of more profits for the arms and security industries including of course bigger budgets for the cia .
as thankfully the four year agony of aleppo comes swiftly to a close today , the saudi and us armed and trained isis forces counter by moving to retake palmyra .
this game kills people , on a massive scale , and goes on and on .
for entire blog post , go to : craig murrayit s worth mentioning , the murder case of seth rich , a 27 year old dnc operative has not yet been solved.possible whistle blower on democratic party voter # fraud assassinated in washington dc , not in msm https : //t.co/cbem0ajvw5 # dnc egypt built ( @ hosamdakhakhni ) july 12 , 2016on august 9 , 2016 julian assange offered a $ 20,000 reward for information that would lead to the conviction of the person or people who murdered seth rich .
why did assange make that offer ? announce : wikileaks has decided to issue a us $ 20k reward for information leading to conviction for the murder of dnc staffer seth rich .
wikileaks ( @ wikileaks ) august 9 , 2016while wilileaks julian assange was being interviewed by john pilger , he brought up the death of seth rich : watch assange s reaction to pilger s question during the same interview in slow motion here .
what do you think ?
is he nodding in agreement to his question about seth rich ? the russia hoax : julian assange acknowledges murdered dnc staffer seth rich was wikileaks ' source .
why is msm covering this up ?
# trump pic.twitter.com/fs297jooqi vivelafrance ( @ vivelafra ) december 11 , 2016here is part of the conversation : julian assange : whistleblowers go to significant efforts to get us material and often very significant risks .
as a 27 year-old , works for the dnc , was shot in the back , murdered just a few weeks ago for unknown reasons as he was walking down the street in washington.reporter : that was just a robbery , i believe .
wasn t it ? julian assange : no .
there s no finding .
so i m suggesting that our sources take risks.perhaps obama should stop blaming the russians and start asking the fbi and cia to take a closer look at the unsolved murder of seth rich .
but if the answer lies within the democrat party , that s probably not gon na happen .
obama and hillary would rather start a war with russia