rate your mom for mother s day sounds like the perfect project that only an intrusive , progressive public school teacher would assign .
a first grade class at ridgecrest elementary in cottonwood heights , utah , ( and scads of other schools around the country , too , if the 1,994 downloads are any indication ) made a mother s day gift to take home .
was it a sentimental card ?
a loving poem ?
perhaps the impression of the child s hand forever memorialized in plaster of paris ?
no.some teacher ( or in this case it may have been principal teri mattson ) thought it was a grand idea to have six-year-olds rate their moms on personal behaviors .
the report card reveals how well the mom lives up to expectations !
kids get to rate ( with smiling , neutral , or frowning faces ) their moms on these items : the mom cares for her children .
the mom cooks healthy meals for her children .
the mom has an organized bedroom .
the mom takes time to enjoy her hobbies , such as reading .
the mom works hard to make money for her family .
the mom is funny and makes her children laugh .
the mom takes care of herself by getting her hair done and taking bubble baths .
the mom is a safe driver and does not get distracted when driving .
inspire me , asap !
the username of a woman who offers items on teachers pay teachers created this worksheet .
it is apparently receiving lots of positive feedback ( and smiling faces ! )
with comments like : the moms will love these !
how fun is this ? !
can t wait to have my kiddos make this !
super adorable !
adorable idea .
i can t wait to see their answers.now the questions are : how many parents are going to speak up about this ?
how could teachers/administrators be this clueless ?
whenever things like this happen , i see a ton of private griping and moaning and negative social media commentary .
few parents , however , are willing to push back.in a nutshell , parents are afraid of school employees .
these taxpayer funded teachers and administrators hold so much power ( grades , influence , activities , resources ) that parents vehemently object in private while smiling and nodding in public.they work for us , people .
they must be held accountable.giving such a worksheet is not just invasive and stupid .
in utah , it s illegal.title 53a chapter 13 part 3 section 302except as provided in subsection ( 7 ) , section 53a-11a-203 , and section 53a-15-1301 , policies adopted by a school district or charter school under section 53a-13-301 shall include prohibitions on the administration to a student of any psychological or psychiatric examination , test , or treatment , or any survey , analysis , or evaluation without the prior written consent of the student s parent or legal guardian , in which the purpose or evident intended effect is to cause the student to reveal information , whether the information is personally identifiable or not , concerning the student s or any family member s : ( e ) critical appraisals of individuals with whom the student or family member has close family relationshipsvia : mormonmomma