london ( reuters ) - britain could bring in tough new controls on immigration from the european union without actually having to leave the bloc , former prime minister tony blair said on sunday .
concerns over the impact of high levels of immigration on public services and housing were cited as a factor by many who voted to leave the eu in last year s referendum .
prime minister theresa may s conservative government has said free movement of eu citizens coming to britain must end .
many brexit supporters blame blair s government , which allowed citizens of former communist states to settle immediately in britain despite a long transition period implemented by other eu countries , for a big influx of eu migrants from 2004 .
there is no diversion possible from brexit without addressing the grievances that gave rise to it .
paradoxically , we have to respect the referendum vote to change it , blair , who has said brexit can and should be stopped , wrote in the sunday times newspaper .
we can curtail the things that people feel are damaging about european immigration , both by domestic policy change and by agreeing change within europe to the freedom of movement principle , added blair , who led a labour government for a decade from 1997 .
asked about blair s proposals , defense minister michael fallon said the government had to get on with delivering brexit .
the country has taken its decision , we are leaving the european union now and that means freedom of movement has to end ... there have got to be restrictions on those coming here , he told bbc television .
a leaked government document last week said britain was considering measures to restrict immigration for all but the highest-skilled eu workers , plans some companies called alarming .
a paper published on sunday by blair s institute for global change said the government could take steps including registering eu migrants when they arrive to keep track of whether they meet eu rules about finding work .
eu migrants could also be forced to show evidence of a job offer before being allowed to enter britain , and those without permission to reside could be banned from renting , opening a bank account or accessing welfare benefits , it said .
the paper also proposes seeking an emergency brake to implement temporary controls on migration when services are stretched a strengthened version of a deal offered to former prime minister david cameron ahead of the referendum .