nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan police detained a ruling party lawmaker and a former opposition senator on monday for alleged hate speech , as political tensions simmered following the supreme court s decision to annul the presidential election .
both the candidates in that ballot , incumbent president uhuru kenyatta and veteran opposition leader raila odinga , also ratcheted up the temperature in public speeches on monday and the opposition said it would boycott the opening of parliament .
politics in kenya often follows ethnic lines and has in the past erupted into deadly violence , making the authorities sensitive to perceived inflammatory statements .
reported instances of hate speech have risen sharply since the surprise ruling on sept. 1 , the first of its kind in africa , when the supreme court voided kenyatta s reelection citing irregularities in the tallying process .
moses kuria , a member of parliament and johnson muthama , a former senator , have been arrested on hate speech allegations , interior ministry spokesman mwenda njoka told reuters by phone .
njoka did not give further details , and police did not respond to queries .
last week , kuria gave a public speech calling for a manhunt for odinga s supporters , who had greeted the court ruling with jubilation .
two witnesses described a roadblock set up the next day near where kuria gave his speech , where ruling party supporters checked the ethnicity of passengers in vehicles to see if they might be opposition supporters .
on sunday , muthama , a former senator for the opposition wiper party , gave a speech peppered with insults aimed at kenyatta .
in a televised speech on monday , kenyatta said the ruling party might use its majority in the legislature to impeach odinga if the opposition leader won the new polls , scheduled for oct. 17 .
even if he is elected , we have the opportunity in parliament within two months , three months to kick him out , kenyatta said in a nationally televised speech .
waikwa wanyoike , a barrister specializing in constitutional law , said the government s majority fell short of the majority needed in both houses to impeach a president .
it s just posturing .
it requires a two-thirds majority in both houses ... there also has to be grounds to do it .
they can manufacture grounds but it s hard to manufacture the numbers , he said .
odinga , meanwhile , accused the government of a mass sterilization campaign under the guise of giving tetanus vaccinations .
hundreds of thousands of our girls and women between 14 and 49 will not have children because of state-sponsored sterilization sold to the country as tetanus vaccination , odinga said at a press conference .
odinga cited kenya s lancet laboratories as one of his sources .
but dr ahmed kelebi , managing director of lancet , said such claims were based on debunked misinterpretations of their data .
after odinga spoke , a founding member of his opposition alliance , moses wetangula , said the opposition would boycott the opening of parliament on tuesday .
( opposition ) members of parliament from both houses will not attend the intended opening of the house because the president is a lame duck president , wetangula said .
he is enjoying temporary incumbency and has got no moral authority whatsoever to officially open parliament .