rome ( reuters ) - former italian prime minister matteo renzi , whose democratic party ( pd ) is shedding support in opinion polls , suffered a further setback on wednesday when two allies said they would not contest next year s election .
renzi quit as prime minister a year ago after losing a referendum on his planned constitutional reforms .
he aims to return to power at the vote due by may , but the pd has split under his leadership and his prospects seem to be dwindling .
on wednesday giuliano pisapia , a former mayor of milan , announced that his small leftist party , called the progressive camp ( cp ) , which had been expected to join forces with the pd at the election , was disbanding .
pisapia said it had proved impossible to continue talks with the pd , and complained in particular about renzi s unwillingness to push through a contested law making it easier for the children of immigrants to obtain italian citizenship .
hours later , foreign minister angelino alfano , leader of the centrist popular alternative party ( ap ) which governs with the pd , said he would not be running at the election , throwing into doubt the future of the party he founded .
the cp and ap have less than 3 percent of the vote each , according to opinion polls , but the latest defections weaken the center-left in which a declining pd is now virtually without any allies .
the left and the pd are crumbling away , said renato brunetta , lower house leader of silvio berlusconi s forza italia ( go italy ! )
party which is the lynchpin of a center-right alliance that is expected to win most seats at the election .
on sunday , leftist parties which had already quit the pd joined forces under the leadership of senate speaker piero grasso to form free and equal , a new grouping already credited with around 6 percent of the vote and expected to grow further at the expense of the pd .
posing a potential further headache for renzi , a parliamentary commission on banking decided later on wednesday to call a former top banker who a prominent journalist alleged had been put under pressure by a close ally in his government .
in a book published earlier this year , the previous director of one of italy s biggest newspapers said renzi s reform minister maria elena boschi had in 2015 asked federico ghizzoni , then chief executive of unicredit , to look into buying a struggling bank where her father held a senior position .
the cross-party commission investigating banking crises said in a statement it had voted unanimously to call ghizzoni to speak .
a source said his hearing would be held by dec. 23 .
boschi , who is now cabinet secretary , denies ever asking anyone to buy banca etruria , which was eventually rescued by the state .
she said this week she was taking legal action .
renzi s pd critics say he has dragged the traditionally left-leaning party to the right and lament what they say is his autocratic , domineering leadership style .
the party has been steadily losing support since it won over 40 percent of the vote at european elections in 2014 .
surveys suggest it would now poll around 25 percent , some 3 points behind the anti-establishment 5-star movement .
the center-right bloc is made up of forza italia and the anti-immigrant northern league , each with around 15 percent , and the right-wing brothers of italy , on around 5 percent .
while the center-right is seen winning most seats at the election , opinion polls suggest it will not win an absolute majority , making a hung parliament the most likely outcome .