hagatna , guam ( reuters ) - taiwanese president tsai ing-wen arrived on the u.s. pacific island of guam on friday on her way back from visiting diplomatic allies in the pacific - a trip that caused strong objections from china , which claims taiwan as its own .
beijing had urged the united states not to allow tsai to transit its territory on her trip , which included two days in hawaii before she headed on to tuvalu , the solomon islands and the marshall islands .
the timing is particularly touchy as u.s. president donald trump is due in beijing next week .
china regards self-ruled and democratic taiwan as its sovereign territory and regularly calls it the most sensitive and important issue between it and the united states , strongly objecting to transit stops by taiwanese presidents .
while the office of guam governor edward b. calvo described tsai s visit as private and unofficial , she was provided with a police escort upon her arrival .
speaking at a banquet , tsai said that taiwan and guam share a unique friendship .
she described guam as the closest part of the united states to taiwan , adding : the people of taiwan are grateful for your support .
james f. moriarty , chairman of the american institute in taiwan , the u.s. mission in taiwan , said hawaii , guam and taiwan were bound together not only by the pacific ocean but also by an expectation of democracy .
guam is home to a large u.s. military base and would be key to any u.s. assistance to taiwan in the event of a conflict with china .
beijing has never renounced the possible use of force to bring the island under its control .
relations between beijing and taipei have nosedived since tsai was elected last year ; china believes she wants formal independence for taiwan , a red line for beijing .
for her part , tsai says she wants to maintain peace with china but will defend taiwan s democracy and security .
the u.s. state department had said tsai s transits through u.s. soil would be private and unofficial and based on long-standing u.s. practice consistent with our unofficial relations with taiwan .
last december , trump angered beijing by taking a telephone call from tsai shortly after winning the presidential election .
tsai has been in the united states twice this year .
in january , she stopped over in houston and san francisco on her way to and from latin america .