chengdu , china ( reuters ) - when she was a child , qin lijuan s grandfather was the local communist party boss in the district where they lived in southwestern china .
but one of her favorite things to do was decidedly capitalistic .
her grandmother ran a shop and around chinese new year was flush with cash .
qin loved handling the money and counting it .
she wanted to be rich one day .
when i was little i told my grandma that when i was done with school i d take care of the store , she said .
when she eventually went to university in the southwestern metropolis of chengdu , qin , who goes by the english name coco , still had money on her mind .
studying animation at a branch of the university of electronic science and technology of china , qin counted her pennies and dreamed of making 10,000 yuan a month so that she could enjoy the best of what the thriving city had to offer .
at the time i thought , very simplistically , i d eat the best that chengdu has to offer and see the best things , she said .
that s how big my dream was .
however , she learned that working as an animator on video games or in movies , natural career paths in her field , would earn her less than half of what she hoped for .
she decided to look elsewhere and in early 2014 a friend helped her land a job selling memberships to an exclusive golf club with branches around china .
she quickly got the hang of sales and learned to network within the small circles of people rich enough to join the club .
as she picked up clients , though , a sweeping anti-corruption campaign launched by president xi jinping was gaining traction .
xi targeted extravagant behavior , including golf , which was regarded as synonymous with wealth and power .
in 2015 , the party banned officials from holding golf club memberships .
even before that happened , qin felt the effects of the campaign .
officials began quietly returning memberships or transferring them to others , she said .
golf memberships had become a liability .
business wasn t as good as before , she said .
her mother had recently had minor surgery , so qin decided it was a good time to leave the golf company and move back to her hometown of nanchong , a city in sichuan province some 200 km ( 125 miles ) east of chengdu .
she moved in with her sister and got a job managing a new golf driving range , but soon felt out of place after more than five years in the provincial capital .
she said she felt a strong sense of culture shock .
i basically couldn t find similar people in terms of their thinking , she said .
in chengdu , she had grown accustomed to having a coffee to start the morning , but her colleagues at the driving range in nanchong thought that was pretentious .
she felt she had outgrown her hometown and wasn t moving forward .
chengdu beckoned , but she knew she needed a new job .
she had been interested in finance but didn t know much about it , so she enrolled in a wealth management course .
within months , she moved back to chengdu and was hired by a consumer credit company where she has worked for the past two years .
the dreams of the cash-counting girl seemed back on track but the future remains uncertain .
i m quite anxious , she said .
my main concern is whether or not i ll have enough earning power .