while the lying media is perpetuating the lie refugees do not pose a terrorist threat , the facts show otherwise.1 ) on may 25 , 2016 , in the u.s. district court for the northern district of texas , bilal abood was sentenced to four years in prison for making a false statement to the fbi .
abood , an iraqi translator for the u.s. military , was admitted to the united states through the special immigrant visa program for iraqi translators in 2009 , and subsequently became a citizen .
abood enlisted in the army and went through basic training at fort jackson in 2010 , but left for unknown reasons .
according to court documents , after being prevented from boarding an international flight , abood told fbi agents that he intended to go to iraq to visit family .
subsequently , abood left the united states through mexico and then traveled through various countries to get to syria to join isis .
a subsequent search of his computer revealed that he pledged an oath to the leader of isis , despite denying that he had ever made such a pledge.2 ) on january 7 , 2016 , in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of california , aws mohammed younis al-jayab was charged with providing materially false , fictitious , and fraudulent statements and representations to the united states government .
he was separately indicted on march 17 , 2016 for attempting to provide material support to acts of violence overseas .
al-jayab a palestinian born in iraq was admitted to the united states as a refugee in 2012 .
according to the criminal complaint , beginning in october of 2012 the very same month he first arrived in the united states al-jayab began communicating with numerous individuals about his intention to go to syria and fight for terrorist organizations.3 ) on january 7 , 2016 , in the u.s. district court for the southern district of texas , omar faraj saeed al hardan was charged in an indictment with attempting to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization , making false statements , and attempting to procure citizenship or naturalization unlawfully .
the indictment states that he attempted to provide training , expert advice and assistance , and personnel specifically himself to a terrorist organization .
al hardan a palestinian born in iraq was admitted to the united states as a refugee in 2009 , and obtained a green card in 2011 .
when applying to become a u.s. citizen , he knowingly responded , certified , and swore untruthfully that he was not associated with a terrorist organization when , in fact , he associated with members and sympathizers of isis throughout 2014 .
during an interview in october 2015 , al hardan falsely represented that he had never received any type of weapons training , when in fact he had received automatic machine gun training .
according to media accounts , al hardan told his wife i will go to syria .
i want to blow myself up .
.
.
.
i am against america .
4 ) on august 12 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the district of idaho , fazliddin kurbanov was found guilty of conspiring and attempting to provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization and possessing an unregistered destructive device .
kurbanov is a native of uzbekistan who came to the united states as a refugee in 2009 .
u.s. assistant attorney general john carlin stated that he conspired to provide material support to the islamic movement of uzbekistan and procured bomb-making materials in the interest of perpetrating a terrorist attack on american soil .
5 ) on april 20 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the district of minnesota , guled ali omar was charged with conspiracy and attempt to provide material support to isis .
omar was born in a kenyan refugee camp , and sources indicate he came to the united states as a refugee when he was a child , obtained a green card , and subsequently applied for and received citizenship .
omar is the younger brother of another indicted fugitive , ahmed ali omar , who left the united states in 2007 to fight for al-shabaab .
another one of his brothers , mohamed ali omar , was convicted in march of 2015 of threatening federal agents when they came to the family s residence to interview guled omar.6 ) on april 20 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the district of minnesota , abdurahman yasin daud was charged ( along with six others ) with conspiracy and attempt to provide material support to isis .
daud , a somalian refugee who came to the united states as a child , and subsequently obtained a green card .
daud and another individual drove from minnesota to san diego to attempt to get passports , cross the border into mexico , and fly to syria in to join isis.7 ) on february 18 , 2015 , al-hazmah mohammed jawed was arrested as he attempted to board a flight to jordan to join and fight with isis in iraq .
jawad was admitted to the united states in 2013 as an iraqi refugee and he subsequently obtained a green card .
jawad was charged with making a false statement to u.s. government officials .
he also stated that he had been to the shooting range and had been running to get in shape and prepare for his upcoming travels , and that a uniform was waiting for him in iraq.8 ) on february 5 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the western district of texas , abdinassir mohamud ibrahim was sentenced to 15 years in federal prison for conspiring to provide material support to al-shabaab , a designated foreign terrorist organization , and for making a false statement in his immigration paperwork .
ibrahim is a native of somalia who came to the united states as a refugee in 2007 at the age of 22 and subsequently obtained a green card .
ibrahim knowingly lied on his citizenship application and previously lied in his request for refugee status , by falsely claiming that he was of a member of the minority awer clan in somalia and subject to persecution by the majority hawiye clan .
ibrahim was actually a member of the hawiye clan and not subject to persecution .
in fact , according to court documents , ibrahim s family was famous .
.
.
[ and ] [ t ] hrough his clan lineage , ibrahim was related to known somali terrorists [ . ]
ibrahim also admitted he lied on his citizenship application by having previously lied on his refugee application by falsely claiming that he had not provided material support to a terrorist group , when he had in fact provided material support in the form of cash to an al-shabaab member.9 ) on february 5 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of missouri , abdullah ramo pazara was named in an indictment against six individuals .
pazara , a native of bosnia who sources indicate came to the united states as a refugee , later obtained a green card and became a citizen in 2013 .
pazara was never charged in this case because he is believed to be dead .
according to court documents , the others who were indicted provided material support to pazara , who left the united states to go to syria and fight with isis just 11 days after becoming a citizen.10 ) on february 5 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of missouri , ramiz zijad hodzic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists , providing material support to terrorists , and conspiring to kill and maim persons in a foreign country .
hodzic is a native of bosnia , and a purported bosnian war hero who came to the united states as a refugee .
according to the indictment , among other things , hodzic obtained money that he used to purchase materials and supplies including : united states military uniforms , tactical combat boots , military surplus goods , tactical gear and clothing , firearms accessories , optical equipment and range finders , rifle scopes , equipment , and supplies .
.
.
intending that the materials and supplies would thereafter be transferred to , and used to support abdullah ramo pazara and isis.on february 5 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of missouri , sedina unkic hodzic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists , and providing material support to terrorists .
sedina is the wife of ramiz zijad hodzic and a native of bosnia who came to the united states as a refugee .
according to the indictment , sedina , along with her husband , collected money from third parties and wired it to terrorists abroad .
also according to the indictment , sedina shipped six boxes of u.s. military uniforms , combat boots , tactical clothing and gear , military surplus items , firearms accessories , rifle scopes , optical equipment , first aid supplies , and other equipment to terrorists abroad.on february 5 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of missouri , armin harcevic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists , and with providing material support to terrorists .
harcevic is a native of bosnia who came to the united states as a refugee , and subsequently obtained a green card .
according to the indictment , harcevic collected money from third parties and wired it and his own funds to terrorists abroad.on february 5 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of missouri , nihad rosic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists , providing material support to terrorists , and conspiring to kill and maim persons in a foreign country .
rosic is a native of bosnia who sources indicate came to the united states as a refugee , obtained a green card , and subsequently applied for and received citizenship .
according to the indictment , rosic sent funds to terrorists abroad , and attempted to travel to syria to join terrorists in syria and iraq .
according to press accounts , rosic was a truck driver and former mixed martial arts fighter who had previously been charged with endangering the welfare of a child after punching a woman in the face while she held a child , and in a separate incident , was charged with assault after allegedly beating his girlfriend with a belt.on february 5 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of missouri , mediha medy salkicevic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists , and providing material support to terrorists .
salkicevic is a native of bosnia who sources indicate came to the united states as a refugee , obtained a green card , and subsequently applied for and received citizenship .
according to press accounts , salkicevic was formerly an employee with a cargo company that deals with items coming in and out of chicago s o hare international airport.on february 5 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of missouri , jasminka ramic was charged with conspiring to provide material support and resources to terrorists , and providing material support to terrorists .
ramic is a native of bosnia who sources indicate came to the united states as a refugee , obtained a green card , and subsequently applied for and received citizenship.on january 29 , 2015 , in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of virginia , a federal warrant was unsealed for the arrest of liban haji mohamed for allegedly providing material support to harakat shabaab al-mujahidin , also known as al-shabaab and al-qaeda .
mohamed is a native of somalia who sources indicate came to the united states as a refugee , obtained a green card , and subsequently applied for and received citizenship .
he is believed to have left the united states on july 5 , 2012 , with the intent to join al-shabaab in east africa .
mohamed previously lived in the washington , d.c. area and worked as a cab driver , and is believed to have snuck across the border to mexico after being placed on the no-fly list .
carl ghattas , special agent in charge of the fbi s washington , d.c. field office emphasized the importance of locating mohamed , because he has knowledge of the washington , d.c. area s infrastructure such as shopping areas , metro , airports , and government buildings .
.
.
[ t ] his makes him an asset to his terrorist associates who might plot attacks on u.s. soil .
for the rest of the list , go to : information liberation