is our government telling us certain hate groups are more acceptable than others ? does the ku klux klan have a constitutional right to adopt a highway ? that question was at the center of a high-profile battle monday before the georgia supreme court , where the klan is challenging the state s refusal to let it participate in the popular adopt-a-highway program.the hate group , with the american civil liberties union by its side , is casting its bid as a free speech issue .
the government can not be a censor of free speech , alan berger , an attorney for the international keystone knights of the ku klux klan , said.but the georgia department of transportation has resisted the kkk s efforts ever since 2012 to join the program.for its part , gdot maintains it should be allowed to exclude certain groups from the program and stands by its claim that the kkk s long rooted history of civil disturbance would cause a significant public concern .
monday s arguments centered around georgia s claim of so-called sovereign immunity a legal doctrine that shields the state from civil suit or criminal prosecution .
the state had appealed a lower court decision by judge shawn lagrua , who ruled georgia was not protected against the kkk suit because the group claimed the discrimination involved a violation of its constitutional rights .
the state denied the application , not because of safety hazard or some other compelling government interest , but because the state disagrees with what the kkk represents , maya dillard smith , executive director of the aclu of georgia , told foxnews.com .
it is precisely this kind of government action the constitution prohibits .
while smith admits that many people who hear about the case have a visceral reaction to it , she warns its outcome could have a dangerous ripple effect .
what may seem as chipping away only at the kkk s free speech right , will , in fact , open pandora s box and create legal precedent that justifies curtailing the free speech rights of religious evangelicals , abortion protestors and even black lives matter supporters and opponents , she said.a judgment is not expected for a couple of months , berger told foxnews.com following monday s oral arguments .
in the meantime , gdot has suspended adopt-a-highway applications.this isn t the first time a state has gone rounds with the white supremacist group.in 1994 , missouri tried to block the knights of the ku klux klan from participating in its adopt-a-highway program.the group which excludes anyone who is black , jewish , mexican or asian had requested a half-mile section of road on interstate 55 , one of the routes that had been used to bus black students to school as part of desegregation efforts near st. louis.the state denied the kkk s request.in that case , lawyers for the state unsuccessfully argued that it had a right to control its own speech and that allowing the klan to participate would violate the 1964 civil rights act s ban on racial discrimination in federally funded programs.the u.s. supreme court refused to hear the case , thereby forcing the state to allow the group to take part in its adopt-a-highway program .
however , the state later kicked the group out , saying it failed to do its job and pick up the litter on its adopted stretch of highway .
via : fox newsso what about the ymca which houses the fred hampton aquatic center on former oak street in maywood , il that was officially named after black panther , fred hampton who was slain in a police raid in 2007 .
september 9 , 2007from now on , oak street in maywood will be known as fred hampton way.relatives of the slain black panther leader joined congressmen , activists and maywood residents saturday to dedicate the street and a statue of hampton that now sits in front of the fred hampton family aquatic center.last year , efforts to name a street on chicago s west side for hampton failed amid controversy that hampton and the panthers advocated violence against police.but there was no such debate in maywood , whose mayor , henderson yarbrough , said the village council unanimously , proudly voted to give hampton his due .
there ought to be some footprints in the sand in relation to this man , said the rev .
al sampson , one of about 75 people at the ceremony .
fred hampton represents part of the tradition of liberation freedom fighters .
killed in police raid in 69 maywood s police chief attended the event , along with u.s .
representatives danny davis and bobby rush , a co-founder of the illinois black panther party.hampton , who grew up in maywood , and fellow panther mark clark were gunned down by chicago police in a 1969 raid at hampton s apartment .
hampton had helped bring the illinois chapter of the black panther party to national prominence and also brokered a nonaggression pact between gangs .