beirut ( reuters ) - an iranian military vessel confronted an american warship in the gulf and warned it to stay away from a damaged iranian fishing boat , tasnim news agency reported on sunday , but the u.s. navy denied any direct contact with iranian forces .
the american vessel turned away after the warning from the iranian ship , which belonged to the naval branch of the iranian army , according to tasnim .
the iranian military vessel then towed the fishing boat , which had sent out a distress signal after taking on water , back to shore .
the agency did not specify when the incident , close to the strategic strait of hormuz , took place .
in statement , u.s .
naval forces central command ( navcent ) said the coastal patrol uss tempest , operating in the gulf of oman on sept. 6 , heard the distress call of an unidentified small boat about 75 nautical miles from the tempest s position .
at the same time the motor vessel nordic voyager , much closer to the boat in distress , offered help and had made visual contact with it .
the tempest offered to support the nordic voyager which declined the offer , navcent said .
following the radio traffic from a distance , uss tempest heard the nordic voyager coordinate additional iranian navy help for the vessel in distress to tow it back to iran .
at no time was there any direct contact between the u.s. and iranian maritime forces , navcent spokesman chloe morgan said .
tensions have been on the rise between the iranian and u.s. military in the gulf in recent months .
in august , an unarmed iranian drone came within 100 feet ( 31 meters ) of a u.s. navy warplane as it prepared to land on an aircraft carrier in the gulf , a u.s. official said at the time .
and in july , a u.s. navy ship fired warning shots when an iranian vessel in the gulf came within 150 yards ( 137 meters ) in the first such incident since president donald trump took office in january , u.s. officials said .
years of mutual animosity had eased when washington lifted sanctions on tehran last year as part of a deal to curb iran s nuclear ambitions .
but serious differences remain over iran s ballistic missile program and conflicts in syria and iraq .
the trump administration , which has taken a hard line on iran , recently declared that iran was complying with its nuclear agreement with world powers , but warned that tehran was not following the spirit of the accord and that washington would look for ways to strengthen it .
during the presidential campaign last september , trump vowed that any iranian vessels that harass the u.s. navy in the gulf would be shot out of the water .