( reuters ) - airlines were racing against the clock to clear as many customers as possible from the likely florida path of hurricane irma , as social and political pressure mounted for carriers to play a bigger role in aiding evacuations .
as the powerful storm threatened to rip through the florida coast by sunday , airlines ramped up the number of flights available out of south florida airports , where operations were likely to temporarily cease through the weekend and beyond .
but flights out of the area remained extremely limited .
at miami international airport , many outbound flights were canceled , leaving residents scrambling to rebook to anywhere outside the path of the storm .
american airlines , which has one of the larger operations in south florida , said on thursday it had added 16 flights out of miami , amid more than 2,400 forced cancellations through monday .
delta air lines inc said it had upsized aircraft and added flights to increase the number of available outgoing seats by 2,000 .
united airlines added six flights out of miami to its hubs , including newark , new jersey , and chicago o hare .
all three carriers said they planned to mostly wind down south florida operations by friday evening .
in areas already pummeled by the powerful storm , flight operations had been rolled back and halted altogether .
a delta-operated flight from new york to san juan , puerto rico , and back , made headlines for narrowly avoiding the storm in a mission to evacuate another plane-full of passengers from the area ahead of irma s landfall .
flight-tracking website flightradar24.com saw the plane land for one last departure in the u.s. territory located squarely in the path of irma s landfall , fill with passengers , and make its successful flight back to new york on wednesday .
other airlines had already ceased operations in the region .
price-gouging as residents sought to secure last-minute flights out of the dangerous category 5 storm s path , airlines faced accusations of trying to capitalize on the panic and chaos by price gouging .
under pressure from some members of congress following social media reports , airlines have taken the unusual step of publicly announcing price caps on tickets out of areas in irma s course .
early on , carrier jetblue capped flights out of the area at $ 99 , and other carriers followed suit , capping fares at between $ 99 and $ 399 a ticket .
but while airlines offered some cheap flights out of south florida after complaints , passengers said that did little good if all the flights were fully booked or canceled .
medical student eric slabaugh said he was dismayed by ticket prices over $ 2,000 when he started looking for flights earlier this week .
he got a ticket to detroit for $ 700 , he said , because nobody wants to go there .
publix can t charge $ 50 for a case of water without getting accused of price gouging , but airlines can charge 50 times the price of a normal ticket .
i don t think that s fair , slabaugh said .
airlines customer service practices have come under fire in recent months , and just last year , u.s. carriers were cleared in a federal investigation regarding exorbitant fare mark-ups in the wake of a deadly amtrak derailment that drove up demand for air travel on some routes .
senator bill nelson , a florida democrat who had been pressuring airlines to aid in evacuating florida residents , spoke with airline executives on thursday and urged them to add more flight outs of florida .
his office said nelson is pleased airlines were doing everything they could to help get impacted floridians to safety .
the federal aviation administration is holding twice daily phone calls with airlines to talk about airport conditions , but does not plan to close the miami airport on friday , officials said .
airlines are still planning for airport closures , however , and said they expect their operations to be impacted in the region at least through the weekend .
also affected by the storm , carnival cruise lines , which has major operations out of florida ports , said on thursday it had canceled four of its caribbean cruises , though it still planned to operate several more under modified itineraries .