rome ( reuters ) - italy s government approved on monday a low-key 2018 budget which includes measures to raise youth employment , tackle poverty and encourage investments ahead of an election in the spring .
the financial package aims to lower the budget deficit to 1.6 percent of gross domestic product ( gdp ) from a targeted 2.1 percent this year , while avoiding painful pre-election belt-tightening measures .
prime minister paolo gentiloni s task has been made easier by stronger-than-expected economic growth and low interest rates which reduce the cost of servicing italy s huge public debt the highest in the euro zone after greece s. the budget certifies that the italian economy is at a turning point and it contains resources aimed to reinforce the turnaround , economy minister pier carlo padoan told reporters .
the package will now be sent to the european commission for review and at the same time begin its passage through parliament , where it must be approved by the end of the year .
it is likely to be one of the last pieces of legislation passed by parliament before the president dissolves the upper and lower houses and calls the election .
last month the government increased its gdp growth forecast for this year to 1.5 percent from 1.1 percent , and hiked next year s outlook to 1.5 percent from 1.0 percent .
the debt-to-gdp ratio is targeted to edge down in 2018 to 130.0 percent from a targeted 131.6 percent this year .
overall , the budget is expansionary because , according to the treasury s estimates , if current policies had been left unchanged the deficit would have fallen to 1.0 percent of gdp next year rather than 1.6 percent .
however , italy is constrained by its massive debt which precluded a give-away pre-election package .
most of the resources available were used to avoid increases in sales tax which had been previously pencilled in for next year .
padoan said the measures might seem modest , but were well targeted , while gentiloni , in typically understated tones , called it a slim budget that will be useful for our economy .
the european commission is expected to sign off on the package even though italy hiked the deficit target previously agreed with brussels , as it has done repeatedly in recent years .
public finance disputes with brussels may intensify after next year s election .
all the main parties say they will raise the budget deficit rather than reduce it as the european union s fiscal rules prescribe .
in an effort to tackle a youth unemployment rate of almost 40 percent , the budget offers a 3-year reduction in the pension contributions of companies that hire people under the age of 35 on regular , open-ended contracts .
it also offers tax breaks for firms that invest in new machinery , increases income support for the poor , and sets aside funds to raise public salaries for the first time in almost a decade and hire 1,500 university researchers , padoan said .
extra revenue for the state will come from a partial amnesty for people who settle tax disputes with the authorities by paying a discounted sum .
gentiloni appealed to parliament to show a sense of responsibility in approving the budget , after a leftist group last week said he could no longer count on its support following a political row over a new electoral law .
however , a majority is likely to be found to back the budget to clear the way for elections now widely expected in march .