bikers for trump announced their support for pro-trump attendees at tonight s phoenix rally for trump .
this just got more interesting because the bikers will not put up with the antifa violence .
check out the announcement below : the statement released by bikers for trump s steven emery : this group of brave patriots deserves our support !
please check out the go fund me for bikers for trump.don t forget that violence against trump supporters has been over-the-top since last year .
how could we forget the chicago , san diego and other cities that brought out the leftists who only wanted violence.it s a good thing bikers for trump will be a presence in phoenix tonight .
please pray for their safety.in case you forgot about what the left did last year : when will the media report on this nice group of illegal aliens and racist american thugs since the media won t report on attacks on conservative trump supporters , we ve got the list for you : pro-trump supporters have known the truth for a long time that conservatives are being attacked .
do you have any idea of the number of attacks ?
you might be shocked to see the list created by the daily caller.we feel like it s even more important to know who s behind the effort to attack and silence conservatives in america .
there are groups like moveon.org and black lives matter that have been instigating violence in a big way .
antifa is the worst with their tactics of extreme violence and destruction.just as destructive as the violence is the left s effort to hijack the narrative anytime something happens between both sides .
it s an alinsky tactic that the left has been using long before president trump came on the scene .
the only difference now is that they re on overdrive with the attacks on trump !
it s downright scary ! take the the huffington post s recent article calling for the execution of trump and everyone assisting his agenda .
if you ve noticed a hijacking of the narrative on just about everything to do with president trump then look no further than the attack on his comments yesterday .
trump s words were twisted , replaced and totally misinterpreted .
so it shouldn t surprise anyone that you haven t heard much about physical attacks on conservatives what s the left got to gain by telling the truth ?
suppression of information is right up there with lying a low as you can get ! here s the truth and it s shocking : protesters jumped on cars , stole hats , fought with and threw eggs at trump supporters outside a trump rally in downtown san jose , calif. trump supporters sued san jose over the violence.july 2016 : -a hillary clinton supporter lights a flag on fire and attacks a trump supporter in pittsburgh.august 2016 : -anti-trump protesters attacked pushed , spit on and verbally harassed attendees forced to walk a gauntlet as they left a trump fundraiser in minneapolis , minn. , and beat an elderly man .
protesters also attacked trump s motorcade .
a tennessee man was assaulted at a garage sale for being a trump supporter.-a trump supporter in new jersey was attacked with a crowbar on the street.september 2016 : -protesters in el cajon , calif. , chased and beat up a trump supporter.october 2016 : -a gop office in north carolina was firebombed and spray painted with nazi republicans get out of town or else .
november 2016 : -a high school student was attacked after she wrote that she supported trump on social media .
the perpetrator ripped her glasses off and punched her in the face.-the president of cornell university s college republicans was assaulted the night after trump won the election.-students protesting trump punched and kicked a maryland high school student wearing a make america great again hat.-a high school student was arrested in florida after he punched a classmate for carrying a trump sign at school.-a group of black men in chicago attacked a white man while raging against trump.-maryland high school students punched a student who was demonstrating in support of trump , and then kicked him repeatedly while he was on the ground.- you support trump .
you hate mexicans , a california high school student yelled at a trump supporter , before viciously beating the girl.-an anti-bullying ambassador was arrested for shoving a 74-year-old man to the ground in a fight outside trump tower where people upset over his win had gathered .
the woman tied to black lives matter caused the man to hit his head on the sidewalk.-a texas elementary school student was beaten by his classmates for voting for trump in a mock election.-two men punched and kicked a connecticut man who was standing with an american flag and a trump sign.december 2016 : -a trump supporter was beaten and dragged by a car.january 2017 : -a trump supporter was knocked unconscious after airport protesters repeatedly beat him on the head.-a trump supporter was attacked after putting out a fire started by anti-trump protesters.-when trump protesters encountered a driver with a pro-trump flag on his car , they surrounded the vehicle , ripped off and began burning the flag , and pounded the car .
they also punctured the tires.february 2017 : -california gop rep. tom mcclintock had to be escorted to his car after a town hall because of angry protesters .
the tires of at least four vehicles were slashed.-protestors knocked a 71-year-old female staffer for california gop rep. dana rohrabacher unconscious during a protest outside the representative s office.-milo yiannopoulos speech at the university of california-berkeley was cancelled after rioters set the campus on fire and threw rocks through windows .
milo tweeted that one of his supporters wearing a trump hat was thrown to the ground and kicked.march 2017 : -masked protesters at middlebury college rushed aei scholar and political scientist charles murray and professor allison stranger , pushing and shoving murray and grabbing stranger by her hair and twisting her neck as they were leaving a campus building .
stranger suffered a concussion .
protesters then surrounded the car they got into , rocking it back and forth and jumping on the hood.april 2017 : -a parade in portland , ore. , was canceled after threats of violence were made against a republican organization.-fears of violent protests shut down ann coulter s uc berkeley speech .
campus police had gathered intel on protesters who were planning to commit violence.may 2017 : republican rep. tom garrett , his family and his dog were targeted by a series of repeated death threats deemed credible by authorities.-fbi agents arrested a person for threatening to shoot republican rep. martha mcsally over her support for trump.-police in tennessee charged a woman for allegedly trying to run republican rep. david kustoff off the road.-police in north dakota ejected a man after he became physical with republican rep. kevin cramer at a town hall.-a former professor was arrested after police said they identified him on video beating trump supporters with a u-shaped bike lock , leaving three people with significant injuries .
june 2017 : -james hodgkinson opened fire on a congressional gop baseball practice , injuring five , including house majority whip steve scalise.-republican rep. claudia tenney received an email threat that read , one down , 216 to go , shortly after the shooting at the republican congressional baseball practice.-a man driving a white malibu reportedly fired several shots at a man driving a truck displaying a make america great again flag in indiana .