rio de janeiro ( reuters ) - hundreds of brazilian soldiers poured into rio de janeiro s rocinha slum on friday in a bid to help the cash-strapped state government quell the drug-related violence that authorities blamed for at least four deaths and several injuries there this week .
the army deployed 950 troops in the sprawling favela , responding to a request from the rio state government , defense minister raul jungmann told local television .
in the past week , 60 criminals are believed to have launched an effort to dominate the drug trade in the area , not far from some of the city s most expensive real estate , and shootings were reported there on friday morning , according to local media .
the violence in rocinha is one more sign of the backsliding since the launch of a pacification program in 2008 to reduce violence by pushing out drug gangs and setting up permanent outposts in the city s more than 1,000 favelas .
police struggled to maintain security gains in favelas in the run-up to the 2016 olympics in rio and have continued to lose ground as a fiscal crisis in the city and state lead to cutbacks in spending on police and other essential services .
the military operation in rocinha on friday disrupted transportation and businesses in the area , with some schools closing or paring back operations .
i was going to work and suddenly the police closed off the tunnel in rocinha and started to patrol with guns .
there was a panic at the mouth of the tunnel and i saw people running and heard gunfire , one witness told reuters , requesting anonymity .
i m still shaking now .
the outbreak of violence is happening in the midst of the rock in rio music festival at the far south end of the city , which has drawn thousands of people with musical acts including fergie and aerosmith .
broadcaster globonews on friday showed relatively calm scenes of matte green military trucks filing down roads into the favela , including soldiers riding on trucks and motorcycles holding assault rifles .
there are up to 10,000 troops in rio de janeiro who could be mobilized if needed , the defense ministry said .
we re not going to back off in rocinha , the governor of rio state luiz fernando pezao told journalists .