washington/new york ( reuters ) - a u.s. congressional committee has demanded that former drug executive martin shkreli appear at a hearing on drug prices to testify about his former company ’ s decision to raise the price of a lifesaving medicine by more than 5,000 percent , congressional aides said on wednesday .
shkreli , who is separately facing federal criminal charges that he defrauded investors , has been served with a subpoena to appear on jan. 26 before the u.s. house of representatives ’ committee on oversight and government reform , the aides said .
the senate ’ s special committee on aging , which is also investigating the company ’ s drug pricing practices , said on wednesday that shkreli has invoked the u.s. constitution ’ s fifth amendment against self-incrimination , and has refused to produce subpoenaed documents .
shkreli , 32 , fired back at lawmakers on twitter , writing on wednesday that the house was “ busy whining to healthcare reporters about me appearing for their chit chat next week .
haven ’ t decided yet .
should i ? ” he declined an interview request .
the outspoken entrepreneur sparked a firestorm last year after he raised the price of daraprim , a decades-old treatment for a dangerous parasitic infection , to $ 750 a pill from $ 13.50 after acquiring it .
the medicine once sold for $ 1 a pill .
shkreli pleaded not guilty last month to criminal charges that he ran his companies like a ponzi scheme , using each subsequent company to pay off defrauded investors from a prior company .
after his arrest , he stepped down as chief executive of turing pharmaceuticals and was fired as chief executive of kalobios pharmaceuticals inc. kalobios also filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy .
shkreli ’ s past companies also include retrophin inc , which sued him for alleged mismanagement .
testifying before congress is risky for someone facing criminal charges because of the chance they could say something prosecutors would later use at a trial .
for that reason , many such witnesses invoke the fifth amendment and refuse to answer questions .
to even travel to washington , shkreli is required to first get the sign-off of a federal judge because his release on bond restricts him to certain parts of new york state .
however , judges typically grant temporary travel waivers to white-collar defendants .
u.s. representative elijah cummings of maryland , the top democrat on the oversight committee , said the hearing will give shkreli a chance to explain his views on drug pricing .
“ i have been trying for the better part of a year to get information from martin shkreli about his outrageous price increases , and he has obstructed our investigation at every turn , ” cummings said in a statement .