baghdad ( reuters ) - kurdish officials said on thursday thousands of their people had fled kirkuk region fearing persecution since iraqi armed forces retook it following a referendum on kurdish independence that was rejected by baghdad .
the officials said roughly 100,000 people had gone , though that number could not be confirmed independently , and many kurdish neighborhoods in kirkuk city appeared to be operating normally .
the united nations voiced concern at reports that civilians , mainly kurds , were being driven out of parts of northern iraq retaken by iraqi forces and their houses and businesses looted and destroyed , and urged baghdad to stop any such abuses .
a mayor from the town of khanaqin , mohammed mulla hassan , said a kurdish man was killed and six wounded by iraqi security forces while protesting at the army s takeover there .
kurdish troops had left khanaqin , near the border with iran , on tuesday to avoid clashing with advancing iraqi forces .
central government forces swept into kirkuk , a multi-ethnic city of more than 1 million people and the hub of a major oil-producing area , largely unopposed on monday after most kurdish peshmerga forces withdrew rather than fight .
iraqi forces also took back control of kirkuk oilfields , effectively halving the amount of output under the direct control of the semi-autonomous kurdistan regional government ( krg ) in a serious blow to the kurds independence quest .
baghdad s recovery of kirkuk , situated just outside the krg s official boundaries on disputed land claimed by kurds , ethnic turkmen and arabs , put the city s kurds in fear of attack by shi ite muslim paramilitaries , known as popular mobilisation , assisting government forces operations in the region .
nawzad hadi , governor of erbil , the krg capital , told reporters that around 18,000 families from kirkuk and the town of tuz khurmato to the southeast had taken refuge in erbil and sulaimaniya , inside krg territory .
a hadi aide told reuters the total number of displaced people was about 100,000 .
hemin hawrami , a top aide to krg president masoud barzani , tweeted that people had fled looting and sectarian oppression inflicted by popular mobilisation militia .
u.n. relief officials said they had received allegations that 150 houses had been burned and 11 blown up in tuz khurmato and offices of turkmen political parties in kirkuk assaulted .
the u.n. assistance mission for iraq issued a statement urging the baghdad government to take every action to halt any violations and ensure all civilians are protected and that the perpetrators of acts of violence , intimidation and forced displacement of civilians be brought to justice .
khanaqin , mainly populated by kurds , also lies in a long contested territory just outside krg boundaries .
iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi said on wednesday that security was being maintained in kirkuk by local police backed by the elite counter terrorism service , trained and equipped by the united states mainly to fight islamic state militants .
all other armed group should not be allowed to stay , abadi said .
sunni muslim kurds comprise the largest community in kirkuk followed by sunni and shi ite muslim turkmen , sunni arabs and christian assyrians , according to the iraqi planning ministry .
in another sign of rising tensions , iraq s supreme justice council ordered the arrest of krg vice president kosrat rasul for allegedly saying iraqi troops were occupying forces in kirkuk .
iran and turkey joined the baghdad government in condemning the iraqi kurds sept. 25 referendum , worried it could worsen regional instability and conflict by spurring their own kurdish populations to push for homelands .
the kurds long-time big power ally , the united states , also opposed the vote .
with the referendum having given abadi a political opening to regain disputed territory and tilt the balance of power in his favor , the krg cabinet on thursday welcomed his call for talks to resolve the crisis .
abadi had said on tuesday he considered the referendum a thing of the past , and asked that the krg cancel the outcome of the vote as a precondition for negotiations to begin .
in a statement , the krg cabinet said , it will not be possible to resolve the issues through military operations .
it added : ( we have ) asked the international community to help both sides start a dialogue to solve the outstanding issues based on the iraqi constitution .
krg peshmerga forces deployed into kirkuk in 2014 when iraqi government forces fell apart in the face of a lightning offensive by islamic state insurgents , preventing the oilfields from falling into jihadist hands .
iraqi armed forces also took control of kurdish-held areas of nineveh province north of kirkuk , including the mosul hydro-electric dam , after the peshmerga pulled back .
crude oil flows through the krg pipeline to the turkish port of ceyhan have been disrupted by a gap between incoming and outgoing personnel since baghdad s retaking of kirkuk .
an iraqi oil ministry official in baghdad said on thursday that iraq would not be able to restore kirkuk s oil output to levels before sunday because of missing equipment at two fields .
the official accused the kurdish authorities previously in control of kirkuk of removing equipment at the bai hasan and avana oil fields , northwest of the city .
kurds have sought independence since at least the end of world war one when colonial powers carved up the middle east after the multiethnic ottoman empire sundered , leaving kurdish-inhabited land split between turkey , iran , iraq and syria .