barinas , venezuela ( reuters ) - tirelessly traversing the lethargic plains of venezuela , a brother of former leader hugo chavez and an ally of a famous opposition detainee vie for votes .
the governorship race in barinas state the chavez family s stronghold - is the most emblematic of state elections taking place nationwide on sunday just weeks after opposition-led protests that shook venezuela and claimed at least 125 lives .
at every rally , hugo chavez is out front , showing us the way , enthuses argenis chavez , 59 , an electrical engineer and incumbent governor , jumping on a bike and evoking his late elder brother at every campaign stop .
in barinas , defeating the government means defeating the chavez family who have wielded power at whim for 18 years , counters opposition rival freddy superlano , 41 , wearing a shirt with the image of his arrested party leader leopoldo lopez .
this year s prolonged protests failed to bring down the government of president nicolas maduro , but they hardened global opinion against the ruling socialists and led to u.s. sanctions .
now , opposition leaders want their demoralized supporters to turn out en masse at the gubernatorial polls to overturn maduro s majority in 20 of venezuela s 23 states .
the government , in turn , wants to minimize seemingly inevitable losses , and trumpet the election as proof against accusations of autocracy in venezuela .
look at our dictatorship then : an election where most candidates are from the opposition !
chavez ironically told reuters , as red-shirted supporters danced around him at a rally .
with voters angry over a crushing economic crisis , polls show the opposition coalition would win handily in normal circumstances .
one recent survey gave the coalition , which aspires to win 18 governorships , 44.7 percent of voter intentions versus 21.1 percent for the government .
circumstances are far from normal in venezuela , however , and the government has threatened to ban any candidates linked to violence in protests .
furthermore , as in past elections during the ruling chavismo movement s 18-year grip on venezuela , state resources are being mobilized heavily for official candidates .
distribution of subsidized food at government rallies is commonplace , state-run companies lend transport for the events , and state media give maduro s candidates unfettered air-time .
one opposition candidate s brother has been arrested for alleged car theft in what the coalition says is an attempt to intimidate its ranks .
perhaps the biggest disadvantage for the opposition is the electronic ballot sheet itself .
despite primaries to choose a single opposition candidate per state from the plethora of parties within the democratic unity coalition , the pro-maduro election board is declining to modify the ballot list to narrow it down to one name .
all initial candidates from before the primaries are listed on the ballot instead , something that could confuse opposition supporters and dilute their vote , benefiting the ruling socialist party s candidates .
further stoking opposition supporters skepticism , the election board is using a new vote machine provider after long-term partner smartmatic accused it of inflating numbers in july s controversial election of a constituent assembly super-body .
on a walkabout in an unpaved shantytown on the outskirts of barinas city , superlano told reuters government candidates were using helicopters to campaign while he and other opposition aspirants spent hours on the road to reach remote communities .
the government was also exploiting venezuelans hunger , during a period of unprecedented scarcity , by handing out food bags in return for promises of votes , he said .
it s a macabre plan , said superlano , a lawmaker from lopez s popular will party who won the opposition primary in barinas .
even with all that , they are losing !
having dealt a hugely symbolic blow to chavismo by winning five of six congress seats for barinas in 2015 elections , the opposition now wants to end 18 years of nearly unbroken control of the governorship by chavez family members .
while there is widespread discontent over food shortages , idle land and rising malnutrition in a fertile region that should be venezuela s bread basket , the government is running a rigorous campaign and painting superlano as the candidate of the violence in reference to this year s protests .
maduro supporters say the opposition , backed by venezuela s elite and the u.s. government , is intent on taking power by force to seize control of the nation s oil riches .
they want war for venezuela .
we want peace , said 65-year-old retiree ramon alvarran , proudly wearing a red t-shirt depicting the eyes of hugo chavez at a rally for his brother .
elsewhere though , resentment against maduro is palpable .
my kids don t have a crumb in their stomachs yet today , said daris gonzalez , 36 , whose three children had not eaten by lunchtime .
like many in her poor and once staunchly chavista neighborhood , gonzalez is now leaning toward the opposition .
there has to be change .
we can not go on like this .
offsetting such sentiment , many young grassroots opposition supporters feel their leaders have sold out - and betrayed the memory of slain protesters - by entering an election on an unfair playing field .
abstentions could hurt their numbers .
should the opposition triumph on sunday , the government can limit the impact by restricting funding and taking authority away from the governors offices , as it has done in the past when offices have fallen to opponents .
any overt dirty tricks , however , risk bringing more international sanctions or torpedoing an already fragile , foreign-led mediation with the opposition that maduro needs to improve his international image .
following the gubernatorial election , the opposition wants to shift attention to demanding a date , and guarantee of free conditions , for the 2018 presidential election to advance their ultimate goal of ending socialist rule .
people are very angry and their anger has a face : maduro , said carlos ocariz , an opposition candidate trying to hold miranda state for the opposition against a rising star on the government side , hector rodriguez .