harare ( reuters ) - robert mugabe resigned as zimbabwe s president on tuesday , a week after the army and his former political allies moved to end four decades of rule by a man once feted as an independence hero who became feared as a despot .
his former vice president , emmerson mnangagwa , whose sacking this month prompted the military takeover that forced mugabe out , will be sworn in as president on wednesday or thursday , patrick chinamasa , legal secretary of the ruling zanu-pf party , told reuters .
the 93-year-old mugabe had clung on for a week after an army takeover , with zanu-pf urging him to go .
he finally resigned moments after parliament began an impeachment process seen as the only legal way to force him out .
wild celebrations broke out at a joint sitting of parliament when speaker jacob mudenda read out mugabe s brief resignation letter .
mugabe , confined to his harare residence , did not appear .
people danced in the streets of harare and car horns blared at the news that the era of mugabe who had led zimbabwe since independence in 1980 was finally over .
some brandished posters of mnangagwa and army chief general constantino chiwenga .
workers turned the christmas lights on early in africa unity square and people climbed aboard armored vehicles to pose for photographs with soldiers .
despite the public outpouring of joy , mugabe s downfall was as much the result of in-fighting among the political elite as a popular uprising , although thousands of people rallied against him in the days after the army intervened last week .
the army seized power after mugabe sacked mnangagwa , zanu-pf s favorite to succeed him , in a bid to smooth a path to the presidency for his wife grace , 52 , known to her critics as gucci grace for her reputed fondness for luxury shopping .
since the crisis began , mugabe has been mainly confined to his blue roof mansion in the capital where grace is also believed to be .
zanu-pf chief whip lovemore matuke told reuters that mnangagwa would be sworn in within 48 hours and serve the remainder of mugabe s term until the next election , which must be held by september 2018 .
i am very happy with what has happened , said maria sabawu , a supporter of the opposition movement for democratic change ( mdc ) , outside the hotel where the impeachment process was happening .
i have suffered a lot at the hands of mugabe s government , she said , showing her hand with a missing finger that she said was lost in violence during a presidential run-off election between mugabe and opposition leader morgan tsvangirai in 2008 .
mugabe had led zimbabwe since a guerrilla struggle ended white-minority rule in the country formerly known as rhodesia .
he took the once-rich nation to economic ruin , presiding over the forced takeover of white-owned farms at the end of the century , which devastated agricultural foreign exchange earnings and led to hyperinflation .
but brandishing his anti-colonial credentials and styling himself the grand old man of african politics , mugabe retained the admiration of many people across the continent .
amnesty international said that under mugabe tens of thousands of people were tortured , forcibly disappeared or killed in a culture of impunity that allowed grotesque crimes to thrive .
the people of zimbabwe deserve better .
the next generation of leaders must commit itself to upholding the constitution , living up to zimbabwe s international human rights obligations and treating its people with dignity and justice , the rights group said in a statement .
mnangagwa , 75 , who fled zimbabwe after his sacking in fear for his safety , was a chief lieutenant to mugabe for decades and himself stands accused of participating in repression .
he was internal security chief in the mid-1980s when mugabe deployed a north korean-trained brigade against rebels during which 20,000 civilians were killed , according to rights groups .
reuters reported in september that mnangagwa was plotting to succeed mugabe , with army backing , at the helm of a broad coalition to seek zimbabwe s re-engagement with the world after decades of isolation from global lenders and donors .
nicknamed ngwena , or crocodile in the shona language , an animal famed in zimbabwean lore for its stealth and ruthlessness , mnangagwa issued a statement from hiding on tuesday calling on zimbabweans to unite to rebuild the country .
opposition politician and former education minister david coltart said that call gave hope of lifting a shattered economy from its knees , provided mnangagwa made good on his promise to reach out to other factions .
when we all wake up with hangovers tomorrow , we will be reminded of the dreadful state our nation is in - no money in the banks and businesses collapsing , coltart told reuters .
as emmerson mnangagwa said , zanu-pf is not capable of resolving this issue on its own .
i took some comfort from his words .
if he translates them into action , the future is positive .
zimbabwe s platform for concerned citizens , a civil society group , called for a national dialogue and a transitional authority to decide the country s future .
theresa may , prime minister of former colonial power britain , said mugabe s resignation provides zimbabwe with an opportunity to forge a new path free of the oppression that characterized his rule .
she said britain , as zimbabwe s oldest friend , would do all it could to support the country .
the u.s. embassy in harare said zimbabwe was living a historic moment .
whatever short-term arrangements the government may establish , the path forward must lead to free , fair and inclusive elections , it said in a statement .