for anyone who s paying attention , hillary just got caught in another big lie former secretary of state colin powell has no recollection of the dinner conversation recounted by hillary clinton to fbi agents , as documented by journalist joe conason in a forthcoming book.conason s anecdote , reported thursday night by the new york times , recounts a small dinner party at clinton s georgetown home toward the beginning of her time as secretary of state , with former secretaries madeleine albright , henry kissinger and condoleezza rice also in attendance .
during that dinner , conason reports , albright asked the former secretaries to impart advice to clinton .
powell told her to use her own email , as he had done , except for classified communications , which he had sent and received via a state department computer , conason wrote in his book man of the world : the further endeavors of bill clinton , of which the times said it acquired an advance copy .
powell , according to conason s account , told clinton that his use of personal email had been transformative for the department and thus confirmed a decision [ clinton ] had made months earlier to keep her personal account and use it for most messages .
a spokeswoman for powell s office issued a statement following the times story : general powell has no recollection of the dinner conversation .
he did write former secretary clinton an email memo describing his use of his personal aol email account for unclassified messages and how it vastly improved communications within the state department .
at the time there was no equivalent system within the department .
he used a secure state computer on his desk to manage classified information , the statement continued .
the general no longer has the email he sent to former secretary clinton .
it may exist in state or fbi files .
watch here : powell s pushback comes amid an ongoing legal dispute between clinton s lawyers and judicial watch over whether the conservative legal watchdog group can depose the former secretary of state as part of its lawsuit over state department records.read more : politico