hakeem jeffries just exposed his trump derangement on the house floor .
his hate for president trump is so offensive and inappropriate .
he s the definition of a jacka $ $ : we re wondering why were so many people who worship at the altar of white supremacy drawn to donald trump s campaign ? https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=oiakbhizggwhow racist and wrong of this man who says trump voters are dripping in hatred unreal ! during a speech on the house floor on monday , representative hakeem jeffries ( d-ny ) argued that while not all trump voters are racists , every racist in america voted for donald trump .
jeffries said , since january 20th , we ve seen a disturbing increase here in america in anti-immigrant , anti-muslim , anti-black , anti-lgbt and anti-semitic acts .
and the question is , is this just a coincidence , or could it possibly have something to do with the election of the 45th president of the united states of america ?
now , in part , what we re seeing is connected to a historic backlash that has often occurred throughout this journey that we ve been on here in america , that whenever we make significant progress , there s always a backlash amongst some in america who ve got a problem with the fact that we ve done things designed to be more consistent with our values of liberty and justice for all , equal protection under the law .
after listing historical examples of this , jeffries stated , and then , of course , we ve got barack obama , who was elected in what many of us viewed as an incredible step in the right direction , african-americans having gone from the outhouse to the white house .
eight years of tremendous progress in moving this country forward , followed by the election of donald trump , a man who spent five years perpetrating the racist lie that barack obama was not born in the united states of america .
and many of us are wondering , why were so many people who worship at the altar of white supremacy drawn to donald trump s campaign ?
what was it about this individual that so many folks dripping in hatred flocked to his candidacy ?
that s not to say that every american who voted for donald trump is a racist .
we do know that every racist in america voted for donald trump .
that s a problem .
he concluded , and so , again , i just ask the question in closing , is this all a big coincidence ?
we know part of it is the backlash that has often occurred whenever we ve made progress in america , but this president has a responsibility to address the rise in hate crimes that have taken place on his watch , whether or not his election is directly connected to it .