manila ( reuters ) - as air force one took off from manila on tuesday at the end of the longest trip to asia by an american president in more than quarter of a century , at least two of the region s leaders had good reason to feel satisfied .
at a summit in the philippines , donald trump forged a great relationship with president rodrigo duterte , who only a year ago had cursed son of a bitch barack obama for decrying his administration s bloody war on drug pushers and addicts .
and trump flashed a thumbs-up as he shook hands with cambodia s authoritarian prime minister , hun sen , who praised the u.s. president as a kindred spirit for telling countries to put their own interests first .
you are a great man to me , hun sen said , addressing trump at a meeting with other southeast asian leaders , and then referenced trump s america first policy .
i would like to inform you that if you follow your new policy in respect of the independence and sovereignty of other countries , the united states will have a lot of friends and you will be much respected and loved .
for other leaders across asia , however , trump s go-it-alone instincts must have represented a puzzling departure from his predecessors , who were - to varying degrees - standard bearers of multilateralism , democracy and human rights .
during a tour that took him to japan , south korea , china and vietnam and the philippines capital , trump called for joint efforts to tighten the screws on north korea and its development of nuclear weapons in defiance of u.n. sanctions .
but at an asia-pacific summit in vietnam , he declared that redressing the uneven balance of trade between asia and the united states was at the center of his america first policy , which he says will protect u.s. workers .
trump s vision has up-ended a consensus favoring multinational trade pacts whose regional champion is now china .
on the sidelines of the vietnam meeting , 11 countries kept alive a trans pacific trade deal that trump walked away from last year in the name of protecting american jobs .
one cabinet member from a major asean country told reuters there was little enthusiasm in the region for trump s bilateral approach to deals .
as singapore prime minister lee pointed out , the reason bilateral trade deals are so attractive for the usa , is precisely why no one will want to enter into one with the usa : because the usa could bully anyone on a bilateral basis , said the cabinet member who did not want to be named .
why would anyone sign up for that ?
trump told reporters before leaving that he had sealed deals of at least $ 300 billion , possibly triple that figure .
u.s. businesses signed around $ 250 billion dollars worth of deals during trump s beijing visit , but many of those were nonbinding .
missing was any agreement on market access or reduction in technology-sharing agreements that american businesses have long complained about .
for trump , dogged at home by low public approval ratings and investigations into russian links to his election campaign , the deals will be an important prize to flaunt on his return .
the multi-billion-dollar deals he struck in beijing may not help the u.s. trade deficit , said a former japanese diplomat in tokyo , who declined to be named .
but optically ... he can tell people that because he went to china with business leaders , he was able to come back with a gift .
although there were few weighty deliverables from trump s tour , for asian nations looking nervously at china s increasing assertiveness , it may be welcomed as a sign that his administration is still committed to the region .
what regional countries wanted was for him to simply show up to underscore that america remained at least notionally committed to asia , said shahriman lockman , a senior analyst at the institute of strategic & international studies in malaysia .
a senior official in south korean president moon jae-in s administration said seoul had been worried he would come to south korea and engage in unexpected behavior and language , but it turned out trump was quite considerate .
south korea was able to rest assured regarding its partnership with the united states , the official said .
he also got good reviews at the start of his asia tour in japan , which has been currying favor with trump since right after his election when prime minister shinzo abe jetted off to trump tower with an expensive golf club as a present .
the most important deliverable is that we can send an almost identical message to the world that we share an identical strategy , a japanese government official said .
for asian leaders , trump s off-the-cuff style , freewheeling tweets , and rhetorical hyperbole , must have been daunting .
but one thing they seemed to learn was that he responds well to a lavish reception .
they say in the history of people coming to china there has been nothing like that , and i believe it , trump told reporters after his visit to beijing , where president xi jinping extended him the honor of a personal tour of the forbidden city .
one measure of the asian trip s success , he said , was the red carpet , like i think probably nobody has ever received .
diplomats say the bonhomie in beijing probably stemmed in large part from washington s expectations xi will lean more heavily on north korean leader kim jong un .
trump s pronouncements on north korea during the trip swung from embracing diplomacy to warnings of military intervention .
do not underestimate us .
and do not try us , he said in a speech to south korea s national assembly .
days later , after pyongyang dismissed the speech as reckless remarks by an old lunatic , trump tweeted : why would kim jong-un insult me by calling me old , when i would never call him short and fat ?
.
and then he tacked back toward diplomacy .
oh well , i try so hard to be his friend - and maybe someday that will happen !
david pressman , a former u.s. ambassador to the united nations under president obama , said trump arrived in asia without a north korea strategy and left without one .
short and fat is not a nuclear strategy , he said , adding that washington s approach to north korea was fed by whim , ego , and theatrical calculations of a fickle and uninformed president .