brasilia ( reuters ) - a leniency deal struck between the controlling shareholders of brazilian meatpacker jbs sa and prosecutors may be partially revoked , threatening witnesses immunity but keeping their testimony , the country s top prosecutor said on monday .
prosecutor general rodrigo janot said at a news conference that billionaire meat tycoon joesley batista and a fellow state s witness seemed to have inadvertently recorded a four-hour conversation discussing crimes not covered in their plea bargain .
the audio was submitted to prosecutors on thursday as an attachment to an unrelated matter , he said .
joesley batista and his brother wesley previously confessed to bribing scores of politicians in plea bargain testimony that allowed them to avoid prosecution .
with their help , prosecutors got a recording of president michel temer apparently endorsing hush payments to a possible witness in a graft probe .
janot said the new audio was very troubling because it suggested the batistas had not been forthcoming about all of their crimes .
he also said the audio implicated someone at the supreme court of unspecified wrongdoing and suggested that a prosecutor in his office had aided the batistas illegally .
janot said evidence from their plea bargain testimony , which he has used to bring corruption charges against temer , will stand regardless of whether witnesses lose immunity after an investigation of the new audio .
the prosecutor general is expected to bring a second wave of charges against temer in coming weeks .
questions about the batistas testimony are likely to hang over the charges against temer , making it easier for members of congress to prevent the president from facing trial at the supreme court , as they did with earlier charges .
temer declined to comment on the matter when asked by reporters in china .
j & f investimentos sa , the holding company through which the batista family controls jbs , said janot had hastily interpreted the recording , which contained considerations of hypotheses and did not compromise the good faith of the witnesses .
the company agreed in may to pay a leniency fine of 10.3 billion reais ( $ 3.3 billion ) for its role in a political bribery scheme .
since then , joesley batista resigned as chairman of jbs , but his brother wesley remains chief executive and has been fighting efforts to remove him led by state development bank bndes , another major shareholder in the world s largest meatpacker .
janot opened an investigation on monday into revising the leniency deals of joesley batista and two other j & f executives , according to a document on his office s website .
since the plea deal , j & f has been racing to sell assets in order to reduce debt and pay the leniency fine .
in three months , the holding company has signed agreements to sell havaianas flip-flops maker alpargatas sa , dairy company vigor alimentos sa and pulpmaker eldorado brasil celulose sa .
( $ 1 = 3.1409 reais )