brussels ( reuters ) - the european union s executive on thursday stepped up its pressure on the nationalist government of prime minister viktor orban in hungary over its treatment of immigrants , non-governmental groups and a prominent university .
orban has been locked in a series of running battles with the eu , where western states and the brussels-based executive commission decry what they see as his authoritarian leanings , the squeezing of the opposition and the free media .
in a series of legal announcements , the european commission said it was taking budapest to the bloc s top court , the luxembourg-based european court of justice , over its ngo laws as well as a higher education law that targets a university founded by u.s. financier george soros , a public enemy of orban .
brussels , influenced by the soros empire , has released a burst of fire on hungary .
the legal procedures are now openly used as tools of political blackmail and exerting pressure , orban s fidesz party said in reaction to the announcements .
brussels also confirmed it was taking hungary - along with eastern eu peers poland and the czech republic - to the tribunal over refusing to host asylum-seekers under an eu-wide quota system .
the ecj cases could lead to financial penalties but take months , or years , to conclude .
the commission has also stepped up its legal case against budapest over hungary s asylum laws .
separately , european lawmakers were debating on thursday whether the rule of law and democratic standards in hungary were under threat more generally , and to an extent that would merit the triggering of an unprecedented eu punishment against budapest .
the so-called article 7 procedure would shame orban by denouncing his government as undemocratic and could even lead to the maximum - though practically highly unlikely - sanction of stripping hungary of its voting rights in the eu .
hungary s case has been the first time the european parliament has called for the launching the article 7 mechanism .
at the debate in one of parliament s committees , some lawmakers said orban was making untruthful accusations against the eu and diverging from european values with his brand of illiberal democracy .
even before the debate , orban s spokesman zoltan kovacs likened it to an amalgamation of a medieval witch hunt and communist-era show trial .
the commission s first vice-president frans timmermans , however , made clear the executive arm did not side with the parliament s broader and at times tougher view of hungary .
we believe that we are dealing with very specific issues where we have disagreements with the hungarian government , timmermans told a news conference .
the situation in hungary is not in that sense comparable to the systemic threats to the rule of law which we see in poland , he said of orban s closest eu ally , the eurosceptic , nationalist polish government of the law and justice ( pis ) party .
in power for two years , pis has sought to replicate some of ideas orban has introduced over his seven years in office .
the party s moves on the courts and the media have provoked concern elsewhere in the eu that the biggest ex-communist member in the bloc is backpedalling on democracy and the rule of law .
warsaw faces its own article 7 proceedings from the commission .
warsaw and budapest , which share a broad world view that often goes against the more liberal one of the western eu states , have each other s back in their battles with the bloc and have vowed to shield one another from any sanctions .