united nations ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump , a frequent critic of the united nations , will seek to gather global support for reforming the world body when he hosts an event at u.n. headquarters in new york on sept. 18 , a day before he formally addresses the 193-member organization .
countries will be invited to attend trump s function if they sign on to a u.s.-drafted 10-point political declaration backing efforts by u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres to initiate effective , meaningful reform , according to a draft of the political declaration seen by reuters on friday .
trump has complained that the u.s. share of the world body s budget is unfair , pushed to slash funding and described it as a club for people to get together , talk and have a good time .
trump , who took office in january , has since described u.s. funding as peanuts compared to the important work of the organization .
the united states is the biggest u.n. contributor , providing 22 percent of its $ 5.4 billion biennial core budget and 28.5 percent of its $ 7.3 billion peacekeeping budget .
the contributions are agreed on by the 193-member general assembly .
trump , guterres , who also took office in january , and u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley are scheduled to speak at the sept. 18 event , diplomats said .
the draft political declaration states : we support the secretary-general in making concrete changes in the united nations system to better align its work on humanitarian response , development and sustaining peace initiatives .
we commit to reducing mandate duplication , redundancy and overlap , including among the main organs of the united nations , the draft declaration reads .
the united states also is reviewing each of the u.n. peacekeeping missions as annual mandates come up for security council renewal in a bid to cut costs .
the united states is a veto-wielding council member , along with britain , france , russia and china .
haley has said there is a lot of fat around the edges and some abuses that happen at the u.n. but i do think it is very important that we make the most of it .
ethiopia , which is president of the 15-member security council for september , said on friday it would hold a high-level council meeting on peacekeeping reform on sept. 20 that will be chaired by ethiopian prime minister hailemariam desalegn .
ethiopian u.n .
ambassador tekeda alemu told reporters it was unclear if trump would attend the meeting , which would be his first appearance in the security council , but that he expected about 10 heads of state or government to be present .