these disrespectful crybabies are in for a rude awakening when they graduate from college and have to face a real and sometimes very harsh world .
if the american flag offends them , perhaps they should try pledging their allegiance to the cuban flag or the n. korean flag , i m pretty sure both countries would be more than happy to accept them as citizens the day after the election , some people at hampshire college reacted to news of donald trump s victory by calling for removal of the american flag at the center of campus , saying it was a symbol of racism and hatred .
that night , some lowered it .
and the following night sometime before dawn on veterans day people burned it.the flag was quickly replaced , but the college board announced it would be flown at half-staff , both to acknowledge the grief and pain experienced by so many and to enable the full complexity of voices and experiences to be heard .
that didn t work , jonathan lash , the president of the small liberal-arts college in western massachusetts said monday.lowering the flag to half-staff offended many , and the backlash was immediate , especially from veterans and military families who saw it as disrespectful of the tradition of national mourning.on friday , lash told the campus community that its efforts to convey respect and sorrow had had the opposite effect , and announced that the college would remove the flag entirely.he said there is a tremendous range of views on campus , people for whom the flag is a very powerful symbol of fear they ve felt all their lives because they grew up as people of color , never feeling safe and people for whom it s a symbol of their highest aspiration for the country.at brown university , some students tore up and stomped on flags from an event honoring veterans last week , while others hurried to replace and protect the flags.at american university the day after the election , students upset about trump s victory burned flags and shouted f white america !
in an email to the campus community friday , lash wrote that college leaders hoped that removing the flag will enable us to instead focus our efforts on addressing racist , misogynistic , islamophobic , anti-immigrant , anti-semitic , and anti-lgbtq rhetoric and behaviors .
he also wrote , some have perceived the action of lowering the flag as a commentary on the results of the presidential election this , unequivocally , was not our intent .
the decision was met with anger , outrage and derision from many on social media.lash said in an interview that he is hopeful the college community will find a way to listen to one another s concerns in the next month or two while the flag is down , but acknowledged that may be difficult .
i don t think the country did it very well , he said .
i m hoping we can as a campus .
lowell sun