the question is not how hillary will ever be able to repay the kindness of so many donors to the clinton slush fund/clinton charity the question is how will america survive her pay-backs ? according to donation records , the bill & melinda gates foundation which funds global vaccine distribution has donated at least $ 26 million to the clinton charity , though records appear to be incomplete so the amount could be higher.on thursday , a week after former microsoft ceo bill gates argued for amnesty and for an unlimited number of high-tech guest-worker visas , microsoft announced it would slash 18,000 jobs .
microsoft ceo satya nadella promised his employees that we will go through this process in the most thoughtful and transparent way possible .
analysts told usa today that the number being let go was larger than expected .
the vast majority of employees will reportedly be notified within the next six months and earn severance and job transition help in many locations .
microsoft employs 125,000 people.bill gates , along with sheldon adelson and warren buffett , advocated removing the worldwide cap on the number of visas that could be awarded to legal immigrants who had earned a graduate degree in science , technology , engineering or mathematics from an accredited institution of higher education in the united states .
however , numerous nonpartisan scholars and studies have determined that there is a surplus not a shortage of american high-tech workers .
moreover , after a recent census report found that 74 % of those with a bachelor s degree in these subjects don t work in stem ( science , technology , engineering , math ) jobs , the mainstream media may finally be catching on and taking away the high-tech industry s free pass .
cbs news , for instance , concluded that the census data suggest the high-tech industry s contention that there is a shortage of american high-tech is largely a myth .
ron hira , a public policy professor at the rochester institute of technology , has said there are 50 % more graduates than job openings in the stem fields .
microsoft s announcement hammers home his point that the it sector has often been an area of social mobility , and removing the caps on high-tech guest-worker visas would take jobs away from american workers and make it more difficult to climb the economic ladder .
you ve got people who come from working-class backgrounds who go into these sectors , hira said on a conference call of scholars earlier this year that sen. jeff sessions ' ( r-al ) office organized .
it s a way of getting into the middle class and the professional class , and that s being cut off .
via : breitbart news