cairo ( reuters ) - egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi s strongest potential challenger in the country s 2018 election plans to return from exile in the coming weeks , his daughter said on friday .
ahmed shafik , a former air force commander and government minister , said this week he intended to run for president in a surprise announcement from the united arab emirates ( uae ) , where he is based .
shafik s daughter may shafik told reuters on friday he was preparing to depart , first for europe and the united states .
then he will head back to egypt to start his presidential campaign , she said .
shafik had been prevented from leaving the uae in previous days but had now received assurances that he could travel freely , she said , without specifying who gave the assurances .
the uae denied placing any movement restrictions on shafik , after a video of him aired by qatari-owned tv channel al jazeera said he had been barred from travel .
may shafik said there had been no intention to release that video , and that it had been leaked to al jazeera .
the video was filmed as a precaution , she said .
the uae is an ally of sisi s government , which has been officially silent on shafik s candidacy announcement .
several egyptian tv pundits , however , came out against shafik in a sign of opposition he is likely to face from state-linked media .
shafik is the most serious potential challenger yet to sisi , who is widely expected to seek a second term , although he has not yet announced he will run .
sisi as a military commander led the ousting of former president mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood in 2013 , before his own landslide election a year later .
sisi s supporters see him as key to stability following prolonged , violent upheaval that followed the 2011 egyptian revolt that toppled president hosni mubarak .
sisi s government is fighting an islamist militant insurgency in the sinai region and has also enacted painful austerity reforms over the last year that critics say have dented his popularity .
shafik , a minister under mubarak , narrowly lost to mursi in egypt s 2012 election before fleeing overseas .