douala ( reuters ) - a prize-winning new york-based cameroonian novelist will be freed from jail and expelled from his native country after being held for nearly three weeks on charges of insulting and threatening the president , his lawyer said on wednesday .
patrice nganang was arrested on dec. 7 as he prepared to board a flight to kenya , and accused of insulting president paul biya .
the government later said he had threatened biya in posts on facebook .
a literature professor at the state university of new york at stony brook , nganang was born in cameroon and holds dual cameroonian and u.s. nationality .
nganang s lawyer , emmanuel simh , told reuters that a judge had dismissed the government s charges and ordered his client released .
simh later said the authorities had retained nganang s cameroonian passport and that he would be placed on an afternoon flight to the united states .
according to ( the government ) , he is an american who does not have a right to this passport , simh said .
nganang s supporters say the accusations against him were politically motivated and related to a dec. 5 piece he wrote for paris-based magazine jeune afrique , in which he criticized a government crackdown on cameroon s english-speaking minority .
since last year , the government , which is dominated by members of the french-speaking majority , has repressed protests by english speakers who say they are socially and economically marginalized .
dozens of civilians have been killed in unrest that has fueled support for separatists seeking an independent state .
some separatists have launched armed attacks on state forces , creating the most serious challenge to biya s 35-year rule .
thousands of english speakers have fled across the border into neighboring nigeria .
cameroonian law forbids adults from holding dual nationality , although the prohibition is unevenly enforced .
cameroon s government spokesman could not be immediately reached for comment .
english speakers make up around a fifth of the population of cameroon , which was formed when parts of a formerly british-ruled territory joined the larger , newly independent french-speaking republic of cameroon in 1961 .
the past year s violence is the latest example of how biya s rule has grown increasingly intolerant of dissent , with opposition activists , journalists and intellectuals routinely arrested and sometimes prosecuted .
a cameroonian reporter for radio france internationale was released from prison last week after more than two years behind bars for contact with the islamist militant group boko haram , in a case that drew international condemnation .