berlin ( reuters ) - german intelligence agencies have warned german companies that iran is still trying to circumvent restrictions on the sale of dual-use items for its rocket and missile technology program , according to a document seen by reuters on wednesday .
the bfv domestic intelligence agency reminded german firms in the document that sales of certain technologies remained illegal despite sanctions relief triggered by the landmark iran nuclear deal of 2015 .
it is important to note that iran continues to pursue an ambitious rocket and missile technology program which is not affected by the sanctions relief , the document said .
it said the reminder was triggered by current events but gave no details .
german foreign minister sigmar gabriel on monday told reporters that berlin remains concerned about iran s behavior in the middle east and its missile development program , but stressed that tehran was sticking to the nuclear agreement .
european countries are scrambling to pull together a package of measures to keep the nuclear deal on track if u.s. president donald trump decertifies the nuclear pact .
under that pact , iran agreed to freeze its nuclear program for 15 years in exchange for sanctions relief .
trump is expected to declare this week that iran is not complying with the pact and to unveil a tough new strategy toward iran .
the bfv document said german intelligence agencies were continuing to investigate intensively whether iran was attempting to circumvent existing regulations to acquire products or know-how in germany .
it had reported in june that iran had sharply scaled back efforts to buy items for its nuclear program , but said attempts to buy items for its development program remained unchanged .
it gave no details about the number of such attempts .
germany s most populous state and its industrial heartland , north rhine-westphalia , provided details in its own intelligence report for 2016 that was released on tuesday .
it said it had detected 32 attempts to buy equipment that were probably or definitely proliferation-related in 2016 , down from a record 141 attempts seen a year earlier .
most of those attempts were related to iran s missile program , although some were also linked to pakistan , it said .
the lion s share of the cases did not result in delivery of any equipment because state intelligence officials were able to warn companies in time , or companies recognized suspicious inquiries .
it said iran used a variety of front companies to acquire items , often sending goods through turkey , the united arab emirates and china .