ankara ( reuters ) - turkish foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu urged greece on tuesday to not become a safe haven for plotters of last year s coup attempt , citing the 995 people who have applied for asylum since the failed putsch .
speaking at a joint news conference with his greek counterpart , nikos kotzias , cavusoglu said asylum seekers needed to be evaluated to determine those linked to the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , blamed by turkey for masterminding the putsch .
we would not want our neighbor greece , with whom we are improving our ties , to be a safe haven for gulenists .
we believe these applications will be evaluated meticulously and that traitors will not be given credit , cavusoglu said .
responding to cavusoglu s comments , kotzias said the decisions on asylum seekers were made by the greek judiciary and had to be respected even if it doesn t please some .
relations between turkey and greece were further strained in may after a greek court ruled to not extradite eight turkish soldiers who fled to greece following last year s coup attempt .
turkey alleges the men , who fled to greece in a military helicopter as the july coup unfolded , were involved in efforts to overthrow president tayyip erdogan and has repeatedly demanded they be sent back .
greek courts have blocked two extradition requests by ankara , drawing an angry rebuke from turkey and highlighting the tense relations between the nato allies , who remain at odds over issues from territorial disputes to ethnically split cyprus .
unfortunately , the greek courts did not extradite ( the eight soldiers ) , and this has greatly disappointed us , cavusoglu said .
he said two other soldiers , accused of trying to assassinate erdogan on the night of the coup , had also fled to greece , and that turkey had demanded their extradition .
in the aftermath of the coup , some 50,000 people have been jailed pending trial and more than 150,000 have been sacked or suspended from their jobs in the military , public and private sectors .
rights groups and turkey s western allies have said president tayyip erdogan is using the failed coup as a pretext to crush dissent , but the government says the measures are necessary to fight the threats it is facing .