baghdad ( reuters ) - kurdish authorities in iraq offered on wednesday to put an independence drive on hold , stepping up efforts to resolve a crisis in relations with baghdad via dialogue .
but an iraqi military spokesman suggested an offensive - launched to wrest back territory after kurds voted overwhelmingly for independence in a referendum in september - would continue regardless .
the iraqi government has transformed the balance of power in the north of the country since launching its campaign last week against the kurds , who govern an autonomous region of three northern provinces and had held a swathe of other territory .
the fighting between the two sides will not produce a victory for any , it will take the country to total destruction , the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) said in a statement .
the krg proposed an immediate ceasefire , a suspension of the referendum result and starting an open dialogue with the federal government based on the iraqi constitution .
baghdad has always considered the kurdish secession referendum illegal .
it responded last week by seizing back the city of kirkuk , the oil-producing areas around it and other territory that the kurds had captured from militant group islamic state .
in a brief social media comment hinting that the campaign would continue , an iraqi military spokesman said : military operations are not connected to politics .
prime minister haider al-abadi has said the krg should cancel the vote s outcome as a pre-condition for talks .
several shi ite members of parliament on wednesday asked him to stick to his position and not to accept just a freeze of the referendum .
on wednesday , abadi began an official visit to neighboring turkey and iran .
turkey and iran both have kurdish populations of their own and have supported baghdad taking a hard line on the referendum .
now that the kurds have swiftly yielded most of their territory outside of their autonomous region to the advancing iraqi forces , there are signs of pressure easing .
iran announced the reopening of one of the border crossings with the kurdistan region , which it had closed earlier this month in support of the iraqi government .
in ankara , president tayyip erdogan said turkey was ready to give all support to baghdad as it seeks to reopen a crude oil pipeline from the kirkuk oilfields to turkey .
the pipeline goes through the kurdish autonomous region .
iraq had stopped shipping oil through it when the kurds took kirkuk in 2014 .
in a statement to media after meeting abadi , erdogan said they discussed what political , military and economic steps they could take after what he called the illegitimate iraqi kurdish referendum last month .
abadi has ordered his army to recapture all disputed territory and has demanded central control of iraq s border crossings with turkey , which are all located inside the kurdish autonomous region .
kurdish peshmerga forces beat back an advance by iranian-backed pro-government paramilitaries on tuesday in the region of rabi a , 40 km ( 25 miles ) south of the fish-khabur border area with turkey and syria , kurdish officials said .
fish-khabur is strategically vital because oil from both kurdish and government-held parts of northern iraq crosses via a pipeline there into turkey , the main route out of the area for the exports that are crucial to any kurdish independence bid .
the fighting so far has taken place outside the kurdish autonomous region , but fish-khabur is inside it .
the fighting between the central government and the kurds is particularly tricky for the united states which is a close ally of both sides , arming and training both the kurds and the central government s army to fight islamic state .
u.s .
ambassador douglas silliman worked with iraqi security forces and kurdish peshmerga to end clashes endangering a christian community and other civilians north of mosul , washington s baghdad embassy said on its twitter account .
the iraqi government s advance over the past week has been achieved with comparatively little violence , with kurds mostly withdrawing without a fight .
but it caused kurds to flee en masse from tuz khurmato , a multi-ethnic city south of kirkuk where sectarian tension flared after iraqi forces took control , humanitarian organizations said.most of those displaced , estimated at nearly 30,000 , are in need of urgent aid and staying in open shelters , officials from two international humanitarian organizations told reuters .
abadi pledged in an interview to the wall street journal to disarm shiite militias that refuse to come under his control after islamic state s defeat .
iraqi forces are preparing in parallel an offensive to recapture the last patch of iraqi territory still in the hands of islamic state , on the border with syria , the military said on wednesday .
the militant group also holds parts of the syrian side of the border , but the area under their control is also shrinking there as they retreat in the face of two sets of hostile forces - a u.s.-backed , kurdish-led coalition and syrian government troops with foreign shi ite militias backed by iran and russia .