washington ( reuters ) - u.s. house speaker paul ryan on wednesday called on his fellow conservatives to unify in an election year , warning them to refrain from the kind of infighting that frustrated and eventually drove out his predecessor , the more moderate john boehner .
ryan , in remarks to heritage action , one of the influential conservative groups that vexed boehner with constant demands for more spending curbs and smaller government , said divisions among republicans played into the hands of democrats .
“ let ’ s not fight over tactics .
don ’ t impugn people ’ s motives , ” said ryan , the wisconsin congressman who took over the top post in the republican-dominated u.s. house of representatives last october .
but as he spoke , discontent was brewing among conservative republicans in the house over the u.s. budget for the coming year .
late last year , more than 160 republicans out of 246 voted against a two-year budget deal boehner reached with the administration of democratic president barack obama .
on wednesday , ryan did not mention boehner by name .
he urged conservatives not to use their disagreements , including over appropriations , as a litmus test for supporting each other .
“ it ’ s fine if you disagree ...
but we can ’ t let how someone votes on an amendment to an appropriations bill define what it means to be a conservative , ” ryan said .
he cautioned conservatives against standing in “ a circular firing squad. ” heritage action is an affiliate of the conservative heritage foundation research group .
boehner blamed such outside groups for pushing him into a 16-day government shutdown in 2013 .
he retired last september , weary from fighting with more conservative members who have increased their numbers in the chamber in the past few years .
ryan could soon see republican unity tested over decisions on fiscal policy , also a theme in the campaign for the november presidential election .
the budget deal reached late last year exceeded strict spending caps by $ 80 billion over two years , to pump up defense and domestic programs .
it is to be used as a framework for budget and appropriations legislation this year .
members of the conservative house freedom caucus did not vote for it .
ryan , trying to allay concerns , hosted the freedom caucus in his office tuesday evening for “ ‘ budget and beers , ’ ” a spokeswoman said .
freedom caucus member representative john fleming of louisiana said the meeting was cordial , with ryan listening to the group ’ s objections to higher spending .
“ we didn ’ t walk out with any agreements , ” fleming said .
also on tuesday , obama and ryan had their first formal meeting as they search for areas where they may be able to overcome policy differences .