on september 5 , 2017 , the daily mail reported : afghan asylum seeker accused of raping and murdering eu official s teenage daughter attacked her to satisfy his sexual urges before leaving her unconscious in a river to drown hussein khavari , 22 , who claims to be from afghanistan has been accused of ambushing maria ladenburger , 19 , as she cycled home after a party , raping her and then drowning her in freiburg , germany last october.he was linked through his dna to medical student maria , who volunteered at various shelters that house migrants in her spare time in freiburg.hussein claimed to be afghani but the court heard that there is evidence he is iraqi .
and his claim to be 17 at the time of the offense was disputed by a specialist saying he was at least 22 .
according to bild newspaper , during a morning session of hearings in which press and public were excluded , he claimed to be 19.he said he claimed to be 16 upon his arrival in germany in 2015 because the situation is better here for underage migrants .
the court must decide if he is to be tried as a juvenile or an adult.a murder conviction as a juvenile would mean a maximum ten-year jail term , as an adult a possible life sentence.as it turns out , the fake teenager who admitted to raping and murdering the actual teenager , is pretty far removed from his teenage years .
according to the voice of europe , the afghan refugee , who is now on trial for the rape and murder of the medical student maria ladenburger in october 2016 , is older than previously thought.hussein khavari entered germany in november 2015 without identity papers .
he told authorities that he was born in 1999 in afghanistan and that his father was killed during the war.but it now appears that his father is still alive .
according to german media source , bil.de , his father said his son was born in 1984 and that he is 33-years-old.the local germany says about it : prosecutors were able to track down hussein k. s father when they came across a contact on his mobile phone .
the defendant told them that they could contact his mother on the number .
but when an interpreter called the number in the presence of two judges , the person who picked up was his father .maria ladenburger s father is a senior legal adviser to the european commission in brussels .
maria herself was volunteering as a refugee worker in various shelters and asylum homes .