juba ( reuters ) - a judge of south sudan s supreme court resigned on tuesday , saying a lack of independence from the executive had turned the judiciary into a mockery and complaining of poor working conditions .
all of south sudan s judges went on a five-month strike in may over poor pay , raising the risk of impunity in a country already convulsed by criminality and war .
south sudan , the world s youngest country , descended into civil war in 2013 after president salva kiir fired his deputy , unleashing a conflict that has spawned a patchwork of armed factions .
the independence of the judiciary , in the republic of south sudan , has become a mockery , kukurlopita marino pitia , a supreme court judge , said in his resignation letter .
the war in south sudan can not be used as an excuse to interfere and silence and silence the judiciary , pitia said , adding that the judiciary was expected to protect many rights that are jeopardized by conflict .
government officials were not available immediately for comment on his letter .
the conflict in south sudan has slashed oil revenues and paralyzed agriculture , spurring hyperinflation that has rendered many civil servants salaries almost worthless .
arop malueth , secretary for the steering committee for judges and the justice union , told reuters that two more judges from the lower courts had also resigned .
many of us feel that the judiciary is not independent as it should be , malueth said , adding that some judges had been dismissed unconstitutionally , at the behest of the executive .
ex-army chief separately , the government said on tuesday the former chief of the army , general paul malong , would be allowed to leave the country , six months after placing him under house arrest in the capital following a falling out with president kiir .
kiir s spokesman ateny wek ateny told un radio in south sudan that malong was free to go to any country for medical treatment on grounds of humanity .
malong led the army s war effort against rebels from 2014 but kiir sacked him in may and placed him under house arrest .
earlier this month , kiir sent troops to disarm malong s bodyguards at his house in juba , but they refused .
kiir s troops then surrounded malong s house , sparking fears of clashes , before withdrawing a week later .
malong is under u.s. sanctions and has been accused , along with kiir , by a u.n. panel of experts of leading troops who murdered and raped civilians during the civil war .
( this version of the story was refiled to correct reporter s name in signoff )