new york ( reuters ) - democratic presidential hopefuls hillary clinton and bernie sanders vowed to nominate latinos into key cabinet posts in their administrations if elected , according to their answers to a questionnaire organized by the nation ’ s largest latino coalition .
the 20-question survey was submitted by the national hispanic leadership agenda to all u.s. presidential candidates on feb. 25 , but received responses only from the two democratic contenders and none from the republicans , according to the results reviewed by reuters .
latinos and african-americans have emerged as key voting blocs in the democratic race for the white house nomination so far , and are likely to play a large role in the outcomes of big contests looming in new york and california .
“ from special assistants to cabinet members , latinos will play a key role in helping to shape my policy priorities and be effectively represented in our agencies , ” former u.s. secretary of state and democratic front-runner clinton wrote .
u.s .
senator from vermont sanders promised to make his administration “ reflect the diverse make-up of the country ...
i can think of no place more vital for such diversity than in the cabinet and the senior executive service of the president of the united states of america. ” president barack obama has nominated a number of latinos to cabinet position during his time in office , two of whom are currently serving : secretary of labor thomas perez and secretary of housing and urban development julian castro .
both clinton and sanders have already promised comprehensive immigration reform , appealing to hispanic voters ahead of presidential nominating contests in minority-heavy states .
leading republican hopefuls donald trump and u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , meanwhile , have promised to tighten up the borders and deport undocumented immigrants .
the responses come as the democratic contest for the party ’ s presidential nomination is poised to roll into a slate of diverse states - including new york later this month and minority-heavy california in june .
the nhla will use the questionnaires to guide voter engagement ahead of the november election , and to hold the winner to promises made during the campaign , said hector sanchez , the chairman of the nhla .
“ this is not just a piece of paper that we ’ re going to put out there , ” sanchez said .
“ if they want the latino vote , they must engage with us . ”