apparently breaking the law and scamming the government is excusable if you can conveniently blame discrimination .
and when the media is ignoring your illegal activity , who s stopping you from getting away with anything ?
after being detained for bank fraud charges on monday , imran awan s attorney recently released a statement blaming islamophobia and the ultra right-wing media : this pakistani family was under criminal investigation by the u.s. capitol police for abusing their access to the house of representatives information technology ( it ) system .
abid , imran and jamal awan accessed congressmen and congress people s computer networks unauthorized and engaged in a myriad of other questionable schemes besides allegedly placing ghost employees on the congressional payroll.capitol police revoked the awans access to the congressional it system in february 2017 after a major data breach was detected .
their access had allowed them to read emails and files of dozens of members , including many serving on the house permanent select committee on intelligence and the house committee on foreign affairs.imran awan , his wife hina , and brothers abid and jamal collectively netted more than $ 4 million in salary as it administrators for house democrats between 2009 and 2017 .
yet the absence of signs of wealth displayed among them raise questions .
was the money sent overseas or did something other than paychecks motivate their actions ?
both imran and his wife were traveling to pakistan earlier this week carrying $ 12,000 .
however , imran was arrested before he could board the plane.today , awan s attorney released a statement claiming the attacks on mr. awan and his family began as part of a frenzy of anti-muslim bigotry in the literal heart of our democracy , the house of representatives .
he goes on by saying that they have had utterly unsupported , outlandish , and slanderous statements targeting mr. awan coming not just from the ultra-right-wing pizzagate media but from sitting members of congress .
the attorney claims the couple were traveling to see their family for the first time in months after being abruptly and unjustly fired .
read more : the gateway pundit