everyone knows not to talk to her in the white house unless you want to see it in the press , got news editor charles johnson quoted a source close to the president as saying in february .
the only question is whether or not she s doing it at the behest of [ white house chief of staff ] reince priebus or if she s doing it to advance herself in dc media circles .
breitbartan exclusive report from axios claims that trump may be looking to replace priebus : president donald trump is considering a shake-up of his white house that could include the replacement of white house chief of staff reince priebus and the departure of his chief strategist steve bannon , according to a report in axios.axios says a top aide to trump says it s unclear if the president is willing to pull that trigger .
but axios writes possibilities for chief of staff include house majority leader kevin mccarthy , a california republican ; wayne berman of blackstone group ; and national economic council head gary cohn.a top aide to trump said he s contemplating major changes , but that the situation is very fluid and the timing uncertain : things are happening , but it s very unclear the president s willing to pull that trigger .
insiders tell me that the possibilities for chief of staff include : house majority leader kevin mccarthy ( r-calif. ) , who developed a bond with trump as one of the earlier congressional leaders to support him , and remains a confidant.wayne berman of blackstone group , a washington heavy-hitter who was an assistant secretary of commerce under president george h.w .
bush , and a key adviser on eight presidential campaigns.david urban of the washington advisory firm american continental group , and a former chief of staff to the late sen. arlen specter ( r-pa. ) .
urban helped trump win an upset victory in pennsylvania , and was in constant cellphone contact with the candidate throughout the campaign.gary cohn , trump s economic adviser and the former # 2 at goldman sachs , who has built a formidable team and internal clout.the west wing game of thrones has been raging ever since trump took office .
but the war between the nationalists and the moderates , led by jared kushner and ivanka trump , burst into the open this week after bannon was taken off the national security council , setting off a torrent of leaks against him .