berlin ( reuters ) - germany s highest court ruled on wednesday in favor of the introduction of a third gender category for people who do not identify as either male or female or are born with an ambiguous sexual anatomy .
the federal constitutional court called on lawmakers to enact legislation by the end of 2018 to either allow the introduction of a third category or dispense with gender altogether in civil status documents .
in 2013 , germany became the first european country to recognize indeterminate sex by allowing babies born with no clear gender-determining anatomy to be put on the birth register without a male or female classification .
wednesday s decision overturned a ruling by a lower court last year in a case brought by a german citizen born in 1989 , identified as vanja by the third option campaign group that supported the plaintiff in the case .
the lower court said it was not possible to be registered as third gender because vanja could leave the gender identity blank .
however , the federal constitutional court said germany s basic law , or constitution , protected the personality rights of individuals who do not define themselves as male or female , adding that the current law on civil status interfered with that right .
the basic law does not require that civil status be exclusively binary in terms of gender , the court said in a statement .
the third option group described the ruling as historic , but said it is only the first step on improving the situation of inter and transgender people .
finally it s recognized by the federal constitutional court that there are more genders than man or woman , said mortiz schmidt , the spokesman of the group .
antke engel , the director of the institute of queer theory in berlin , said she was impressed that ruling gave lawmakers the possibility of dropping the gender category altogether .
of course that would be the more radical version , engel said .
jamie zulauf , a 30-year-old medical student who identifies as transgender , welcomed the move but said it could mean new problems when traveling to countries where a third gender is not accepted .
it s going to be visible and it s not always safe to be visible , jamie said .
the government in berlin estimated in 2013 there were 8,000 to 10,000 intersex people in germany but interest groups say the number could be closer to 80,000 .