washington ( reuters ) - overlooked in all the speculation about running for president , republican paul ryan has quietly laid to rest doubts about his ability as a campaign fundraiser for congressional colleagues .
ryan has raised more than $ 9 million through his “ team ryan ” network since his first day as speaker of the u.s. house of representatives on oct. 30 , 2015 , through the end of january 2016 , a reuters review of u.s. federal election commission filings showed .
that haul helps house republicans and party committees and compares with about $ 6 million raised by his predecessor john boehner over the same three-month period in the 2014 campaign cycle and about $ 7 million in the 2012 presidential election cycle .
ryan has delivered at least $ 8 million to the national republican congressional committee ( nrcc ) , a party group that backs congressional republicans , again topping boehner in 2014 and 2012 , according to fec filings through feb. 29 .
that has helped put the nrcc in its best cash-on-hand position ever entering an election year , and placed it $ 2 million ahead of the rival democratic congressional campaign committee .
“ i ’ ll put it this way , paul ryan is a finance chair ’ s dream in terms of fund-raising , ” said representative ann wagner , the nrcc ’ s finance chairman .
the uncertainty this election year about who will win both parties ’ presidential nominations has also helped fundraising for congressional candidates , she said .
ryan has defied skeptics who doubted last year that he could match boehner on the cash front and still fulfill a pledge to be at home with his family on weekends .
in u.s. politics , the ability to fundraise is a key test of potential for higher office , but ryan , who ran unsuccessfully for vice president in 2012 , has consistently denied he is interested in entering the 2016 white house race .
“ get my name out of it ... i ’ m not that person , ” ryan said on monday , speaking from israel , where he is on a congressional visit , in an interview with talk radio host hugh hewitt .
nonetheless ryan is the center of speculation that he could emerge as a compromise nominee if the party ’ s presidential nominating convention dissolves in chaos in july .
“ i ’ m not running for president ... end of story , ” ryan said .
despite his fundraising prowess , there are some signs of trouble ahead for ryan .
the mere mention of his name produced boos from supporters of republican presidential front-runner donald trump at a recent rally in ryan ’ s home district .
and a wisconsin conservative has announced he will challenge ryan in the republican congressional primary election scheduled for august .
on capitol hill , ryan must also preserve a tentative peace he has achieved among warring republican factions in the congress .
the first test will be to get congress to pass a budget , and ryan risks infuriating conservatives if he is forced to compromise with democrats to avoid a government shutdown , as critics accused boehner of doing .
“ the challenge for ryan is similar to the challenge boehner faced .
the republican base , at this point , really doesn ’ t like its own leadership , ” said kyle kondik , a political analyst at the university of virginia center for politics .
“ so just being speaker may eventually take a toll on ryan ’ s popularity among republicans , ” he said .