bern ( reuters ) - switzerland and the european union , its main trading partner , made headway on thursday on clinching a new treaty meant to cement ties , and bern pledged fresh contributions to eu coffers .
the head of the eu commission , jean-claude juncker , and swiss president doris leuthard gave an upbeat assessment of ties , which are on the mend after the swiss parliament last year skirted voters calls for curbing immigration from the bloc .
things are going in the right direction , juncker told a news conference after meetings in the swiss capital .
shaky prospects for progress in the talks had prompted last-minute consultations on monday to check whether the visit would even take place , a diplomat involved said .
but leuthard said switzerland was on track to contribute another 1.3 billion swiss francs ( $ 1.33 billion ) in cohesion payments to the eu budget over 10 years as a sign of solidarity .
legislation would go to parliament next year .
the two sides did not achieve a breakthrough on a framework treaty brussels wants to replace more than 100 bilateral accords now governing relations .
this would ensure switzerland adopts relevant eu laws in return for enhanced access to the bloc s single market , crucial for swiss exports .
such a pact is anathema to the anti-eu swiss people s party ( svp ) , the biggest in parliament .
many conservative politicians as well worry that any deal giving eu judges a role in settling disputes plays into the svp s hands before 2019 elections .
they hope britain s divorce talks with brussels may open new avenues for swiss-eu ties .
while britain seems set to leave the single market and to impose controls on immigration , switzerland is keen to ensure eu citizens can continue to live and work here the price for its enhanced access to the eu market .
juncker said he was taking pains to ensure the brexit issue and swiss talks remained separate .
leuthard said the foreign judges issue remained a tricky one but added : we found some flexibility here and will go into this in more depth in the months ahead .
she did not elaborate .
bilateral ties suffered when swiss voters in 2014 demanded quotas on eu immigration , but thawed after parliament last year adopted instead a system giving people registered as unemployed in switzerland first crack at open jobs .
agreements on mutual recognition of industrial standards and combining carbon trading systems followed , and brussels is expected soon to recognize swiss financial rules as sufficient .
a new treaty could pave the way for heightened swiss access to eu power markets , cutting costs and ensuring supplies in emergencies .
it could also help open the eu market for financial services for swiss-based banks and insurers .
the eu has made clear the treaty is a precondition for such deals , which in theory could make a pact more attractive to swiss voters in an inevitable referendum .
without accompanying perks , the treaty is a sitting duck , one eu diplomat said .
while a treaty is also a stated aim of the swiss government , mainstream conservatives are wary of the foreign judges angle .
they worry this hands the svp a stick with which to beat them .
a survey this month by gfs.bern for credit suisse showed 60 percent of swiss back the current web of bilateral accords , down sharply from 81 percent in 2016 .
support for ending the accords rose 9 points to 28 percent .
the survey reflected how contradictory swiss wishes can be .
nearly 80 percent favor quotas to control immigration , while 85 percent want free access to foreign markets .
the svp has mounted a referendum campaign to scrap the bilateral accords and seize control of immigration to a country whose population is already a quarter foreign .
( $ 1 = 0.9799 swiss francs )