karangasem , indonesia ( reuters ) - tens of thousands of villagers on the indonesian holiday island of bali are refusing to evacuate a 10-km ( six-mile ) danger zone around an erupting volcano , putting their fate in the hands of the gods or simply staying put to protect homes and livestock .
the glowing , 3,000-metre mount agung , considered sacred by many on the hindu-majority island , started spewing huge columns of ash at the weekend and there have been constant tremors and volcanic mud flows since .
search and rescue teams making daily forays into the zone say some are refusing to leave their cattle unattended , while others have spiritual reasons .
the government has been clear about evacuation orders , but some people are slow to act or want to stay , said gede ardana , head of bali s search and rescue agency .
we can not force them - but we will be held responsible , so we need to convince them .
for cattle farmer ketut suwarte , there was no question of staying put .
there was thick ash falling around us and we could smell sulfur .
we were scared and we decided to leave immediately , said suwarte , 47 , now staying in an evacuation camp just outside the danger zone .
suwarte s father recalls the last time mount agung exploded , in 1963 , killing about 1,000 people as pyroclastic flows - made up of hot gas and volcanic matter - raced down the mountain .
sutopo purwo nugroho , of the disaster mitigation agency , said about 43,000 people had heeded advice to take shelter , but with an estimated population of 90,000 to 100,000 in the danger area , many had not .
ika wardani , 33 , sleeps with her family at an evacuation center at night but during the day returns to her cattle farm about 10 km north of the volcano .
during the day at least we can see the volcano .
but we re uncomfortable sleeping here at night because an earthquake or loud explosion would cause panic , she said .
we would have to drive our motorbikes at night and the roads are narrow so it s safer to spend the nights at the evacuation center .
she says there are people only five km from the crater who have refused to evacuate .
they are stubborn , she said .
some of them survived 1963 so they believe it s all right now .
the government has set up radio stations and chat groups on social media to warn people of the risks .
many people have made the decision to stay inside the exclusion zone , and that is clearly very dangerous , said sutopo purwo nugroho , a spokesman for the disaster management agency .
others , including tourists , are taking unnecessary risks by trying to take selfies as close as possible , officials say .
last month , a frenchman shared a video of himself at the crater s edge on social media .
in september , when authorities first raised the warning alert to the highest level , an exclusion zone of up to 12 km was imposed , prompting nearly 150,000 to leave , but when no major eruption occurred , many returned and the warning status was lowered .
when authorities again raised the warning level this week , many were reluctant to move again .
if ( mount agung ) follows the most frequent trend , it is likely to continue increasing in explosivity but at what rate and how large , nobody knows , said dr carmen solana , a volcanologist at the university of portsmouth .
president joko widodo on wednesday urged people to leave the exclusion zone before it s too late .
there must not be any victims , he said .