ljubljana ( reuters ) - polls opened in the slovenian presidential election on sunday with incumbent president borut pahor running for his second five-year mandate against eight other candidates .
opinion polls had shown that pahor , who is running as an independent and says his main task is bringing people together , will win most votes but the question remains whether there will be a need for a second election round .
if no candidate wins at least 50 percent of votes in the first round , the two candidates with the most votes will compete in a second round on nov. 12 .
apart from pahor , the most likely candidate to get into the second round is the mayor of kamnik marjan sarec , who is backed by his own non-parliamentary center-left party lista marjana sarca , opinion polls showed .
a lot will depend upon turnout , upon whether young people will come to vote .
in this case pahor would benefit as he is the king of the instagram and is therefore more likely to get votes of the young , tanja staric , an analyst at radio slovenia , told reuters .
pahor , 53 , who is a former fashion model , is famous for posting his photos on instagram showing him in his official duties but also in various sports activities .
his campaign included 25 days of walking totaling some 700 kilometers ( 435 miles ) between slovenian cities and villages to meet local people .
he is a former long-time leader of the center-left social democrats and had been slovenian prime minister from 2008 to 2012 , in the years which led to the worst financial crisis in slovenia s history .
the country managed to only narrowly avoid an international bailout for its banks in 2013 .
although the role is mostly ceremonial , the president leads the army and also nominates several top officials , including the central bank governor .
most of his nominations have to be confirmed by parliament .
the election is seen as a possible indication of parties support before general elections due in june or july next year .
polls are due to close at 1700 gmt with preliminary results expected around 1900 gmt .