manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte s critics and allies in the senate vowed on wednesday to block a lower house move to slash the annual budget of a public-funded human rights agency opposed to his bloody war on drugs to just $ 20 .
the house , dominated by duterte s supporters , voted on tuesday to allocate a 2018 budget of just 1,000 pesos ( $ 20 ) to the commission on human rights ( chr ) , which has investigated hundreds of killings during the president s ferocious anti-narcotics crackdown .
vice president leni robredo , who was not duterte s running mate and has locked horns with him numerous times , said the lawmakers move effectively abolishes the chr , a constitutional body .
duterte s signature campaign has left thousands of mostly urban poor filipinos dead .
critics say the lawmakers are trying to retaliate against the chr for pursuing allegations of executions by police during sting operations , which police deny .
the chr is among the domestic and foreign rights groups that duterte frequently admonishes , accusing them of lecturing him and disregarding filipinos who are victims of crimes stemming from drug addiction .
the upper house minority bloc , composed of six staunch critics of the president , will seek to restore the 678 million peso budget the government and a senate sub-committee had proposed for the chr .
senator risa hontiveros described the plan to cut the budget to almost nil as a shameless rejection of the country s international and national commitments to champion human rights .
several allies of duterte in the 24-seat chamber said they would scrutinize the house move and try to ensure the commission had a budget that would allow it to work properly .
senator richard gordon said the chr had a job to do and should not be restricted .
that is their role - to expose possible abuses , he said .
another legislator , jv ejercito said senators would not make the chr impotent .
the chr is in the thick of things and very relevant nowadays and probably even next year and the years to follow because of what s happening , he said in a statement .
duterte once threatened to abolish the chr after its chief , chito gascon , sought to investigate alleged abuses by police anti-drugs units .
duterte on tuesday appeared to distance himself from the lawmakers proposing the meager budget .
he said chr was constitutionally created and should probe whatever it wants , adding he was not here to destroy institutions .
he had it coming .
he opens his mouth in a most inappropriate way .
he knows nothing , duterte said , referring to gascon .
the congressmen are really angry .
i have nothing against him .
give them a budget for all i care , whatever he likes to investigate .