new york ( reuters ) - a majority of americans believe that transgender individuals should be allowed to serve in the military , according to an exclusive reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on friday .
the july 26-28 poll suggested that the country largely disagrees with president donald trump ’ s announcement this week that he will ban transgender personnel from the armed forces .
when asked to weigh in on the debate , 58 percent of adults agreed with the statement , “ transgender people should be allowed to serve in the military. ” twenty-seven percent said they should not while the rest answered “ don ’ t know. ” democrats mostly supported military service by transgender americans while republicans were more evenly split .
among republicans , 32 percent said transgender americans should be allowed to serve , while 49 percent said they should not .
another 19 percent of republicans said they don ’ t know .
the public was also divided over the impact of banning transgender service members .
some 32 percent said it would “ hurt morale ” in the military while 17 percent said it would “ improve morale. ” another 33 percent felt it would “ have no impact ” and the rest said they don ’ t know .
when asked about the impact on military capabilities , 14 percent said prohibiting transgender service members made the military “ more capable ” while 43 percent said “ no impact , ” 22 percent said “ less capable ” and the rest said they don ’ t know .
the president ’ s announcement , made in posts on his twitter account , surprised many senior military officers and appeared to pre-empt an ongoing pentagon review into its inclusion of transgender service members .
the united states ’ top military officer , marine corps .
general joseph dunford , said the military will not alter its current policies until it receives additional guidance from trump ’ s secretary of defense .
roger kaikko , 61 , a trump voter near cleveland , ohio , who took the poll , said he disagrees with the president .
“ even the president shouldn ’ t be able to take rights away from some people just because he may not like them , ” kaikko said .
“ they ’ re people too .
unless they ’ re causing problems , they should serve just like anybody else. ” the reuters/ipsos opinion poll was conducted online in english across the united states .
it gathered responses from 1,249 adults including 533 democrats and 434 republicans .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points for the entire group and 5 percentage points for democrats and republicans .