new york ( reuters ) - the millions of twitter users following donald trump shouldn ’ t expect a “ follow back ” from the republican presidential front-runner anytime soon .
trump ’ s campaign account @ realdonaldtrump has nearly 6 million twitter followers , the most of any candidate running for president .
but he is picky about who he follows , with just 49 accounts listed as of friday .
that means he has the highest ratio of followers to those he is following , in both the republican and democratic fields .
in contrast , ted cruz , the u.s. senator from texas who has emerged as trump ’ s strongest rival , follows nearly 14,000 accounts on twitter and has 755,000 followers , according to his profile as of friday .
the exclusivity underscores how trump primarily uses twitter to broadcast his message as opposed to engaging in a back and forth with users , experts in digital strategy said .
while other campaigns use a similar approach , trump commands the most attention on social media .
trump ’ s pickiness may indicate a surprising strategy for the freewheeling republican front-runner : playing it safe when it comes to pledging his twitter allegiance with a “ follow. ” candidates can ’ t pick and choose their followers , but they have control over when to click the follow button .
“ there is more risk in who you follow , ” said scott talan , a communications professor at american university who teaches social media strategy .
“ if you ’ re actively following someone , you ’ re assuming it ’ s not going to be some religious extremist ... or a prisoner with a record. ” and , while some republican candidates follow each other , trump follows none of them .
the accounts trump monitors include those of his children and several hotel properties .
also on the eclectic list are musician steven tyler , basketball great magic johnson , vince mcmahon , chairman and ceo of wwe inc , and sisters lynette “ diamond ” hardaway and rochelle “ silk ” richardson , former democrats who now stump for trump and tweet under the handle @ diamondandsilk .
despite trump ’ s highly public battle with fox news over anchor megyn kelly ’ s role as a moderator in last week ’ s republican debate , fox shows or news personalities such as sean hannity account for better than 10 percent of the handles he follows .
kelly , not surprisingly , did not make the list , but the fox handles still add up to a larger bloc than any outside of trump ’ s family or business .
hannity and other fox presenters are also widely followed by trump ’ s rivals for the gop presidential nomination .
trump ’ s cautious approach to who he follows hasn ’ t put a damper on his social activity .
his account shows more than 30,000 tweets , the highest of any account reviewed by reuters .
it also hasn ’ t stopped trump from committing blunders with his retweets , like the one from an account called @ whitegenocidetm , which gave its location as “ jewmerica ” and featured an image that referenced george lincoln rockwell , a prominent figure in the neo-nazi movement in the united states .
hope hicks , a spokeswoman for the trump campaign , said that trump operates his own twitter account .
“ everything you see on there is pretty much directly from him , ” she said .
“ the strategy behind it is to tell the truth and to call it like he sees it. ” on twitter , trump goes where his opponents fear to tread .
he uses it to launch unfiltered personal attacks on those who cross paths with him .
for example , he did not shy from retweeting a post that included photographs of a skimpily dressed kelly from a magazine shoot and the comment , “ and this is the bimbo that ’ s asking presidential questions ? ” “ he is definitely a loose cannon in terms of how he uses his twitter account , ” said micah sifry , co-founder of personal democracy media , an online forum on technology and politics .
“ at the same time , he hasn ’ t been hurt by it yet because apparently a big chunk of what he ’ s saying is popular among republican voters. ” trump is aware of his social media success .
following the seventh republican presidential debate on thursday , he tweeted twitter data showing that he commanded the most traffic during the event .
“ great twitter poll-and i wasn ’ t even there , ” he said .
twitter matters to campaigns - it is an increasingly important way for candidates to reach their most ardent supporters .
but talking about the issues on twitter may not always be the most effective means of engaging supporters .
a recent trump tweet wishing retired golfer jack nicklaus happy birthday received more than four thousand “ likes ” , roughly twice as many as clinton ’ s policy-related tweets on the same day .
( additional reporting by gina cherelus and amy tennery in new york , editing by dan burns and ross colvin ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .