beijing ( reuters ) - the recent scene at a dusty inner mongolia military base provided evidence of chinese president xi jinping s consolidation of political power , even as he faces pushback from some quarters in his ruling communist party ahead of a critical gathering next month .
dressed in army fatigues , xi reviewed a military parade on july 30 marking the 90th founding anniversary of the people s liberation army ( pla ) .
breaking with precedent at such events , xi who is head of the party and the military as well as president - did not share the stage with peers or party elders .
pla general fan changlong , in a further departure from the norm , hailed xi as lingxiu , or leader , a reverent honorific bestowed only on two others since the 1949 founding of the people s republic of china : chairman mao zedong and his short-lived successor , hua guofeng .
according to six sources with ties to the leadership , as well as chinese analysts and foreign diplomats , that display and others sent a clear signal of his increasingly dominant position in the runup to the party s congress starting on oct. 18 , a meeting that is only held once every five years .
rana mitter , director of the university of oxford china centre , said the lingxiu title would suggest xi had succeeded in one of his key aims to centralize as much authority and charisma under his own person as possible .
but as xi s supporters promote his agenda , some party insiders , wary that he will accumulate too much power and effectively end three decades of collective leadership , have delayed agreement on who will end up on the party s standing committee , the apex of power , currently made up of seven men .
there is opposition to xi getting too much power , said a source with ties to the leadership .
the state council information office , which doubles as the party s spokesman s office , did not respond to a request for comment for this story .
as is typical in the run-up to the congress , competing name lists have been circulating in leadership circles for the standing committee , but sources caution they are possibilities rather than the final line-up .
there is an anti-xi faction forming up , said a beijing-based diplomatic source , citing meetings he has had with chinese officials .
it remains to be seen if he ll get it all his own way for the standing committee .
key questions include whether xi ally and top corruption buster wang qishan will stay on past traditional retirement age and , whether xi will get his supporters in all the key positions .
there will also be a lot of attention on any moves that would enable xi to stay on in some top leadership capacity after his second term ends in 2022 .
xi is required by the country s constitution to step down as president after two five-year terms .
there is no limit on his tenure as the party and military chief , though a maximum 10-year term is the norm .
distinct from the standard usage of lingdao for leader , lingxiu evokes grander , almost spiritual , connotations .
the party is gearing up to put xi on the same level as mao , another beijing-based diplomatic source said , referring to the significance of the lingxiu term .
the central party school , which is the top training ground for up-and-coming cadres and is influential in interpreting and disseminating party directives , has since the military parade used lingxiu in official party language to refer to xi .
the study times , the school s official newspaper , referred to xi as lingxiu for the first time on aug. 21 .
this is the choice made by history , made by the people , it said .
the military s official pla daily also referred to xi as lingxiu on aug. 25 .
however , the people s daily , the party s official newspaper , has yet to call xi lingxiu .
if xi becomes lingxiu at the congress , it would be tantamount to being party chairman , another source with leadership ties said .
xi is currently the party s general secretary , but not chairman .
china s first three leaders after the founding of the people s republic in 1949 all carried the title party chairman -mao , hua and then hu yaobang .
it has not been used since .
it would be a life-long tenure , the source said , adding that adopting such a title would be easier than amending the party charter to resurrect the chairmanship , which was abolished in the early 1980s to prevent another mao-like personality cult .
xi added core to his slew of titles last october .
if he were to be formally anointed lingxiu during the congress , his political clout would eclipse that of the past few presidents , the sources said .
it would effectively grant him veto power on any major decision put to the standing committee , they said .
for decades , the communist party general secretary has been technically first among equals in the standing committee under a collective leadership model designed to avoid one-man rule .
while western analysts largely view xi s centralization of authority as having a possibly narrowing effect on china s potential for further radical economic reform , three sources with leadership ties said xi wants a strong hand precisely to force through changes that are resisted by vested interests .
this kind of title is essential , a source with ties to the leadership told reuters .
china at this juncture needs this kind of powerful man in control .