the twitter-addicted president just explained all of his recent vile tweets , which by many have been deemed to be unpresidential .
not so , says amateur president donald trump .
the current occupant of the white house just explained on twitter that his use of social media is not presidential it s modern day presidential .
make america great again !
well , now you know !
trump is not just a big whiny baby , he s a modern day whiny baby ! the fake & fraudulent news media is working hard to convince republicans and others i should not use social media but remember , i won .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 1 , 2017 .the 2016 election with interviews , speeches and social media .
i had to beat # fakenews , and did .
we will continue to win !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 1 , 2017he wrote this in republican caps so it must be for reals.my use of social media is not presidential it s modern day presidential .
make america great again !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 1 , 2017trump ended his twitter-tantrum with this.i am thinking about changing the name # fakenews cnn to # fraudnewscnn !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 1 , 2017we know this will shock you , but his latest tweet didn t go down well on the social site.everyone thinks you should stop tweeting , even your wife ! when asked what you should stop doing once president : pic.twitter.com/tuazkx62eo jules suzdaltsev ( @ jules_su ) july 1 , 2017you have a lot to learn about social media , don .
nathan bernard ( @ nathantbernard ) july 1 , 2017i ca n't tell if he 's drunk , has dementia , or what .
he just pinned the fraud news cnn tweet eoin higgins ( @ eoinhiggins_ ) july 1 , 2017trump 's priorities via tweetspeace : 39harassing women : 1278bette : 484ruth : 314megyn : 173cher : 114rosie : 73kim : 56liz : 43mika : 21 kim ( @ kim ) july 1 , 2017you blocked me because i said your approval rating was lower than miracle whip .
how is that presidential ?
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) july 1 , 2017the coal president calling himself modern day presidential .
ok !
adam best ( @ adamcbest ) july 1 , 2017you started that tweet off with the most honest 8 words of your presidency .
good work !
now repeat that over & over .
you are n't presidential josh s nchez ( @ jnsanchez ) july 1 , 2017fixed for you , donny !
# maga pic.twitter.com/njtzchguqo josh s nchez ( @ jnsanchez ) july 1 , 2017obama tweeted too & it wasn t an issue .
wan na know why ? ? ?
because he was presidential .
patriotsagainsttrump ( @ williamlegate ) july 1 , 2017trump was called out by republicans and democrats after his latest attack on a woman .
this time , trump insulted msnc s mika brzezinski and even after he was condemned for it in a bipartisan manner , he continued to attack her.as it happens , a fox news poll concludes that seventy-one percent say that trump s tweets are hurting his agenda .
just 17 percent see the tweets as helpful .
trump is losing his own base because of his f * cking twitter account.a heroin epidemic is sweeping across the u.s. , the world is in chaos as trump tried to make nice with china , then sold $ 1.4 billion worth of arms with taiwan , which of course , pissed off china .
and now he s making war noises toward north korea .
guess whose help trump would need if a war broke out with n.k . ?
china s , that s who .
but instead of addressing these problems some of which he caused the 71-year-old man-baby is tweeting insults to media figures.and now he s declaring that his mean-girl tweets are modern day presidential and that somehow will make america great again .
it seems so long ago and yet it was only last year when we had an actual modern president , one who held the highest office in the land with dignity and respect.and just a few months later , we find ourselves suddenly in a dimension of imagination .
it is an area which we call the twilight zone .
twitter really needs to ban that old troll.photo by steve pope/getty images .