baghdad ( reuters ) - the united states is committed to helping iraq recover from three years of war against islamic state despite president donald trump cutting the foreign aid budget , a senior official in its main government aid agency has said .
thomas staal , the counselor of the u.s. agency for international development ( usaid ) , said the agency would continue to provide basic humanitarian services and additional support for minority groups such as psychosocial support to those who suffered genocide , slavery , and gender-based violence .
the budget that the president submitted included a 30 percent cut , but for iraq actually we are looking at additional funding , especially for the victims of islamic state , staal told reuters in an interview at the u.s. embassy in baghdad .
trump staked out his position on foreign aid on the campaign trail , casting it as a waste of u.s. tax dollars .
the white house proposed slashing the budget for foreign aid by a third .
iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi declared final victory over islamic state on saturday after iraqi forces drove the last remnants of the group from the country , three years after the militants captured about a third of iraq s territory .
the war has had a devastating impact on the areas previously controlled by the militants .
about 3.2 million people remain displaced , the united nations says .
the last estimate by abadi put the cost of post-war reconstruction at $ 50 billion , a figure calculated before iraqi forces retook mosul , which severely damaged the biggest city in northern iraq .
the u.s. government has provided nearly $ 1.7 billion in humanitarian assistance for iraq since the islamic state takeover of the north in 2014 , staal said .
that includes a total of $ 265 million donated to the united nations development programme s iraq stabilization fund in 2016 and 2017 .
usaid has asked undp to focus on the minority areas , said staal , who met with christian and yazidi leaders during a five-day visit to iraq .
the primary request from everybody was security , said staal , who also met with two young women who were sold into slavery by islamic state fighters .
in 2014 , more than 3,000 yezidis were killed by islamic state in what the united nations described as a genocidal campaign .
others were sold into sexual slavery or forced to fight .
iraq is exempted from trump s policy of cutting aid because of the especially terrible plight experienced by islamic state s victims , staal said , but it was a short term focus .
the long term solution is that the iraqi government is going to have to provide services to people in a more effective , efficient way , he said .
usaid is working directly with iraqi ministries to train staff and improve efficiency , with procurement reform high up on the agenda , staal said .
corruption is rife in all levels of government in iraq , which in 2016 ranked 166 out of 176 countries in transparency international s corruption perception index .
abadi has repeatedly said that once islamic state was beaten , fighting corruption would be his next focus .
( the story was refiled to fix a typo in paragraph 2 )