dr. abdul el-sayed , a liberal democrat would like to become the nation s first muslim governor in a state that s home to the city of dearborn , with the highest muslim population outside of the middle east .
the state of michigan also made news last year when hamtramck , a city that for decades was known for it s strong polish immigrant community , elected its first all-muslim city council .
it s probably not that far-fetched that the son of egyptian immigrants living in a state where tens of thousands of muslim refugees and immigrants come to live would want to see the state of mi become a sanctuary state .
my faith is really important to me , as it is for many americans and michiganders , el-sayed said .
but i think we should be asking ourselves rather than how one prays , or what they pray to , we should ask ourselves what [ one ] prays for and what one hopes for .
while el-sayed said his islamic values are at the center of his work as a civil servant , he wants people to know his number one priority is to serve the people of michigan.but some residents in the state may not be ready to see a muslim governor .
in the last several years , michigan has been a hotbed of islamophobia .
dearborn , a predominantly arab-american city in the detroit metro area , has been a frequent target of anti-muslim activists , conspiracy theories and fake news .
but el-sayed doesn t want michigan residents to be distracted by anti-muslim rhetoric and violence and he wants people to know that the principles of islam are what guide his service .
i am running because of the values my islam teaches me which includes beliefs in equity , the fundamental rights of all people , a belief that we will judge ourselves as a people based on how we treat the most vulnerable , el-sayed said .
a belief in being good to others fundamentally , a belief in respect and dignity to one s neighbors and one s friends and one s family .
-business insiderdemocratic gubernatorial candidate abdul el-sayed is starting to propose a progressive platform that includes making michigan a sanctuary state , providing universal preschool and offering publicly funded health insurance to any resident needing coverage.the ex-director of detroit s health department unveiled parts of his platform monday.i love it when the rule of law works # sanctuarycities https : //t.co/3x4kjbu4wz abdul el-sayed ( @ abdulelsayed ) april 26 , 2017el-sayed claims that a sanctuary state will make michiganders safer .
as a michigander , i can assure you that making our state a sanctuary state will not only make it less safe , but it will cause many people to move away to states who have laws against law-breakers .
( 3/3 ) if elected # gov my job is protecting # michiganders , that 's what # sanctuarystate will do .
learn more : https : //t.co/r56mhiryrb abdul el-sayed ( @ abdulelsayed ) april 24 , 2017the sanctuary term has no legal definition and varies in application , but it generally refers to local jurisdictions that do not cooperate with u.s. immigration officials .
us newsel-sayed also made his feelings known on twitter about a mi lawmaker , rep. michele hoitenga , r-manton , mi who wants to make sharia law illegal in that state of michigan .
el-sayed attempts to make the comparison of the 10 commandments and the holy bible to sharia law .
what el-sayed seems to be willfully ignoring , is the fact that the united states is a judeo-christian nation.nice try i oppose banning the # tencommandments and # bible both came from the # middleeast .
# religiousfreedom https : //t.co/j7unpqskim abdul el-sayed ( @ abdulelsayed ) april 20 , 2017