geneva ( reuters ) - a record 29 states , including china , iran and saudi arabia , have retaliated in the past year against citizens who cooperate with the united nations , the u.n. human rights office said on wednesday .
people communicating with the rights body had been abducted , detained , held incommunicado , or had disappeared , u.n. assistant secretary-general for human rights andrew gilmour said .
nine of the states named in the report - burundi , egypt , rwanda , cuba , venezuela , china , india , saudi arabia and the united arab emirates - are current members of the 47-country u.n. human rights council .
gilmour told the council that it was nothing short of abhorrent that his office had to keep coming back with examples of states victimizing people for helping the united nations - wednesday s was its eighth annual report on the reprisals .
there is something grotesque and entirely contrary to the charter and spirit of the united nations , and particularly this council , that people get punished , through intimidation and reprisals , for cooperating with the u.n. on human rights , he said .
none of the council members chose to respond to his remarks .
the other 20 countries in the report were algeria , bahrain , eritrea , honduras , iran , israel , mauritania , mexico , morocco , myanmar , oman , pakistan , south sudan , sri lanka , sudan , tajikistan , thailand , turkey , turkmenistan , and uzbekistan .
in previous reports , an average of 15 countries were listed , and never more than 20 .
china and saudi arabia have featured on six of the eight lists published so far .
gilmour said the true number of cases was much higher but the report omitted many for reasons of confidentiality or security of the victim .
among the victims named in the report was bahraini activist ebtesam abdulhusain ali alsaegh , who testified to the council but was then detained on her return to bahrain and was beaten and sexually assaulted a few weeks later , gilmour said .
other victims lost their jobs , had their homes or offices raided , or were targeted by travel bans or asset freezes .
many cases involved arbitrary detention and torture , sometimes by sexual assault or rape .
some countries justified their tactics by saying the individuals were terrorists or cooperating with foreign entities aiming to damage the state , gilmour said .
i think we should see these individuals as the canary in the coal-mine , bravely singing until they are silenced by this toxic backlash against people , rights and dignity as a dark warning to us all .