the entitled refugee mentality is becoming the norm in bleeding heart nations around the world .
we recently reported about complaints from italian citizens that refugees were dumping garbage in the streets of italy to protest poor wi-fi .
in germany , an afghan family refused to get off the bus at their new government funded flat , after complaining they were promised a home.immigrant services association of nova scotia says staff thoroughly inspected an apartment to ensure it was bedbug-free before moving in a family of six syrian refugees on feb. 1.director of operations gerry mills said families are moved into safe and appropriate housing , and isans staff keep the health and well-being of refugees in mind .
our staff know what bedbugs look like and since friday we ve had staff there every day in different apartments , honestly trying to look for bedbugs .
we have found not one bedbug , she said.on tuesday , ziad zeina told cbc news through an interpreter that he wanted to get his family out of their two-bedroom apartment on gerrish street because the bedbug problem is non-stop and it s not going to change and there s no solution at this moment .
but mills said one of the first steps workers take is to inquire with building managers whether the biting pests are a problem on site.in the case of harbour view apartments where the zeinas live , mills said building managers took the preventive step of fumigating their unit even though it did not have bedbugs .
you can actually tell because there s still kind of an actual vague smell in them [ apartments ] , mills said.or was it a pre-existing skin condition ? wafaa al safadi holds her 10-month-old son , rayan zeina .
she says he is covered in bed bug bites .
( elizabeth chiu/cbc ) the zeinas are government-assisted refugees who stayed briefly in charlottetown and decided to settle in halifax at the end of january.the family insists there s a bedbug issue and wafaa al safadi lifted her baby s shirt to reveal his chest and back covered in scabs and red rashes.but mills said the baby has a pre-existing skin condition .
the marks were on the child even before they moved into that apartment .
when they were in the hotel , we spoke with the family then about taking the child to the doctor to get some medication .
isans said there are 16 families of syrian refugees living in the same building and no other families have complained about the blood-sucking insects .
via : cbc