xiamen , china ( reuters ) - chinese president xi jinping on tuesday urged brics nations to deepen coordination on global matters , and push for a more just world order , by boosting representation for emerging and developing countries in international bodies .
reiterating that emerging and developing markets have been the primary engine of global growth , xi called for a bigger role for brics in speeding economic governance reforms and promoting trade , especially as rising risks veil a global recovery .
brics countries should push for a more just and reasonable international order , xi told a summit of the grouping , which includes brazil , russia , india , china and south africa .
we should work together to address global challenges .
in his closing remarks , xi urged the grouping to battle for more representation power for emerging and developing countries , which some analysts say are often under-represented in global institutions such as the world bank , by comparison with the dominance of the united states and western europe .
the summit in the southeastern city of xiamen has given host china its latest chance to position itself as a bulwark of globalization in the face of u.s. president donald trump s america first agenda .
xi appeared to rebuke the united states s resistance to international pacts - including the paris climate accord - in a separate speech earlier on tuesday to leaders of brics and other developing countries .
multilateral trade negotiations make progress only with great difficulty and the implementation of the paris agreement has met with resistance , xi said .
some countries have become more inward-looking , and their desire to participate in global development cooperation has decreased .
in talks on the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) , trump has sought improved terms for the united states , under threat of leaving the pact , and has said he will withdraw his country from the paris climate accord .
xi gave $ 500 million for a south-south cooperation fund to help other developing countries tackle famine , refugees , climate change and public health challenges , besides an earlier $ 80-million summit pledge to support brics cooperation .
egypt , guinea , tajikistan , thailand and mexico joined the three-day summit as observer nations , and xi called for a brics plus plan to potentially expand the bloc , although no new member has been formally announced .
xi lauded smooth progress in the grouping s cooperation in areas such as anti-terrorism and internet security .
leaders from the brics countries are determined to work toward another golden decade , he added .