donald trump jr. took to twitter today to release all email communication with the kremlin-linked lawyer , revealing that he had hoped to get his hands on information that would damage hillary clinton s campaign .
is this really news ?
someone who donald trump jr. knew wanted to help him , by revealing some dirt on hillary , and trump jr. agreed to meet with them .
okay ?
so what ?
would hillary s camp have declined such a meeting ?
what about robert creamer , a felon and democrat operative who s married to a us congresswoman jan schakowsky of illinois and had ties to the hillary campaign and to our sitting president barack obama ?
he was caught red-handed in an undercover video by james o keefe admitting to inciting violence at trump rallies as a way to help hillary win the election against donald trump ?
why was that story dismissed by the media and this nothingburger story getting wall-to-wall coverage ? here is the tweet from donald trump jr. , who was clearly not worried about revealing the contents to the world .
here 's my statement and the full email chain pic.twitter.com/x050r5n5lq donald trump jr. ( @ donaldjtrumpjr ) july 11 , 2017here is the statement made by donald trump jr. about the release of the emails : page 1 : page 2 : page 3 : page 4 : the emails offer the first details about how the sitdown with natalia veselnitskaya , a kremlin-linked russian lawyer , came about.trump jr. posted the emails on twitter shortly after they were first reported by the new york times.trump jr. said in a statement he thought he was receiving opposition research .
the information they suggested they had about hillary clinton i thought was political opposition research , trump jr. said .
throughout the exchange , he gave no indication that he was concerned about getting information from the russian government , which the us intelligence community has concluded meddled in the election on his father s behalf.trump jr. and his high-powered white collar criminal defense lawyer , alan futerfas , insist he did nothing wrong .
media & dems are extremely invested in the russia story .
if this nonsense meeting is all they have after a yr , i understand the desperation !
he defiantly tweeted tuesday morning.the white house has said president trump was unaware of the meeting , and he has not commented on the revelations about his eldest son .
nypnot only do the emails appear to be another nothingburger for the rabid left and their allies in the media , but donald jr. should ve known that if the media didn t care about hillary giving russia one-fifth of all uranium production in the untied states in exchange for donations to the clinton foundation ( slush fund ) , they likely wouldn t care much else having to do with crooked hillary and the russians.an april , 2015 article published by the new york times tells a story of a corrupt secretary of state who used her position as secretary of state to gain massive donations to her clinton foundation while giving vladimir putin control of much of the united states uranium : the headline on the website pravda trumpeted president vladimir v. putin s latest coup , its nationalistic fervor recalling an era when its precursor served as the official mouthpiece of the kremlin : russian nuclear energy conquers the world .
the article , in january 2013 , detailed how the russian atomic energy agency , rosatom , had taken over a canadian company with uranium-mining stakes stretching from central asia to the american west .
the deal made rosatom one of the world s largest uranium producers and brought mr. putin closer to his goal of controlling much of the global uranium supply chain.but the untold story behind that story is one that involves not just the russian president , but also a former american president and a woman who would like to be the next one.at the heart of the tale are several men , leaders of the canadian mining industry , who have been major donors to the charitable endeavors of former president bill clinton and his family .
members of that group built , financed and eventually sold off to the russians a company that would become known as uranium one.as the russians gradually assumed control of uranium one in three separate transactions from 2009 to 2013 , canadian records show , a flow of cash made its way to the clinton foundation .
uranium one s chairman used his family foundation to make four donations totaling $ 2.35 million .
those contributions were not publicly disclosed by the clintons , despite an agreement mrs. clinton had struck with the obama white house to publicly identify all donors .
other people with ties to the company made donations as well.and shortly after the russians announced their intention to acquire a majority stake in uranium one , mr. clinton received $ 500,000 for a moscow speech from a russian investment bank with links to the kremlin that was promoting uranium one stock .