beijing ( reuters ) - troops serving at china s first overseas military base , in the horn of africa country of djibouti , should help promote peace and stability , president xi jinping told them in a video chat , encouraging them to promote a good image .
china formally opened the base in august on the same day as the people s liberation army marked its 90th birthday .
it is china s first overseas naval base , although beijing officially describes it as a logistics facility .
djibouti s position on the northwestern edge of the indian ocean has fueled worry in india that it would become another of china s string of pearls military alliances and assets ringing india , including bangladesh , myanmar and sri lanka .
speaking to china s djibouti-based forces during a visit to a joint battle command center in beijing , xi got a good understanding of the base s operations and the lives of the soldiers there , china s defence ministry said late on friday .
xi encouraged them to establish a good image for china s military and promote international and regional peace and stability , the ministry said .
the soldiers responded that they would not let xi or china down , it said .
china began construction of the base in djibouti last year .
it will be used to resupply navy ships taking part in peacekeeping and humanitarian missions off the coasts of yemen and somalia , in particular .
chinese president xi jinping is overseeing an ambitious military modernization program , including developing capabilities for china s forces to operate far from home .
during his visit to the command center , xi also instructed the armed forces to improve their combat capability and readiness for war , the ministry said .
xi said progress in joint operation command systems , especially in efficiency at the regional level , was needed and troops must conduct training under combat conditions .
djibouti , which is about the size of wales , is at the southern entrance to the red sea on the route to the suez canal .
the tiny , barren nation sandwiched between ethiopia , eritrea and somalia also hosts u.s. , japanese and french bases .
there has been persistent speculation in diplomatic circles that china would build other such bases , in pakistan for example , but the government has dismissed this .