marawi city , philippines ( reuters ) - the philippines is preparing to declare the end of fighting in a southern city seized for five months by pro-islamic state rebels , a top military commander said on saturday , as troops continued a phased withdrawal from the devastated lakeside city .
only 20 insurgents remained in a small area in marawi city , including five significant figures , and three battalions of troops were closing in on their positions , said lieutenant-general carlito galvez .
most probably tomorrow , we can do it , galvez told reporters when asked when the military can declare fighting is over .
we can declare it is totally complete .
galvez said troops are zeroing in on three sons of isnilon hapilon , the slain emir of islamic state in southeast asia , and two malaysians , including amin baco , who has been central to facilitating the movement of foreign fighters in the region .
we can not say our mission is totally accomplished or completed if the five persons are still there , he said , adding the remaining militants are struggling to survive and to protect their shrinking position .
another general told reuters they were also looking for a prominent indonesian militant .
the military is concerned hapilon s sons and these foreign fighters could succeed core leaders of the alliance killed this week .
hapilon and omarkhayam maute were killed by commandoes on monday .
malaysian mahmud ahmad , who experts say may have funded the marawi siege , was also dead , according to a freed hostage , but his body has yet to be found .
the defense ministry said on saturday that forensic tests by the u.s. federal bureau of investigation had confirmed that the man killed was hapilon .
the united states has provided technical support to treaty ally the philippines , including surveillance drones .
the deaths of the leaders could slow down any effort by islamic state to establish a presence in mindanao , a vast island with a history of rebellion and home to the predominantly roman catholic nation s muslim minority .
the organization and combat capability of the rebels has stunned the military .
some experts see the siege as a prelude to a more ambitious bid by islamic state loyalists to exploit mindanao s poverty and use its jungles and mountains as a base to train , recruit and launch attacks in the region .
galvez , head of the western mindanao command , inspected troops in marawi and sent off a battalion of marines central to military operations .
it was the second unit to leave the conflict area .
the military declined to divulge the number of troops remaining in marawi .
elite commandoes were leading the assault , with army infantry battalions and police commandoes securing safe areas .
the military said eleven hostages were processed on saturday to determine whether they were really captives or militant members and sympathizers trying to slip away .
galvez said rehabilitation , including retrieval of the dead , would start after the end of hostilities is declared .
the philippines estimates the rebuilding of areas battered by months of government air strikes could cost at least 50 billion philippine pesos ( $ 971 million ) .