is barack obama planning to use taxpayer money to travel around the world campaigning for un secretary general ? the jerusalem post reported that barack obama has privately campaigned to succeed ban ki-moon as united nations secretary general at the end of 2016.israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu is also reportedly working with moderate arab states to prevent this transition.netanyahu remembers well just how us president barack obama brushed aside israeli objections and went ahead with the p5+1 nuclear agreement with iran.now , netanyahu is reportedly planning some personal payback.the sources said that once netanyahu got wind of obama s plans , the prime minister began to make efforts to submarine what he has referred to as the obama project .
via : gateway punditthis shocking report outlines how the united nations believes americans should be paying reparations to african american descendants of slavery .
you don t need much of an imagination to picture barack obama moving seamlessly into the role secretary general of this global sham of an organization .
is the un simply laying the groundwork for a future secretary general barack hussein obama ?
the united states should consider reparations to african-american descendants of slavery , establish a national human rights commission and publicly acknowledge that the trans-atlantic slave trade was a crime against humanity , a united nations working group said friday.the u.n .
working group of experts on people of african descent released its preliminary recommendations after more than a week of meetings with black americans and others from around the country , including baltimore , chicago , new york city , the district of columbia and jackson , mississippi.after finishing their fact-finding mission , the working group was extremely concerned about the human rights situation of african-americans , chair mireille fanon mendes-france of france said in the report .
the colonial history , the legacy of enslavement , racial subordination and segregation , racial terrorism and racial inequality in the u.s. remains a serious challenge as there has been no real commitment to reparations and to truth and reconciliation for people of african descent .
for example , mendes-france compared the recent deaths of unarmed black men like michael brown and eric garner at the hands of police to the lynchings of black men in the south from the post-civil war days through the civil rights era .
those deaths , and others , have inspired protests around the country under the black lives matter moniker .
contemporary police killings and the trauma it creates are reminiscent of the racial terror lynchings in the past , she told reporters .
impunity for state violence has resulted in the current human rights crisis and must be addressed as a matter of urgency .
some of the working group s members , none of whom are from the united states , said they were shocked by some of the things they found and were told.for example , it s very easy in the united states for african-americans to be imprisoned , and that was very concerning , said sabelo gumedze of south africa.federal officials say 37 percent of the state and federal prison populations were black males in 2014 .
the working group suggests the u.s. implement several reforms , including reducing the use of mandatory minimum laws , ending racial profiling , ending excessive bail and banning solitary confinement .
via : epoch times