hong kong/beijing ( reuters ) - china has quietly undertaken more construction and reclamation in the south china sea , recent satellite images show , and is likely to more powerfully reassert its claims over the waterway soon , regional diplomats and military officers say .
with global attention focused on north korea and beijing engrossed in its party congress , tensions in the south china sea have slipped from the headlines in recent months .
but with none of the underlying disputes resolved and new images reviewed by reuters showing china continuing to develop facilities on north and tree islands in the contested paracel islands , experts say the vital trade route remains a global flashpoint .
some expect china to land its first deployments of jet fighters onto its runways in the spratly islands in coming months , while regional military officers say it is already using the new facilities to expand naval and coast guard deployments deep into southeast asia .
they ve built these extensive facilities and both chinese civilian and pla experts have always made it clear that when the strategic time is right , they re going to start using them more fully , said bonnie glaser , a china security expert at washington s center for strategic and international studies .
i think it is a question of when , rather than if , china will start to assert its interests more forcefully in the south china sea ... and that is likely to be at a time of china s choosing , glaser told reuters .
rival claimant vietnam , meanwhile , is nearing completion of reclamations and an extended runway on its base on spratly island , the satellite images show .
the build-up of the spratlys symbolizes china s growing assertiveness over the south china sea during president xi jinping s first term and was highlighted in his address to the communist party congress this month .
construction on islands and reefs in the south china sea has seen steady progress , xi told the congress .
the issue is likely to come up during u.s. president donald trump s visit to asia , which begins this week .
we remain concerned about tensions in the south china sea , in particular those caused by land reclamation and militarization of disputed outposts and the willingness of some to resort to coercive tactics to assert their claims , said michael cavey , a spokesman for the u.s. state department .
we have consistently called on china , as well as other claimants , to refrain from any further land reclamation , construction of new facilities , and militarization of the disputed features .
responding to reuters questions , chinese defence ministry spokesman ren guoqiang reiterated the islands were irrefutably chinese territory .
you can t say that the construction on our islands and reefs in the south china sea and the building of necessary defensive facilities is an expansion of military deployments , he said .
we believe that at present the situation in the south china sea is generally good , and all relevant parties should work hard together to protect the peace and stability of the south china sea .
china s ambassador to washington , cui tiankai , said on monday the united states should not try to interfere in regional efforts to resolve disputes in the south china sea .
for a graphic on spratly islands , click here china has been seeking to soothe fellow claimant the philippines and accelerating talks with the wider asean grouping , amid concerns in washington about the long-term security of the waterway through which some $ 3 trillion in trade a year passes .
in a speech in singapore earlier this month , the most senior u.s. military chief in the region said even while washington pushed beijing for help on north korea , it would still hold china accountable for actions that countered international rules and norms .
we also want beijing to do more to stop provocative actions in the east china sea and the south china sea , where the chinese are building up combat power and positional advantage in an attempt to assert de-facto sovereignty over disputed maritime features , admiral harry harris , commander of the u.s. pacific command , said .
china claims much of the area through its controversial nine-dash line , which overlaps rival maritime claims by vietnam , the philippines , malaysia , taiwan and brunei .
a recent study by the u.s. government-linked rand corp weighing the risks of a conflict between the united states and china moved the south china sea up its list of potential flashpoints .
placing it above taiwan but below the korean peninsula , the study notes the waterway has become the unanticipated focal point of u.s.-chinese ... rivalry .
while the pentagon has embarked on more regular freedom-of-navigation patrols , or fonops , to challenge beijing s claims , some analysts believe washington is struggling to counter china s creeping domination of the area .
china appears to be pursuing a well-thought out and long-term strategy to achieve dominion over the south china sea while america responds with ad hoc tactical maneuvers , said ian storey , a south china sea expert at singapore s yusof ishak institute .
fonops are tactics not strategy , and they have not made china rethink its plans for the south china sea one iota .
ni lexiong , a naval expert at the shanghai university of political science and law , said there was little need for china to dramatically increase deployments now , but much depended on the actions others .
as long as others don t intentionally go and provoke clashes , things will be fine , he added .
the issue is that some countries , like the united states , go and stir things up .