geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations human rights office on tuesday condemned attacks and threats made against its investigators by philippines president rodrigo duterte and by senior burundian officials .
last week mr duterte threatened to slap ( u.n. special rapporteur agnes ) callamard if she investigates him for alleged extrajudicial killings , u.n. human rights spokesman rupert colville told a news briefing .
he made the same threat against her in june after she criticized his war on drugs campaign which has left thousands dead , he added , referring to remarks made after her visit in may in an unofficial capacity to attend an academic conference .
the philippine supreme court on tuesday began hearing arguments in a petition to declare duterte s deadly war on drugs , denounced by rights groups across the world , as unconstitutional .
more than 3,900 filipinos have been killed in what the police called self-defense after armed drugs suspects resisted arrest in the 16 month-long campaign .
critics say executions are taking place with zero accountability , allegations the police reject .
callamard , u.n. special rapporteur on extrajudicial killings , is an independent expert reporting to the u.n. human rights council .
her planned visit to the philippines last december was called off because she refused to accept duterte s conditions .
recently she has also been subjected to a tirade of online abuse , including physical threats , during what appears to be a prolonged and well-orchestrated trolling operation across the internet and on social media , colville said .
we condemn this treatment of ms callamard and the disrespect it shows to the human rights council that appointed her in the strongest terms , he added .
on burundi , the u.n. rights office has written to the bujumbura government to demand that officials stop threatening with prosecution members of a u.n. commission of inquiry that found burundian officials at the highest level should be held accountable for crimes against humanity , colville said .
burundi s ambassador in new york told the u.n. general assembly that the inquiry s report was biased and politically motivated and threatened to bring to justice its authors for defamation and attempted detribalization , he said .
burundi is an elected member of the 47-member human rights council , the main u.n. rights forum .
all states should cooperate with mandates established by the council .
none of them are established without good cause , colville said .