quetta , pakistan ( reuters ) - a pakistani taliban suicide bomber rammed a car into a police truck in the southwestern city of quetta on wednesday , killing at least seven people , police said .
the attack killed five police officials and two passers-by on the outskirts of the city of quetta , police chief abdur razzaq cheema said .
he said 22 people were wounded , eight of them critically .
sarfraz bugti , the home minister of baluchistan province , of which quetta is capital , told reuters : it was a suicide blast .
quetta is about 100 km ( 60 miles ) east of the border with afghanistan .
bugti said the truck carrying the police officials was on its way to the city to drop them at their posts when the suicide bomber rammed into the vehicle .
television pictures showed the burnt wreckage of the vehicles .
the pakistani taliban , an umbrella organisation of various militant groups within pakistan , and loosely allied to the afghan taliban , issued a statement claiming responsibility .
baluchistan province has long been the scene of an insurgency by separatists fighting against the state to demand more of a share of the gas- and mineral-rich region s resources .
they also accuse the central government of discrimination .
the taliban , sunni islam militants and sectarian groups linked to al qaeda and the islamic state group also operate in the strategically important region , which borders iran as well as afghanistan .
the violence has fuelled concern about security for projects in the $ 57 billion china pakistan economic corridor , a transport and energy link planned to run from western china to pakistan s southern deep-water port of gwadar .
a suicide bombing claimed by islamic state at a sufi muslim shrine this month killed 22 people and wounded more than 30 .
ayub qureshi , the provincial police chief , said a counter-terrorism police officer was shot and killed in another part of quetta as authorities were dealing with the suicide bombing .
a militant sectarian faction , the lashkar-e-jhangvi al-almi , claimed responsibility for killing the counter-terrorism official , and for planting a roadside bomb in a northwestern region , that killed two soldiers .
security officials said a remote-controlled bomb was set off as an army vehicle passed by .