mark steyn joined tucker carlson tonight to discuss the threat from cnn to the guy who made the video of president trump wrestling with the cnn logo ( see below ) wolf blitzer has put a horse s head in some guy s bed mark steynour previous reports on the cnn extortion : the hosts of new day dug a deeper hole for cnn on wednesday when they said that the network would not identify the reddit user behind the viral video of president trump wrestling a man with cnn s logo imposed over his face because he apologized .
cnn had previously written that it had decided not to publicly identify the man because he was a private citizen who showed remorse , but reserves the right to publish his identity should any of that change : that s blackmail ! sooo if this guy behaves according to cnn then they won t out him to the world nice threat ! in case you missed it here s our previous report on this viral video : cnn reported that they declined to expose a private citizen who made the wwe video of president trump wrestling with a cnn logo if the guy promises not to do it again : cnn reserves the right to publish his identity should any of that change .
this is blackmail right ? # fraudnewscnn # fnn pic.twitter.com/wyunhjjujg donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 2 , 2017the hysterical video has been seen over 1 million times after it was tweeted out by president trump .
it was produced by a reddit user who is private : soon after the cnn statement , twitter was abuzz over the fact that cnn was extorting this private citizen : donald trump jr retweeted the threat : congressman scott taylor tweeted out : @ cnn u basically coerce apology & threaten release of identity if something changes ?
pretty sure a line is crossed here .
# cnnblackmail https : //t.co/k4w9aepp6w scott taylor ( @ scotttaylorva ) july 5 , 2017 # cnnblackmail is trending worldiwide ! what cnn thought was a gotcha moment turned putto backfire on them .
it s being reported that the private reddit user who made the wwe video is only 15-years old !