well , this is a shocker !
it takes a brave person to speak up in hollywood because they could be blacklisted for being supportive of president trump .
we re guessing jeff bridges doesn t care what the hollywood elite thinks because he s been around for decades acting , singing and producing .
we love what he had to say about trump !
who knew he s veteran too ! jeff bridges played a president in the contender , a political flick released nearly two decades ago in the wake of president bill clinton s white house scandals .
but when it comes to critiquing the role of today s real-life president , bridges is a lot more laid back than some of his fellow celebrities .
how would the dude , the character he played in the big lebowski , handle things ?
he likely wouldn t be dangling a severed head in the likeness of president donald trump , as comedian kathy griffin came under fire for .
neither would the dude joke about killing the president as johnny depp recently did .
griffin and depp later apologized .
everybody has something different and unique to contribute to society and with different ways of doing it , bridges said in an interview wednesday with the associated press , after taking part on a panel focused on child hunger at a meeting of the western governors association in whitefish , montana .
some people will be blatantly out there talking about their disappointments and ridiculing the way president trump is acting , said bridges , who supported hillary clinton in last year s election .
i m rooting for him to do well by our country , he said .
i m rooting for him as a human being to do the cool thing .
who knew ?
jeff bridges is a veteran !
what do beau bridges , jeff bridges and lloyd bridges have in common ?
ok yes they are all well-known actors and yes they are all related !
but all three have something very patriotic in common ! they all proudly served our country in the united states coast guard .
from left to right : jeff bridges ( true grit , the big lebowski , oscar for crazy heart ) served 7 years in the coast guard reserve .
beau bridges ( the fabulous baker boys , the fifth musketeer ) served 8 years in the coast guard reserve .
and father to jeff and beau , lloyd bridges ( around the world under the sea , airplane ! , hot shots ) left columbia pictures to join the coast guard during wwii .
after returning to film acting he then joined the coast guard auxiliary , 11th district in california .
lloyd later did a number of public service announcements for the coast guard and was appointed an honorary uscg commodore.bridges has worked on child hunger for decades : bridges said he is especially concerned about proposed cuts to federal food assistance programs , which he said could harm the well-being of more children .
the actor has been an ambassador for no kid hungry campaign , a national effort to address food insecurity among struggling families .
he founded the end hunger network in 1983 and became the national spokesman for no kid hungry in 2010 .
bridges splits his time between homes in southern california and montana .
he has helped montana gov .
steve bullock and the state s first lady , lisa bullock , on expanding school breakfast programs .
the health of our children is a wonderful compass that can tell us if our country is going the right direction , he said .
that means we re off course , so i m rooting for the president to get on course .
via : ap