vienna ( reuters ) - austria s electoral system makes it difficult for any one party to obtain a majority , and the winner of sunday s parliamentary election will probably need to form a coalition to govern .
support for the frontrunner , the conservative people s party led by sebastian kurz , running at about 33 percent .
a coalition between two of the three largest parties is the most likely outcome .
several smaller parties are polling at around 6 percent or lower .
the 31-year-old foreign minister expects to lead his party to victory and has avoided committing himself to anything other than holding talks with all sides after the election .
he has campaigned on a platform of ending the old compromises of centrist coalitions with the social democrats , suggesting he might lean toward the freedom party .
but he has also said there could be leadership changes within the losing parties after the election , which could be a hint at a tie-up with the social democrats under a new chief .
he has repeatedly praised spo defence minister hans-peter doskozil .
the former head of the national rail company has been chancellor for less than 18 months and already cuts an embattled figure , his party having been involved in a smear scandal it blames on an adviser he hired .
a poor showing on sunday could put his position at risk .
he and kurz can barely hide their contempt for each other , making it unlikely they would work together .
he and heinz-christian strache of the freedom party have had some cordial head-to-head debates , though kern says their parties are still worlds apart .
heinz-christian strache , freedom party ( fpo ) the trained dental technician who has headed the far-right freedom party for more than a decade has cut an unusually relaxed figure this election , perhaps because he and his party have a good chance of being kingmaker .
he has praised kern for a more open approach to dealing with him and he has led a campaign that has kept his options open , railing against immigration but also calling for social fairness , a core issue for the center left .
kurz has accused the fpo and the social democrats of holding early talks on forming a coalition , but strache is a political veteran who is eager to become vice chancellor and is likely to seek real concessions before forming an alliance .
doskozil shot to fame in 2015 as a provincial police chief who oversaw austria s biggest influx of people during europe s migration crisis .
he was soon appointed defense minister and made his party s pointman on immigration .
doskozil has taken a tougher stance on securing the country s borders , prompting a diplomatic spat with italy but earning praise from both strache and kurz .
he is also from the eastern province of burgenland , where his party and the fpo share power .
he would be a strong contender to take over the party leadership if kern were weakened , though he would most likely be opposed by the party s left wing , based in the spo stronghold of red vienna .
the former greens leader won a close-fought election against an opponent from the freedom party and has said he would seek to prevent strache from becoming chancellor .
he has since rowed back , saying he would merely want any government to be pro-european .
what that means for strache is unclear .
his party calls for brussels to transfer power to member states and says a currency union only makes sense between countries with similar economies .
as head of state van der bellen has the power to appoint and dismiss governments , and presidents have previously played a crucial role in forming coalitions .
( for a graphic on austrian parliamentary election , click tmsnrt.rs/2hkii65 )