paris ( reuters ) - most french voters are now dissatisfied with emmanuel macron s performance , a poll showed on sunday , a dramatic decline for a president who basked in a landslide election victory less than four months ago .
the poll , conducted by ifop for newspaper le journal du dimanche ( jdd ) , showed macron s dissatisfaction rating rising to 57 percent , from 43 percent in july .
forty percent expressed satisfaction with the centrist leader - down 14 points from july .
french government spokesman christophe castaner said the ruling party was going through a tricky time , but added that displeasing some people was a price worth paying if the government wanted to push through reforms .
yes , we are encountering difficulties , but you can not just spend your time only looking at polls when you re in government .
we are there to transform the country .
our country needs us to take risks , and we are taking risks , castaner told bfm tv .
macron , for his part , spent sunday holding a telephone dialogue with his turkish counterpart tayyip erdogan , in which the two discussed the syria and middle east crisis and the fate of a french journalist detained in turkey .
macron has pushed himself onto the international stage since winning power in may .
he hosted high-profile visits from russian leader vladimir putin and u.s. president donald trump and he is midway through a series of visits to various european capitals .
however , he has suffered some setbacks at home , including tough debates in parliament over labor reforms , a standoff with the military and cuts to housing assistance .
social media commentators and political opponents criticized the president after it emerged he spent 26,000 euros ( $ 31,000 ) on makeup during his first 100 days in office and his office also backed down on plans to give his wife a formal , paid role after a public backlash .
bernard sananes , head of french polling company elabe , said the latest survey could encourage macron s political opponents , after his party won a commanding majority in parliament .
it could mean , for the government , that the opposition mobilizes itself again , sananes told bfm tv .
the ifop poll showed the cumulative drop in macron s popularity ratings since may was bigger than that of previous socialist president francois hollande over the same period .
the poll also showed a drop in popularity for prime minister edouard philippe , with 47 percent expressing satisfaction with him - down 9 points from last month .
macron , france s youngest leader since napoleon , faces a big test next month when the far-left cgt trade union leads a rally to protest against plans to deregulate the jobs market .
now is the key time , with the labor executive orders to be presented , said francois savary , chief investment officer at geneva-based investment firm prime partners .
( $ 1 = 0.8386 euros )