have you ever had an argument with a liberal who swears on her mother s grave that educators in america don t fill our children s heads with propaganda and liberal lies ?
here s proof that they re wrong .
we found this website listed on a radical leftist facebook page used to recruit activists in the fight against trump .
one of their primary focuses in their battle against trump is how to turn kids against him .
the google document we reference in this article was created by history educators in oakland , california .
they make it a point to let the teachers know that they can t guarantee they won t be fired for teaching their version of history in post 2016 as suggested below , but hey , that s why they have teacher s unions right ?
we ve copied the google document and taken several screen shots , as these documents , like the one created by the assistant professor melissa zimdars that was supposed to point out fake news sites was deleted once people realized she was just a radical trying to discredit conservative websites .
the first thing the website addresses is how to keep your job but still teach your version of history post trump election : how to be a critical history educator .
.
.
and not get fired .
* here are a few samples of articles the website suggests teachers use to aid them in their indoctrination of their students .
check out some of the titles and a sample of what the articles are about .
these are pure indoctrination articles that all lean very hard to the left .
( go to this link for full list ) : for example , oakland unified school district board of education policy 6144 states that the study of a controversial issue should help students learn how to gather and organize pertinent facts , discriminate between fact and fiction , draw intelligent conclusions and respect the opinions of others , and administrative regulation 6144 states that controversial issues may be discussed in the classroom , provided that : 1 ) the issue is related to the course of study and provides opportunities for critical thinking , for developing tolerance , and for understanding conflicting points of view the aclu of washington state has also compiled the free speech rights of teachers , a legal guide covering speech inside and outside of the classroom , clothing , classroom or office displays and decorations , bulletin boards , conversations with colleagues , and campus demonstrations .
* although we think the guidance in this document is good practice , we can t guarantee you won t get fired .
use your best judgment , plan explicitly , and develop relationships with site , district , and community partners.one of the articles they suggest teachers use to aid them in teaching history to their students is the zinn education project : the zinn education project stands in solidarity with those who have denounced donald trump s racism , misogyny , xenophobia , and islamophobia as well as his ignorant and deadly proposals about the environment and climate change .
we have been encouraged by the young people in our classrooms and in the streets who are living the maxim that people make history .
as we have tried to make sense of this election and what it means for educators and our students , we have asked ourselves , what would howard zinn say ?
while detesting the outcome , we doubt he would have been surprised .
zinn observed that , is not nationalism one of the great evils of our time , along with racism , along with religious hatred ?
these ways of thinking cultivated , nurtured , indoctrinated from childhood on have been useful to those in power , and deadly for those out of power.but zinn would surely remind us that just because the rich and powerful want something to happen , doesn t make it so .
he would urge us not to lose heart , and to remember our history .
zinn wrote , there is a tendency to think that what we see in the present moment will continue .
we forget how often we have been astonished by the sudden crumbling of institutions , by extraordinary changes in people s thoughts , by unexpected eruptions of rebellion against tyrannies , by the quick collapse of systems of power that seemed invincible.no doubt , still reeling from this poisonous election , it is hard to be hopeful .
but we invite you to draw on curriculum at the zinn education project to help your students make sense of this new context .
we include lessons some highlighted below that : show how social movements have made important strides even during dark times .
help students explore other moments in history when elites have mobilized to roll back racial and economic progress .
highlight examples of divide and conquer politics .
help students explore aspects of trump s agenda immigration , the environment , muslims , civil liberties , the press , and economic inequality .
it s vital that we introduce our students to the individuals and social movements that have made this country more just .
as howard zinn reminded us : to omit , or to minimize , these voices of resistance is to create the idea that power only rests with those who have the guns , who possess the wealth , who own the newspapers and the television stations .
people who seem to have no power , whether working people , people of color , or women once they organize and protest and create movements have a voice no government can suppress.civil rights organizer ella baker said , we who believe in freedom can not rest .
the role of teachers is crucial in this freedom struggle .
please check out the lessons and resources below .